The ministry called Chaim. You have to clear your throat a little as you say that. Chaim means life in Hebrew. I originally started out in the OPC and we have OPC board members as well as PCA board members to our work. So I still feel like I haven't really left the OPC and I've been down to Burton'sville here quite often. I'm very encouraged about your interest in missions. See, next week you're going to have my friend Robert Carr here. Robert and I went to seminary together. You're excited about seeing the gospel go out to the world. By the way, do you know what the first cross-cultural urban mission was? It was the day of Pentecost, known as Shavuos, the Jewish people. where the gospel went out to to Jewish folks from all different language groups and great power and it was a very fruitful time. I've been a missionary to the Jewish people for uh this is my ninth year now, and uh fourth year working with Chaim. The Jewish missions field is a missions field like no other. It had a unique beginning on that day at Pentecost and it's unique today. There are many interesting people that I have found associated with Jewish work. such as Moyse Rosen with Jews for Jesus, who uh helped me quite a bit get started. And also many strange characters and many strange ideas that float around. We started our work Particularly because there wasn't any other work that was reformed and covenantal following the Westminster standards. Uh any there wasn't any other Jewish work of that type, that's where we started ours. Unfortunately, in Jewish ministry there's often a Propagation of sensationalistic uh books, teachings on Israel and prophecy and prophecy conferences. And you can imagine with uh the war in the Persian Gulf and Iraq and Saddam Hussein uh Babylon became to be focused upon again and books were published on Babylon and Israel and prophecy and that sort of thing. But This morning I'm going to be speaking about Babylon and Israel and prophecy, but probably with a different slant than you're used to hearing. It has nothing to do with the latest newspaper headline. Or the latest statement by an Israeli leader or anything like that, but it has to do with another Israeli, Isaiah the prophet. And we're going to be looking at Isaiah speaking about the impending exile of Judah to Babylon, and then what's going to come after that exile. The northern kingdom, Israel. had been destroyed uh by the Assyrians in Isaiah's lifetime, and now the Assyrians were breathing down the neck of Jerusalem. But God gave the nation a brief reprieve. Under the godly Hezekiah, the nation would not go into uh captivity under the Assyrians, under Sennacherib, but rather Uh it would be the next empire coming of the world seeing the Babylonians who would bring judgment on Judah and bring them into captivity. God told Hezekiah in Isaiah chapter 39 Hear the word of the Lord Almighty, the time will surely come when everything in your palace and all that your fathers have stored up until this day will be carried off to Babylon. Nothing will be left. says the Lord, and some of your descendants, your own flesh and blood, who will be born to you, will be taken away, and they will become eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon. That was Isaiah 39, 5 through 7. God is a God of judgment for sin. Make no mistake about it. God is a just God who judges sin He punishes sin. He's not some grandfather up in the sky who looks down and says, It's all right. He's a God who judges sin. And he sent Israel into captivity and he sent Judah into captivity in Babylon. Because of the sins of the people turning away from their God and worshiping other gods and forgetting the covenant. But you know there's good news too, not just bad news. Be And as we look at Isaiah, as soon as the bad news is given that because God is a God who judges sin, the people are going into captivity, the good news is given shortly thereafter. And God says, comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem. And proclaimed to her that her warfare is ended and her iniquity is pardoned. God is a God who judges sin. But he's also a God who brings pardon for sin. And this is an important pattern to recognize in the book of Isaiah Especially the latter part of the book of Isaiah, because God talks about bringing judgment, but then he talks about a cleansing and a restoration that he'll bring for his people. And the coming of the Messiah is seen in that context, you see. After the people go to Babylon and are judged, they'll come back to the land. And then God says, I'm going to do something even greater. I'm going to expand the kingdom. I'm going to bring greater glories than you've ever seen before. I'm going to enlarge the nation. Isaiah sees a time when God will bring glory to Zion. A time that'll come after the Babylonian captivity. A time when the nation is restored beyond anything ever seen before. A time when the servant of God, Israel, will be personified by a Davidic king coming And restoring the nation and bringing a light to the Gentiles. You see, that Messianic kingdom that Isaiah prophesized was an expansion of the restoration out of Babylon. You can call the sermon back from Babylon and Beyond if you want to. And this is a key point in interpreting the latter prophets. Isaiah encourages the people. Not only will he bring them out, but he will do more for them, restore and expand. Expand them in a way so glorious that the prophets have a hard time really explaining it fully to the people. The context in Isaiah, we talked about the historical context. Now let's think about the context in Isaiah The chapter before, the prophet told of the suffering servant, and I hope you all are familiar with Isaiah 54, which talks about one who will come and be led. as a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb before its shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth, and he was taken away by oppression and judgment. But God said that he laid the iniquities of us all on that servant. That he was led like a lamb to the slaughter to pay for sin. When Isaiah talks about Jesus coming and paying for our sins. And I hope you know that great passage in Isaiah 53, looking forward to the sufferings of Messiah. as the atonement. And then in Isaiah 55, the chapter after the one we're looking at, that's a passage many of you might know as well, the gospel call, come all who are thirsty, come to the waters. Come by wine and milk without money and w without cost. Why do you spend your money on what does not satisfy? Come and drink and eat, and God will give you refreshment. The gospel call. Come, he says, let sinners turn from their ways and turn to him, for God will freely pardon. Well that's what we're looking at right in the middle of those two passages. The sufferings of the Messiah to pay for our sins. And then the gospel call in Isaiah 55, and right in the middle here, we have the missionary mandate of the people of God. The picture of the renewed Zion. We have Zion's Messiah in Isaiah 53, Zion's missionary mandate in Isaiah 54, and then Zion's message. that it brings to the nations in Isaiah 55. Let's read chapter 54. If you have your Bibles with you, this is a good sermon to follow along and look at the verses as we go. Sing, O barren woman, you who never bore a child, burst into songs, shout for joy, bec uh, you know. You who were never in labor, because more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband, says the Lord. Enlarge the place of your tent. Stretch your tent curtains wide. Do not hold back. Lengthen your cords, strengthen your stakes. For you will spread out to the right and to the left. Your descendants will dispossess nations. and settle in their desolate cities. Do not be afraid. You will not suffer shame. Do not fear disgrace. You will not be humiliated. You will forget the shame of your youth and remember no more the reproach of your widowhood. For your maker is your husband, the Lord Almighty is his name, the Holy One of Israel is your redeemer. He is called the God of all the earth. The Lord will call you back. If you were a wife deserted and distressed in spirit, a wife who married young only to be rejected, says the Lord, for a brief moment I abandoned you. But with deep compassion I will bring you back. In a surge of anger I hid my face from you for a moment. But with everlasting kindness I will have compassion on you, says the Lord your Redeemer. To me this is like the days of Noah when I swore that the waters would never again cover the earth. So now I have sworn not to be angry with you, never to rebuke you again. Though the mountains be shaken and the hills be removed, yet my unfailing love for you will not be shaken. Nor my covenant of peace be removed, says the Lord who has compassion on you. O afflicted city, lashed by storms and not comforted I will build you with stones of turquoise, your foundations with sapphires. I will make your battlements of rubies, your gates of sparkling jewels, and all your walls of precious stones. All your sons will be taught by the Lord. And great will be your children's peace. In righteousness you will be established. Tyranny will be far from you. You will have nothing to fear, terror will not will be far removed, it will not come near you. If anyone does attack you, it will not be my doing. And whoever attacks you will surrender to you. You See, it is I who created the blacksmith, who fans the coals into flame and forges a weapon fit for its work, and it is I who have created the destroyer to work havoc. But no weapon forged against you will prevail, and you will refute every tongue that accuses you. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord. What a glorious passage there Even the this the walls of the cities are are uh encrusted with jewels and rubies and so on. What a glorious picture we have, but who is this passage about? What is this speaking of? Some city that's going to come in the future with a lot of jewels? What is this about? Well, I can answer that question in absolute certainty. Because the Apostle Paul, who Jesus appointed to bring the gospel, tells us exactly what this passage is all about. If you want to look at it, flip over to Galatians chapter 4 so you know that I'm not making up But this comes right out of the apostles that the Lord appointed. Isaiah chapter 4. Verses twenty-one through twenty-eight. I'm sorry. Uh twenty-seven. Can't read my own writing here. Be glad, O barren woman, who bears no children, break forth and cry aloud You who have no labor pains, because more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband. And if you look at your footnote there, you'll see it says Isaiah 54, chapter 1. Paul was speaking. As you see, going back up again to 21, to the people in Galatia who were following Jesus. And he says, Tell me, you who want to be under the law. Are you not aware of what the law says? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the slave woman and the other by the free woman. His son by the slave woman was born in the ordinary way But his son by the free woman was born as a result of a promise. These things may be taken figuratively, for the women represent two covenants. One covenant is from Mount Sinai, and bears children who are to be slaves. This is Hagar. Now Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present city of Jerusalem because she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem that is above is free, and she is our mother, for it is written, Be glad, O barren woman, who bears no children, break forth and cry aloud, you who have no labor pains. Because more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband. Now you brothers like Isaac are children of promise. You see, Paul interprets Galatians chapter 54, I mean uh Isaiah chapter 54 for us, and so you can rest uh at ease. That you understand who this passage is speaking about. It's speaking about you brothers who are children like Isaac, children of promise. And that's who Isaiah 54 is speaking of. What does he say about us there? It's describing the New Covenant community. What does he say about us? Now just let me put in parathetically here. I'm a missionary to the Jewish people. And often I'm sure you've heard uh things interpreted as referring to uh national Israel. Well, uh I'm sorry, but this passage does not refer to national Israel And when the prophets speak of the future glories of Zion, it's not referring to national Israel. But it doesn't exclude national Israel. God has not said that the Jews can't be part of it This promises for the Jew first and also for the Gentile. He has not said, I'm finished with the Jewish people, and now It's for everybody else. He said, No, now it's for the Jews and for the Gentiles. The nations expanded. God has expanded it and says, Jewish people, get on board with what God's doing in the Messiah. Get on board with what I've been doing through the church. You can be part of that. The glories are for you too. You're not excluded from that. And Gentiles, you've come in. You've been grafted into the glories of Zion. What does it say about us in this passage? Well, first it says we're to be a joyful people. It says, Sing, O barren woman, burst into song, shout for joy. I enjoyed the worship this morning. I also enjoy traditional hymns if they're sung with some zeal and some excitement. Often I think they're sung kind of slow and lugubrious. Um I enjoyed the worship this morning. How do you see being a Christian? How do you communicate what it is to be a Christian? Is it an embarrassment? Is it a drudge? Or is it a joy? Is it a burden to be born? Is it a bunch of don't do this, don't do that, don't the do the other thing? Or is it a life of joy, something exciting? It's good to worship the Lord with joy. It's good to serve Him with joy. And uh we're talking about a missionary mandate. If you're not part of what God's doing and bringing people in and bringing the gospel out to the nations and forgiving their sins in the missions enterprise, then I'm sorry, the Christian life might not be very exciting for you. It's when you bring the gospel to other people that you really Uh get excited about what God's doing in the world and how you can be a part of that. God says we're to be a joyful people. Then he goes on to say, and here we're to be a fruitful people. He talks about growth, bearing children. And we had a lot of children here this morning. I understand there are sixteen pregnant women in this congregation right now. Please don't any of you give birth during my sermon. That's a wonderful thing. We have three children ourselves, and this talks about a a barren woman who becomes a fruitful mother of children. We struggled for four years with trying to have children and went to infertility specialists. Maybe some of you are going through this now and we couldn't find out what was going on. Finally we were all ready to adopt and then we had all of a sudden, unexpectedly, three children within thirty months. So uh I can understand what it feels like to be barren and then all of a sudden to burst in the joy with children. Now God might have done it for us through adoption, and I think that's another way He provides uh a barren woman with uh children and and I don't want to in any way diminish the the wonder of that and and uh and how that's a picture of the gospel as well. But God said that he's going to take this barren woman and make her fruitful, you see. God wants us to grow. Not just bearing physical children as your congregation is doing very well, but bearing spiritual children, this is talking about. Children coming in and being part of the of the family of Abraham being adopted into God's family. God says this is what the nation is going to do. And as this happens, sadness is going to be turned into joy. I think here of the Sarah, the mother of Israel, who was past menopause and was a nebula bear children, on top of that, and how God stepped in and uh gave her uh Isaac, and then Jacob, and then the children of Israel. And this is a picture of what God does, that by God's miraculous working He's able to bear children of blessing and promise, just as he uh brought the Messiah through a miraculous means of birth. So he also gives us new birth. and helps us to be enables us to be born into God's family. We're to be a fruitful people. The tent imagery is prevalent there. Look at that in verse two. It says, Enlarge the place of your tent. Stretch your tent curtains wide Don't hold back. You're gonna have to get longer chords for this tent because it's going to stretch out. And people are going to come in to the kingdom of God. The rabbis talk about a time when God is going to build a a tabernacle, sort of like a A tent, a hut. There's a Jewish festival called Sakot. Maybe you have me back to preach on that sometime. But maybe some of you have seen Jewish friends or neighbors having a little hut in the back of their house in the fall if they're Orthodox. The rabbis talk about a time when God's going to build a sukkah. He's going to build one of those huts, but it's going to be so big all the nations are going to come in. And I think they were on board with Isaiah 54 here about that. Do you see the New Covenant community that way? Do you see the church this way? Look to the east. Look to Korea. Fifty million believers in China. Look at the church growth in Africa. Do you get the big picture? Do you see that God is working worldwide and he's bringing millions in to bow down before him and submit to him? So often we get nearsighted. We look at the West, we look at Europe and we say, Oh boy, things are bad. But you know, I think we need to have a vision from Isaiah's perspective. When here was this nation going into captivity and there was only a remnant who believed And now we've come to the point where there are millions worldwide who have come into the nation of Israel and are worshiping the tr the true God. Do you have this vision of the church? Do you have this vision for Columbia as well? Jesus said, I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. He said his kingdom would be like the mustard seed. Which though it's the smallest of seeds, and you can fit ten thousand mustard seeds into a film canister, by the way, I measured. One of those mustard seeds, Jesus said, though it's so small It becomes and grows into the largest tree in the garden. Jesus said his kingdom would be like that. You see, Isaiah's Israel bursts beyond the container. Its tent stretches. It grows beyond its borders. We're to be a people of joy, we're to be a fruitful people. And then it says we're to be a shameless people, it says in verse 4. Do not be afraid, you will not suffer shame. Do not fear disgrace, you will not be humiliated. You will forget the shame of your youth and remember no more the reproach of your widowhood The embarrassment of the captivity is past here. Remember, Adam and Eve were very ashamed of themselves after the fall. They had to cover themselves up. They were afraid to come into God's presence. But we're told that The gospel promises that we can come before God without shame. Because Jesus had come to pay for our sins, to remove them from us, to take the judgment we deserve upon Himself. Our shame can be removed. Our guilt can be removed. Our shame can be cleansed from us. And God says, I will become your husband. We're to be a people in an intimate relationship with God. A joyful people, a fruitful people, a shameless people. And a people beloved. That picture of renewed relationship with the Lord, a reconciliation. Israel was the estranged wife who was put away from her husband for unfaithfulness And God says, now I'm going to bring you back into an intimate relationship with me. And what's more intimate than the husband and wife relationship? It's going to be a time when the judgment is over. It's past, like the days of Noah, when God said he would not destroy the earth again by fire, by water. So God says that we're a joyful people, a fruitful people. A shameless people, a beloved people, and then he says we're a people under grace. It says that God will have compassion in verses 8. 7, 8, and 10. Deep compassion on this people. Kindness, everlasting kindness. Verse 10. Unfailing love will be on us. A covenant of peace. Peace with God. Romans 8, 31 through 39 says that there's nothing in all creation that can separate us from the love of God that's in Christ Jesus. There's nothing that can disturb that peace that God's established by his covenant in Jesus where he takes away our sins. And then it says we're to be a glorious people. A jeweled city set on the hill. Do you see yourselves that way? Do you see yourselves that way as a glorious people? A city bedecked with jewels. I think um we look at ourselves sometimes as orphans or abandoned or foolish in the world's eyes as we are. But God says, when I look out here at this congregation, I see you as beautiful, as glorious, as a city filled with jewels and glory of God. Do you see yourselves, you see the church from God's perspective. I think that's important. Because as we see how exciting it is, as we see how God sees us, then I think that motivates us to say, hey Come on in, open the doors, come on in. Come join us, be part of this glorious kingdom, this glorious people. God wants us to see that. He wants to teach us. what we are, who we are in him. And that comes to the next point. We're a people taught by God in verse, look down in verse 13, all your sons will be taught by the Lord, and great will be your children's peace. You know, this is uh a verse alluded to in the Gospels. It says, they will be taught by God, referring to Jesus being on earth teaching his people. Jesus saw his ministry as a fulfillment of this passage. Not just Paul quotes this passage. as being fulfilled in Jesus. Jesus quotes this passage as being fulfilled in his own ministry. It is written in the prophets, they will all be taught by God. God said he would make a new covenant, and Jeremiah, the Jewish prophet, predicted that God would make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, in which he would remove their sins. And then it says, And I will write my law on their hearts and on their inward joints. parts. We're a people taught by God. We're people of joy, fruitfulness, without shame, beloved, people of grace, a people of glory, and a people taught by God. And then it says we're a people founded on righteousness. Notice here in verse 14 In righteousness will you be established. Tyranny will be far from you. You will have nothing to fear. Terror will be far removed. It will not come near to you. We're a people founded on righteousness. Jeremiah 23 spoke of the Messiah coming, said that his name would be called Adonai Tsid Kainu. The Lord is our righteousness. were a house built on the rock. You see, Isaiah 54 established Isaiah 53 established that, the chapter before. That there was nothing we could do. We have all, like sheep, gone astray. We have all committed sin. There's not a single person, Solomon says. There's not one person on the earth. Who never sins. Even King David, the greatest king of Israel, said, Behold, I have been a sinner since birth. And in sin, my mother brought me forth and conceived me and brought me forth. There's not one person who isn't a sinner, and that means we're in trouble. But God said that He would give you the gift of righteousness through Jesus, the Messiah coming, and dying in your place as a sacrifice to take the punishment and judgment for sin upon himself, so that you could be accepted as cleansed. were founded on the Lord's righteousness because he was the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Our sins were laid on him Not our own righteousness, but the righteousness that's a free gift of God through Jesus. And then it says we're a people with a mission, a people who can't be stopped, an unstoppable people. I think of the Blues Brothers movie. How many of you have ever seen that crazy movie on TV? Okay? But if you see it on TV, they've toned it down a little bit. And I actually have to admit, uh I don't know how you feel. I I I kind of enjoy that movie, and I'll tell you what I enjoy about that movie. Here's these two crazy guys. And they keep saying throughout the movie, we're on a mission from God, nobody can stop us. And the police are chasing him and and there's a huge chase scene and they're going through Uh if if they come against you, the weapons won't prevail. No weapon forged, it says, against you will prevail, and you will refute every tongue that accuses you. Nobody can stop us. We have a message that's going to go out. We have a message that's going to bear fruit. Isaiah 55 tells us that too. It's something that can't be stopped. It doesn't matter what the plotting is. Psalm 2 says, why do the nations rage? Why are they plotting against the Lord and his Messiah? And says God laughs. Nothing can stop the gospel message going forward. In Jewish work, it's important for me to remember this. We have professional anti-missionaries who make it their purpose to get a hold of Jewish people interested in looking into Jesus, to try to talk them out of it. I've got a stack of books and literature and tapes this high of anti-missionary literature. that a Jewish person who shows an interest in the gospel will often be given by a family member or a rabbi. I've got recently a set of tapes from an anti-missionary conference where they're actually plotting together how to make Life difficult for people like me and like Barry Rubin, who'll be here tonight. And I was sitting there listening to this plotting that they're going on, what we're gonna do and what can we do and what's legal. And what is according to Jewish law and how can we stop these people who are trying to uh bring Jesus to the Jewish people? And you know, that night I did a study on Psalm two for our fellowship group, and I saw that from God's perspective he's not shaken up. by all this plotting. God says he sits in the heavens and he laughs. No matter what you find going on in the world, and I understand you've had some conflict here too and and uh because you believe that Jesus was the only way because you believe that you've gotten some conflict here in Colombia. I know Al was in the paper and his picture was there. It was a bad picture I hear, Al. And uh And uh I think now looks a little like Donna Michi, he's a good looking fellow. But he was accused of being anti Semitic and you've you've gotten some flack for your stand on the gospel, but you know what? No weapon formed against you will prosper. You had to leave one place and God provided another and another, and here you are here and now. And if you get kicked out of here, God will take care of you too. No weapon formed against you will prosper. It says we're a joyful people, a fruitful people, a growing people, a shameless people. A people beloved in an intimate relationship with God, a people under mercy and graces, uh mercy and grace, a people with glory and the riches. of God. We're people taught by God. We're founded on the righteousness of the Messiah. We're people with a mission that can't be stopped. We're people with a message. I hope you have a vision for missions. It's wonderful that you're having this conference. And it's wonderful that as an OP church, you're having two missionaries to the Jewish people here in one day. That's probably somewhat unusual. Let's never lose sight of who we are, what the missionary mandate is of Isaiah 54. The mandate of the heavenly Zion, the church, calling the nations in to come in, Jews, Gentiles, all come in, be part of the covenant with Abraham, receive the glory. God says join us. Maybe there are some of you here that aren't on on board with that. You're not in the city yet. You don't know what it means to have the Messiah pay for your sins. You don't know what it means to have God be your righteousness rather than your own. You don't know what it means to be part of that missionary mandate to go and bring the good news to the nations. God says today, come, come in, join us, be part of the glory of Zion. You see, the tent is being expanded and the ropes are being lengthened, and there's room for you to come in too and to get on board with God's program. God will take away your sins. He asks you just to come in with your hands up and say, Lord, I renounce my own attempts at earning salvation. I renounce my sins. I turn from them and I come in with my hands up and say that you're king. And God says, I'll have mercy and compassion on you because Jesus paid for your sins. And I'll renew you, and I'll give you meaning in life to be part of my purpose in bringing the good news to the world. Come be part of the people who are joyful, fruitful. without shame before God because their sins are paid for, who are beloved in an intimate personal relationship with God, who are under his grace, under his mercy. Who are part of the glorious Zion with jewels all around, who are taught by God Himself, who are righteous and are founded on righteousness. That's given as a gift of God. People who have a mission that can't be stopped. People who have a message to bring healing to the nations. Let's go forward and continue in the glories of Isaiah's vision for us. The missionary mandate to bring the message of God's kingdom to the whole world. Let's pray Father, we thank you that we have come to the heavenly Jerusalem. We've come to a joyful assembly. Those who have been made clean. Those who have been accepted, those who have passed over from wrath to mercy, because the wrath was poured out on Jesus as our substitute in our place. Thank you, Lord, that we're part of a joyful assembly of angels worshiping you. Lord, open our eyes to see who we are in your sight, that we're your precious bride. that were glorious, beautiful, covered with jewels. And Lord, give us a vision to reach out to others, to the Japanese who need your word so much, to the Jewish people. Where there's so much misunderstanding. To those in our family, in our neighborhood, who are hurting and need to know the great love and mercy that Jesus brings. Lord, give us that vision. Give us that missionary vision that you gave to Isaiah. Give it to us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.