Writer Frederica Matthews Green wrote these words in a recent article. Said, my friend Bill, this is not Bill. There we go. I can see you over there. My friend Bill is unchurched, pro-choice, and has been on the State Board of Planned Parenthood, yet he shakes his head over the current condition of America. He says We're hell-bent to be hell-bent. The evidence from daily headlines, violence, corruption, bizarre cruelty, has accumulated to the point that it cannot be ignored. You no longer have to be a conservative Christian to see that our civilization is tottering. The battle for the soul of America seems to be intensifying to a feverish pitch these days, doesn't it? Particularly as we see nearly a dozen Republicans Posturing themselves as candidates for the GOP to oppose Bill Clinton over a year from now. Yeah, already we're beginning to see so much of the talk about values in America and where we're headed. Um cover of Time magazine back just um A month ago, May 15th, had this. The cover article was on Ralph Reed, who's the executive director of the Christian Coalition. You notice that it's titled The Right Hand of God. Meet Ralph Reed, 33. His Christian coalition is on a crusade to take over US politics. And it's working. Kind of the implicit beware, look out. You know, there's a conspiracy going on. Inside, the article says that the Christian coalition is one of the most powerful grassroots organizations in American politics. Just uh a couple of weeks ago, June fifteenth, the uh Wall Street Journal had an article on Pocahontas, uh Walt Disney's new film. I don't know if anybody has has anybody seen that film or seen I saw the trailer for it, you know, the coming attractions and have read a number of the uh reviews on it. Uh just the coming attractions was enough that after I saw that I couldn't enjoy the film I went to see. Uh the film is an out and out um undermining an attack not only of Christian values, but a Christian worldview. It advocates neopagan animism. Uh and this is, you know, film for kids, and I certainly don't endorse this thing. I mean, the article here says that uh Pocahontas is presented as uh in a Victorian secret deer skin Uh, you know, and there's all kinds of things that are in this movie that are objectionable, but it it's an attack and you're seeing more and more of this kind of thing. Now what's interesting is right above this article Which is talking about uh something which is an attack on our values. There's another article called Times of Transformation, written by Irving Kristol. Fascinating article analyzing American politics of the last couple of decades. At the end of that article, he says that within the Republican Party, there is a struggle, and it's between the economic conservatives and the social conservatives. Let me quote from what he says. There can be little doubt as to who will be the ultimate victor in this struggle for the soul of the Republican Party. It will be the social religious conservatives. Whose politics emerge out of an authentic mass movement that gathers strength with every passing year. This is not primarily a political movement, though the media can only see it as such. It is a religious movement with political implications. It is in the tradition of those religious awakenings so common to the United States during the 18th and 19th century But which, it has been commonly assumed, have no place in our secular enlightened twentieth century. That assumption is wrong And then he goes on to talk about movements like Promise Keepers and other things that are showing that something profound is happening within America today. And he says this sweeping great awakening that we begin to see is going to have profound implications on the values and politics of America. So as I began to think about what to preach on on the weekend of Independence Day, as we think about the founding of our country And we think about what God's word is to us as citizens of that country and disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Psalm 119, verse 126 hit me right between the eyes. It kind of like jumped right off the page when I saw this thing. In fact, this this verse has fascinated me ever since I first looked at the thing and noticed it Psalm 119, verse 126 says, It is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. Now, you think about that verse. That's an amazing verse. First of all, it's amazing because you have someone telling God what to do. Okay, God, you know, you're running the universe and your serenity and tranquility, your peace and sovereignty. I'm going to tell you now, Lord, it's time for you to act As if God is saying, oh, okay, hey, boy, that's just what I was waiting to hear. Now somebody's finally told me I'm released. But you see, here is someone crying out to God, it is time for you to act, O Lord. The other thing that's fascinating about this verse, and rather strange when you think about it, is the grounds for the plea. It's time for you to act because of your promises, because you want to glorify yourself, because we're seeing some indications that your people are mobilizing. It doesn't say that, does it? It's time for you to act. Your law is being broken. Now what kind of a grounds is that? And it doesn't make sense. I mean, isn't God's law always being broken? So why in the world would at one point somebody come and say, Well now Lord it's time for you to act because your law is being broken? In order to understand it, you need to understand something about Psalm 119. That's the Psalm that is the extolling of God's Word. All 176 verses. And those verses are broken into eight verse sections, 22 of them, because there are 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet. It doesn't go to A to Z like us, it goes Alf to Tau. And those 22 letters not only are heading, in fact, if you ever want to know what the Hebrew alphabet is, you just look in your English Bible at Psalm 119. There you've got the Hebrew alphabet in most versions. In the NIV that I have, you have the Hebrew character, and then you have the English denomination of what that is. And Psalm 126 is in the letter Ion. Now, what's also interesting is that every verse within those sections begins with that letter, the letter of that section. Now, most of those Sections have a theme. Some don't seem to have a common theme. But a number of them do. And this section, Ion, seems to have the theme of cry for deliverance. In the midst of oppression and hostility, a hostile culture. So, first of all, what I want us to do is notice the context of verse 126, the section, and then particularly notice the cry of 126. The context here is that The psalmist makes a plea, then he gives three appeals for that, and then there is praise to wrap it up, to finish it. Let's hear God's word and consider what he says. Psalm 119, beginning with verse 21. I have done what is righteous and just. Do not leave me to my oppressors. Ensure your servants' well-being. Let not the arrogant oppress me. My eyes fail looking for your salvation, looking for your righteous promise. Deal with your servant according to your love. And teach me your decrees. I am your servant. Give me discernment that I may understand your statutes. It is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. Because I love your commands more than gold, more than pure gold, and because I consider your precepts right, I hate every wrong path. Notice first of all the plea that he gives there, verses 121 to 123. It's a prayer for deliverance from oppression. What he's saying is not simply your law is being broken, Lord. He's saying we're living now in a culture that is hostile to your law. I have done what is righteous and just. Do not lead me to my oppressors. They're oppressing people who want to do what's righteous and just. Ensure your servants' well-being. Preserve me. Take care of me. Do not let the arrogant oppress me, you see. And then my eyes fail, looking for your salvation, for your deliverance, looking for your righteous promise. He's saying it's tough to want to live by Scripture. In the situation that I'm in. Not only is your law being broken, it's being broken and crushed and trodden down, and there's an arrogance about the culture that says that those who try to keep the law. Are to be spurned. I don't know about you, but it seems to me I'm noticing an increasing hostility within our culture against biblical Christianity. You're noticing that at all? Yeah, I mean you could say it's always been there. And I'm not saying for a moment that people who are hostile to Christians are always mean persecutors and the Christians are innocent, righteous people. How many of us can pray, Lord, I have done only what is righteous and just. Do not leave me to my oppressors. We do try to do, if we are believers, if you're a follower of Jesus Christ this morning, you're trying to do something, things that are righteous and just. But not altogether. There are many ways that we fail. However, to the degree that we are seeking to do what the Scripture says to do, There seems to be an increasing hostility, particularly where those values are brought into the public square, where they're brought into the marketplace, and not simply left as personal private preferences. For instance, after this article about Ralph Reed in Time magazine, I was interested to follow to find what would be the response in the letters. You know, when you read those articles, you always want to find out how people are going to respond. Well, I could read you a number of quotes, but let me just read you this one letter that I think sums up a lot of the attitudes. Here's the letter. We have much to fear from people who use their religious organizational machine as a club to beat the U. S. government into submission. Boy, you hear about culture wars? Man, holy cow. Sorry, I didn't know I was doing it. Spiritual values and beliefs have no place in the affairs of the Republic. Keep your values and your beliefs to yourself. They have no place in public discourse. I don't know where they're relevant, but certainly not in public discourse, this person is saying. Attempts to legislate religion-based issues have perpetrated more evil than anything else in the history of mankind. I mentioned to some of you before that recently there was a survey done about groups that people fear within our country. The number one group that people fear in this country is what's called the religious right. In fact, it seems to be a common theme of the media to beware of the religious right that wants to impose its values on the rest of us. They want to impose their narrow-minded agenda on the rest of us. I got a letter here from organization that sounds like the kind of thing I'd like to sign up for. Americans for Religious Liberty. Of course, I was a little um on guard when I saw that uh it was Isaac Asimov that wrote the letter, but I figured, you know, maybe he has something good to say. Well, Isaac Asimov says that the religious right are the enemies of religious freedom within this country. It's a very um alarming kind of letter calling for funds to fight off those who would impose their narrow-minded religious values. For instance, I'll give you a couple of quotes from this. He says we need to fight against these people who will impose government registrated regimented group prayer on all students in our public schools. to fight against those who would encourage fundamentalists proselytizing in public schools under the equal access legislation passed by Congress in 1984 To fight against those who would downgrade science teaching in public schools in favor of the pseudo-scientific fundamentalist doctrine of creationism. To oppose those who would force all taxpayers to support sectarian private schools would provide sectarian indoctrination and practice religious, ideological, and other forms of discrimination. through vouchers and tuition tax credits, and fight against those who would deny women with problem pregnancies the constitutional right to choose safe legal abortions. And he goes on and on, as this does half of 'em. It goes on and on for a couple of pages here about how these people want to take away our rights and how we need to raise up an organization, Americans for religious freedom, to fight this. And so you hear of culture wars, you hear more and more of these kinds of battles. And so what uh this this person is praying, Lord, um there is oppression, there is arrogance, there is there's a battle going on. And so he's praying, deliver me, help me in this, strengthen me. And then he gives three appeals to that First appeal is based on God's love in verse 124. Deal with your servant according to your love, not according to my righteousness. Notice that verse 123 said, My eyes fail looking for your salvation, looking for your righteous promise. Ultimately, that salvation, that deliverance that God will bring will be at the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. We can expect to be in a battle up until that time. But he's saying there's something more basic. There's something immediate that we can look for. And that most basic thing is the salvation accomplished by Jesus Christ for those of us who recognize we are not altogether righteous. For those of you here this morning who recognize that you don't have the final say, the final answer for America's problems. That your own life is not together. That you and I, as we recognize the things that we try to do right, there are so many things we don't do right. And so our eyes look to the salvation that God has accomplished in Messiah. This was written before Messiah. It's looking to Messiah, who is going to be the answer, the one who delivers us, who will deliver us. And so before any of us talk about a political agenda or talking about prayer for revival or talking about what God is going to do through us for healing in our land, the very first thing we need to be clear on. Is the healing of our own souls by the work, the finished work of Jesus Christ in his cross and his empty tomb. The very first thing you and I need to do is to look to the salvation, the promise of God, that he says, I will receive all who come to me, and him who comes I will in no wise cast out. That he will take your sin and my sin upon himself. That Jesus' death was sufficient to pay for that sin. And his resurrection brought new life so that you and I would recognize that his deliverance is sure. So before we go into anything else, if you're not clear about that in your own life, then don't think that you can be an agent of God. For crying out, God, it's time for you to act. Your law is being broken. The first thing is, God, it's time for you to act in my life. For I've broken your law and need your forgiveness And so he says, deal with me according to your love. According to your love, not according to what I deserve. According to your love in Jesus Christ And the offer that He's given to you and to me for salvation. And then teach me. See, deal with me according to that love. Teach me now how to act within this kind of a situation. Then verse 125, he appeals to God's loyalty. He says, I'm your servant. Now, Lord, because I'm your servant, be loyal to your servant. Give me insight how to act in this situation. That I may understand your statutes, you see, particularly as they apply to living in this situation. And then the climax of it is 126. It is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. And the appeal there is to God's law, to his love, to his loyalty, and then to his law. Lord, act now. Your law is being broken. Now, we'll return to that in a minute, but Just finish the context so you see the flow of his thought. After that appeal, he then goes on to say a word of praise in which he extols the worth of Scripture. As being infinitely superior to anything else. Because I love your commands more than gold, more than pure gold, and because I consider all your precepts right, I hate every wrong path. Do you consider this book to be more valuable to you than gold? If you could take all the Bibles that are in your house and take their weight and transfer it into gold, Or take all their weight, multiply by 10, and transfer that into that many pounds of gold. But in the bargain, you'd have to lose the Bible. The Bible would be gone and all memory of its teachings Which would you take? That's easy to say, oh yeah, I'd take the Bible, but do we really consider that this book is more precious to us in its teachings than gold because it reveals to us Jesus Christ? Do we really believe that? Do we believe it because we use it? Or do we say that? But then we just let it sit there Do we see this as more precious to us than gold? Because we know that gold, no matter how much we had, no matter how big our portfolio or how large the bank account, that cannot guarantee us. Tea to us peace and happiness. But Jesus Christ, revealed through this book, guarantees to you to be your peace and your joy. He says, I love your commands more than gold, more than pure gold. You mean more to me, Lord, than gold. And then he says, because I consider your paths right, I hate every wrong path. I'm not a relativist I don't consider that these are ideas that are good for me to guide my life by, but if a person's not a believer, well then, you know, that's up to them. Because I consider your precepts right, absolutely right. Two-thirds of people in this country poll don't believe that there are any absolutes in any way, that they themselves simply determine what's true and false. Do you believe that whether somebody is faithful to their spouse or whether they choose to be homosexual, practicing homosexuality, or whether they indulge in pornography? Or choose to have an abortion because of some inconvenience. It's simply a matter of personal preference. And if they do it, it's too bad. I'm not pleased that they do, but you well, you know, who am I to say? How many times I hear among Christians, well, but who am I to say how they should live? That's not what this verse says. It says, because I consider your precepts right, I hate every wrong path. It doesn't mean I hate the people, but it means that I am upset when I see your law broken. And that's the cry that's issued forth in verse 126. Lord, it's time for you to act because your law is being broken, and that upsets me. Are you upset when you see the deterioration of values and truth in the United States? Does that upset you? When you see that on TV, I mean I don't claim that I am nearly as upset as I ought to be, and I am convicted of that. But I'll tell you when I saw that trailer for Pocahontas. That thing upset me so much I couldn't enjoy the rest of the movie. Then we had gone to see the Lion King. I'd never seen it. I figured it was the only United person in the United States had never seen the Lion King. So it was time to take our family and see this. This was months ago. But uh I could hardly enjoy that. Because when we see the attack upon God's word, it upsets us. as believers. And so that's not just to be a churning and a criticism and a grumbling. Too often we can indulge in that, criticizing the government, criticizing what's happening. Things are going to the dogs and all the rest. But rather what verse 126 does is it directs it into a prayer. It's time for you to act, O Lord. Notice the passion through this section. In verse 123, my eyes are failing looking for your salvation. 127 and 128, I love your word. Lord, it's more precious to me than gold. I'm upset when I see things when your word is violated. I hate every wrong path, but most particularly notice the passion of verse 126. It's time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. Notice three things about the cry of that verse. First of all, notice that it is not man-centered. Rather, it is God-centered. It is your law that's being broken. That's what upsets me. Not the fact that my lifestyle is being disturbed. Not the fact of, well, you know, uh things go down the tubes and you know, plagues break out and the rest of that, you know, well maybe it's going to disturb me. Your law is being broken, Lord. Therefore it's time for you to act. You are being robbed of your glory. Your law is being tread underfoot, as if it's simply a personal private preference of some narrow-minded religious group of people. Your law is being broken. It's time for you to act. And notice the plea, the hope, is it's time for you to act, not us. We will not be able to do it by political power and simply organizational maneuvering. It is time for you to act. We believe in the heart of our hearts that the only solution For turning things around in this country is a genuine spiritual renewal, and not simply a returning to traditional morality, as some people say. You know, we just need to return to our traditional morality. Very easy for us as Christians to say, well, yeah, that'd be pretty good. If we did that, hey, I'd be satisfied. You know, then we'd at least preach the gospel within some peace. It's a false hope. We don't have a base of Christian values to return to. And even if we did The scripture is quite clear that a person cannot live righteousness apart from the Holy Spirit. It's interesting back in 1925 when The issue of reading scripture in public schools was a public debate. James Gresham Machin, who helped to found the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, of which we're part, said that he was against such reading of Scripture in public school. Because he said when you read simply the moralistic passages of Scripture and take Jesus Christ out of it, you give people the false message that they can be good. And he said, without Jesus Christ, that's a hopeless thing to teach. Where some people say that what we need to do is we need to have a spiritual renewal. And that's fine, except that the term is so vaguely used that you can pour into that a lot of new age thinking. Simply cultivating the spiritual dimensions of Americans. We're seeing a lot of spirituality, but it's not necessarily at all based on Scripture. Even when it goes under the name of Jesus Christ. And so it's not just a general spiritual renewal that we need. The third thing that's being advocated, and these are three points that Frederica Matthew Green makes in that same article I quoted at the beginning. She says the third thing that we're hearing is a demand that Jesus Christ be acknowledged as the ruler of the United States. That sounds pretty good. Except when she says that reminds me of Constantine In the Holy Roman Empire, when people simply said that we're going to create a Christian state, that's what our neighbors are fearing, brothers and sisters, the imposition of a Christian agenda upon an unregenerate heart. And so if we are going to seek to impose that, we are going to see a backlash like you wouldn't believe. You talk about persecution. There must come with that intention of bringing Christian values in the society, the sharing of the gospel. the offering up of the transformation that Jesus Christ offers so that a person's heart's changed to want to do this, that they want to keep the law. It's time for you to act, O Lord. We don't have any other hope. Only you can bring about the transformation, the spiritual renewal that will change hearts within this country. It is time for you to act. You alone are our hope. Too often we say that, but we don't really mean it. We don't mean it because we show it by our lack of pray. It's time for you to act, oh Lord. Yeah, we should do something. But then are we crying with the passion of this verse? Lord, it's time for you to act. I give myself to prayer, to ask you, and I will not let you go until you bless us. Notice, even though there is that focusing upon God that is not man-centered, it's not what we can do, it is not a prayer of despair. It's not defeated, but it's a bold prayer. It's time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. Do you pick up the sense of victory, the sense of assurance that there is in that? I mean it seems like this person is being impertinent. I kept thinking impetuous and I It's impertinent. That's what it seems. This person's being impertinent saying, God, it's time for you to act. But it's a faith-filled prayer. And that's faith is fueled by the sense of God's character, of his finished work in bringing Israel out of Egypt, and for us the sending of his son. accomplishing his what he did on the on the cross for us and walking out of that tomb in victory and is based on his promises that He will hear the prayers of a humble, contrite people. It's time for you to act, O Lord. We believe that you will hear. We believe that you can do this. Do you know that right this weekend while we're meeting here, there is a major prayer rally going on in um Washington, D. C. There are dozens of prayer rallies for renewal and revival going on all over this country. Hundreds of prayer walks, prayer marches, concerts of prayer, where God is bringing together an unprecedented movement of people who are gathering to pray for renewal and revival as our only hope. Doesn't that encourage us that perhaps God has given us such a verse for this time? It is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. It's time for you to do what we cannot do. A little while ago, I read a book by R. Tudor Jones called The Great Reformation. And he talks about what a disaster Europe was in the early fifteen hundreds, morally The Renaissance was coming in to attack the church. People's values were in decay. It was a very dissolute time. Very fragmented time. And yet if you look at what God was bringing together in the early 1500s, then all of a sudden in 1520, it was like a spark ignited. And in the years between 1520 and 1525, the Reformation swept Europe In those five years, what was just a smoldering embers here and there of some ideas that were being circulated and some thoughts here and there and rumblings and the rest of this, all of a sudden began to catch flame. and moved from Germany throughout Europe and all over that area. And we saw the world transformed in five years. There were martyrs during those years. A number of believers lost their lives. Many of them burned at the stake for their beliefs. Revival never comes cheaply. But do you ever think, if God were to act, it's time for you to act, O Lord. If God said, I hear the prayers of my people, it is time to act. What he would do between nineteen ninety five and the year two thousand? Do you believe that that the United States and its values Its sense of God and truth and a need for Jesus Christ could sweep through this nation in the spiritual vacuum that there is? Do you believe that that could happen in five years? I believe it could. I believe there is a spiritual vacuum that we're seeing now. An emptiness and all the alternatives, and saying, you know, where's our hope? That if God were to act that to me, that's the only thing that explains why it's not happening. There is such a hunger. There is such a confusion. And yet you still find such a resistance, don't you, when you share the gospel. But if God's Spirit were to act, it's time for you to act and break hearts and to plow up the fallow ground. It's time for you to act. Your law is being broken. What would we see God do? And finally, notice that this is not simply something cognitive, but it's a cry of the heart. Not saying it's, you know, things are really kind of bad and I really wish God would do something. It's a direct appeal. It is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. And that's what you and I need to do. We need to come before God directly, not simply talk about prayer. We need to be praying. What would God do if we as Columbia Presbyterian Church gathered together regularly and we began to pray in our small groups and our families regularly for renewal and revival and centered our prayers around that One thought, it is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. We're tired of seeing Jesus Christ dragged in the dust within this country. What would we see God do? Isaiah 62 is the foundation of our concerts of prayers that we have every Thursday morning. Certainly invite any of you who are impelled by this to drop in sometime, 630 to 725 every Thursday morning in a Potter's house. We pray for renewal and revival, as well as specific things in our own lives. And specific needs in a church and keep a prayer log recording how God hears and answers. And our our foundation for that is Isaiah 62 verses 6 and 7, an amazing couple of verses. You have to see the context to get this. And I don't have time for that, but just verses 6 and 7 talk about Jerusalem as God's people, the church. You need to understand that. And so it's a call to prayer. God talks about the wonderful thing He's going to do, but then verses 6 and 7 are a call to prayer for renewal and revival. And he says, I have posted watchmen on your walls, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the church, the people of God. They will never be silent, day or night. You who call on the Lord, give yourselves no rest. Now that I can understand, right? Give yourselves no rest. We need to be more faithful in praying. Give yourselves no rest. Lord, I will not let you go till you bless me. It's time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. What's staggering, chonking, is what he says in the next verse. And give him no rest. Until he, the Lord, establishes Jerusalem, God's people, and makes her the praise of the earth. You see what that's saying? Don't give God any rest. We talk about him ruling in serenity and in peace and tranquility on his throne. And this verse says, Don't give me any rest. Come to him like the importunate widow, keep coming and saying, God, we're not going to let you go on this. God, we're desperate, God, you're going to keep hearing from us. Morning by morning, week by week, you're gonna keep hearing, and you're looking to see if we mean business or whether we're gonna give up in a couple of weeks or whether after a month we're gonna say we're tired of this, we're gonna pray about something else God, we're going to call out. It is time for you to act. We're not going to give you any rest until you make the church of Jesus Christ to be the focus of Howard County. Till people begin to look and they see, when we look at the answers around here, we look at the Church of Jesus Christ and we see there's something there that we've missed. There's something that they are offering there. There's something about the reconciliation of lives racially in families, in homes. We're seeing something there that we need. Until you make Jerusalem to be the praise of the earth, until you make the Church of Jesus Christ to be the central focus and Jesus, the issue of central Maryland. Amen? It's time for you to act, oh Lord. So because this is a cry. It's not something we're just going to talk about and go home. That'd be frustrating. Say, okay, let's sing a couple hymns and go. We're going to pray. We're going to pray now. We're turning this into a concert of prayer right here to help us we might gather and that we might do this. So what we're going to do now is we're going to claim this verse. We're going to pray in these three areas. We're not going to ignore it. We're not going to withdraw from it. We're going to cry out. We're going to cry out to God concerning the nation. He tells us to pray for rulers and all in authority. We're going to pray. We're going to pray for the needs of the nation. That God would bring spiritual renewal. For the political candidates of 1996, not only the presidential campaign, but Congress. We're going to pray for the media, for education, for families. For God to work. And then secondly, we're going to sing and then we're going to pray for the church. We're going to pray for the Church of America and we're going to pray for Columbia Presbyterian and the churches in this area. And then we're going to pray for ourselves, that God would use us. And that's the scariest one of all. We're going to pray now. You see the mics? Those are there because even though you might think you'd be able to hear, it's hard. This room is very hard to hear a person. And so we're going to ask that if you're praying, that you would either just step up to one of the two mics, worked well in the first service if you had people all over, or if you're toward the rear, Larry is going to have this cordless mic. And he's going to be wandering around back there. So all you got to do is stand up or just indicate that you want to pray, and he'll come right over to you with the mic, and then you'll be able to take that and lead us in prayer so that we can all hear and join. So let's join together, brothers and sisters. It's time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. Let's say that verse together as an affirmation as we begin our prayer. Let's say it. It is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. Let's say that again with boldness. Do we believe it? With faith. It is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. Let's pray. Let's use the time. We only have a few minutes for each one. So step right up. Let's keep the time moving so that we can use it fully. Let's begin. Praying for the nation at this point. We pray for patience with our country still a little bit longer. Father, that you would give us time to lift our request to you that you would work. Father, change our government representatives' hearts to see the truth of your word. Father, encourage us to be more in prayer for them and for the country as a whole. Father, we pray that people will not be deluded by slantings of the truth through our media and other types of um Print, Father we pray that people will have their eyes open and see the truth and see you working in this country Lord, when uh Al mentioned about the trade of the Bibles for gold, um Lord, you know my materialistic heart. Know that I'd rather go for the money. But I thought of the words of Peter, who said, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And uh Lord, I pray that our nation would uh read your word and look to it more and more for the words of eternal life. And that in it they might find, believe, and know that you are the Holy One of God, Lord Jesus. Oh Father, we know that one of your prophets said, Where there is no vision, the people perish. God, we do pray for a vision, Lord, for all the people of our nation. For our leaders, Lord, that they will have a vision from you, Lord. The only true vision that we can have is that for you provide us with truth, Lord. And we fight evil in all of its manifestations, Lord. We fight against the evil one. Lord, give us discernment, Lord, in our nation, in our leaders' discernment, and our pastors' discernment, in the elders, Lord, and in our families, Lord, that we can separate truth from evil. Your Father in heaven. The things that are happening to our society are clearly evil and wrong. And we've given. We cannot we cannot do anything about it. We are be it is beyond our power to do anything Your law is being broken and we cannot stop it. We need your intervention. We need for you to tell us what to do. We've tried everything. We've tried talking and politics and We cannot succeed. We ask you to remove the boot of the oppressor from us. We see spiritual poverty, we see real poverty, we see hatred, we see despair. Death machines, abortion, uh it's it's it's it's horrible and it is beyond our power to repair. Your law is being broken. We are helpless. Save us. Let's sing together now. We want to sing the battle hymn of the Republic My eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord. Glory, hallelujah. While we're singing, Joy and Linda, is Mary Lou joining? No. So Joy and Linda are going to be signing this in American Sign Language uh to help us to visualize in body language some of what we are singing in praise to our God. Let's stand and sing. When eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord, he is trembling out. On the vintage where the grips of wrath are stored, he has moved the faith, the lightning of his terrible swift sword. This truth is marching on Glory, glory, hallelujah. Gory, glory, hallelujah. Gory, glory, hallelujah. His truth is marching on in the beauty of