It's Reformation Sunday when we celebrate, as Tom reminded us, of what God did in the sixteenth century in many ways. initiated by the nailing of the ninety-five theses by Martin Luther on the door of the castle at Wittenberg, and all the things that followed from that. It's good for us to remember at this time as we celebrate God's work then. what the central issue was during the Reformation period, because it's the same issue as that Reformation as is the issue on the threshold, we believe, of a new reformation that is coming in our day. And that issue, of course, is the place of the authority of Scripture in your life. And in my life. The place of the authority of Scripture is absolutely essential, central to any work of the Spirit of God in bringing renewal and revival in the Church of Jesus Christ. And just as it was needed in that time, so it is needed in our own time. And yet many people say today that a thinking person can't really believe seriously that the Bible is all true, literally true. historically true and entirely trustworthy. Nobody today who has been educated can really believe such a thing. Well, that's nothing new for people to say. Back in the 18th century, Voltaire said in his writings that 50 years from now no one will hear of the Bible anymore. Upon Voltaire's death, the same year that he died, the British Museum paid $500,000 for an old copy of the scriptures. While Voltaire's writings in their original edition were selling for less than eight cents, Voltaire's house eventually was sold to the Geneva Bible Society Who says God doesn't have a sense of humor, huh? And so today we see the same issue This issue of the counselor is a local periodical put out for religious counselors in the greater D. C. area. There was a person writing recently on books that have shaped my thinking. And in this, this person who is a counselor, a religious counselor in this area, says, among the various books that she's read, she says, the Bible was somewhat helpful, yet raised more questions than answers. And she talks about how Victor Frankel was much more helpful than the Bible. She also then talks about her views of God. She says meditation and prayer My meditation and prayer with the light, as I call universal love or the Holy Spirit, continues to be a very important part of my daily life And so we meditate to universal love, and that's the sense we have of any absolutes. Well, so today the same issue Is before us as was back in the 16th century. What is the place of Scripture in our lives We as evangelical Presbyterians are known for saying that we believe the Bible is the Word of God. We have a very high view of Scripture, don't we? And those of us who are part of this congregation probably would say that that's a very important thing to us. It's central to our beliefs as part of Columbia Presbyterian Church And yet, practically speaking, what does that mean? How much do we actually use the Bible in our daily living? How much do we use Scripture in our own struggles when we're tempted? How much do we actually make use of Scripture because it's part of us, it's part of the warp and the woof of our thinking and our values and our decisions. And so I think it's appropriate this morning as we celebrate Reformation to take a look at Jesus' use of Scripture, not just his teaching about Scripture. Well, most of us are fairly clear on that. That it's God's word in errand and absolutely authoritative. But how did Jesus use Scripture practically? And I'd like particularly to look at that time when Jesus was tempted. And if you haven't already turned to it, please turn, if you have your Bible with you, to Matthew chapter 4. In Matthew chapter 4, we have the situation where Jesus, right at the very beginning of his ministry, had just been baptized And we read that after that, that uh after this baptism, right at the beginning of his ministry, he is led off into the wilderness, and there Satan tempts him. Let me read God's Word first, and then let's consider some of the things that it has to teach us. Matthew chapter 4. Verses 1 to 11, let's give our attention to God's word as God Himself speaks to us through it Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil. After fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. The tempter came to him and said, If you're the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. Jesus answered, It is written. Man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the holy city, and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. If you're the Son of God, he said, throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you. And they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against the stone. Jesus answered him. It is also written, Do not put the Lord your God to the test. Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendor. All this I will give you, he said, if you will bow down and worship me. Jesus said to him, Away with me, Satan, away from me, Satan, for it is written, Worship the Lord your God, and serve him only. And then the devil left him, and angels came and attended him. Let's pause for a moment to pray. Lord, we pray that you will teach us, teach our hearts, make us open to see the place of Scripture in our own lives, and how it was in Jesus' life, that we might more emulate our Master. And find more victory in our own lives as He did by the power of your word and your Spirit. Teach us now, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Here in this scripture we see Jesus coming as the second Adam. Do you remember how the first Adam was tempted, went through a probationary period? The first Adam was tempted in a garden. Jesus, the second Adam, is tempted in the wilderness. The first Adam was tempted in a position of no need. All his needs were met. The second Adam, Jesus, is tempted in extreme need after fasting for 40 days with only liquid nourishment. The first Adam utterly failed in those ideal circumstances. The second Adam, Jesus, under extreme hardship and circumstances, great vulnerability, entirely succeeded and passed the test. And so through the first Adam, by his failure, there came death on the human race. Through the second Adam, Jesus and his success, there comes life. To a new human race called the Church, the gathered, those who belong to Jesus, and trust in him because of his victory And if you're in Jesus Christ this morning by that faith that clings to him, you have life in him because he passed that test. Not only is he the second Adam, but we see Jesus here as the true Israelite. He's all that Israel could not have been. Because of its weakness and its sin. Do you remember how Israel, after Israel was baptized in the Red Sea, was led into the wilderness in order to be tested to see whether they would trust God? Jesus here represents Israel as the true Israelite, who after his baptism in the Jordan goes into the wilderness, then he became tempted and tested to see whether he will trust God. Israel, of course, entirely failed in the test. Jesus entirely succeeded. And your and my eternity depends on that success. If Jesus had failed, there would be no hope for you and for me to have our sins forgiven. He was the one person who could be eligible. Praise God that he passed that test. And that he was successful and eligible to take our sin. But what I want to look at particularly this morning is how he passed that test and how he used Scripture to do it. Notice the first temptation. The first temptation was to his weakness. It was to his weakness. That's the first blank there. You see there in verse 3 that the tempter came to him and said, If you are the son of God, tell these stones to become bread. Now you notice that Satan's first two temptations begin with that same kind of if, if you are the Son of God, or the Greek could be translated since. It's Satan raising questions, one of his favorite tactics, to get you and me to begin to question God. It's kind of a a derision there. You know, well, if you really are this, or if God really is who he says he is, if the Bible's really true, if these, then let's see. And so he puts a test to you. He puts something in your mind to lead you away from the Lord. And so you see in this first case what he's basically saying is, Well now if you're the Son of God, then why are you hungry? Here's these stones here. You have the power. Just make them become bread. Take things into your own hands. You don't have to depend on your father to do it his way. You have the power to do it. Take care of yourself Now how does Jesus respond to that seemingly reasonable thing, isn't it? I mean you ever stop to think about it. Very reasonable thing. There's stones, you've got the power, just make them bread. Notice how Jesus responds. He responds, first of all, it is written. You notice he doesn't reason with Satan, he never argues with Satan. In every case, he simply answers with Scripture: it is written. Now in the first case, what does he do? He quotes Scripture, Deuteronomy chapter 8, verse 3. Basically, he says, quoting it, Jesus answered, it is written, Man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Now at first glance you might look at that and say, what's that got to do with Satan's point? What's that got to do with turning stones to bread? Well, of course, Jesus is sensitive to the context of Deuteronomy 8, and he's getting right to the heart of the matter. Because in Deuteronomy 8. 3, what God was saying was that I've led you into the wilderness in order to prove you and to test you whether you will in fact live by my word. Because your life here that I'm leading you into this promised land will not simply be a matter of material benefit. But I'm testing you to see if you will live by my word and my provision for you. And so what Jesus basically is saying here is That even though I have the power to do this, I trust myself to my Father's provision for him to take care of me in his way. I trust myself to him. I'm not going to take the matter into my own hands and just do this. Because I am to be made like my brothers and sisters, like you and me in every way, and therefore I must live by faith. To trust my Father to take care of me. If he provides the bread, I receive the bread. If he doesn't, I live by every word of his mouth in how he will take care of me. And so Jesus is saying to Satan, I live by faith in my Father, and you're not going to tempt me to take things into my own hands, to distance myself from my Father and provide for myself. And so this was the same issue in the Reformation. And in the Reformation, you had many of the church leaders at that time taking things into their own hands, saying, I'll provide for myself. I will get rich through the sale of indulgences or power and positions and all the rest of these things. And the reformers came to talk again about what it meant to trust God and to live by faith. rather than simply taking things into your own hands, whether it was for purchasing eternal salvation or whether providing for your needs in this life. And so it is today. It's the very same issue for you and for me, isn't it? Satan comes to you day by day and week by week to say Turn those stones into bread. Take care of yourself. You got it rough on the job. If you could just manipulate this and take care of that, you could provide for your own security. If you wouldn't just be so scrupulous about your honesty, you'd be able to get ahead a lot faster. You're lonely And you seem like it seems like God hasn't provided for you a Christian mate that really has any spiritual statue. Well, take things into your own hands Find someone who's just open. And then maybe God will bless and bring that person to trust me and it'll work out. Take things into your own hands. You see, every time you and I are tempted To take things into our own hands and to provide for ourselves rather than waiting upon the mouth of God, saying, God, here's what your word says, is how you will provide. I will trust that and I will not manipulate. And distort in order to provide for myself. In that case, we are resisting Satan just as Jesus did. But the temptation's always there, isn't it? To turn those stones into bread ourselves. Now, in order to understand this even better, you need to move on to the second temptation. The second temptation was to Jesus' strength, not to his weakness, but to his strength. You see that Satan comes then and he takes him to the holy city, verse five, and has him stand on the highest point of the temple. And he says, Now, if you're the Son of God, then throw yourself down, because it's written here in Psalm 91 that He will consent command his angels concerning you, and they'll lift you up in their hands, so that you won't strike your foot against a stone. Satan says, You want to use scripture? Okay, I'll use scripture. Why don't you just do this? Because that's what the Bible says Now notice the connection between temptation one and two. In the first temptation, Satan comes to Jesus in a time of great need and says, provide for yourself. In the second temptation, he comes to Jesus in a position of no need. And he says, force God's hand. Trust God, force Him to deliver you by creating a need that is not there by God's providence. Put yourself in a position of need so that you can see God's power working for you. The first temptation, ignore Scripture in order to provide for your own need. The second temptation abuses Scripture in order to provide for your own desires. The first temptation, Satan comes as a super secularist. And he says, you're alone in the world. Work things out on your own. Turn the stones into bread. In the second temptation, Satan comes as a super-spiritualist. And he entices Jesus to great leaps of faith, as it were. He comes and he says, now let's see God work. I mean, you say that God's going to do this. Here's a promise of Scripture. Let's see you claim it. And of course, it's an abuse of Scripture that he's talking about. In the first case Satan comes to Jesus in his weakness. There's a real lesson here for you and for me, very practical. In most cases In our early walk as Christians, Satan will come to us in our weaknesses. And you and I all have them. We have areas of our propensity toward sin. our own appetites, our own desires. There are certain things in every one of our characters that are certain certain strengths. Things that you say, well that's a big problem to you and say, well that's not as big a problem to me. I don't struggle with that as much. Boy, there's another area, man, I struggle with that one every day. I never seem to get much victory on that one. Satan will come to exploit that area. But if in fact you resist him in that area by the power of God and by the use of Scripture His next ploy will be to come to you in the area of your strength, just as he came to Abraham, the man of faith, and caused him to doubt God's promise and to betray Sarah. Just as he came to Moses, the man of meekness. The meekest man on all the earth, the scripture says, and tempted him to be arrogant in the striking of the rock when he lost his patience. Just as he came to David, who had succeeded in in not succumbing to temptation after temptation when Saul was after him and established himself as a man of integrity And then Satan comes to David later on, and he utterly compromises that integrity with Bathsheba and Uriah. Just as he came to Peter, the man of great courage, who said, I'll never leave you, Lord, no matter who else leaves you, I'll stick with you to the end. And exactly in that place of his greatest strength, Satan brought Peter's downfall as he cowered before a serving maid and denied his Lord. And so, if you find that there's areas that you've been concentrating on, because you know they're your weakness, don't overlook the fact that the next thing Satan will do is catch you off guard in the area of your strength. And so he came to Jesus. And Jesus' greatest strength was what? It was his faith. It was the fact that he walked moment by moment in implicit trust in his Father. And so Satan takes that very strength and he seeks to exploit it to turn it into a temptation. Okay, Jesus, since you trust God so completely. Let's say you throw yourself off the temple here in order to demonstrate how much you trust your father and let him save you. That's pretty subtle, isn't it? Sure, Satan, you think I don't trust my father. You think because I wouldn't turn those stones into bread, I really don't trust him. Okay, I'll show you that I trust him. But Jesus doesn't debate him. You notice that? He answers again immediately with scripture to get to the heart of the matter. He answers, it is written. It's also written, he says, you know, you quote scripture, I'll tell you. Here's the scripture that gets to the heart of this. It's also written, Do not put the Lord your God to the test. Now notice another thing about this. All three times that Jesus answers Satan, it's from the book of Deuteronomy. I think in my recent study of this that there's something there I've always missed before in my study of this passage. I think, I can't prove this, but I think that there's a clue to here to how we're to use Scripture. My guess is that Jesus had recently been meditating on the book of Deuteronomy. And so Deuteronomy was very fresh to Jesus. And because all those principles and the passages of Deuteronomy were the freshest things in his mind, in every case when Satan tempts him, he answers from the book of Deuteronomy. Now let me ask you this question. When Satan comes to tempt you this week, what are the passages that are fresh in your mind? that you'll be able to draw on from memory because you've been meditating on them recently, not in order necessarily to defeat Satan, but simply because of your love for the Scripture and for the Lord. If you and I are in scriptures, we will have them handy when Satan comes to tempt us. And the scriptures will come to our mind. It may not be the passage that exactly answers what Satan's coming to us with. But it will be a principle that will remind us of something else, and that will be fresh to us, so that we can answer them. But if in fact scripture is Something that's of a dim memory, you only hear it on Sundays, you only look at it every once in a while, read a psalm here or there when you got a need or something like that. then there will not be that arsenal of Scripture at hand so that when Satan comes to tempt you, you can immediately draw upon something to answer him. Notice that in Jesus' use of scripture here, he immediately brings from his memory something that was fresh. It is written. And he quotes in this case from Deuteronomy. Chapter 16, I believe. Deuteronomy chapter 6 in verse 16. And when he does that, what he's doing is he's getting to the heart of this matter. He's saying, Satan, what you want to do is that you want to make God a lackey rather than a Lord. You want for me to say, I can call on God to serve me when I decide that I want to see him exercise his power. But Jesus, with a heart of a true servant, of course, realizes that living irresponsibly before God, so that he has to bail me out is not living in trust. It's living in insecurity that always needs to bite be buttressed by some dramatic demonstration of power What Jesus is saying is, I serve my Father, not vice versa. You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. You serve him. And so Jesus makes a clear distinction here that's very important for you and for me. Every promise of Scripture is yours and mine to claim when there is the need But let's be careful that we don't abuse Scripture where there is no need in order to see God show us his power arbitrarily. That is putting God to the test. And that is a wrong attitude toward the Lord. Now again, I'd like to take more time to show how these things worked out in the Reformation, but I realized as I was getting down to this that really don't have the time to do that very much. But in this case, of course, there was the abuse of scripture to rationalize uh and what led to in fact uh Protestant proof texting where people would simply say, I'll take a scripture and I will claim it. You know, Isaiah sixty two God calls Israel uh Beulah, which means married, and so I read this passage and I say, Well I see God's giving me a promise that since I'm part of New Israel I'm gonna be married and so You know, next guy walks down the street or next girl walks down the street, you know, my claws go into him, I say, God's given me a promise, you know, you're to marry me because I've just read in his word that He's gonna get me married and you're the person that looks likely God's led me to you. You know, there's all these kind of things you read Joshua one and God's given the land, so you say, Well God's given us Howard County because we're gonna go claim the land. You know, and all these kind of things, taking scriptures out of context. This is what Satan did with Psalm 91. Jesus says, look at the context and the intent of scripture. And so it's the same problem today. Just last spring when we were planning for the David Bryant meeting for the coalition, there was a discussion of where we could have it. And there was a real problem, you know, we didn't know uh what place we could use, couldn't find any place big enough. We tried to find a place that would be neutral, not within any church facility. And we couldn't find a place. And somebody said, Well, why don't we use Merriweather Post? Use the pavilion. Somebody said, Well, you know, it's after the season and you know maybe we could use that, be fine. And somebody else said, Well, you know, late October outside could be a little chilly. I always remember the answer. The person simply said, Well, that's no problem for God. He can make it 80 degrees if he wants. Let's claim it. Now you see, I I don't even remember who said that. That's not important. I hope they're not here. No, they're not. But We could all say something like that if we slip into this notion, you see, of well, you know, that would be neat, wouldn't it? Let's just go ahead and make our plans and then hey, God will take care of it. And that's living irresponsibly. If there was some promise, if there was an absolute need, there was no other place in the world we could meet, we had to meet in Meriwether Post, then we cast ourselves on the Lord. But in order for us to learn to trust him, we learn to walk with him and by his word, which teaches us responsible living. And then in the needs, we come to cast ourselves on him. But not arbitrarily, just because we want him to see him show some power that makes us irresponsible, because the more he would do that, the more irresponsible we would get, wouldn't we? Well, if then Satan can't trip Jesus up in the area of his weakness, and he can't trip him up in the area of his strength, How in the world is he going to get him to succumb? He has one last part, and it's the one he'll use with you and with me. The third temptation is then the most subtle of all, and it's to confuse God with his calling. To confuse God with his calling. Now what in the world do I mean by that, right? Look at verses 8 and 9, what he says. Again the devil took him to a very high mountain. He showed him all the kingdoms of the world. And their splendor. All this I will give to you, he said, if you will bow down and worship me. Now again, you notice Jesus doesn't debate them He doesn't say, well, they're not really yours to give. He doesn't say what he would do with them. He doesn't give get into a whole bunch of other things that he could debate with Satan Rather, he gets right to the very heart of the matter. Satan now is touching the very heart of Jesus' mission. He came to save the world To wrest it out of Satan's grasp. And so Satan is simply offering a shortcut, a momentary genuflection in order to gain the world to do it good. It's the ultimate classic example of the ends justifying the means. It's the ultimate desire to just in for one small moment separate God from his calling to you and to me, which is a good calling. Whatever we're doing that we say, God has called me to do this, He's called me to reach people for Christ, He's called me to work with integrity in my job. He's called me to do this or that, be a mom, to do all the things that he has given to us in our calling, and then to say, now I will accomplish that calling more efficiently. If I just for this one moment don't look too scrupulously at principle. And so what Satan is trying to do at this point is to reach Jesus' heart and say, you really care for those people, right? I'll give them to you. I'll relinquish it. If for one moment you compromise And Jesus is saying something here which I don't think we fully appreciate. Jesus is saying that exclusive devotion to God is more important than the entire world. You see that? Jesus is saying in verse 10, Away from me, Satan, for it is written, again, he answers simply with scripture, it is written from Deuteronomy, worship the Lord your God and serve him only. End of matter, that settles it. There can be no momentary compromise, no matter how great the justification. And we are in a day that little can even appreciate what that means. People who will not compromise on principle are considered rigid. are considered people who are out of touch with the times, who are naive and all the rest of that. And you and I, if we follow Jesus and say, if Scripture says this, I cannot bend, no matter how great the reward seems. No matter how much. You know, there was a cartoon I saw recently. A bunch of people in a boardroom. I guess David Bryant showed this cartoon and the people are there and praying and their prayer is, Lord. Just for once, let us get away with this little scheme. Just for once, you know. And you know, and that's the way we feel. Just once, because so much good will come. It was true in the Reformation, the expediency, in order to take care of people, and they don't really know, and so they need these aids to worship, and they need the indulgences and all the rest of these things, and so it is today. In order to reach people for Jesus Christ, we need to contextualize the gospel. We need to present it so that people will receive it and they'll come to our worship and they'll want to be here because they'll find that they have a good time here in our worship. And in the worship, they won't be threatened. And in the worship, they'll feel comfortable. And so we don't talk about hell. We don't talk about judgment. We don't even worship directly because that worship becomes too threatening. We entertain and we do all kinds of things that we're tempted to do in order to reach people for Jesus Christ, don't we? And so that's a guiding principle that you need to understand about our philosophy as a church at Columbia Presbyterian. We need to bend and to move and be sensitive in every possible way to reach unchurched people for Jesus Christ. But we need to understand that at every point Satan's coming to us and he says, just do this and you'll reach more. Just do this. Don't worry about what scripture says in that area right for now. You can get to that later. And if we do that, we've separated God from his call to us, and we've removed him and his face from our midst and his blessing. And so You and I are tempted with these things every day. And we need to see in this that Jesus used Scripture very personally He doesn't see Scripture as something that is impersonal. You know, the Scripture says, and these are principles to follow, separated from God as a person. If we do that, we'll tend to always be legalistic and wrongly rigid. But the way Jesus used Scripture, you notice is very personal. Notice the first time. See, man doesn't live by bread alone, but every word that comes from the mouth of God, you see, scripture isn't something that's impersonally given. It's God Himself speaking. The second temptation, he says that you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. The third temptation, you'll not uh you uh worship the Lord your God, serve him only. And so it's not just a matter of obeying Scripture. It's a matter of obeying God who speaks to you through Scripture. It's a matter of realizing that when you read the Bible, morning, afternoon, evening, when you read this book, This is God speaking to you. It's God making himself revealed to you, making his will for you revealed as he speaks to you in that. And so there's no time to go through these last four things, but I want to just have you think about on your own the whole matter of committing yourself to answering temptations with Scripture rather than your own reasoning. Secondly, of the matter of memorizing Scripture, so you've got it fresh and able to use and build into your life a program whereby Scripture becomes more in your mind, memorized and familiar with it. And thirdly, to depend on the Spirit because Scripture alone will not protect you. But as you rely upon the Spirit of God and is taking Scripture, In order to answer Satan's temptations, the Spirit gives you the power. And when you fail, and you will fail, as I fail all the time, we come and we remember that because Jesus succeeded, His forgiveness is ours. And we can move on. And we can realize that even in our failure, we learn to resist Satan more effectively the next time. Let's pause now for a moment of prayer as we come before God in each of our own lives together. Lord our God, we come and we confess to you we have not made Scripture that central part of our life. We say we believe it's your word, and then we ignore it. We are careless in making it part of our life. And in those times of temptation, we see the difference because we don't use it as Jesus did. And we don't have victory. Lord, how we thank you that when Jesus answered all these things, he got exactly what Satan promised to give. He didn't go hungry. Angels came and ministered to him. And he gained the world through obedience. Lord help us to trust you and know that you will take care of us in your way. Help us, Lord, to trust you this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.