After seeing what I'm preaching on this morning, I expect a few of the rest of you will be trying to sneak out with the children. But it won't work. We see you. We're going to take uh tickets at the back, but you have to Validate that you're actually working with the children in children's church to miss this message. Before we go on in James, I want to wrap up A subject that is touched on in chapter 5, verse 9 for the last time in the book of James. It's kind of now or never that I hit this thing, been avoiding it all along. But it's a subject that's so important to James that he touches on it every single chapter. The matter of an uncontrolled tongue, particularly this morning, in focusing on gossip. We all do it, and we all love it, don't we? Proverbs 26 tells us that the words of a gossip are like tender morsels, tender vittles that go down deep. We love gossip. Like the person that said, I don't repeat gossip, so listen carefully the first time. Think of uh Yet uh how uh much money is made in our country through gossip. You go through the checkout lines and there's always uh magazines and newspapers telling you all the gossip about the stars, TV, film and all the rest of that. And in recent years, particularly there's been millions of dollar made in gossip about the White House. Recent uh issue of U. S. News and World Report reported on five books just recently published in the last months, all that are simply gossip about the inside life at the White House. Two of those five books, the authors, were paid an advance of one million dollars in expectation of the amount of money that those books would make. And the most notable of them that people talk about now Donald Regans for the record. For the record sounds kind of innocuous, you know. But it's simply a a whole slew of gossip about Nancy Reagan and all the other things that everybody wanted to know was going on. All the dirt that could be dug up and that we could all enjoy reading about. We love gossip. We sort of hate to admit that we love it. We like to think that we're above it. I mean the word gossip sounds rather mean and slimy. And we may admit that, well, occasionally perhaps I fall into that But it's certainly not part of my lifestyle. Oh no? Then let me offer you a challenge. Let me challenge you that when you go home today, when you have lunch Whoever you're having lunch with, make a simple rule. We will not during this one meal allow one word of cutting anyone down who is not here, even a little bit. or repeating any gossip that we've heard. Just for this one meal. And see how much you have to talk about. All you'll be talking about is what you can pass of the food, you know, because we're constantly falling in to critical negative talk about other people. And so often we don't even realize it We think most of it is entirely justifiable. We do it every day. And yet the Bible says that this is not a light thing, but rather that it's a serious sin. Paul associates gossiping in lists of sins of drunkenness, murdering, and God hating. I once heard a pastor say, give me two drunks for one gossip anytime. You know, gossiping can split a church, can divide the body, much more serious in its negative effects than many other sins that we highlight much more in the Christian community. James takes gossiping very seriously. Look what he says, just briefly running through as we review what James has been saying to us over the last couple decades as we've been looking at this thing. James chapter 1, verse 26. Probably only about a dozen of you still around from when we started that. James chapter 1, verse 26 You remember he said, if anyone considers himself religious and yet does not keep a tight rein on his tongue, he deceives himself. And his religion is worthless. Chapter 2, verse 12, speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom, because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Speak and act, he's saying. Speak, with the realization that you're going to be judged by what you say. And then you remember chapter 3, where he really focuses on this first twelve verses of chapter three. Particularly notice verse two. We all stumble in many ways, but if anyone is never at fault in what he says, he's perfect. Able to keep his whole body in check. James says that's the hardest thing to control. You remember he said at the end of verse 5, the tongues of fire. A world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole person and sets the whole course of his life on fire and is itself set on fire by hell. The tongue is so destructive. Verse 9, it said, with the tongue we praise our Lord and Father. We've just been singing praise to our God these last minutes. And then we'll go out, and even during our break, during the time after, this afternoon, we will curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Cutting each other down, speaking vitriolic uh words of resentment and and uh undercutting other people to one another. But I thought it would be worth taking a look, just kind of in a subject sort of form, at three things about gossip as we wrap up and put away what James has been saying on this before we move on to his next section. I'd like to look at how we do it, and then why we do it, and how we can stop it. So follow along with this. To see if we can get some help from the Lord on this matter. James chapter 4, excuse me, I didn't give you chapter 4 and 5. Chapter 4, James says in verse 11, brothers do not slander one another. Anyone who speaks against, speaking about gossip, speaking against his brother or judging him, speaks against the law and judges it. And then chapter 5, verse 9, the one that we're up to now, don't grumble against one another or each other. Don't grumble, don't gossip, don't speak negatively. against each other, brothers, or you will be judged. The judge is standing at the door. Well first of all then how do we do this Uh real briefly, you know the number of ways. First of all, we can do it openly, as Don Regan does in his book, for the record. You simply don't like someone and you're gonna let it be known that you don't like them, and you're going to get back at them I don't like that person, I'm going to let you know why I don't like them. But mostly for Christians, it's a little more subtle than that, isn't it? And so we have ways that we gossip by couching it in more positive kind of terms, like evaluation. Now we're always evaluating people. Just in thinking about this message, I've noticed most of our discussion about other people is in terms of evaluation. We speak of their strengths, we speak of their weaknesses. We're always speaking of them in evaluatory terms And we find that very easily we can slip in to negative evaluation. Because we're always comparing. We're comparing ourselves with them, we're comparing other people. And it's so easy to slip into a negative discussion of their weaknesses. And discussion of somebody's weakness prompts another point about their weakness. And pretty soon you find that you're outdoing each other when insights about another person's weakness. All in the framework of kind of evaluating the person, whether for something that you're considering them for or just kind of in general speaking about them. Or another way that we gossip is out of concern Think of the number of times that I come home and talk to Kathy about a concern that I have for someone, and then wind up taking several minutes to run them down in kindly pastoral tones. concern for them. Often it's concern for their testimony, you know. Concern for a problem that they have in their life, which we're not frank enough to say irritates us. And so we speak of our concerns for people, and it's really gossip. Or there's the uh praying more intelligently kind of syndrome, you know how that one goes. Let me share with you a concern I have for so and so that you can pray more intelligently about this situation or this person. And then follows again a number of minutes of talking about all their spiritual weaknesses and sins and on and on and on we go about them, all in the name of praying for them. And that's the most hypocritical technique I think of all of them. Because I find that after we've done, we practically never pray for the person. We've just evaluated them in very negative terms to their destruction. And now we both think less of them and are less inclined to pray for them. There's a number of other ways you could think of your own little techniques for doing this, but all I'm trying to say in this is that we all do it. I do it, you do it. We need to face that We need to face that we are gossiping critical people in many ways. But now why do we do it? You know, it's not enough just to say, yes, I do it because I'm negative. Why is it? What is it that motivates us to gossip? Well again, I think there's a number of reasons, but I have called out a few that I find to be some of the most basic. First of all, I think we gossip sometimes in order to seek to establish a bond of confidence with another person. You ever notice that? You uh you draw a person into your confidence by speaking negatively about someone else. And that's a way of apparently drawing the two of you together. You're kind of buddies with some insights on other people. And by the fact that I criticize someone else to you, sounds like I am closer to you. You're my friend. And I'm speaking against them. But you know that's always an illusion. People that you find will draw you into their confidence by speaking negatively about another co-worker or somebody else that you know. Well, almost invariably, when they're with other people, speak negatively about you in order to draw the other people into their confidence. I know of a person who was deeply disillusioned by this when they found a person they thought was really their friend because of all the dirt they were sharing about others and found out that the dirt they were sharing about them was twice as bad and not even half true And so that's a need that we have. It's our own insecurity. I find this as a technique often used by teenagers to draw another person, to make them think they're my friend by cutting down someone else. You teenagers can tell me afterwards whether you think that's accurate or not. Second thing that I think we often will do is that we'll gossip in order to feel important by possessing inside information. You know how that goes? You've heard about a scandal, you've heard of something negative. You know, the White House books are the classic example about this. Those that have served in uh what are what are called now the kiss and tell books that uh you know if somebody comes into your confidence uh somebody recently said they now know why the kings of old times used to kill their counselors when they were finished with them. Uh you know saved a lot of grief, you know. But uh that's the classic example, but we all do the same kind of thing in much more subtle ways, don't we? I have some information, and I know that if I told you, it would impress you You'd say, ah, really? And boy, do I want to impress you. Boy, would I love to have you just stand back and be really amazed at some information I have. I find one of the hardest things to do. is when I know something negative about somebody that is important to you people to resist telling it. Because it'll make me feel important. And yet it's done at a very dirty price. Another thing that we will do, of course, is gossip out of simple jealousy. Somebody else, we're jealous of their appearance, who they are, their position, what they've gained, what they've accomplished, whatever it else it is, and it's kind of like, who do they think they are? And so we're going to bring them down to size. And so what do we do? We speak about every fault or flaw that we can think about with them in order to make us feel superior. In order to Bring us into a position where we work out that jealousy by pettiness, by simply cutting the other person down. Well one of the clues I find to where one person is really jealous of another person is when I find they're constantly referring to that person in negative terms. And then I begin to wonder if they're not really jealous of something about that other person and that needs to be worked out. Where there's just the general critical spirit that can motivate a lot of gossiping. Some people are just unhappy people And so everybody that they talk about is in generally negative terms. They don't like themselves. They're perfectionists, legalistic perfectionists, and they can't achieve their standards. And so they work that out by criticizing other people. And people are spoken about in generally negative terms because of their own insecurity. I do that. When I find myself running into generally critical negative talk, that's a clue to me that I am simply an unhappy, insecure person. But then there's the final thing, what I believe is more the most root issue of all of it, and that is that I think we gossip in order to seek to justify ourselves In order to feel better about our own shortcomings, gossip is really a form of self-justification, isn't it? I'm tired of feeling guilty about all my sins all the time. I'm always feeling like I'm inadequate. I'm always feeling like I'm a failure in so many ways. And so what do I do? If I can simply have a brief few moments of pleasure in focusing on your sins. In a way as I tell them to somebody else, then that makes me feel a little more justified. I feel a bit superior to you by telling those sins to someone else. And in doing that I'm able to justify myself and not focus, at least for that time, on my own inadequacy and sin. Especially if I can get you to agree with me about that other person's sins. Because then you see we're both a little superior to that other person. And by enabling, feeding each other with that sense of self-righteous superiority We're able to take the spotlight off our own sin for just a few minutes and feel better about it. We're always comparing ourselves with other people, aren't we? You know, sometimes I am appalled with how much I compare myself with people. Always comparing, comparing, comparing And I'm amazed, after all the years I've walked with the Lord Jesus, of the deep insecurity in me that continues to motivate me to compare myself with other people. And one way of working that out is by negatively speaking about the other people I compare myself with. It's a way that I justify myself. Now, do you identify with any of these? I mean, is this something that, you know, I mean I hear a pin drop in here, so I guess is this something that's coming through and you see in yourself this kind of motivation I hope so, because what I want to share with you now is something that I think relates the gospel to gossip in a way that I don't think we often consider. And I think we really need to hear this in order to help us to not simply feel more guilty about our gossiping and therefore to go out and gossip more in order to feel better about how crummy we are. You know, I mean that's the way it can work if you don't really get the gospel in this. Let me approach it this way, by dealing with the question, how can you stop it? And looking, first of all, at some general Christian counsel that we often hear about how to stop our gossiping. You've probably heard these kinds of ideas before, but let me run through them because there's some value to them. First of all, we need to acknowledge that gossip is sin. We need to not hide and rationalize that we hardly ever do it. Every once in a while we slip, but that we can see as I've tried to outline it to us here now, that I do that every day. I just am constantly slipping into that. And I need to acknowledge that it's sin. It's not just a, you know personality trait, it's not kind of the way I am, it's not something that I occasionally slip into. It is sin, it is terrible sin, it is disgusting, and it is abhorrent to a holy, righteous God of truth. And it is sin that I need to confess. I need to see that as James chapter 2 and chapter 3 say, that this is a sin That is worthy of condemnation. James chapter 5, verse 9. Again, it is sin worthy of condemnation. And I need to confess it as sin. Secondly, I need to exercise discipline to stop it. James 1 26. Remember he says that if anyone considers himself religious and doesn't keep a tight rein on his tongue There's a certain discipline that's involved in stopping gossiping. And let me suggest to you that more important even than the discipline of stopping gossiping is the discipline to stop listening to gossip. Because that's often where it starts. You may leave from here and this week be very determined that you will not gossip. But if you begin today or tomorrow to listen to somebody else gossip, you will be drawn right into it. I find that sometimes if I think about it, I need to stop and the person is doing that and say, you know, I get really tempted to gossip. And I'm afraid that if we continue this, I'm going to slip right into that. That puts the problem in me. I'm not judging the other person. I'm simply saying this is a problem that I have and I can't continue in this without slipping into it. And then just stop it. Move on to another topic. Just go on to something else. If you allow yourself to listen, you will gossip. Discipline. The third thing is we need to commit ourselves to the practice of Matthew 18. We need to commit ourselves to the fact that When Matthew 18, 15 to 18 tells us that if our brother sins, sister sins, someone sins, whether against us, or we see them sinning, we need to go to that person first. Not talk about them to someone else. If I see that I'm talking uh that you're talking to me about someone and you're negatively evaluating that person, something really bothers you about what they did, I need to ask you gently, have you told that person? You say, no, I haven't told them that you know I don't know how to do it. Well I'll pray with you how to do it, or let's do it together, or whatever I can do to help, but we can't continue this before or until you will go to talk to that person And it's the same way with myself. If I'm doing that, I need you. Listen, I I'm in no way above you in this. And I need you in conversations we have to say to me, Al, have you talked to that person? I think you need to go practice what you preach. Go to that person. Practice Matthew 18. You need to do that. Now, all these are biblical injunctions, biblical counsel, and they are good. My problem is that I don't think any of them really get to the root issue of our gossiping. And I believe that the root issue of it is that you cannot control your tongue. You simply cannot do it. James told us that, you remember? Back in chapter 3, in verse 7 and 8, he said, All kinds of animals, birds, reptiles, creatures of the sea are being tamed and have been tamed by a man. But no man can tame the tongue. It's a restless evil full of deadly poison. Nobody can tame it. If you can say, I can tame it, James says You're perfect, verse one. You don't have anything else to work. You have been glorified. The Lord might as well take you now because there is nothing else to do in you. None of us contain the tongue. If you don't believe that, try for this week consistently saying for this one week, only one week. Next week, Moy, I'll do all the gossiping I want you, but this one week, I will not cut anyone down, even a little bit And I will not repeat any matter of gossip that I have heard. Try doing that. And you will find that you can't do it. That's sort of bad news, good news, you know. I mean the good news is nobody else can do it either. The bad news is you and I still can't do it in its sin. That doesn't excuse us But the fact is we need to admit and confess that we cannot do it. I don't think we will ever make progress in gossip until we confess that we cannot stop gossiping. In our own strength we cannot control our tongue. The flesh is too powerful. That's why James, you notice, in chapter 5, verse 9, puts gossip in the context of judgment. He says, don't grumble against each other, or you will be judged. In chapter 4, he put it in the context of repentance Brothers don't slander one another. Anyone speaks against his brother judges him, speaks against the law and judges it. That follows, remember, verses seven to ten, where we are confessing our sin, we're washing our hands, we're turning from it, we're humbling ourselves before the Lord. We're confessing that we are sinful people. Why is that? I believe the simple reason is that James is trying to highlight to us that our tongues desperately show us our need for grace. Our tongues desperately show us our need for grace to cast us on Christ. Because the root issue is the law versus grace, or the flesh versus the spirit. Remember what Mark said last week in his message on Galatians? He talked about that in Galatians chapter 5, verse 6, you remember? That verse we considered there, where Paul, in contrasting the principle he's giving to legalism, says the only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. And now after he's done that, he's writing that to people who are legalistic. They are perfectionists seeking to live the Christian life in their own strength. They have reduced it to certain externals and they're saying, I can control my tongue, I can do this, I can do that, Lord help me to do that, I'm going to do that. And and Paul is saying, wait a minute, you've got this whole thing wrong And what is the example that he picks to show them that? If you go down to verse 15 of Galatians 5, the example is gossip. Notice in Galatians 5. 15 he says, if you keep on biting and devouring each other, watch out, or you will be destroyed by each other. Now why does Paul pick gossip? As the example of their legalism and of their perfectionism walking in their own flesh and strength. I believe it's because Paul wants to show us that we can only stop gossiping by faith. It's an example of exactly what Mark was talking about last week. You see, chapter 5, verse 1, he starts out. It's for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then, and don't let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Picks that up again in verse 13. You, my brothers, were called to be free. Jesus has set you free. But do not use your freedom to indulge the sinful nature, rather serve one another in love. The entire love summed up into single command. Love your neighbor as yourself. Contrast, next verse, if you keep on gossiping, biting and devouring one another, you see, in your own strength, then you're going to be destroyed by one another. What's his point? Paul is saying here that there's two kinds of sources of fruit. He's saying there is our own nature, and what does that nature produce? He goes down with just the next couple verses in verse twenty. He says the fruit, verse nineteen and twenty, right after this, the fruit of the sinful nature are obvious. And they include discord, dissensions, factions, gossiping, you see. That's what we produce That's what you and I inevitably produce by our own flesh and by our own nature. And it is pride, it is arrogance, it is utter sinful self-confidence to think that we can stop that. But Paul says there is a contrast to that, and it's in verse 22, the fruit of the Spirit. And that fruit of the Spirit, Paul says, is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness. Gentleness, self-control. Where does that come? Not from a new determination to stop gossiping. It comes from the Spirit. Now you connect that with James, and what do you find? You remember long, long, long time ago I told you that for James, wisdom is what for Paul is the Spirit. You equate those two. And so Paul says the fruit of the spirits, love, joy, peace, and those things. And James says, remember chapter 3. The fruit of the s of wisdom, James says in 3. 17, the fruit of wisdom. Of the spirit that comes from heaven, not from you and me. This is after he's just said in chapter 3, you and I can't tame our tongues. James says it's hopeless. Don't even try to tame your tongue. You cannot tame it. But then he says, the fruit of wisdom from above. That's the same thing as Paul saying, the fruit of the Spirit. Is first pure. It's first pure, then peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy, and good fruit, impartial, sincere. It's peacemaking. For those that sow peace to raise a harvest of righteousness. Now, what is this saying? I believe that what this is saying is when you and I see by faith That I have the full forgiveness, the complete, perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ. That he has looked at my sinful gossiping tongue and he has said, That is all forgiven. I have forgiven you completely for that. You have a clear conscience with regard to your gossiping. I have a clear conscience because not of anything I've done, but because Jesus Christ in his death on the cross took all of those sins of gossip And Jesus Christ has clothed me with his righteousness. He's adopted me as his son, so I have not only a clear conscience, I have complete security in my position before God. That which can never change. God's love on me, for me, will never alter the slightest iota, no matter how much or how little I gossip And when I feel realize what Paul says in Galatians 5, the freedom for which Christ has made you free from the law, you see. free from the binding of your conscience and the guilt that you have for all of your gossiping. Paul says when you really understand that freedom of your conscience in the gospel of Jesus Christ, then you don't need to justify yourself. You don't need to set yourself up by putting someone else down. You are freed to, chapter 5, verse 6, let your faith in Christ and your standing in Christ express itself through love. The Holy Spirit comes to you and he enables you then by his fruit to work out love, joy, peace. Why? Because you're freed from yourself. You're freed from your guilt. You're freed from your insecurity. That's what motivates me to gossip. It's my guilt and my insecurity when I see that Jesus Christ is taking care of my guilt and insecurity. What motivates me to gossip? I don't have anything. I hope you can see that. I d you know I maybe it's sort of I don't know. I hope you see it's it's between faith and and works By works I will gossip because I'm always straining to do better. And I'll always feel crummier, and so I'll gossip more. You see? But if I come by faith in Christ, I am freed, Paul says. I stand in his righteousness. Therefore my faith can express itself in love. I don't need to gossip. I can lift you up rather than putting you down. Because you and I have the same righteousness. We don't need to compare it. It's all in the righteousness of Jesus. And you and I are freed, therefore, to be able to lift up. rather than to bite or to devour. Rather than to slander, rather than to condemn, rather than to grumble. You and I have the wisdom from above working in us by the fruit of the Spirit saying you are justified. You are complete in Jesus Christ. And that takes away all desire to gossip. It's really it's an amazing thing, you see. When I say I will not gossip this week, I will gossip When I say, Lord Jesus, by faith in your righteousness, that I am complete, my conscience is clear, I am loved by you. Therefore, Lord, I don't need to put someone else down this week. What'll I do? I'll gossip. That's what I'll do. But you see, when I gossip, when I return to the gospel and repent of that and confess, Lord Jesus, I have your righteousness. Gradually it takes away the need and the desire to gossip. And that's the fruit of the Spirit. I'd like you to express that sometime today, as you see down there in your own words, try to crystallize what I've been saying here. So that you can connect the gospel to gospel and see what the Lord does in your life this week. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, help us to get a hold of the gospel. That you might deliver us from gossip. We confess, Lord, that the root of our gossip is our arrogance, our pride, our self-confidence, our need to justify ourselves. It is all these things and not the other little trivia that we often play around with. We confess we do it, we confess we enjoy it because and sometimes we feel like it's the only satisfaction and relief we get from our guilt and our insecurity. And Lord, when we've done that, we've really turned away from you. Paul says in Galatians 5, we've turned away from grace. Lord, we want to turn back to that. We want to see. What James and Paul are telling us, we want to see the freedom that there is in Jesus Christ. That freedom that sets us free from needing to lift ourselves up by putting others down. Because we have the righteousness of Jesus. Lord, give to us either such a thirst for that because we don't know you, that we must have that. Or give us, Lord, as your people, such a confidence in that, such a special and new reminder of that even this day. If we are filled with a new freedom in Jesus Christ, and a freedom that sets us free from gossip. We give that to you in this moment of quiet in our own hearts.