I keep reminding you that James is a counselor. He's trying to help us. Further, that his counsel is absolutely reliable. His counsel is as sure as this book is the Bible, God's word. And so what James recommends that you do will work. The promises that he gives to you and to me will come to pass. And so James has looked at us and he has said, You're down. I can see that you have conflicts, that you have fears, that you have guilt. James says it doesn't have to be that way, you know. For he's told us in chapter 4, verse 5 that God's spirit longs jealously for our good. God is with you. He desires that you be released from those burdens. He says that there's more grace in verse 6 available. An infinite supply of grace, whatever your need is. And then he's restated that promise in verse 10, where he said, if you humble yourself before the Lord, he will lift you up. In both verse 6 and 10, he has said that that grace, that lifting up, is for those who humble themselves before the Lord. And so you recall that he's given to us five steps in verses. seven through ten one how to attain genuine biblical humility. Submit your will humbly to the Lord Jesus. Resist the devil, and then humbly as a child come to God. Then admit humbly what you're like, that you have dirty hands and a divided, disloyal heart. Admit it and confess it before the Lord. Want to change, want to change so much that you hate that sin, that you grieve and mourn and wail over it, that you long for the Lord to change you. Did you come like an alcoholic at an AA meeting? And one of the great reasons, I think, for the success of AA's ministry is because of their stress on honesty. You begin the meeting by saying, hello, my name is Alan Harris and I'm an alcoholic. Don't go around saying that you heard Al Harris say he was an alcoholic. That was purposes of illustration. But you see, the point of that is that I come before you freely and I am honest about the fact that I have a problem. James says you go further than that. You don't only have a problem. James says you are a problem. You know, the London Times some years ago ran a series on the subject, what is wrong with the world? There were a number of articles and correspondence submitted to that. The best one was also the shortest. It simply said, Dear sirs, I am, yours faithfully, G. K. Chesterton. He was simply recognizing what's wrong, what's the problem? I'm the problem. James says, realize that. Humble yourselves before the Lord then. Realize that you come before the Lord of glory and that you don't make excuses. And we've talked about that for the last couple of weeks. And God has spoken to us about that. But it's at that point, you see, that we're ready now to receive the glorious promise that he gives at the end of verse 10. And he says there, he will lift you up. You see, it's only after we've gone through verses 7 to the beginning of verse 10 that the end of verse 10 becomes the glorious news that God intends for us. And so I want this morning to focus a bit more on that promise. I want to look at what that means for us. Very short. It's only two words in the Greek. Five words in English. He will lift you up. And I want to suggest a simple meditation exercise. If you're ever in a situation where all you've got is your Bible, you don't have any Bible study tools, maybe you don't even have any pencil or paper. A very simple exercise that will help you to get something out of a verse is to take that verse and to say that verse over again and again in your mind and each time you say it to emphasize a different word in that verse. He will lift you up. He will lift you up. He will lift up you And he will lift up you. And so I want to apply that. As we take a look at that, that's simple exercise. You can apply it to any kind of verse, any little section, just a brief section. You do it and you ask yourself, though, what does that word mean? What does that word add to that verse? What would be lost if that word wasn't there? Why did the author use that word rather than a different word? And you focus on each word. I suggest you you do that for ten, fifteen minutes on any simple little verse that um you know has uh a promise particularly a command or something teaches us about the Lord, and you'll find it very beneficial. Now applying that to these words then, two Greek words, five English words, we have four thoughts here. He will lift up you. I want to take a look at each one of those. Those are our four points then. First of all, notice that He will lift you up. He will lift up you. You say that you're down and that you're defeated, that you're discouraged. You've thought about your sin. Your sin seems overwhelming to you. You're tired of seeing yourself as a failure. You seem to make no progress in it. You say, Lord, I have grieved. I've mourned, I've wailed, I've come. What else can I do? I'm sick of my sin. I'm discouraged about it. Well, who's going to lift you up? Only Jesus. Ultimately, it's only Jesus who can lift you up. He will lift you up. And so this morning I want to point you to Jesus. As the one who can lift you up, no matter how discouraged, how crummy you feel, how much of a failure you feel before him. No matter what you look back over this week and you say, Oh, but you don't know what this week's been like for me. You don't know what I've done, what I've thought, the things I've contemplated. You don't know The background of my life. Everybody else here looks neatly dressed and scrubbed and clean, but not me. You don't know my life. And if you knew me, you wouldn't want to have anything to do with me. And there's only one that can lift you up. Jesus. He will lift you up. Now, what's the importance of that? Why stress that? I think that there are ways that we are tempted to substitute alternatives to Jesus. I only have time to consider three of them, but I want to just consider briefly three alternatives to looking to Jesus to lift this up. First of all, and I stated in terms of the negative, he will lift you up, not your pastor or elder. So that's the first. A. Not your pastor slash elder. I use those terms interchangeably, because I believe that's what the Bible means. The Bible uses them interchangeably. All pastors are elders, all elders are pastors. But there's a temptation, isn't there, to go to a person that you can see rather than to Jesus whom you can't see. There's a real temptation when you're feeling down, discouraged, and you're feeling overwhelmed to come to another person, to a pastor or to an elder in particular and say, it's your job to make me feel better. Once heard of a woman who went to Christian psychiatrist John White, a man who is eminently gifted. White said that she came into his office and she dumped this horrendous load of problems from her life. Pour it all of this out. And then she finished by saying, now, do psychiatry. He knew he was in trouble right there. But there's a temptation, isn't there? To use other people as priests to dispense the grace that only Jesus can give to us. To want to go to another person because it's so much easier when we see them and we say, now look, here's my problem. You're supposed to be some spiritual authority. You lift me up. And then they don't. Or perhaps they keep thrusting us back to Jesus and saying, I can't do it, you've got to go to Jesus. That's not what I want to hear. I want you to make me feel better. But James says, don't go to your pastor, your elder, to lift you up. Now I'm not saying if you come to me, I'll say, hey, don't come to me, I'm not going to lift you up. You know, we try to do the best we can, but we can't do it. All we can do as elders is to point you to Jesus. James says, if you're sick, call the elders, chapter 5. They'll pray for you. But they can't lift you up. Only Jesus can take away the guilt, the fears, the burdens, the discouragement that you bring to Him when you humble yourself before Him. Secondly, there's a temptation to come to our husband or wife. James says he will lift you up, not your husband slash wife. Some singles here perhaps say, if only I had a husband or a wife, I wouldn't be discouraged because they would lift me up. Or some husbands say, if only my wife was a more of a support in my life, I could go further in my career and I could accomplish more in ministry because she would lift me up as she's supposed to, but she doesn't. Where the wife says, if only my husband would be of some support and encouragement to me in what I'm doing. But he doesn't. He just adds burdens to my life And so we blame one another. And we're saying the reason I'm depressed is because of you. It's your fault. And James says, no, no, no. You can only go to Jesus. your husband or your wife. They can point you to Jesus. But only Jesus can lift you up. He, James says, will lift you up. And a third substitutes the most subtle of all. He will lift you up, not yourself. Not yourself. Now what do I mean by that? I mean by that that there's a temptation, I think, for some of us as Christians, especially after we've walked with the Lord for some years. To look at the act of humbling and repentance as a means of relief. How does that work? Well, sort of like this. You're feeling guilty, you're feeling discouraged, you're feeling down, you're feeling burdened. And you remember sometime in your past that you felt that way, and you did certain things. You said certain things to the Lord. You read certain verses. You went to a certain place. And so superstitiously you seek to repeat the act. You think if only I do it right, I'll feel better again. It's those verses, you know, they they really mean a lot to me. I I've written them all down and I have them in the back of my Bible or somewhere on my desk or something. Or it's this that I said, or it's that place that I went. You find sometimes that temptation to repeat an experience so that it will lift you up, it'll work again like it did before. And again, what are we doing? We're trying to find relief in ourselves. We're thinking that what we do will lift us up. And Satan is very subtle. All brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ, I want you this morning to look to Jesus. He is the only one who can lift you up. Not me, not another elder, not a husband, not a wife, not a friend, not even the acts that you've refined and honed through the years of your experience with the Lord But only a conscious realization that I come now to you, Lord Jesus. Looking unto Jesus And I look to you expectantly because you will lift me up. And that brings us to the second point. You will lift me up. And so in your mind, emphasize that second word. He will, James says, lift you up. It's a promise. And God's own nature and God's own name is at stake in the fulfillment of that promise. He will lift you up. He cannot fail. You cannot put him to the test in this You cannot come in the posture of verses 7 to the beginning of verse 10 and find him to fail you. But there's two things to notice about that promise. One is that 1 Peter chapter 5 is a parallel passage. It's just like a gospel, you know, Matthew paralleling Mark. 1 Peter chapter 5 There parallels this section about humbling ourselves before the Lord. And when Peter gives that promise, he adds, in the English, three words. He says, He will lift you up in due time. And so that's something to keep in mind. It doesn't simply mean that as I humble myself before the Lord, immediately there will come an answer to my circumstance, my problem. The relief, the temptation, it'll be taken away, and I will be a different person. Some circumstances, some plaguing sins in my life will be with me until the Lord comes. That's why James says in chapter 5, verse 7 Be patient until the Lord's coming. But on the other hand, there is immediate relief. And that's the second point to notice in this. He will lift you up, maybe not immediately in your circumstances. That may come in due time. At the very longest when Jesus comes or you go to be with him. Maybe a lot sooner. But at least in terms of your spirit, there will be immediate release. I recall time back this past summer when I was feeling very down and discouraged. And I was reading in Psalm 146. Psalm 146, verses 5 and 6, say, Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob. Whose hope is in the Lord his God, the maker of heaven and earth, the sea, and I happened at that point to be standing by the sea. And everything that's in them, and I thought of all the creation, the life, and all the imagination and the power of the Lord demonstrated in that. The Lord who remains faithful forever. And I realize, God, you're saying to me here that you who have made the heavens and the earth, you're my help and you're my hope, and you remain faithful. You cannot go back on your promise. You've said you will lift me up. And so he goes on in Psalm 146. And he talks about the kind of lifting up that he does in verses seven and eight, particularly though, notice this in verse eight. The Lord lifts up those who are bowed down. The Lord loves the righteous. I want to tell you, as I read those words, it was like the Lord put his arms around me. It was like the Lord took me into his arms and looked into my eyes, and he said, Alan, I am here. You can depend on me. Peter goes on in his parallel passage that says, casting all your care upon him. Because he cares for you. He will lift you up. James says his spirit longs jealously for you. He will not let you go. He loves you. He's died for you. And he will lift you up. And that brings us to the third part. The third thought He will lift up you. He will lift up you Now what does it mean to lift up? What does James have in mind in here? And here we come to the heart of the matter. What does that mean? Well, that idea of lifting up is so rich that if we looked into the scripture from beginning to end, we'd be overwhelmed with it. So what I did was I just looked at what James means by that. And just restricting our attention to what James means by the Lord's lifting us up, let's consider what James has in mind in this. And there are five things that James speaks about as lifting up. of his people. First of all, it means that we will get mercy, not judgment. Mercy, not judgment. You remember back in chapter two and verse thirteen? James says, judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful, but mercy triumphs over judgment. God's mercy, James says, triumphs over judgment, and that should be the motive, he says, for being merciful to others Or as he'll say to us a little later on in chapter five in verse eleven, speaking about Job's situation. Now who was lower than Job here, you know? And God's and James says to us about God toward Job in chapter 5, verse 11, that the Lord brought him finally into a high place. And then he finishes. And mercy. And so one of the things that James means by Jesus lifting you and me up is that when we humble ourselves before him, grieving, mourning, and wailing our dirty hands and our divided heart. That we come and we find to our amazement that He does not execute a sentence upon us, but rather that there's mercy. I said to you last week that so many people say in our day that we need to learn to forgive ourselves. And I said that wasn't biblical language. The Bible never exhorts us to forgive forgive ourselves. It exhorts us to receive objectively the forgiveness that's offered by Jesus Christ. However, I also think that it's true that many of us have a forgiveness that we do not believe. We have a forgiveness that's been given to us by the Lord, a mercy that's been offered that we're not willing to accept And the key is not to learn to forgive ourselves, but it's to take him at his word. He will lift up you. And who are you to say that he's not going to lift you up? He says, I give to you mercy, not judgment. I've put away the judgment. There's nothing between you and me. And he looks tenderly at you, as a shepherd to his lamb, as we talked about last week. And he says there's mercy full and free because I have paid the price. I've gone to the cross and I've paid the debt fully, and there's nothing left from God, the judge. But mercy for you. For the wrath has been fully executed upon his son. And there's only mercy. Only mercy for you and for me. And do you see now? How once we have gone through verses 7 and 8 and 9, and we have humbled ourselves prostrate before the Lord, we don't take lightly that mercy. We don't say, well, sure, that's what Christianity is about, you know? Did you get mercy rather than judgment? Rather you see humility is amazed. And it says, I expect judgment. I deserve judgment. And I'm amazed at his mercy. But that's what makes Christians joyful, you see. That's what makes us light. That's what makes us be able to sing and to be able to move through the medley of worship songs that Mark took us through. With joy in our hearts. And so we sing those with a desire to give to our God what pleases him, the worship that comes from those who have received mercy and not judgment. Because humility is amazed at that. When you come low before the Lord, you're amazed at that mercy. It's hard to believe it. But you and I can fully believe it. Because James says he will lift up you. It's not only the mercy that he gives, but there's also another thing James says. He says he gives to us a crown of life, not mercy. Death. A crown of life and not death. And that's associated with the idea of mercy and judgment. Do you remember back in chapter one James had said in verse 12, Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial, because when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life. That God has promised to those who love Him. That's why He says in verse 9, chapter 1 and verse 9, that the one who's in humble circumstances You see, here it is again. Humbled before the Lord. Same idea. The one in humble circumstances ought to take pride in his high position. He's lifted up. How's he lifted up? Verse twelve. He's got a crown of life. That's what James is talking about. That's how the Lord Jesus lifts you up. He says, I, on the one hand, do not execute my judgment upon you. I give you mercy. And what does that mean? He says, I give to your life. Not just endless days, but full eternal life. And then that's spelled out in the third lifting up. C. It means that he also gives us a life of adoption, not simply tolerance. You see that eternal life is not simply eternal existence. He might say, who wants simply eternal existence? Now, some people think that the prospect of simply living endless days is not all that desirable. But it's not simply that But James is saying to you, he lifts you up to become his sons. Do you remember back in chapter 1 again, verses 17 and 18, James has said, every good and perfect gift is from above. Coming down from the Father of heavenly lights, who does not change like shifting shadows, but he's the one who chose to give us birth He's the one who gave us that birth into his own family, that we would call him father, and that we might be a kind of first fruits Of all that he created. James is talking about there the fact that God has adopted us into his family. He's made us his own sons. He's lifted us up from slavery. Just recently, I was reading with Dean. We go through scripture in the morning, and we came to 2 Samuel chapter 9. I find that one of the most vivid pictures of adoption that there is in all of Scripture. Do you remember the story back there in 2 Samuel 9 of How David, after he had ascended to the throne, after fifteen, twenty years of being hunted by his enemy Saul. And David said, Is there anyone in Saul's house to whom I can show kindness? For Jonathan's sake. They said, Yeah, there's this cripple guy. He had fallen in the escape, crippled both his feet, and he's living out in a place called Lodabar, out east of the Jordan in the desert. That word lodebar always strikes me as a funny name. You know, I mean some of you, you know, know somebody that lives in Skagsville. Low to bar is worse than Skaggsville. Lodabar means literally in the Hebrew nowhere. This guy's living out there in nowheresville, east of the Jordan. He's a refugee. Because you see the custom of that day was that as soon as one man got onto the throne, that the all the ancestors of his enemies got wiped out. And here's Mephibosheth, grandson of Saul, a cripple, absolutely defenseless. And he's living out there with some people that have taken him in and low to bar. So David sends out some people to get him. And they bring him back into the court. Mephibosheth prostrates himself. You talk about humble yourself before the Lord. This guy's flat out on the ground. He's prostrate before David, so that David says, Hey Mephibosheth, don't be afraid. And then these words that to me are some of the most precious words in all the Old Testament. David says, Don't be afraid. For I will surely show you kindness for the sake of your father Jonathan. David had made a covenant with Jonathan, a blood covenant. And all that were in Jonathan were in that covenant, just as all that are in Jesus are in the covenant that the Father made with the Son. And so David says, for Jonathan's sake, I'm going to show you kindness, Mr. Bishop. I will restore to you all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul. Absolutely incredible. I'm going to give you the king's land back. And, and this is the most precious thing of all, you will always eat at my table. David says, Mephibisha, you are an enemy. But because of the covenant I've made you a friend and not only a friend, I'm adopting you as a son. James says, he will lift you up. The Father of lights has chosen to give you birth into his own family, and he's made you his first fruits. And the Phibishet responds. Who am I, a dead dog like me, to receive that mercy? When you and I begin to understand what it means to not be orphans, but to be sons of a living. God. That Jesus has lifted us up and said, No longer do you live in low debar. No longer do you have to scrounge for yourself. No longer do you have to fear As if there's nobody to take care of you or who cares about your welfare. But I'm going to give you the land of the kingdom. And furthermore, forever, you will eat at my table. And you and I look forward to that table. For he's prepared a table before us in the presence of our enemies. And the married supper of the Lamb will be that table where we will begin to eat with Jesus forever. You see, when you've come again through verses 7 to 9, you don't take that for granted. But you and I look at that, and humility is amazed. At such lifting up. And we say, who am I, a dead dog, to deserve that kind of mercy? Oh Lord Jesus How kind and how wonderful you are to me. And then fourthly, James says he lifts you up to infinite grace, not just the law. You see, he says you're not simply a prince to live with an inheritance that's eternal to look forward to in the next life But there's infinite grace to draw upon right here and now. Remember chapter 1 in verses 2 to 4. He had begun this whole thing saying, Count it pure joy. When you're in difficult circumstance, because God's using those circumstances to produce perseverance in you, which is A cleansing work which is going to weed out the things that God is trying to get away, get out of your life, the dirty hands and the disloyal heart. James is saying there you can count that joy because he's doing a work in you. And so chapter four, in verses four to six, he had said, he longs jealously for your good. And there's more grace, infinite grace available for your need. He didn't just give you principles of the law and say, here's how to live. But he's at work in you to give you victory in those sins that you find now to be overwhelming. It was once a painting submitted in upstate New York to a uh an art show. It was a picture, beautiful picture of Niagara Falls. But it had no title. And so the organizers of the show decided that they would have to give it a title. And they gave it a simple title of three words. More to follow. And you look at that thing, if you've ever stood in Niagara Falls and you look in there, you notice all the Great Lakes pouring over that thing. And you say, I can't believe how much there is. But there's always more to follow. That's the way it is with the grace of Jesus Christ. You say, Lord, I I've drawn on so much grace because I've confessed so much, and Lord, I I need so much your patience to help me as I'm seeking to follow Jesus and to learn step by step what commitment to him means. And he says, don't worry. There's more grace to follow. Don't worry. You know less, my son, now, because you haven't learned the lessons than you were when you didn't even know the lessons. But there's more grace to follow And then finally, James says he lifts you up to kingdom riches beyond your wildest dreams. Kingdom riches beyond your wildest dreams. One of my favorite verses in the New Testament, I come back to this again and again, is James 2. 5. You remember there where he said, listen, my dear brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith? And to inherit the kingdom, the kingdom that He promised to those who love Him You may be poor in the eyes of the world. James says you're rich in faith. Because you're going to inherit the kingdom. You have that kingdom as your sure inheritance. We like to show love to people in our family that we care about. And perhaps as you realize now that uh it's November and Only a couple weeks to Thanksgiving, you're already beginning to think about Christmas. And you're saying, What special can I do for the people that I love to show them that I love them? And so we think about that and we try to come up with the best ideas, creative ideas, meaningful ideas, not necessarily expensive ideas, but ideas that communicate caring and love. But then you realize I have such limited caring. I mean I am so selfish and my caring seems to fluctuate so very much. It's so much easier to think about myself than someone else. And I have such a limited imagination in being able to know what I can actually give that will make that person genuinely happy. And I have such limited resources. Well, you know, you can just give me unlimited resources, and there's all kinds of things I could do, but I've got so little to work with. But now imagine God. He says here, I've given to you a kingdom because I love you. If you look at God's caring, and it's infinite. When God cares for us, he cares for us with a pure, absolute caring. And you look at God's imagination, and there's no limit to his imagination. He knows your heart through and through, and he knows precisely that for which he created you that will give you the greatest joy. And then you look at his resources. And you say, Whose resources are like God's? He'd give me a couple galaxies if he wanted to, you know. There's no limit to what God can give to you and to me. And he says, you are rich in faith, because I have a kingdom prepared for you. And James says, that's what I'm talking about when I say he lifts you up. He lifts you up to mercy. He lifts you up to a crown of life. He lifts you up into his own family. He lifts you up into infinite resources of grace for your present need, and he lifts you up to kingdom riches that are beyond your wildest imagination. And humility isn't just amazed at that. It's overwhelming. And then that last word comes. He will lift up you. He will lift up you We're so used to in our mass media age reading the word you in kind of a generic term, you know. President Reagan says, You Americans and we say, Well, you know, he doesn't know me about anything, you know, and he's speaking some personal heart to heart message as if he you know, right here in my living room and you know, and so you discount that. I heard an evangelist walk. Said, I love each of you, to a mass rally of ten thousand people, you know, and I thought, oh, who are you kidding? You know, and so we tend to diminish the value Of the word you when it has something very meaningful spoken, and we know that that person doesn't know us personally. And there's a temptation when you read this to think, but James didn't know me He doesn't know my situation, but the Holy Spirit does. Jesus does. And he speaks this not in terms of mass media, but as a very personal pronoun. Just as if your name were written in there. That's what I suggest you do. Rejoice that just this promise has your name on it. And so I suggest if your pencil or pen right now you write in, he will lift up. Alan Harris, your name. Put it in there that you realize that this is something that is not in general for CPC. Not in general for Christians. It's for you. Jesus Christ wants to lift you up if you have come to verses 7 to 10. And even that, you say, oh, but I haven't done that perfectly. That's by grace. You see, the wonderful thing about this promise is the lower you are, the more you inherit it. You say, Oh, but it's not for me, I'm not worthy. I might say, hey, that's great, that's exactly who it's too. And if you haven't come, what's preventing you from doing it right now? Let's pray. Lord our God, this is an amazing and overwhelming promise to us. That you will lift up us That you see me, that you take cognizance of me, and you want to lift me up to mercy, to life To be your own child, to give me all the grace I need in my present situation, and the hope of an eternal kingdom. Of infinite riches. Lord, fill our hearts with joy and amazement at the grace of Jesus.