I often think that if I were to understand the true value of humility, what it wounds to God And its benefits to me, I'd be willing to endure anything to gain it. Look again at James chapter 4 in verse six we saw last week. God says He gives more grace. That's why the scripture says God opposes the proud But he gives grace to the humble. Grace, which is available only to the humble He says. The grace of forgiveness and a new life available in Jesus Christ for those who were enemies of God, as he says in verse 4. But now have gained peace with God through Jesus Christ. The grace of peace that quiets those raging battles that war within us that he described in verse 1. Those conflicts that we have of our desires, the grace of peace, or the grace that He gives to the grace of His jealousy to work in us to be able to Resist the world and the claims of that false lover, Mr. World. The grace to resist the devil, as he speaks about in verse 7. The grace of his drawing near to us, as he speaks of in verse 8. Grace available, he says, only for the humble. You know, the scripture makes a great deal about humility. Through its pages we see a tremendous emphasis on the need for humility Just a couple of examples in First Samuel in chapter one after humble Hannah had received finally the child that she had so long prayed for. Hannah composed a psalm in which she said that our God puts down the arrogant, but he lifts up the poor from the dust heap. In the Psalms we read that God says he provides guidance for the humble. Psalm 149 says he crowns the humble with salvation. Proverbs 3, he says that he opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble and guidance for them. You want guidance in your life? Praying for God's will? God says he gives it to the humble. We come into the New Testament and Mary, picking up on Hannah's Psalm, the one who now is going to become the mother not just of one like Samuel, but much greater than Samuel, the Messiah of the Lord Jesus himself, Mary composes a brief hymn of praise. There's very few things that are repeated of Jesus' sayings. But one saying that Jesus states is repeated three times on three different occasions within the Gospels. And that's the words of Jesus. He who exalts himself shall be humbled, but whoever humbles himself will be exalted. And again and again and again through Scripture you see this emphasis on the need for humility, so that the Scripture seems to be saying to us, Whatever you have in life, you could have everything else. If you don't have humility before God, the rest is worthless. James is writing to us about wisdom. And what did he say in chapter 3? He spoke of the humility that comes from true wisdom. Excuse me. And now when we come to chapter four, in verse six he says he gives grace to the humble. More grace, inexhaustible grace, available to the humble, James says. But of course James knows that we don't understand humility, do we Now when you and I look at that verse, verse six, we see God gives uh opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. We think, well, that's referring to the fact that if a person is too proud to admit their need for Jesus Christ Then they will be lost. He will not be their Savior, and they'll stand under his judgment. But he gives grace of salvation to the humble. That's true. But it goes a lot further than that because James is remember writing primarily to Christians. And so when we look at that as a Christian, we say, well he gives grace to the humble. And we tend to think of modesty, don't we? I think one of our great confusions about this whole subject is the confusion of of humility with modesty. Did you ever hear someone uh with a beautiful soprano voice stand up and they do a solo And they do it in a morning service and beautiful voice and so you go up to them afterwards and you compliment them on their beautiful singing and how much it meant to you and the person responds by saying, Well that wasn't me, that was just the Lord. You know, and whenever somebody does that, I'm always tempted to say, I didn't know that God was a soprano that did lip synks. You know. We we tend to think that modesty and casting any light off of ourselves or being able to receive And James says, you don't understand humility. And so I need to unpack it for you. I need to unfold it. And so he takes the next four verses for us to understand five steps. That are necessary for real, true, godly humility. And what I want for us to do is to take a look at those. You see on your bulletin outline, the basic outline of them in verses 7 to 10 The first step, the beginning of verse 7, is foundational. Submit yourself to God. The last step, step five, is kind of a climactic conclusion where he says, be humbled before the Lord. And you'll see what that means in the light of the others. Because in between steps one and five, there are three couplets Three pairs of thoughts. And those three pairs of thoughts I call, because we're beginning school now, the three R's, you see. The three R's of humility We want to learn over the next weeks the three R's of humility. Those three R's are the first one, relationships. He talks about the relationships of humility, leaving and cleaving, resisting the devil, cleaving unto the Lord. We Secondly, he talks about the R of repentance, in which we confess our dirty hands and divided hearts. Then he thirdly talks about the R of realization, the realization of my helplessness and hopelessness. apart from Christ. And then he sums that all up again by be humbled before the Lord. Now we want to begin this morning by looking at step number one then, the foundational step for humility. The first step that's necessary To take if you're going to understand what God says is necessary to receive His grace. Now, hopefully there's nobody here who's saying, Well, I don't care about God's grace. Maybe you're here just because there's a baptism going on, you know. But still you're here because you're willing to be under the Word of God. And God says, I want to show you the first foundational step of humility, which is the most precious jewel. that you can possess. First of all then then I want to talk about the the first step. Submit yourself to God and say just two things about it. How to submit and why to submit. The first step then, look at it in your own Bible so you see that this is what God's saying. It's not just my thought. James chapter 4, the first part of verse 7. Submit yourselves then to God. The then you see is connecting it with the humility. He's saying, Now I can understand the way to humility. First step, submit yourselves then to God. Now, how do you submit? First of all, we need to understand what that little phrase means. Literally, you could translate it, place yourself under God. The word means to place yourself under someone else and their authority. We speak of worship, and worship literally means to prostrate yourself before someone. When you worship, in the biblical idea of worship, you prostrate yourself before someone so that you place yourself under them. That same word is used of captives after a battle. They come and you know the guy's got a sword drawn and you've been vanquished, and so you lay down on your face and you let him put his foot on your neck. The reason for that is you're saying, I am at your disposal. You can do whatever you want with me. You can cut my head off, you can make me your slave. I am absolutely at your disposal. That's submission It's saying, I have no possibility of disobeying or of disagreeing with you. You say, I'm under your authority. That's what the word means. James himself describes himself at the beginning of his letter as James under your authority. A servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this servant is speaking to us. He's saying, make yourself a servant Prostrate yourself before God. Place yourself at his disposal. It's an act of the will that he's describing here. You see, the first step to humility is not how you feel about yourself or how you feel about God. The first step to humility is an act of the will. It says, I place my will and my mind at God's disposal. I am his servant. I am for him to do with what he wants. And we think we've done that. Hey, I don't have any problem with that. Sure, God's God and I'm just his creature. Sure, I place myself at his disposal. The problem is submission is only submission when it's tested by disagreement. It's like a wife that I once heard that says, sure, I submit to my husband, except when he's wrong Of course I can't submit to him when he's wrong. You know, of course when he was wrong meant when he disagreed with her, who was of course right. You know, and we don't understand that the essence of submission is when I disagree with a person who I've placed myself under. That's when the submission is okay, you guys all stop smiling. I say all the husband smiles. This is for all of us. We're all called to submit, and submission is tested by disagreement. And so we may think that we have this step of humility basically down. But let me give you three examples to apply this. So that we might understand how specifically this means to submit. Let me suggest that the first way that we submit to God is the three examples there, is to his doctrines First of all, to his doctrines. We submit to his doctrines. You see, we we all love the doctrine of grace. But for some strange reason, there's a strong antipathy to the doctrine of sovereign grace. We love the doctrine of grace because it's the basis by which we're accepted through Jesus Christ. But we reject sovereign grace because that humbles us and takes away all possibility of our own pride and ability to claim that we have done anything for ourselves. Interesting to me, fascinating, the reaction you get to the doctrine of predestination. Sort of recoil a little at that word, predestination. And everybody thinks of all the arguments and the debate And the hassles through the years about what predestination means. It's interesting to me how many people reject that doctrine on mostly emotional grounds. Now I'm not talking about the caricature of biblical predestination that is more like the Muslim doctrine of determination which eliminates meaningful choices from human beings. I'm talking about the biblical doctrine of predestination. I'm talking about what James says. Remember back in chapter 1 in verse 18, when he told us he said he chose us? Uh and ch excuse me, he chose to give us birth to the word of truth that we might be a kind of first fruits. that he created? He chose us in order to give us birth so that he would make us his first fruits. And James is saying there that in order to have life you've got to have birth and you didn't choose to be born, you didn't choose to be born again. And God had to choose And what's strange to me is how many people so resist and react to that doctrine that we have people to leave our church over it. You know, three people in the last couple of months have left Columbia Presbyterian because they say, I don't like the doctrine of predestination. I hadn't even aware I'd preached it in the last few months. call attention to it except where the scripture calls attention to it, but I don't want to back away from it. But it's interesting to me that in those cases and any other cases where I find this The people do not say it's just not in the Bible. I don't think that you're preaching the Bible faithfully. What they say is, I don't like that. I resist that. I don't like that doctrine that you people believe. And I would suggest to you that that's a violation of James 4:7. Because James says, submit yourselves then to God. And that means that I submit my mind to God. I'm not at liberty to cut and paste his word like Thomas Jefferson with throw holes in his Bible with the things he disagreed with. You say, I've got to submit my mind to gain his wisdom. Just as James Packer said One time, he said, Not until we have become humble and peachable, standing in awe of God's holiness and sovereignty, acknowledging our own littleness Distrusting our own thoughts and willing to have our minds turned upside down, can divine wisdom become ours? Let me ask you, is there something in the scripture? Maybe it's the teaching on women, and maybe it's the teaching of some other doctrine that you say, I just don't like that. And so I stand away from the Bible. And I don't submit myself to Jesus Christ and to the Bible's teaching because I resist that. James says, hey, don't think then that you will receive the grace. Available through Jesus Christ in that. Because he says he opposes the proud and who are the proud those that say, God I know better than you My plan of salvation makes more sense than yours does. My understanding of the royal relationships between men and women makes more sense than yours. And James says God opposes that. He stands set against it, but he gives grace. To the humble, who say, Teach me, Lord, I receive your word. Remember in John 6, Jesus taught the people, and many turned from him because they said these are hard sayings. And they wouldn't submit to his teaching. I submit to you the first test of humility in submitting to God is to submit to his doctrines And to not, I'm not saying we can't struggle with them. I'm not saying we don't wrestle with them, but we can't reject them The second example is to submit to his demands. Now you pick up the theme here, three D's, you know. Submit to his doctrine. Secondly, submit to his demands. You see that the gospel is to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. And so when Jesus said, if anyone wants to follow me, he must be willing to be my disciple. And learn from me. He's got to take my yoke upon him. Jesus says, No one can call me Savior unless he's willing to call me his Lord also. And turn his back on all of his rights and follow after me. James says, In chapter 2, you remember, he says, you want to know how a person has genuine saving faith? He says, because you can see it in observable obedience. James says you see it in the fact that this person submits to the commands of Jesus Christ. And James then gets specific and he goes on in chapter 3, remember, and he says he submits to tongue control. He doesn't just shoot off his mouth however he wants, but James says he submits to the demands of God in controlling his tongue and letting God sanctify it. He submits to wisdom or ambition control The end of chapter 3, you remember, and he talks about controlling our ambitions that they be sanctified by God in Jesus Christ. And then in chapter 4, he talks about our submitting to coveting control And our being able to let God take a hold of our pleasures and our desires and sanctify them. And so James is saying to us the same thing that the Lord Jesus said. If you're going to claim Jesus by grace as your Savior, you must humble yourself under Him to become a learner, a disciple. Jesus said, in the very Great Commission He said, Go and make disciples, baptizing them. That is, you see, baptism is putting a person under the authority of someone When we baptized these four fellows up here a few minutes ago, what we were doing was placing them under the authority in their parents of the elders of this church. They became part of Columbia Presbyterian. And as Sandy started off, he said, we're going to take four young members. And they're all under the authority now of the elders of this church as well as their parents to disciple them for Jesus Christ. So many people say, yeah, I'm a Christian, but I don't need to be baptized into his body and follow along with the local church. I don't need to be part of some visible body. James says, submit yourself to God. Submit yourself in the way that He has determined that submission works out in real life. And Jesus, who said that, said, teaching them to observe all things that I've commanded. He's commanded That we'll do this in remembrance of him, come to the Lord's table. And tonight we'll be celebrating the Lord's Supper here, first Sunday of the month Do we look at that as a kind of an invitation we can take or leave? And do we say, well, you know, I got something better to do, something on TV or something I'd rather do? And so we say, well, you know, I can take that or I can leave it. James says, submit yourself. To God. Submit yourself to his demands. Submit yourself so that day by day you pick up your Bible and you read and you say, Lord Jesus, how would you have me to live today? And that becomes not an intellectual exercise, but an exercise of the will and of your emotions as you bring your life into conformity with Scripture. James says that's the first step to humility. It's the determination to submit yourself to the demands of Jesus Christ. And then the third how, the third example, is to submit yourself to his disciplines. To submit yourself to his disciplines. To his doctrines, his demands, and his disciplines. James, remember, began this letter by reminding us that we can rejoice in all kinds of trials Do you remember how he stated it there? He said, consider pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. And perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. One of the hardest tests of submission. Is to submit to the disciplines of the Lord Jesus, isn't it? Just this week, one of the families in our church received news that was a tremendous test. for submission. Uh there's no income in that family right now. The husband had lost his job and there was the prospect of an excellent job offer that looked like it was very promising They prayed about it that God would direct them and that God would provide that, and the job was offered to someone else. And now there's still no income. And there's no prospect of income in the immediate future. And the question comes: why does God answer other people's prayers? But why has God not provided for me now? Does God love these other people who get jobs and provides for them more than he loves me? And James says, submit yourself to God You say, Lord, somehow this doesn't square with the TV testimonies that I hear, you know, where everything works out after a couple of prayers. James says, submit yourself to God. So that the testing of your faith will produce a character that cannot be produced in any other way as you learn that submission and then he lifts you up. He gives more grace, that's a promise, to the humble. Or perhaps you've got your life all charted out, you know. You have it all set about your education, when that'll begin, when it'll be completed, when your career will start, the progress in its development, when you'll marry, the kind of person you'll marry When you'll have kids, the number of kids, when you move into your first home that you'll own and how the whole thing will chart out to retirement. And maybe you've even got where you're going to retire too, you know? The whole thing's laid out And it starts off fairly well. But somehow, at some point, there's a glitch in your plans. Somehow, the education didn't go like you planned. The career didn't develop like you planned. God hasn't provided that perfect person to make it. Mary. In fact, He hasn't provided anybody to marry. Or God has provided the person to marry, but the kids haven't come along when you hoped to mar In fact, the kids don't seem to be coming along at all. Or something else in your plans. The Lord God is saying, I know your heart. And I know what's precious to you. But my question to you is, are you willing to submit to my control, to my loving, faithful control? For you and for me, there's some discipline, isn't there, that we find is the acid test of our submission to Jesus Christ. James says the first step to humility is not to say when somebody gives you a compliment, oh, that wasn't me, that was the Lord. Where to some self-effacing way seek to give credit to others, James says the first step to humility is an act of the will. It's to submit yourself under the authority of Jesus Christ. I'm going to in conclusion give to you a couple of suggestions about why we submit A couple of motivations, why do we submit? We submit I suggest because of two principles. Number one, because of the law principle, and number two, because of the love principle. The law principle we see in verse six. It's very simple. James says God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. James says that's a universal law, and you need to understand that that's reality. You can come to grips with it or you can fight it. The fact is, you can either willingly submit to God or you can be crushed unwillingly. But James says, he will oppose you if you resist him, he will give grace to you, if you will accept, and if you will humble yourself before him. If you'll humble yourself before him in admitting your need for a Savior, to forgive your sin, to transform your life, and to give you a new life. A life that you yourself could never have, because you can't run your own life. You're not doing a very good job of it. And James says, if you can confess that And you can come to Jesus Christ and admit your need of someone to take that life, to forgive you for your sin and to transform you. He says he gives grace. But if you don't 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 pictures the Lord Jesus not as the shepherd of the little lambs, but he pictures him as the one who's going to come with a breath of fire in his mouth. And it says he's going to come to destroy all those who in disobedience have resisted the gospel. Hey, you need to come to grips with that, you see, James says. James says it's an either or a principle. It's a law of the universe. Either you resist and seek to squirm out of God's will and shake your puny fist in his face. Or you humble yourself before Him. You submit to the claims and to the offer of Jesus Christ, both to be your Savior and to day by day lead your life as your Lord. And James says, he will give grace and he will lift you up. It's your choice. Perhaps for some of you here, you have never come to the place of submitting to Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord in your life. And this is an offer of life as opposed to death. It's very serious. It's not just something that we come to squirm under for a few minutes and then forget about later. I'm pleading with you to understand reality. God opposes the proud. He gives grace, salvation, life, day-by-day guidance, provision, all that you need that we talked about last week. To those that humble themselves before him and begin by placing their wills underneath his authority Then there's that final motive, and that's the love principle. You see the love principle when you look at the face of Jesus Christ. Luke uses this same word that James uses in chapter 4, verse 7. Submit yourself in Luke chapter 2 in verse 51. At that point, he's talking about how the Lord of glory, who had never received the command, now came as a young man to live in a time and space in history. As a carpenter in Galilee. And in Luke chapter 2, in verse 51, he uses the same word submit when he says that Jesus went down to Nazareth with his parents and was obedient to them. That word obedient is the same word here submit in James 4. 7. And Luke is telling us that Jesus, the Lord of glory, submitted himself. to two creatures that he had created. That amazing. Jesus took out the garbage when Mary said, take out the garbage. When Joseph said, Jesus, I need some wood for the shop here to make this bench, Jesus didn't squirm and fret. He went and submitted, and he got the wood. And when Joseph taught Jesus how to work with that wood, Jesus didn't say, What do you think you are teaching me? I made these trees, you know? He submitted and he learned how to do woodworking. Jesus learned to submit within the family. And there's eight of them living in one little place, you know. They've got a lot of privacy there. Imagine the possibility for conflict. Jesus, Luke says, submitted. He submitted to Mary and to Joseph, and he grew in wisdom. And so when Jesus grew in his ministry, his ministry was a ministry essentially of submission. John particularly brings this out. When you read in John's Gospel again and again, Again and again how Jesus stresses all throughout the gospel that my words are not even my own words. He says they're the words my Father has instructed me to say. For instance, in John chapter 12 and verse 49, Jesus says, I didn't speak of my own account. But the Father who sent me. See, Jesus is saying, I am one sent. I am one who is on a commission. This Father sent me. He commanded me what to say and how to say it. Amazing. And when you think of Jesus as Lord of glory, he does whatever he wants, Jesus says, no, the essential part of my messianic ministry was I am not only submitted to the Father in what to say, but how to say it. And so he says, Know then that this command leads to eternal life. And so whatever I say is just what the Father has told me to say. And Jesus submitted. Even as a lamb, Isaiah says, led to the slaughter. The one who was sent was sent to a cross. And so Peter highlights this This idea of submission, when he says in 1 Peter in chapter 2, verse 21, he says, To this you were called because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example. That you should follow in his steps. And the example he's talking about is the example of humble submission. Notice what he says. He didn't commit any sin. There wasn't any deceit found in his mouth. And yet, when they hurled their insults at him, He did not retaliate. He didn't say, Who do you think you're talking to? One day I'm going to get you guys for this. One day I'm going to show you the true nature of my power. Peter says he didn't retaliate. When he suffered, he made no threats. He submitted. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges righteously. You see that? He entrusted himself to him who judges righteously, so that then Peter goes on to say, He himself then bore our sins in his own body on the tree. So that you and I might die to sins and live for righteousness, because by his wounds you have been healed. For you were like sheep going astray Peter says you're like dumb sheep that had to exercise your will and see what was over the hill. You had to find out for yourself. And Peter says you've been wandering all over, ready to fall off a cliff. But Peter says, He's brought you back. You've now been returned to the shepherd and the overseer of your souls. Your shep sheep, he says, under the rule of your shepherd Your subjects under the rule of the overseer. And Peter writes this precisely in the context of how life can be rough and unfair at times. You notice he's writing this verse, 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 13, the word he uses, same word. Submit yourselves then for the Lord's sake to every authority instituted among men. He's talking about governments. He says, even when the government's not fair And then particularly in verse 18 he says, slaves, submit yourselves to your masters with all respect, not only to those that are good and considerate. Those that treat you well, you say, Well, it's no problem submitting here. He says also to those who are harsh. For it's commendable if a man bears up under the pain of unjust suffering because he's conscious of God. Conscious of submitting and entrusting himself to the one who judges righteously. Conscious of saying, God, here is where you've placed me at this time, right now. And I'm not going to flaunt my rights and fight for my rights and exercise my will. Lord, I'm going to submit. to where you have me. And Peter saying, if you understand what kind of a master you serve, why? Why would you have any trouble resisting? And why would you have any trouble submitting? Submitting to such a kind and tender Master as our Jesus. Where is it at this point that you're foolishly resisting in your own life? Let's come and bring. Our wills to Jesus. Let's pray. Oh, Lord our God How we come now to recognize that there are areas of our lives Perhaps with your doctrines, perhaps with your demands, perhaps with your disciplines, and that we are resisting And we're standing off and we're saying, Lord, I just can't accept that. Lord, help us to hear the tender words of James. There's more grace available for the humble. Submit yourself then to God. Lord, we pray that at that point, we are testing each of us at this moment that you might have our wills. That we might trust you, Lord Jesus, who submitted even to the cross because of your great love for us, that we would trust you And that we would believe that you know what you're doing. And that we would take confidence and peace and comfort in that. Have us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.