Then I can begin. There were two editors of Christianity Today magazine playing racquetball recently. After the game, hard, well thought game, they were both Sweating, ringing wet in the locker room. One of them turned to the other and he said, You know, I love racquetball, but it takes me twenty minutes to stop sweating after the game. And I can't afford twenty minutes after the game. I wish I could sweat and dry more quickly. The other one responded, Yeah, you know what we need is a book like uh Thirty Days to Dryness or maybe the one minute sweat when you haven't got time for the drips. And it began to banter back and forth and he reminded him of the commercial. He said, Yeah. Remember that commercial that says uh you take some pain reliever when you haven't got time for the pain And they began to reflect on how our culture is a very impatient culture. Everything that doesn't go as quick as we think it ought to is an intrusion on our schedule, whether it's sweating more quickly or whether it's the fact that we don't have time for the pain now, therefore we've got to take something that will relieve it. We've got to get on with it. And in such an impatient culture, it is very difficult for us to learn perseverance, isn't it? In fact, the whole notion of delayed gratification is rather hard for us to assimilate. In a culture in which by the time the average teenager leaves high school, they seem to have experienced and acquired what took most of us by the age of 40 to experience. And with the credit cards that say, why delay your gratification, have it now, and pay it later, it's very difficult for us to understand what perseverance means. I read recently that the average church member endures about six months in a typical ministry before they decide that God's calling them to something else. If you're in a hard relationship, everything in our culture says leave it. If you're in a difficult job, you've got your needs too. Leave it. Or if you are in any situation, a marriage that's difficult, leave it for the sake of your needs. Ministry, marriage, job, whatever it is, it's very difficult for us to learn perseverance A number of you are going to be tested in perseverance this week, as we have Vacation Bible School. And Friday will seem about ten years away. And you'll need to learn perseverance. You'll need to know that by about Tuesday, Wednesday. It's very hard for us. And we need to remember Job. And that's James' third example to us in the passage we've been looking at, passage that Ken read to you earlier. James chapter 5, verses 7 to 11. You remember, James began his book by talking about the need for us to persevere and to even rejoice when the trials come upon us, because God is doing a work that takes time in us. And that work is a work of producing in us character that takes time and persevering in the trial. James has talked to us about the farmer, remember, who endures with no other real motivation except the hope of the harvest that's coming. He secondly has given to us the example of the prophets and their patience under very trying, difficult circumstances we looked at last week, often even involving suffering to death. For the Lord Jesus. And then after saying all that, you remember down in verse 11, he says, You have heard of Job's perseverance. And have seen what the Lord finally brought about. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy. I want to consider four things with you about this. Number one, I want to consider Job's trials and how low he was brought. Job's trials and how low he was brought brought. Follow along in your bulletin outline and fill along as fill out as we go along God's picture that He gives us of Job is so dramatic, so that whatever you and I experience as problems in our lives, in whatever area, You and I are able to say, when we're tempted, nobody has had it as bad as me. We look at Job Not to say even looking at the Lord Jesus, but just to look at Job, to be able to say, maybe Job had it a little bit harder. Consider how low Job was brought. First of all, all his comforts and all his possessions were gone. In one day And Job had quite a few possessions, you remember. Seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen. 500 donkeys, a whole large force of people working for him. Job had a large company. He was president of a large company with several employees. And in one day, he lost all his investments, he lost all of his property holdings, he lost the entire company, and there was no insurance to cover it. In one day, Job went from a millionaire to penniless. That's quite a shock to your system when you've gotten used to living well off. And whatever financial adverses you have, consider Job. He lost a large company in one day Consider also that all his children were dead. After he heard about the loss of his company, somebody called him up. And it was as if they were saying, All of your kids were in this van, and it was a terrible accident. Seven sons and three daughters, and they've all been killed in this one accident. And you reel from the phone. Ten kids that you've invested your lives in. And we've looked at the five that were up here this morning and see how precious they are. Job had ten, and he lost them all in one day. Crushing blow. Beyond that, all of his health was ruined. He turns from that and says, you know, I don't feel too good. His wife says, uh, no wonder. With what we've been through, he says, Well, I don't think it's just stress and grief. And he goes to the doctor, and the doctor says, Job, I hate to tell you this. You've got cancer. And it's really inoperable. We can try to treat it, but there really isn't a whole lot we can do for it. And Job watches his body begin to waste away. He watches the sores as they grow on him, and they're painful And he's finally a man who was a man of the arts, a sophisticated, urbane man who delighted in comfort and pleasure and in the Lord. We see him sitting on an ash heap, scraping himself with a broken pot, and his health is ruined. No hope in his mind of any real recovery And then you add to all that that his wife and his friends accuse him. His wife and his friends accuse him. They say it's his fault. I mean, if there's anything that at least would give you a shred of enjoyment in a situation like that, it would be the comfort that you might receive from those that care for you. And his wife says, Curse God and die. Job says, I refuse. You're talking like a foolish woman. Jesus says, You're the fool. And that's the last we hear of her. Perhaps she abandons him. His friends come and they sit with him for a week in some compassion. And after a week they open their mouths and it's all downhill from there. They're doing their best when they kept their mouths shut. Because when they open their mouths, all they do is accuse them. They say it's inconceivable to us that God would do this to you and it not be your fault that He's doing it. And so they say a lot of things with a mixture of wisdom and foolishness, but the fact is that it simply adds to Job's burdens. And so he is utterly lonely and miserable. Now who here has had it worse than Job? You see why James uses Job as the example? James says, you've heard of Job's perseverance James says, I want you to think about Job when you're tempted to give up. So the second thing I want for us to consider is Job's character. Job's character. He persevered. You notice that James does not say that Job had patience. Interesting, because he uses that word in the previous verses, but he does not say Job had patience. Rather, he switches and he says, Remember Job's perseverance. Job was not patient through all of this. In chapter 3, he curses the day of his birth. In chapter 16, after a number of eloquent speeches by his friends speaking of wisdom and of God's justice and righteousness and all these speculations on the nature of reality and all the rest of it. And in chapter 16, Job responds in a kind of a cultural translation, ah, shut up. Will your long-winded speeches never end? He's sick and tired of hearing them. In chapter 21, verse 4, he says that he's impatient with this whole thing. And chapter 3, 23, is just one long complaint. He's not patient, but he did persevere. James says, you've heard of his perseverance. Now what's the difference? Well, you see, in chapter 1, no matter how he felt, he did not curse God. He did not renounce God In chapter 2, his wife urges him on and she provokes him to curse God to his faith. He says, I refuse to do that. He wouldn't do it. He continued to maintain his confidence in a personal, just and compassionate God. Chapter 6 13 he says, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. And Job struggles with that. No question about it through the book. Job is crying out in agony, in anguish. He is questioning God. He's coming back to God with very forceful statements. He uh almost accuses God, but he in all of this is struggling in his own heart with the fact that God is just, he is compassionate, he is there, he is personal. I cling to him. If there's nothing else to cling to, I still cling to him. That was the essence of his perseverance. He never cursed God or renounced him. He never took things into his own hands and said, I give up, I'm going to find my own way out of this. I've had it with trusting God to take care of my life That's the essence of perseverance is to hang on when everything in you says to quit. And to continue to hang on by your fingernails to your trust in Jesus Christ. In a Monday night football On the TV, there was a couple announcers or reviewing the game between the Chicago Bears and the New York Giants. One of the announcers observed that Walter Payton had in that game just exceeded over nine miles of career rushing yardage. Over nine miles. And the other other announcer immediately commented, and that's with someone knocking him down every 4. 6 yards. Perseverance is to hang on when you're getting knocked down every 4. 6 yards. James says, remember Job's perseverance. He hung on to his God. But then thirdly, I want you to consider with me Job's end and how high he was brought. James says, you've heard of Job's perseverance. You know what he persevered in. And you have seen what the Lord finally brought about. Consider what the Lord finally brought about. If you compare Job chapter 1 with Job chapter 42, verses 10 to 17. You will find that all four losses that I've just discussed from Chapter 1 are paralleled by gains in those exact same four areas in every case twice as much. For instance, in chapter 42, verses 10 and 12, the author talks about Job's prosperity. He's gone from 7,000 sheep to 14,000 sheep. From three thousand camels to six thousand, and on and on it goes. And God has built his company back up and given it back to him twice as much. That's a testimony would make even Art Damas envy. And Job has now also gained back his family and his friends. We read there that God gave to him Uh excuse me, not only uh did they get them back, uh the uh friends, but now uh the second point I had here is in verse eleven. His family and his friends console him. They comfort him. He's no longer alone or accused. In fact, verse 11 says that all of his friends give to him a piece of silver and a gold ring as a way of honoring him, saying that they respect him. They look up to him. His reputation's been restored. He's not lonely anymore. He's got all of his friends and comforts. Interesting to me that there's no mention of his wife. You don't hear of her anymore. But you do see the third point that his children are restored. He's given another ten children. Another seven sons and three daughters. Now, maybe God thought that it wouldn't have necessarily been the greatest kindness to give him fourteen sons and six daughters, you know. I mean, maybe there's a diminishing return, I don't know, but he's got seven sons and three more daughters. But what God does say is that these three daughters, and he doesn't say that to the others, these three daughters are the most beautiful daughters in all the land. And that must surely refer to their character as well as their appearance. So he's got ten more precious children that God has given to him. And then fourthly, and finally, his health is restored. His health is restored, and it's interesting that it's mentioned that he lives to the age of 140. What's that? That's twice the normal allotment of three score and ten. So he's given twice the life. Job is given full health so that he's able to see, the Bible says, his great-great-grandchildren. Now that's something most of us don't hope to see. Not that we wouldn't like to see it, we just don't realistically hope that we'll live that long to see it. God has restored to Job in this life. So much more than he had lost. You see the end of what the Lord finally brought about. And often the Lord will do that, even in our lives. I think of Jack Miller, who you've heard us refer to from time to time, pastor of New Life Church in Jenkintown, and who works with World Harvest Mission. Last year, after a couple of years ago, having had a very severe heart attack, Jack Miller found that he had cancer. And it was a devastating cancer. It was a cancer that had him on the very brink of death. It had a number of other complications with it. And so it was thought at some points that perhaps he wouldn't survive the week. And he battled that cancer, and a number of people prayed for him. Treatments were given. And he survived the cancer. He survived the treatments. He survived to such an extent that after all of this, he and his wife Rosemary planned to go on a vacation. And that was a few months ago. And they planned on the very eve of that vacation. They were just packing everything and getting ready to go on the eve of leaving. And Jack noticed that something was wrong. Notice his body was swelling up again. In fact, his body swelled up worse than it had swelled up ever before. And he knew what that meant. The cancer had come back in all its force. All they could do was to sit down on the edge of the bed, and they read the entire book of Job in one sitting. And after reading the book of Job, Jack says they simply prayed. I guess we've got to let God be God. And they committed their lives and their affairs to him. They committed all of their emotions and their heart and their future and everything to the God of Job. And after committing that to the Lord, Jack says that that night he slept the best sleep he had slept in weeks. And it was the first time he slept without drugs in weeks. The next day he got up. The swelling was gone. Entirely gone. And they were able to go on their vacation. And we saw last week from Hebrews 11, God gives victory in faith, but others There are others who die of their cancer. There are others who are not healed in this life. But the ultimate hope of what God will ultimately bring about is sure for every one of us. And that hope is the hope of eternal life in Jesus Christ. It's the hope that, as Jesus said in Mark chapter 10, that if anyone suffers anything for me in this life, It will be restored to him, and he will receive a hundredfold more, not only in this life, but in the life to come. Whereas we saw last week in Romans chapter 8, verses 17 and 18. That the sufferings in this world that we suffer for Jesus are not worthy to be compared. To the glory that's going to be revealed in us when we share in his inheritance. It's like comparing horse manure with gold. You can't even compare it. For 2 Corinthians chapter 4 that we talked about. How infinitely beyond that light Suffering is the eternal weight of the glory that we will receive in Jesus Christ. No matter what the suffering But you know, beyond all the things that Job received, the doubling of all the things of his life, the book of Job tells us that the most precious thing. This is really implied in it in chapter 42. The most precious thing that the Lord brought about through that suffering was not what Job received, it was what he experienced. For in Job chapter 42, verse 5, Job says, Before all of this I had heard of you with the hearing of the ear. But now my eyes have seen you. Brothers and sisters, I want to tell you that there is no knowledge of Jesus Christ. Like the knowledge that is gained from one who has persevered in suffering with Christ. Like the one who has endured Whatever difficulties God has given in their life, and in those difficulties they have persevered and they have cleaved to Jesus. And they have said, My trust is in you, or though you would slay me yet I will trust you, because I know the hope that I have. Because Jesus has died and Jesus has risen. And Jesus is my Lord and my Savior. And therefore I can trust you. And there is no knowledge more precious. Than the knowledge that's gained through suffering. It's more precious than gold. It's more precious than health. It's more precious than family. If you've ever experienced that, you know what I'm talking about. Being safe in the arms of Jesus and knowing He walks with you in those difficult times. And so let's finally consider, fourthly, the Lord's character. The Lord's character. James says you've heard of Job's perseverance and you've seen what the Lord finally brought about. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy. How the scriptures are full of this message. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy The knowledge that James gives to us here, he says, whatever you've experienced. And remember, he's talked about some pretty difficult circumstances back there in verses 1 to 6. But he says, no matter what you've experienced, you know more surely than your experience, you know more surely than your feelings, that this is true. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy. The Bibles ring with that from one end to the other. In Exodus chapter 3, God comes down to Moses and he says, I've heard the groanings of my people. And here's this tiny group of Jews in a tiny part of a tiny planet within a tiny solar system Within a tiny galaxy, in a tiny universe, and the God of all creation and beyond creation says, My ear is upon those people because they belong to me. And I cannot ignore their cries. Because God is full of compassion and mercy. And so he stretches out his arm and he brings them out of bondage because he has mercy on them. Or you take the book of Judges, and seven times over you have the cycle of his people sinning, and they go away from him, and then they're oppressed, and they cry out to him. In their misery and their sin, and they confess and they come back to Him. In every case, God says, I hear the cries of my people. Because I have compassion upon them. And I cannot turn from my people with whom I've made covenant, and I have mercy on them. Or you take the book of Hosea. And Hosea says, These people have committed spiritual adultery, and they've forsaken their God. And God says, Those who were my people are not my people. And they've been cast off because of their repeatedly ignoring God and going his way against him in the, as it were, spitting in his face, who has given them so much. And God says in Hosea 11, no matter what they do, I can't turn from my people. My compassions, he says, are stirred within me for my people. Oh, how can I give you up, O Ephraim? So God designs, and he executes his plan of redemption by which he gives up his own son, for he cannot give up his people. For he has compassion on them, and he has mercy. Will you take the individuals of Scripture again and again? It's the same theme. The shepherd boy David is called to serve God as his anointed over his people. And that boy is chased and a fugitive from King Saul, and for twenty years he hides in holes and caves in the wilderness of Engedi and up and down the Judean wilderness. But God is with him. And he's aware that God is with him every step of the way. And after he's experienced all that, he reflects back on it. And he says in Psalm 103: God is full of compassion. and mercy to his people. Like as a father has mercy and compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. And David says, I've experienced that. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy. And Hannah says, I've cried out, and I'm a barren woman, and I'm mocked. And I cried out to God, and he heard me. And he gave me children. And Mary, walking in Hannah's footsteps, says, years later, the Lord has looked with compassion on his handmaid, for he's been mindful of me. And he has mercy on the humble. And she brings forth Jesus. And Jesus grows up, and his message to his people is: the Father remembers you. Even a sparrow, he says, can't fall without the father noticing that fall. And you're worth much more than all the sparrows you see flying around here. And because God has compassion on you, He's full of mercy. And because of that mercy, Jesus Himself came. And he gave his life to take your sin and my sin. That he would bear it on himself so that God could have compassion on you and not judge you for that sin. So that you would be received before him and stand in his sight and have the glorious inheritance of eternity seated in the heavenlies with Jesus Christ. And so Paul says, You who deserve to have his wrath in Ephesians 2, he says You deserve to be cast away from his presence, but God, who is rich in mercy, called you up in Jesus Christ to be seated in the heavenlies with him. Our God is a God of mercy. And He'll never forget us. James says, no matter what you're experiencing, Remember Job. Remember his perseverance. And remember in that that your deliverance is coming. Remember what God brought about for Job, and remember how much more he is going to bring about for you. For not only will your eyes see him as Job saw him, you will stand face to face with Jesus Christ. And he will come to meet you as his chosen bride. At that time there will be no doubt. Of his compassion and his mercy. And James says he's coming soon. Remember verse 8? Maybe before the next time we meet together, Jesus will have come to take you. And his deliverance is sure. I asked the Lord that I might grow in faith and love. And every grace Might more of his salvation know, and seek more earnestly his face. I hope that in some favored hour at once he'd answer my request And by his love's constraining power subdue my sins and give me rest. Instead of this He made me feel the hidden evils of my heart, and let the angry powers of hell assault my soul in every part. Yea, more with his own hands he seemed intent to aggravate my woe, crossed all the fair designs I schemed, blasted my gourds, and laid me low. Lord, why is this? I trembling cried. Wilt thou pursue thy worm to death? 'Tis in this way the Lord replied, I answer prayer for grace and faith. These inward trials I employ from self and pride to set thee free, and break the schemes of earthly joy. That thou mayest seek thy all in me. Let's pray Oh Lord, some of us have been carrying on pity parties and whining and complaining about the things that we've been enduring and they've hurt. There's no denying they've hurt There's no denying we've wanted to give up. And everything around us tells us that we have needs, and those needs need to be satisfied. And we need to either flee the situation or we need to cry out to heaven, I haven't got time for this pain. Lord, remind us of Job. Remind us of what he suffered and what you finally brought about. And remind us, Lord, of Jesus. Remind us of what he suffered because of his mercy for us, and what you finally brought about for him who endured the cross, despising the shame, for the joy that was set before him. Hold that joy before us, Lord. That we might see it, that we might hope, that we might taste what you are finally going to bring about. That we might be assured that you are full of compassion and mercy, that you hear us when we cry out to you, that you walk with us, that you hold our hand, that you gather us to yourself. And that you treasure our sufferings. Remind us of that, Lord, that we might walk in faith and in a closer love to you. For Jesus' sake. I mean, that's what we can do. Yeah, I just don't know.