I'm standing here not with uh out of jacket because I'm too hot, but because my wife is freezing. I think of all the rest of you that uh came dressed real cool this morning. thinking that you'll be nice and comfortable and are all shivering in your seats. But you see, actually I have an ulterior motive. Preaching works up a sweat And I figure it'll sort of equalize us out. She'll be the right temperature and I'll be the right temperature. Old preachers in the old days when they got sick, they used to say, Well, I guess I'll go preach up a sweat. That'll help, you know. We'll see if that'll help today. Well, we are coming this morning to the last of three messages on healing, and then I leave town. If you preach on healing three times in an Orthodox Presbyterian church, you better plan to leave town, I guess. I don't know. But we will uh continue. Actually, when I leave, uh the next four weeks, there will be two men who will be continuing that general theme about healing, God's healing in our lives, with some powerful personal testimony about how God can do that. Then after vacation, I come back. There will be four more messages on the book of James, three of them on the power of prayer. And then we will finish the book of James. Can you believe that? I thought I'd hear some amen. I kinda kinda miss James, you know. It's gonna be gonna be strange to be up here without James Well this morning we want to take up the first part of verse 16 of chapter 5. James chapter 5, the first half of verse 16. To see if we can understand a bit more about the relationship between our confession of sin and healing. James tells us there, therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. And that, of course, is in the context of the matter of healing that he has given to us. So let's read that again, only starting with verse 13. Is any of you in trouble? He should pray. Is anyone happy? Let him sing songs of praise. Is any one of you sick? He should call the elders of the church to pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. The Lord will raise him up. If he has sinned, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. Now, I don't know about you, but when I look at the first half of verse 16 there, And again, a kind of a difficult verse to unpack. Three questions occur to me about the meaning of that. The first is, what is meant by healing? That you may be healed. The second question that occurs to me is, what does he mean by confession? And the third question is, what does he mean by prayer? So you see if you're looking ahead you got the three blanks there. There's three points to fill in. First of all then, what is the nature of the con of the healing? That James is talking about here. Therefore, confess your sins to each other, pray for each other, so that you may be healed. What kind of healing is James talking about? Is he talking about physical healing or is he talking about spiritual healing? Well, um, verses 14 and 15 certainly are talking about physical healing. And so it would seem like he's talking about physical healing You look further and you find that the word that's used here is a word which frequently describes Jesus and the apostles. physically healing people in the Gospels, the Book of Acts, used it again and again that way. In fact, one of the very best commentators on the book of James says that except for quotations, this word is always used to refer to physical healing in the New Testament. So there's no way to escape it. James is clearly talking about physical healing in verse 16. Confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be physically healed. But what about spiritual healing? Another of the very best commentators on the book of James, and I've gotten to know a number of them as we've gone through this for two and a half years. Another of the very best that I respect turns right around and he says very clearly, James is switching from verses 14 and 15 talking about physical healing to now talking about spiritual healing. And then he quotes a number of Old Testament references, some of which you see listed in your bulletin outline, to prove that this is talking about the healing of the soul, spiritual healing. Isaiah, for instance, in chapter 6, a very clear example of this kind of thing. You remember Isaiah came before the Lord. He saw the Lord in his glory. And as he saw the Lord, he said, I'm a man of unclean lips. And then remember the angel came. With a coal in his hands, he taken from the tongues, and he touched my mouth. Physical, you see. He sees his sin in terms of physical Dirtiness, defilement. The angel touches his lips physically and he says, See, this has taken away your sin. Your sin's been atoned for. And then, right after that, you remember God commissions Isaiah to preach the gospel, and what does he say? They're not going to listen to your verse 10. Make the heart of this people callous, make their ears dull, close their ears, otherwise they might see with their eyes. Hear with their ears, understand with their hearts, turn and be healed. Now that verse is quoted three times in the New Testament. And in every case that is quoted, the reference is to our salvation, the healing of our souls and of our spirits, the fact that our sins are forgiven, that our defilement is taken away in the way that Isaiah pictured. So is this talking about spiritual healing? I believe absolutely yes. In fact, I believe the point of this word healed, the way James uses it here, is to show us that the totality of our salvation Necessarily involves both physical and spiritual healing. Why? Because we are physical and spiritual beings. You can't separate your physical nature from your spiritual nature. You are a physical, spiritual being. And therefore, when Jesus died in order to save you spiritually, he died physically. He died physically to pay for your sin. He was nailed to a cross and nails were put into his hands physically. He suffered physically And Paul says, you who have believed and trusted in Jesus Christ were crucified with him when that happened. Now, how were you crucified with him? Not physically, spiritually. And so when Jesus died physically, we were crucified spiritually, so that when we die physically, we will be raised physically. And spiritually we have eternal life. You see, the whole gospel is not something you can tear apart in bits and pieces, like is often done today, to divide the spiritual from the physical. Now, in our totality of healing, both physically and spiritually, we wait the resurrection in order to know the fullness of that. But the beginning of that, the beginning of the totality of the healing that Jesus Christ wants to do in your life is intended for you to know both physically and spiritually right now. And so if there's anything that is broken in your life this morning, physically, spiritually, emotionally, relationally, Jesus Christ wants to heal that in your life. That's the fullness of his salvation for you. He wants to heal you. And again, I remind you that that word in the Greek for health and salvation are the identical word. It's the same word. God wants to heal you. Jesus wants to heal you in the fullest sense of the atonement He has made for you. With His stripes, we are healed. That's what he wants to do for you. Now, doing that involves confession. And so that leads us to the next question. The question is, what is the nature of the confession that James is talking about here? Therefore, confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The way you come to Jesus Christ for that initial healing, the forgiveness of your sin, that new life as the Holy Spirit enters into your being and regenerates you. Makes you one from being dead like Lazarus and raising you up to new life. The way you have come to that life in Jesus Christ is through confession of your sin. To admit your sin, to not hold back and pretend that you don't sin, but that you agree with him. You are a sinner, and that you need his forgiveness. Now that confession then is a manner of the Christian life. That's the way we walk in the Christian life. It is part of the Christian life. The non-defensive attitude that is willing to admit, Lord, I'm a sinner. The righteousness I have is only the external, outside of me righteousness of Jesus Christ. I have no internal righteousness that satisfies. And so I don't pretend that I'm not a sinner. For a Christian, there should never be a problem of confessing I'm a sinner. Now, first of all, when we look at what this does mean, We need to clear away some of the underbrush and understand that what it does not mean, what it does not refer to, is Roman Catholic auricular confession to a priest. Now what's auricular? Oricular is just a fancy term that means Confession from the mouth to the ear, private confession from one's mouth to one's ear. It does not refer to that, and I think the simplest reason, although the Roman Catholic Church has used this verse as a basis for that kind of confession, was best answered by Martin Luther when he wrote on this verse. He said, This is a strange confessor, for his name is each other. And you see, that's really simply the point. Who does James say to confess your sins to? Each other. You find a confessor whose name's each other, that's the one you go to. Or you use it to refer to others in the body, of course. Not necessarily the elders, maybe an elder, but not necessarily to any other Christian Now, does this mean we go confessing any sins to any Christians? No, it does not mean that. And I believe that the Bible lays out for us three times three purposes for which we would confess our sins to one another. And those are the ones listed here. First of all, to those wronged for forgiveness. The first time we do it in the body is when we confess to someone that we have wronged for forgiveness. And whenever we sin, we have wronged God. And so there's always the private confession to God. Father, I have sinned. I really appreciated what Jerry prayed this morning. Lord, we confess. Knowing we don't confess to you as to a judge, but as to a father. And because as a judge, he has already judged our sin. That's been put away. It's been punished once and forever in Jesus Christ. But we do confess our sins to him as a father, as a wayward child, who needs that relationship with the Father restored, so that there's no alienation between him and us in that filial relationship that we enjoy with him. And so we confess our sins to him. But if someone else has been wronged, then whoever has been wronged, we need to go to in order to make it right to confess our sins to them. Now we don't go if it's only a matter of thoughts. Here's where some people get in trouble. I once just recently heard of a youth pastor. who had lustful, adulterous thoughts toward somebody in his youth group. And he thought it was necessary for him to go and after confessing to God to confess to this girl that he had some lustful, adulterous thoughts toward her. And after he did that, they decided they needed to talk about that, so they made a luncheon engagement, and guess what? Soon they were committing adultery in reality And so there are a number of times when whatever we are thinking about another person, if it has not affected that person, we need to take that only before the Lord. That is not the thing to confess to one another. What kind of things do we confess to one another when they've been wrong then? Well, God points it out very clearly. The Lord Jesus told us in Matthew chapter 6. Excuse me, Matthew chapter 5, verses 23 and 24. Jesus says there, if you are offering your gift at the altar, and you remember there that your brother has something against you. So this is somebody who consciously has been offended by you. Then he says, leave your gift there in front of the altar and first go and be reconciled to your brother, then come and offer your gift. What's Jesus saying here? Well, the gift you see before the altar in that culture is a symbol of worship and service to God. And I believe what Jesus is saying here is simply that when you know that there's somebody you have wronged in your sin, then worship to God and service to God is no acceptable substitute for ignoring that problem. You need first to go and to confess the wrong to that person and be reconciled. You see, there has been alienation. And that alienation must be dealt with. And that alienation will be bring healing in the relationship. It may also bring healing to your conscience, enable you to sleep better. Other kinds of physical effects may uh result from that. But it will at least be the healing of the relationship, and that's what James is talking about here. The second way that uh there needs to be confession is to one another who to someone who is wiser for counsel. To someone who is wiser for counsel. I believe this is also what James has in mind. Therefore confess your sins to each other And pray for each other so that you may be healed. Perhaps to your elder, perhaps to your small group leader, to any other Christian who you believe will be able to bring the Word of God to bear on your problem. Not just their opinion, it's not just they have charisma, it's not simply that they're a person who says things that are nice to hear, they're gonna tell you what you want to hear, but it's somebody who you can believe this person will honestly the best they can, they know the scriptures pretty well and they're going to be able to apply some scripture to my situation. I can trust them to give me safe counsel. But it's hard for us to go, isn't it? It's hard to be vulnerable enough to go to a person and to say, man, I don't know how to love my wife. I am not doing a very good job of it. I don't know how to love my husband I feel like I'm disloyal to him. I don't know how to love that guy. I feel like our kids are out of control. I'm not doing a very good job raising my kids. Could you help me with that? Uh you know, I feel like I want to bust my roommate in the chops every time I come home at night, you know, and we're not getting along very well. Can you help me to deal with that situation? And then what do you do? Well of course Then you tell all the reasons why that person is so hard to love, you see. Well no, that's not what James says. He says, confess your sins to that person You see, the emphasis is at this point not on let me tell you why my husband or wife are hard to love. It is let me tell you why I am having a hard time in my sinful heart expressing love. And the focus is on my sin. And the emphasis is so that person can give you prayer and give you counsel and then pray for the healing of that relationship. Pray for the healing spiritually in what you need. That I believe is involved in this verse. Confess your sins to one another. And then, in the context of spiritual biblical counsel, pray for one another. The person who hears that, praying for the person who's seeking the counseling, confessing the sin. But that's hard for us, isn't it? It puts us in a vulnerable situation. And yet, for those of us who have done that, we know how much we have received, just to get someone else's perspective oftentimes, and to be able to bring Scripture to bear and know that person's praying for us. But then that brings us to the third time, and that is even when the person may not have all that much helpful counsel to offer, you still may confess your sins to those close. For accountability. It involves confessing to those who are close to you for the sake of accountability. Now, you see, it's generally acknowledged today that the problem with the TV evangelists and the scandals and all that surrounded that was that they were people who were accountable to no one. Gordon MacDonald, who looks back on his fall from uh very effective leadership in the Christian community through his adultery, looks back and he says, I was not sufficiently accountable to anybody. For someone to really be close to me in order to hold me to that accountability. Particularly as we come into leadership, there is such a temptation to make exceptions for ourselves to what applies to everyone else, you know. And when we live private lives, we can begin to make exceptions for ourselves in sins. Chuck Swindle says one of the most important parts of his ministry are accountability to someone who's close to him. He said one day The big raw boned fellow walked into his office, looked him square in the eye, he says, Swindle, do you have anybody that you report to who can say BS to you? And Swindle says, but he didn't say BS when he said that to me. And he said, I was able to say to him yes. And he said, that has been so crucial in my ministry. To know that there is somebody who is going to look me in the eye and not let me get away with anything. You know, we really need that as Christians. As elders, we're accountable to each other within our body. First session meeting of every month. We go around the room. We share who we have talked to about Jesus Christ that past month. Just to make sure that that's always before us. that we are sharing Christ with people on one-to-one basis. Each of us pastors the other. George Walgrove is my elder. And I'm accountable to him as well as to the rest of the session. We all need that kind of relationship. Do you know living a radically holy life for Jesus Christ in such a corrupt world as we live in is impossible, I believe, unless you are in a close, accountable relationship with other Christians. We will not follow through in radical holiness. Unless there are others that we are confessing our sins to and saying, pray for me in this area. But we live such private lives that it's very difficult for us to do that, isn't it? Very difficult to imagine going to somebody and saying, you know, I hate to admit it, but I think I'm becoming addicted to pornography. Or to soaps. I'm renting videos that I really ought not to be watching. I'm watching HBO and I'm watching films that I know the Lord's not pleased with me watching And it's especially bad when I travel. A lot of you guys travel, and I know what happens when you travel. You can get into a motel and There's this TV and it's got HBO and it's very very easy. You're tired. You've been running around, had a long day. Just switch on the switch. There it is. Whatever comes on. There's always something you can watch. It's R-rated, if not X. You know, you say at that time, Lord, help me in this. And you come back and you beat yourself and you say, I'm not having any victory in this area of my life and nothing is working, and I keep praying to God. And I say, God changed this area of my life, but why doesn't he ever change it? I want to tell you something. You want to really be serious about sin? Confess it to another person. And say, next time I go on this trip, I want you to pray for me. And I want you to ask me when I get back, how did I do? I've done that with men, I've asked men to do that for me, and I tell you, it makes a difference Every couple that comes to me for premarital counseling is accountable to me in their physical relationship during the whole time that we're counseling together. You and I deceive ourselves so much that James is bringing to us some very important counsel here. He's saying, you want to live a radically holy life for Jesus Christ, confess your sins to others who are going to help you by praying for you, not going to just check up on you. To see if you slip. But you know that in love, that next week they will see you, they'll call you, you'll meet them in your small group. In some context, they will say, I've been praying for you about that thing you mentioned to me. How are you doing in that? What about in your life? Is there anybody, any group of people that you have that kind of relationship with? If you mean business in living a holy life for Jesus Christ. I would say from the Word of God, you need to be in that kind of a relationship. There has to be somebody in your life that you are able to do that with. Then, finally, the third thing that we ask him this is what does he mean by the nature of prayer? He says that we're to be in that close fellowship in which we can be vulnerable enough to be open and confess our sins and know that these people will pray for our healing. What does he mean by prayer here? Well, first of all, I want you to notice that it is prayer for one another. I think that we sometimes miss that in our fellowships today We're so busy praying just for ourselves and our own needs and our family, we never get out beyond some of us to praying for one another within the body, the broader body of Jesus Christ And so many of us are a long way from a person by the name of Joy Dawson who prays for her friends whenever God brings them to her mind. She says she's developed the habit of whenever some friend comes to her mind. She uses that as a prompting of the Holy Spirit to lead her to prayer. And as long as the Spirit will give her the concern to pray for that person, she'll pray. So that recently she was praying for a person by the name of Lauren, who she knows and didn't know anything about where he was at that time, but she thought of him, she prayed for him. The strange thing happened, as she prayed for him, the burden for him increased. And she said it since she sensed that the Holy Spirit was laying upon her a tremendous burden for this guy. And so she began to pray for the next fifteen minutes that the angels would surround him and protect them, that God would deliver him from the forces of darkness. He would keep him safe. He would keep him health in health that he would protect him from whatever was assaulting him. Give him his peace. Finally, after fifteen minutes, she committed him to the Lord, sensed she had some peace, and then went on her way. She saw him a few days later. She said, Lauren, could you tell me what you were doing three days ago between four and four fifteen in the afternoon? He said I can tell you exactly what I was doing. I was in a commercial jetliner. We were flying over the Philippines and the engines went out. The plane all of a sudden went into a very dangerous nosedive. The pilot said we're in trouble. And she said, uh, after a few minutes, all of a sudden, the engines came back on, and the plane was able to make it to the Philippines and land safely. They say, oh man, that's really neat. Imagine how she felt. Boy, she was really buoyed up in her face. But you know, it starts by our cultivating the sensitivity to the Spirit in praying for one another. In saying, I'm going to be concerned for my brothers and sisters, and as the Spirit brings them to mind, because we're in that close relationship, I will pray for them in whatever healing is needed in their life at that time. Second thing that I think this means is that we pray specifically for the broken relationships where they're needed. When Jesus said to go in Matthew 5, that that brother that you're alienated from, I believe that that reconciliation process involves prayer for healing. It may be the prayer for the two of you. It may be prayer as others are involved in seeking to effect that healing. But that we are praying for the broken relationships, not gossiping about them, you see, but praying for them to be healed. Coming together, admitting our sin together, and praying for one another. I believe the third thing that's involved in this is, of course, praying for victory over sin and the Spirit's healing in the confessor's life. That the person would be healed in whatever way they need to be healed, physically, spiritually, emotionally, relationally. That we pray for that person to have victory over pornography or over their watching soaps or whether it's uh overeating or whether it's uh uh a temper that they can't control. Whatever it is that they've come to us and they've said, pray for me in this area. Now that I believe for most of us as Christians is the bottom line test of whether we're serious about getting rid of sin. Whether we're willing to share for that and say, would you pray for me in this area? It could be interesting. I'm not going to do it so you don't have your have your blood pressure rise, but that's See how many of us could say, Yes, I have done that in my life. I can think of a time when I was helpless and I asked someone to pray for me. And they prayed for healing and victory in my life in that area, and both of us saw God do that. You know what happens? The both of you have your faith tremendously strengthened. You know, I find it easier to pray for God sometimes to bring in a half a million dollars for us to have obtained the Lewis property. than to see somebody's life changed and a lifelong dominating habit. That is so hard to believe. That's why, you see, that the next verses talk about the power of prayer. That's what we'll be considering next. But it's because that is one of the most exciting things to see when somebody says, all my life I have never had victory over this. And we pray and we see God begin to give victory. And then your faith really grows because you've seen the Spirit of God change someone's life in a supernatural way. It also may involve praying for physical healing. I think of a story told by John White, Christian psychiatrist. John White said he was in a fellowship one time of missionaries that would pray together for one another. They were very open and they would pray for one another's healing in the various ways. And they would receive from their larger fellowship of missionaries letters that uh spelled out various needs. And uh he said on one day he received a letter about a missionary that was in the Philippines And he said this missionary was an utter stranger to him. He had never met her. But uh it was a a letter talking about her need. And the need was that she had spinal tuberculosis. Which he said was a very serious condition. And she was in a hospital in Manila in very serious condition with this, and uh it was not a very good prognosis. And the letter asked to pray for healing and for God to work in this person's life. White said as I received that uh something strange happened. He said, I have a very strange burden for this woman who I had never met. And he said, I found myself insisting that God would heal her immediately. Now he said that was very strange for two reasons. One, because I never had met the person, so I didn't have any feeling for them, and two, because I didn't believe God did that kind of thing. But he said, I found that I was insisting. Lord, heal this person. In a way that he said was just buoyed up by the Holy Spirit. And I believe that's what James is, an example of what James is talking about in verse 14. The prayer offered in faith, that special prayer. I believe he then talks about that at the end of verse 16, but you're going to have to wait to find out how he talks about it there. The prayer made effective, I believe, is what it says at the end of verse 16. And White prayed that, and as he offered that to God, he said he found out to his astonishment some days later. From the doctors in the Philippines, remember he's a doctor too, that that very day the woman was miraculously healed. And then you know what happened? Sometime shortly after that, he met her. And soon after that, he married her. Isn't that a romantic story? You singles watch out praying for one another that you be healed, you know? Never know what'll come from that kind of thing. But what does that mean for you and for me? It means, I believe, that God has for us as a body more to understand about healing. You know, it was a beautiful thing to see last Sunday. Groups of people praying here in the front of Smith Theater for one another to be healed. And to see how that develops in the deepening of the fellowship and asking from the weeks to come, how's God working in your life? We prayed for that. We're still praying for that. I'm watching to see what God is going to do as a result of our praying together. As a result of our being in a small group together. Whatever it is. And so I'd encourage you to ask those questions as you see there in the back of the bulletin. Ask them personally. Reflect on them this afternoon. Who have you repented and confessed to recently? If you say, hey, nobody, well then how does James 5. 16 fit into your life? Is there no healing that you need? Is there nothing that you believe that Jesus Christ wants to do into your life that you need someone else's help for in the body? Or someone perhaps that you have offended and need to go to? Who is it that perhaps you need to go to about either a sin against them or a sin in your own life that you want counsel or at least accountability for? Who are you accountable to for growth in Christ? The people who remain in the periphery of a fellowship, I find, do not grow very quickly in Christ. And let me encourage you, if you're not already in some kind of a small group setting, to get into that, at least by this fall. as the groups resume and so you can become in in a safe kind of fellowship that will help you to grow in Christ. And then who are you praying for in the body? Who are you saying, Lord, who do you want me to pray for? That God could use you and perhaps even wake you at night or prompt you at some time out of a concern for that brother or sister to see God bring healing into their life. Let's bring this before the Lord. Let's pray. Lord our God, how we thank you for that healing that you have provided in Jesus Christ, which is so full and complete. We thank you that his healing, which he has given to us, is a total healing, that we will see in that day of the resurrection when we shall all be made like him in complete wholeness. Lord, we pray that you would continue to give to us eyes that would see the inheritance that we have, as Paul prayed that we would know. And to know that power which raised Jesus from the dead and seated him on high, to know that in our own fellowship together, that you would give to us a greater vulnerability and openness, a greater hatred for sin. So that we must confess, so that we must seek help. We must be reconciled. We must seek counsel. We must seek accountability. Because we are seeking to live a life that is pleasing to Jesus Christ. Thank you for the resources that you give to us one for another, for that security and that safety that no matter what it is that we confess, We know that no one can look down upon us, for we are all sinners, whose righteousness is the same righteousness, that of the Lord Jesus given to us. Thank you for that. Lord, heal us individually and as a body. For Jesus' sake. Amen.