Good, I gave you a time to turn on the tape before you. One of the simplest and clearest ways But you can tell a true Christian from one who says that they know Jesus Christ and yet doesn't really know the Lord personally and will in fact ultimately go to hell. is to be able to look and observe and to see which is closer to their heart justice or mercy. Now don't get me wrong, a Christian must love justice. A Christian does love justice. For God is just. God is the author of justice. We read in Psalm 11 and Psalm 99, the Ken read voice earlier, that God loves justice. In Psalm 86. eighty-nine and uh ninety-seven tells us that justice is the foundation of his throne. In Psalm uh nine we read that God is known by his justice. And so there's no question That God is just, and so a Christian must love justice. But Jesus taught us again and again. But a Christian is known by his mercy. You remember in Matthew 5, in the Beatitudes, Jesus Said, Blessed are the merciful, for they're the ones who will receive mercy. He taught us in the prayer that we should pray, summon up the message of his kingdom, that we're to forgive others, as the weekend. We ask Lord that you would forgive us our debts even as we forgive others, their debts against us. And that's the one petition that he goes on to explain, saying, For if you do not forgive others, neither will your heavenly father forgive you. The characteristic of the child praying to the Father is that they're able to give mercy and not demand justice. Jesus illustrated that, you remember, in the parable of the servant in Matthew 18, where he talked about The fellow who had uh been given the for debt for given the debt of ten billion dollars, and then went out in the fellow that uh had owed him a couple of thousand dollars. He wrote his neck and he demanded justice. And Jesus said, So the Father will punish him. Him because he has not understood mercy. Believe that I mentioned two of those who are still around from years past that that's talking about a Christian. It's the father who punishes him, chasings him, disciplines him. But the fact is that there's something inconsistent, incompatible about a Christian who doesn't understand mercy, who doesn't find mercy so close to their heart. And so when we come to the book of James, we see that one of the major themes of the book of James is how can we tell a true Christian? And James says you tell him by his life. You tell him by the behavior of his belief. And he gives an example, an interesting example in chapter two, where he talks about the problem of favoritism, the problem of seeking to curve the favor of one who has wrought or status for what you will get out of it. The problem described in verses two to four of a rich or person or a person of status who comes in and you go to that person and ignore the port. person, showing no mercy on the poor person, because you want the favor of that rich person. And James says one of the ways that you tell a Christian is by the way he lives and the way he treats people. And so he's given us five reasons here why favoritism is wrong. And the climaxic reason that comes to the end of this whole argument is here in verse 13, he says favoritism is utterly incompatible with emotion. And the Christian is characterized by mercy. So let's look at that. We won't go through the whole flow of his thoughts, but just picking it up here in verse twelve, let's hear God's word and remember that this word is addressed to us. J says, speak and act, as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom. Because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triants over judgment. Because in that one verse, verse 13, this morning I would like to think with you about mercy. And I would like to draw from that one verse four propositions for four poems. You see them on your bulletin outline. Follow along with them as I see foking these up. First of all, justice and mercy are antithetical. You see that in the beginning of the verse there. Judgment without mercy. There's two different things here. There's judgment or justice and there's mercy. Now why did I say that uh a Christian loves mercy more than justice? Why would I attempt to pick those two things in tension with each other? Because I think that there is a certain tension between justice and mercy. You see, justice gives exactly what is deserved under the law. Mercy, on the other hand, by its very nature, gives what is not deserved. Mercy doesn't give what is deserved. Mercy gives what is needed. Mercy doesn't look at merit. It looks at need. Justice is the precise statement of the judge. Mercy is the open heart of the Father. Justice operates on the principle of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Mercy is grace without measure. that God's justice is always declared in precise measurement to what is deserved. But mercy is always given without measure. So justice and mercy are in a certain tension. They're anesthetical. The second point then is that we desperately need mercy, not justice from God. We desperately need mercy and not justice. You see that from what Jesus said. Back in verses ten through twelve. You remember there in verse ten he had told us, Whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one fourth is guilty of breaking order. Verse 10 tells us that we are all guilty under the law. Under the system of God's inscrutable justice, you and I all come up short. Every one of us is guilty. Even if you just broke one point of the law, you'd be guilty. And remember we saw that that's because verse 1 tells us that it's a royal law. It's a personal law. It's given by a king. And so the question is not how many did you keep and how many did you miss, but did you have an attitude of submission? were rebellion against this person. And they all have been rebellious against the person that has given the law. The second thing that James tells us there in verse 12 is that we will all be judged. We will All be judged. See there verse 12? We can act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom. Every one of us. We're all going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. It's interesting. That James does not, you notice, contrast the word mercy with justice. But what's the word that he uses in verse twelve and thirteen? Judgment. Because you see, so clear is it that justice is For us, judgment. But those two words can be used interchangeable changeably and they often are through the scripture. For us, justice means judgment. Because we've all broken the law. And so James says Judgment. You could say justice, but you could also say just as easily, judgment. Without mercy. Good be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. For mercy triumphs over justice, yes, but also judgment. because that's what each of us deserves. Judgment for us is doom. You know, uh we tend often uh to mock the idea of judgment that notice that particularly among friends, those that you uh revere speak about this, the media. Um my one daughter is uh studying in her English class, uh, an excerpt from Jonathan Edwards' sermon. It's one sermon that they study in public schools now. An excerpt from CERIS. In the hands of an angry God. And of course it's the uh the ban and the uh spider passage, you know, that they look at. And what's the immediate response of the kids who see that explication of uh Deuteronomy about their foot shall slide in due time? But it's an awe Yeah, now we're gonna get into the hellfire and the boom and the boom and all this kind of stuff, you know, and God's gonna get you and send you to hell if you don't be good with all this mocking. But everybody's having a bigger laugh over this. And yet uh what anyone asked them, hey guys. What if this is the truth? Let's just suppose for a moment that there is justice in the universe. Let's just suppose for a moment that the universe isn't impersonal, and that there is an absolutely just ruler who will bring everyone But forward the bar of his justice. Then wouldn't evidence in fact be underplayed because human language is not able to describe what it means for you and for me in our guilt to stand before such a holy and righteousness. Aren't we then rather like the feasters of Pompeii laughing at the volcanic slope that's beginning to erupt in the mountainside next to us? Picture yourself standing, sitting, in the ante. room, the courtroom of the heavenly kingdom. Your life is over. You're now seated in this waiting room, awaiting the coming before the judge in that last day. Everything that you have lived is done. The record is sealed. You hold it in your hands. Everything that you have thought, everything that you've imagined, all of your motives, All of your words, whether uttered in sincerity or sarcasm, in love or bitterness, all of your actions, everything is in that makeup feature before you. You see, we got it all wrapped up. You're holding it in your hand, and you're sitting there in the waiting room. As you sit there, you begin to notice around you the display of power and majesty in this waiting room. You notice the others that are seated there. And uh they are reviewing their case as you have reviewed yours. You try to arrange your argument so that everything would be seen in the best possible light. But all your excuses are made so that everything can be seen seem to ultimately vindicate you just enough in the end to get you through. And as you sit there and see those displays of power and majesty, your heart begins to race a little bit. Your palms get a little clammy. Because you've heard that this judge is absolutely just. But on the other hand, you take comfort in that. Because it's said about this judge before whom you'll stand in a few moments that he has not given to He's never convicted. He's always precisely fair. He never does anything that's unfair, or is in the least way a personal twisting of the law. Absolutely just. But it occurs to you as you think about that, that means that he's absolutely without mercy. Because he must carry out the full dictates of the law in the precision that is absolutely infinite in its capacity to discern your motives and your actions. And so you think of what it's going to mean to stand before this judge solely On the merits of the law. Justice. Finally, a couple of attendants come and they take you from your seat. And they usher you down a long hallway. And you take them through a gigantic. Gigantic veil, and there you stand in the courtroom. All of a sudden, you see that the courtroom is also a throne room. But if you look around, you see such disquarios. Days of majesty and glory that you never before imagined in your most glorious moments of imagining what majesty would be like. Somehow you pictured that the Stand in this room would be sort of like the wizard of oz's throne room, you know, and maybe flashes, and there would all be these uh awesome uh things to scare you and to reduce you into prostration before this king. But you find that that's There is here silence, majestic silence. You find that for the first time in your life you really understand what the word awesome means. This one who is seated before you radiates utter holiness. And as you stand before him, you realize that in the deepest heart of your hearts, you deserve it. All of your excuses vanish in smoke. You feel utterly vulnerable and most particularly naked. There is nothing that you can hide from this judge. And your excuses which seem so reasonable to you a few moments before are now so utterly foolish. And you stand before him to meet his justice. And you know through and through that this one will be just. As Jonathan Edwards described that too, in his message, in his sermon, Sinneth in the Hands of an Angry God. He said, Just. Justice cries aloud for you to be this moment cast into hell. God's wrath is like a bow, the arrow is on the string, and justice bends the arrow at your And it's with that picture in mind that you can perhaps understand something of the shout in James's heart when he said at the end of verse 13, Mercy. triumphs over justice. Mercy triumphs over judgment. You see, the Ark of the Covenant in the Old Testament is a box Ridden overlaid with gold, perhaps one and a half feet by about four feet long. And that box contained, among other things, the very law of God, which God's own finger had carved out in that stone. God's own word and law to his people. And that law, which stated how you and I are to live, we're going to have no other vows before us, we're going to have no idols, but you and I are to take his name only with reverence and respect, that we're to keep his day set apart, that we're to respect the authorities he sets over us, to not hate, but to keep our lives morally pure, to not lie, but to have respect for the truth, to be content with what he's given us in lots of covenants. That law which was contained in that box was for us judgment. But the Ark of the Covenant had a live. Do you remember those of you who were at the Lord's Supper service a couple of months ago and Tito the Deus. So I ably described to us the meaning of not only that earth but its lid, because the lid, you remember, he described, was called the mercy seat. That lid had two angels worshiping on it, and that's all it was. But that lid, which was called God's mercy seat, was set, the scripture tells us, over the law, over the ark. Mercy triumphs over judgment. And say two thousand years ago God sent his own son, Jesus, and Jesus kept that law perfectly. Justice vindicates Jesus. Justice says that Jesus is the heir of the kingdom. The one who has kept the covenant and therefore receives all the covenantal blessings. And as you stand in that courtroom, this is Jesus comes to stand beside you. You glance over at him. And if you see it in his hand, it's the nail. Prince, the prince in his feet. And Jesus says to the judge, Father, by my death on the cross I have satisfied justice. Therefore, have mercy. on this man. And then you see the judge smile. And that judge comes down from his throne and he takes you into his arms and he hugs you and he folds you and he says, I know. For I sent my son to satisfy my justice, so that I might have mercy upon you. Don't grieve, and come and be my son in my royal family. And he takes ye to be with himself. And so James says with a shout, Mercy triumphs over justice. There's in that word triumphs over in the Greek the idea of laughter. It's exalting. It's a rejoicing. In fact, you could translate it, mercy rejoices over justice. Mercy's had the last laugh, you see. Mercy has now stood by God's mercy, by his own favor, to be. We that, which is our only hope, before divine justice. And so, justice sees desserts, mercy sees needs, and the two of them are brought together in the cross. of Jesus Christ. Ken described to you the story of John Newton. See the application. Pick in just a couple of things to the story that Ken uh accurately described to you a few moments ago. When Eaton grew up, his mother died at the age of seven. He went to sea just as Ken described it. On one of those voyages, during his dull moments, he read a book that had been given to him. It was called The Moralist, a philosophic radical. It is an utterly derivative attack upon Christianity and any absolutes. It is the relativism of its thing. Newton said that that book worked like a poison in his soul. It turned him utterly against the Christianity. that his mother had raised him to believe. Not only did he turn against Christianity for himself, but he set out in his licentious living to turn anyone else who he came in contact with against the gospel. He was a rabid anti evangelist. In those days, the Navy didn't recruit, it pressed. That is, it kidnapped people if they weren't looking out, and it pressed them into service. That's how delightful it was and the all the food benefits you. gotten working in the British Navy. Newton was kidnapped and he was pressed into the naval service. He was so utterly obnoxious. He was such a blasphemer who in fact offended the sailors at sea. He was so utterly contentious and malicious that the Navy decided to get rid of him. They said, We can't stand this guy. In fact he's so bad that one time two ships were passing him. One was a slave ship and the other was the British Navy and they said Hey, here's our chance. And they traded Newton for a slaver. Just to get rid of them. They say, I don't care who you got on that ship, give it to us for this guy Newton. We'll take the trade and we go out of it. And that's how Newton got into slavery. He was so malicious. And so contentious on the slave ship, the slave captain Ruda Hagen. He not only raped the slaves as a common practice, that wasn't with much that would stood out, that was common practice of those days. But he was so utterly malicious and so utterly foul. In his self-centered arrogance against those of the crew, that he would just start poisoning wherever he went. Only he was left in Africa to die. And they hoped that he would. Time and again, his layers. Life was spared in dramatic circumstances by the mercies of God. But to no avail. Whenever he would get out of a scrape, he'd go right back to his living, no matter what promises he had made, when his life was in peril. And finally, in 1730. He was caught in a storm of storms. But this storm was something like they had never seen before. Gael were breathed for days. And then, of course, the captain called Lephen to come up out of the hole. And Nethan went up as he went out of the hole to see. The captain said, Wait a minute, go back down and get a knife. Mutton turned around to go back to get a knife, another sailor took his place going up out of the hole. At just that moment a ray swept over the entire ship and carried that sault and that sailor off the deck and was never seen again. Newton had continued 15 more seconds, he would have been lost. He went back down, got the knife, went back up on the deck. They continued to fight the storm. And after a while, Newton said that in spite of himself, he fought across the room. Out, God have mercy on us. And when he said he uttered those words, all of a sudden it hit him. Why in the world would God have mercy on me? There is nothing I have. done through my entire life to deserve mercy. And even despair. In those next days the storm continued to the point where the ships thrown so many leaks they couldn't pump it fast enough and it began to go down. Luther thought that he was lost for sure this time. And the scriptures that his mother had taught him began to hold him. He remembered Proverbs 1, where wisdom laughs at those who are foolish and have turned against, and wisdom says, I will laugh at your folly and laugh. The day of your destruction. He remembered Hebrews chapter 6, which speaks of those who have tasted of the heavenly gifts and have turned away, and it's impossible to remove them to repentance. And Newton said, There is no hope of mercy for me. But after a couple of Days, and the ship was still floating barely. He began to think of other scriptures. He began to think of Luke 11:13. Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. But there is hope in Jesus. He began to think of Jesus who betrayed who portrayed himself as a sacrifice for those who had sinned to the uttermost. And in desperation, John Newton cast himself upon Jesus Christ for mercy. There is a man Who had a profound sense that justice was his judgment. And his only hope was that mercy could triumph over justice over justice and judgment. John Level gave his life to Jesus. Jesus Christ into a gradual process turned around in his living. So where in his later days he became one of England's major proponents against slavery. John Newton was known in his life as a Christian As being a gentle man who had mercy on the weak, particularly upon slaves. You see, that's what Jesus said to a person. When you and I have understood that have heard them seen and seen what justice means for us. And then have understood that in Jesus Christ, satisfying God's justice and therefore enabling us to receive mercy because of his bearing the penalty that we deserve. They will become a merciful and a gentle people. And so the fourth point, following, is that our mercy triumphs over our non-mercy. You see, the beginning of verse 13 says, judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. That distinctly does not mean that you show mercy to get mercy. The James is saying, if you show mercy, then mercy will be shown to you. The very nature of mercy is that it's not deserved. And so it's not that you purchase mercy, but rather what James is saying here is that as I see how you treat those who come into your fellowship, you don't have anything to offer you. Who are needy as opposed to those who you think could advance your purposes, James says, I see in that whether you understand mercy. And if you understand mercy, you will see that mercy triumphs over justice. Stand before God. But James says, if you are not characterized by mercy, that to me, he says, is simply the evidence that judgment without mercy will be shown to you because you are dealing with people. on the level of justice. It's hard, isn't it? For a people who are capable, people who have succeeded in their careers to love mercy the way we love justice. Justice, we think can work in our favor. Mercy is for the weak until we realize how very weak and needy we are. And when we do, we can't do anything but respond to the God of mercy by mercy. Mercy toward our family. Mercy and saying, not, well, she started it, and so I'm going to get back at her. I'm going to pay him in time for what he did to me. You weren't nice to me last night, why should I do you a favour today? But rather to remember mercy. Mercy toward our friends and acquaintances. Not looking at them in terms of a bargain. What can they give to us? Do they deserve us to continue to be nice to them and friends? But to give them a second chance when they've hurt us, to return mercy, even when they have been malicious, even towards strangers. And now we get Closer to Jesus' point. Just that we don't even know we show mercy. And even particularly those who can't return the favor. That's where favoritism comes in. To show mercy to the person who doesn't seem to have any way of repaying anything good that we would ever do to them. James says, You stand before Jesus and you get adopted into his family, and you've seen it Mercy has triumphed over justice in your own life. And you say, Ah, Lord Jesus, thank you for your mercy. Thank you that you've saved a wretch like me. Lord Jesus, thank you. What can I do to show you my thanksgiving for that? Then all of a sudden it dawns on you. Anytime I give into the deacon's fund, that's expressing thanks to Jesus for mercy. Every time I am kind to someone who's not able to return the favor, I'm expressing thanks to Jesus. For he's the one who said, Inasmuch as you've done it unto the least of these, My brothers, you've done it unto me. But all of a sudden give an eye see that those people who seem to be a weight and a bother and a burden are in fact an Opportunity to thank Jesus. Let's pray. Pray. In the name of Jesus this morning, for anyone here who thinks that they are going to be able to stand before you in that last day on the basis of justice alone. We pray that you must bring into their hearts that wise terror that certainly sees reality for what it is. Lord, there have been so many charlatans and So many dramatists who have made mockery of judgment through hellfire and brimstone kinds of preaching, manipulating people for their own means and ends, and Satan has so used this that we do not take seriously. The warnings of your word. But James was seeking to do us a favor when he said, Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom. Lord, we pray. That you will not give rest to anyone here who is struggling with you about that until they find in Jesus Christ alone the mercy that will triumph over that judgment. Father, we pray that you would do in our hearts a new thing. Lord, we cannot manufacture mercy. So many of us, Lord, when we see people who are in need, we see them as a burden because we know we all to be merciful to them, but somehow, Lord, we just don't feel it. Until we feel guilty about the lack of mercy we feel, Lord, we pray that you would turn our eyes from them onto you. That we might see in Jesus Christ the mercy that We have received. Until we're able to say, Lord, give me an opportunity to thank you for your mercy. Then see that person that you bring into our lives as an opportunity for worship and thank you. Thanksgiving to you. Lord, change our hearts. Lord, I thank you that as I prepared this message and I thought of these people and prayed through them, I was so thankful for so many who are to me such a testimony of mercy, supernatural mercy. I pray that you'd encourage them. Through this message, Father, you would give them that deep encouragement that in their continually in these things, they're expressing thanks to you for your mercy to them. Father, for those of us to whom mercy does not come so naturally, or even supernaturally, change our hearts. Father, help us to focus on Jesus. Not on the law. That tells us to be merciful, but on Jesus, through whom mercy triumphs over justice, that we might be freed to be merciful. For Jesus' sake.