And there's a story about how Vacation Bible School came about that is worth they're here. You know, we believe that Jesus Christ really is the head of our church and that that's true in a very practical way. So that uh the vacation Bible school that was planned for this year uh had somebody who hoped to And then was unable to. And so we didn't have somebody to lead it. And we simply put it out to the congregation, is there anyone who God would call to take on this large responsibility? And uh later on, Bethard Ashley, who was new to us, congregation at that point said that it was like she could feel a pounding in her chest with God saying, uh Buddy is you And so uh without somebody shifting her arm or with any external pressure, not even knowing that she had experience and expertise this area, uh Betty fuss over and she volunteered to do it. The next step was the CD we had a staff to do it and so Betty called a meeting to see if there were people and as you heard over thirty five people volunteered. All of them simply saying we want to do this because we believe that Jesus Christ is leading us into this ministry. And I think it was very evident as we saw them in the teaching, for you teachers, as I saw you and you helpers and those work in the craft and all the rest locally with the kids. It was a real encouragement and challenge to me, your mind offer people, to see how much you've cared for the kids. But the thing that very few of you know about Betty's coming forward to uh take it this week is that she's a teacher and that uh In order to do this, they had to take off a week of school in teaching without pay. And so he did that simply because he believed that Jesus Christ was calling for this ministry, because he and the others who worked with it loved the gifts that God has worked with. And so I think that um while we well realize how much uh they have put into this, it's hard for us to appreciate sometimes all the sacrifice and the love that does go into that. So I'm not gonna ask you to flaud for daddy, so I don't want to rob her of the glory that she gets to feel the glory by we are flawing here on earth for. However, for those of you who have seen your kids come home and talk about how much their teachers did care and how much fun they had, I think it would be a appropriate if you could find that teacher afterwards or if nobody else, at least buddy new machine, we simply thank them for what their ministry has been and the lives of your team this week. So they're tremendous helpful. Well now we uh continue with our series on the book of James. And we are now in chapter one, verses thirteen to sixteen. Follow alone in your bulletin outline. It's uh they're included in your bulletin. that you can follow along the message because we are in part two of what we're considering in verses 13 to 16 this morning. Verses 13 to 16 are about three ways that we fool ourselves about free. And so uh we began that last time and I went for us to before we do anything else. So quite earlier. Before you do anything else to consider, let us pay attention to God's word as His word comes to us. From James chapter one. This is God's own word. Let's give it our best attention from verses twelve To verse 16. Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial, because when he stood the test, he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him. When tempted, No one should say God is tempting you. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone. But each one is tempted then by his own evil desire. He is dragged away and enticed. And then after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is full grown, gives birth to death. Don't be deceived. My dear brothers. You see that last verse. Don't be deceived. Don't be deceived about sin and its temptation. Last week we considered the first two ways to be deceived of sin. ourselves about sin and temptation. And I think it was Betty Rushman's husband, Byrne, who probably sums up that message the best, and he said that he himself had preached on the same kind of topic some time before and called it but out. And Vern said that uh the problem so often with our confessions that it's before God or before one another, we could we'll say, yes, I was wrong, I did this wrong, but but my prayer, but my background, but my circumstances, but the desire God has given me. But the people who are around the and those places that and that message was that we need to get the buttons out. Because that's what James is talking about here. See? That's big help. That's the thing here you see. James is saying get the butt out. And that's what we see there in those first lines. You see number one, it's really God's fault. If you're gonna throw that in, that's what that says. It's really God's fault. And it's God's fault in three ways, three examples that we talked about. goes around saying, It's really God that tempted me. We we know better than that. But we really are saying that, when we say, A, I blame my God given background, whatever it is, my parents, family, blame my God given background or B and I blame my God-given desires. God has given me these desires. He's giving me these needs, social, sexual, other needs that must be fulfilled at any cost. And then thirdly, I blame my God-given people, the people living in my life. that I can't stand, you know, those people who provoke me to sin. And so I bring these other things. And that's what James is saying is exactly what we cannot do. He says the evil desire comes from within verse 14. We're tempted when by our own evil desires, we're dragged away and entire. The point two there was we if we deceive ourselves or fool ourselves by saying, I'm not really I am really not so bad. It's really not my evil desires. I'm really Not so bad in verse 14. Rather we need to own, that's the next word, we need to own our sin. I need to own my sin and call it what it is. That's not very popular today to call sin. We uh want to do everything else possible. But God says in Proverbs 16, the Proverbs 19 and verse 3, a man's own folly ruins his life, and yet his heart rages against the Lord. We want to make excuses for anything else while our life is going down the teams. Anything except accept to blame and call it sin in my own life. And so these verses say that we will psychologize away sin in order to Discharge any responsibility for it. Uh M. Scott Peck, a noted psychiatrist, wrote a book a few years ago in which he called attention to this fact. The book was called People of the Lie, The Hope for Healing, Healing Easy. But in that book, uh, Peck says that uh we as a people have uh riddled ourselves of some terminology. We try to pretend that it's all just psychological problems. But he said by refusing to recognize that there really is evil in us, we can't deal with it. And that's why we are as a culture, he says, a people of the law. And that comes from simply use of his counseling. He was driven to go to the Bible in what he saw in human behavior. He did not come from the Bible. And then he began his search. Uh but the other way that uh the Bible here says that we tend to discharge responsibility is not only to psychologize away things, but also to demonize away things. You know, the devil made to do it, you know. Uh devil Tempted me. It's really something that is beyond my control. We hear a lot of Christians talk about Satan and his temptation almost as if Satan was at fault, rather than saying that James says it's my own evil desire. That's the problem. them in my heart. That's why I have these problems. That's why things don't go right. That's why there's an alienation between me and other members of my family or friends or people at work. But then we come to the third way we feel ourselves this morning. Which is perhaps the most deceitful of all. That's what you see there in verse fifteen. Verse fifteen is that the consequences will not really be so bad. The consequences will not Verse 15, then after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is full grown, gives birth to death. Here you see the life cycle of sin. And you see in its root, its fruit, and its final fruit, as you see there in the outline. The root is the temptation to my desire. That desire which was responds because of its evil inclinations to the temptations that come. And secondly, you see that the fruit of that is that that desire leads to and bears sin, the practice of sin. The thoughts, the motives lead to the actions. And that's the second step, the outward practice of sin. But then there's the final thing in verse 15. Sin when it is full of them gives birth to death. It becomes mature. And it leads to death. That's the end of it. But notice, you know, one of the things that's so neat about the Bible is you can never exhaust it. And it wasn't until I was studying for this message that I noticed that there is A pattern of three cycles in chapter one of James. And at verse 15 is a contrast to the other two cycles that you see there in chapter 1. And if you understand that, it helps you to understand all of what James and Christ. Talking about. Because you see here in chapter uh in verse fifteen, it's desire leads to sin, leads to death. Where temptation leads to sin, leads to death. But now there's a motorcycle. Remember back in verses In back from verse 2 to 4, you have a cycle there. You see it outlined there. He said, There's a trial. You have trials in your life, afflictions, irritations, overwhelming, difficulties. And he said those trials lead to perseverance. which leads to complete Christ-like character, Christ-like life. And so that's a pattern where trial leads to perseverance, which leads to completeness of character and life. In verse 12, you have another cycle. In verse 12 you see that cycle same word, trial, leads to perseverance, same thing, leads to the crown of life. You see that? You say it had that same kind of cycle. On the one hand, the the fruit, the final fruit, is character. On the other hand, the final foot is the crown that is given by God. But it's now in that context that James gives a third cycle. And this cycle is in contrast to the other two. Verse 14 is the same word that you have in verse two at all. Trial or temptation. The only thing we talked about the fact we've said that the word trial and temptation are the same word in the original language. The trial refers to the outward affliction. The temptation refers to that inward rebellion. Against God that comes from the difficulties, but it's from our own evil desires. And so it's the same word. Trial, trial, temptation. It's the same word. But now what does this trial or temptation lead to? It leads to sin. rather than perseverance. If in fact you see we respond in disobedience, if we nurture those sinful attitudes. And that sin leads what? Not to place like life, not to the core of life. But what's it say in verse 15? When it is foreground, it leads to death. And that's the contrast of disciples. And what James wants us to see here is that every sin, every sin has death. as its fruit. Not just the big sins. Not just the major transgressions. But every sin leads to death. Has death as its seed. Has death within it. Everything involves deception. And we never do it. You just have to think of that. Every time you and I disobey what God says in his word, we're deceiving ourselves. Because somehow they think that what we want to do or intend to do is better than what God says. We think that its consequences will be better. We think that somehow God doesn't really know what he's talking about when he says do this. or don't do this. And so everything involves deception. If we saw the real nature and the outcome of what sin was really like, we would shudder from it. We would recoil from it. We would We would loan it. And we give it a practice. Don't be deceived. Every sin involves deception. Don't be deceived. It came off the unresting. wants to show us that it's good and us. You and I have some feeling, some desire that we want to indulge in. And we say, Well, I know the Bible says you're not supposed to do this, but you know, God's kind of a cosmic party people. You know, when someone go around these people signs and say, you know, uh everything that's fun is either immoral, illegal, or fattening. You know. And we make gifts about sin. We make jokes about what it means to disobey God. We think they're already real consequences. We say, well, you know, who really knows what's right and wrong in this area? And so some people say this is right and others say it's wrong. And you know, you can interpret the Bible lots of different ways. So I'll just go by my gut reaction. I'll go by my feelings. And what does James say? about going by our feelings. Verse 13, he says, you have evil desires. You can't trust them. If you go by your feelings, you'll head down the wrong path. If you go by your feelings, you'll always wind up in trouble. James said you can't go by your feelings. Because when you follow those feelings, it will lead to sin, and sin when it's mature, will lead to death. There's a picture in verse 15. But if you really understand the language is, gives us a graphic portrayal of the life cycle of sin. Because you see what James is doing there in verse 15? He's personifying temptation as a woman. Did this did it notice that? He's personifying temptation and desire as a woman. Now is that because James was sexist? You know, and he says, okay, well I'll show you. Now here's this woman here. Well no. Well obviously God is in sexes. James is getting this kind of language in the book of Proverbs. If you read Proverbs in chapter two, chapter five, chapter seven, you see temptation and desire there at great length, dissonified as the adulterous woman. Royal women. I think the reason is simply that because of the nature of the vivid temptation that you see in a glamorous caulder, you know, the formate of the mind, there isn't there such a vivid portrayal of the attractiveness of sin. And it's deception. There is an immediate image that can come to our mind quicker than you could by showing some handsome hopes. It's not so obvious. You know, I mean so you look at that same emotional image there. And so James uses this. He uses this picture in order to demonstrate something to us. And then let's notice what that picture is. He says, Now he's here, he says, for a moment, let's separate you from your desires. Let's say you're separate from your desires. Here's this desire, and it comes to you as this attractive woman. And you look at this desire and you find this desire irresistible. You begin to cultivate, thinking about that desire. You begin to indulge. Thinking about that desire. You let your mind wrap around it, then you know you should just put it away. You begin to miss that hurt, that grudge, that bitterness, that reaction. You begin to think about these desires, and if you cultivate them, you begin to Courts them. And after a while, you know what you're doing is you're sort of cuddling up to this desire. And after you've cuddled up to this desire long enough, you join yourself with her, but she has a child. And that child is a little bit. Whose name is Sin. Desire has conceived, verse fifteen says. And she's born a child. And the child's name is Sin. And you look at that little kid and you say, Well, it's confused. Nothing very harmful in her is Benny. Just a little kid, you know, and just a little baby, nothing wrong with that. And as you notice as she grows, but uh you know, she's kinda got a temper. know how kind of cute, you know, people say here a little kid used profanity and foul language, you know, it there's something certain, you know, little appeal to that as sort of a perverted delight, you know, and you know, you see little kids and you say, Well, you know, it it it's kind of aggressive Kind of hostile and download tempered, but that's okay. She's just kind of key. But if you see this little girl growing, you notice certain sinister tendencies in her character. And as she grows, you notice that you're less and less able. To control her. I mean, it was one thing when she was three and four, and you could finally get tired of this whole business and shut her up. But now she's grown to a young woman. She's becoming mature, and these sinister tendencies in her character are becoming more and more apparent until she's out of control. And as a mature young girl, notice verse 15, one of his full grown, is the same word as verse 4. Maturity. Completeness, full growing, same word. She's now mature, and what happens? She herself has a child. But when she has a child, all of a sudden, the real nature. of her mother is seen. Because this kid isn't sea. This kid is a hideous monster. It's a living, water corpse called death. And you look at that hidden, you shudder and you recoil as Darian Gray before his portrait that demonstrated all the evil character in his being. And you say, My God, what have I produced? It's death. It's like looking at a peach tree when all is green. But there's a luscious peach up on the branch, and you pick that peach, and you bring it into it, and it's rotten, and it's full of maggots, and it's a maggot. Begin to crawl around in your mouth, you begin to realize you were deceived by the appearance of this. The Old Testament gives us a picture of the third girl of the month, her name is Jezebel. And if she could have been a prime candidate for the centerful, she would have very Russio's appealing woman. The dog says, Her ways are going to end like this. Her body is going to be hanged from the wall, and dogs are going to eat her corpse, and her blood will be scattered against the wall and dogs. were looking. The Peter Americans said when that came to pass, exactly as God described it, and the dogs were eating the fruit, looking and saying, How could that body have tempted anyone? When the dogs got peace, the Bible tells us to There's nothing left but her skull, her hands, and her feet. That's the real nature of sin. That's what there's almost little tendencies for disobedience produce when it's full grown. That's the character of sin. The final picture that the Bible gives us is the archpalette of law in the book of Revelation, Babylon. Babylon, the Bible tells us, it's the ultimate children. She was the ultimate temptress. All the nations went after Babylon. No one could resist her beauties and her charms. And whole nations went after her and would give anything they had to be joined with her. And the Bible says in Revelation 2. Chapter 18 is going to come with time when Jesus Christ is going to reveal the true nature of Babylon. And he says at that time when Babylon is full, and she will be seen as the heart that she is, the Bible says that she will become a place of the haunts of demons. of wild birds. And people will look in horror at that one. And they will say, how could anyone have been deceived by that? How could anyone have looked at that and thought that sin was attractive? But disobeying God and saying the plan The Bible says this, but I don't need to follow that. Could it ever deceive me to think that that was a better way? To think that I didn't need Jesus Christ. The Bible says that all such thoughts are deception. James is trying to wake us up. You know, one of the important things when you preach is to not only catch the content but the tone. And I noticed that as I read servants, but when I said it's verse sixteen, you know, it's going to get worked up, you know, well, yeah, you know that. sin desiring to sin and the sin gives fullborn and the full brother gives birth to death and you sort of get really worked up in the line you know fire and so on. But you know this is tone in verse sixteen, don't be deceived, my dear brothers. James isn't sharing any. He's pleading with you. Do courtesy things. See things of what it is. Don't be deceived by it. This morning. Whether you're here because you've come for years and you're a member of our church states, don't be deceived by the appearance of sin. Don't let its appearance fool you into what is really nature is life. Because the real nature of sin is seen in death. And there are three deaths that show us the true nature of sin. First of all, the death of our Loved ones, the death of someone very close to you or to me, the death of your own mother, the death of your father, the death of your husband, or of your wife, or of a son or daughter. There is no time I think that I hate sin so much as during or after a funeral. Because it's in a funeral that I see the fruit of sin. I get sometimes a little upset when I hear Christians talk about how they ought to be all rejoicing, the Christian views. Yes, there should be the rejoicing in the hope that is in Jesus Christ. But I think it is important for us as Christians To like Lazarus, like Jesus before Lazarus too, to also feel a certain pain with our grief and even anger. But this is what sin produces. That person that I love, that person. that I've lived with, that person that I've cherished is lying, they're dead, and they'll never move again in that body, the way that body is. It is because of sins. Those sins which I excuse, those sins which I dismissed. wise and inconsequential. The Bible says that's the food of it. And when you and I see that in someone will be careful, it should make you shudder at sin. It should make you a meeting the next days and weak and a new hatred for sin, a new horror of it. Because we see that sin is really nice. Well the second day that the second death that I think should help us to see the real nature of sin so that we might feed it. To go into it. Thinking about it. It's so tempting, isn't it, to think that we're invulnerable to death. To somehow believe they will never come back time then we will die. And so my daughter's name was Alan H. Harris. But I remember the shock that I got after my father died. On this tombstone, Alan H. Harris. And all of a sudden, you know, somehow I haven't compared myself to that, and I looked at that and I thought, that looks like my tombstone. I mean it's no difference except the dates. And so And I would be down there. Someday, unless the Lord comes first, I'm going to have a tombstone. And my sin will issue forth in my I also remember the first time that I saw a grave flight of a person who was born the same year that I was born, 1943, if you're curious. And all that tombstone was said, you know, make this Person's name in 1943 to 1977. And again, there's the shock. That guy was born the same year I was born. And now he's dead. And someday I'm going to be dead too. But I realized again, my sin, it isn't death. Nothing left to death. Everything has within it the seed of death. But beyond that, the death that automates us recoil more than any other is the death of Jesus Christ. The death of Jesus Christ. But there We understand what amazing grace really is. They say Jesus was life. I mean he didn't just live, he was the creator of life. You and I think that death is a call. Death is infinitely more important to Jesus Christ. You can all eternity never do anything but life. And Jesus Christ became men. Jesus Christ moved a sin. is never an evil desire and then which bore forth sin which matured and could produce death. Jesus Christ was the heir to life. He owned and had and had made life and he was life but Jesus Christ voluntarily waved that right to life and tasted death utter ignominous painful humiliated The utterly settler death. A death which totally shut it out from his father. A death which ended his life. And Jesus Christ tasted that death so that you and I, who have gone through the cycle and know that death is inevitable, can look at Jesus Christ and ask him to take from us. the consequence. Could ask for him to take that death. The death that he bore. The death that he has born so that we could have life. So that he, who right now, may be headed for the inevitable consequence of your own sin. Because by life will bring you, there's only one who can deliver you from the consequence of spiritual death. And it's Jesus Christ. Because only Jesus was eligible to defeat death. Maybe this is the first time that you have ever seen clearly why you need Jesus Christ. Christ. What we've talked about in Bible school, the need for Jesus. But if that's true of you, I just ask you if you're wondering what am I doing this now? But as we go out and as we uh move around with a refreshment out there and have the drink and the cookies. But you just mentioned to me as you go past it. I'd like to talk more about the message. And just tell me who you are and then get together. I sweet with you, don't let that opportunity pass. The custom Consequences of sin are death. But Jesus offers life. So give. And for those of us who make that I know that I have Jesus. I know that he has paid for the consequences of my sin before God's judgment bar, and I know that I have been forgiven. Still, I hope that you will see from this verse, don't be deceived about your sins. Shut up. Recoil from it. Don't be deceived and think it doesn't really matter. I think of that verse, the phase of the hymn that we're going to sing in just a minute. Please don't miss the meaning of that. In hymn 992. Don't look at it now. We'll be singing it at a moment. Sand of three. You who think of sin but like it. We're supposed to evil grave. Here at the cross of Jesus Christ. May you its nature rightly? Here its guilt may estimate, nor the sacrifice of plague, smitten, stricken, and afflicted, sinning, dying on the tree. See him who bears the awful word. Tis the word. The Lord, the Lord, Son of Man, and Son of God. Everything. Contains the seas of death. And if Eli hated sin more, we would flee from it more. The British general in World War II once said, We must teach our men to hate. Hate. For what men hate, they will fight. For that God will give to us more of a hatred for sin. By seeing the life cycle of it. People might shoot at him. People might flee to Jesus Christ as the first prophet and say, Lord, deliver me from this. I can do it in my own strength. Lord Jesus moved up from this. Lord Jesus Give me your spirit, but am I free and find victory and freedom through Jesus? Let's pray. Oh Lord, help us to not be deceived. As James so pleased with us, dear brothers, don't be deceived. God help us to see as we've never seen before the consequences of sin. Lord, we pray for each one here now who is realizing that they bear those consequences. They don't have a Savior to take that from them. Lord, we would pray that you would speak to them of that need to cast themselves upon you, to come to you, to seek your forgiveness. Lord, we pray that you will help us. us who the the security, the confidence that Jesus has taken that penalty, He has taken by His death for the consequences of our sin, spiritual death. Well that you would teach us to hate since We see that our sin is the cause of the death of our Savior, the death of our loved ones, the death of ourselves. It isn't because of sin. true nature is the temptation to go have this week and flee to you and find victory in you, growing the particular temptations that each of us