I think, you know, he probably saved up all year for this trip, you know, and this is how they're enjoying it. You know, and it's just this kind of idea, you know. Yeah, I wish that we could have all been gathered in front of Hex or Hoodies or Sears. The wages you failed to pay the workmen who mowed your fields are crying out against you. Because you see, the computer can't type arrows. That's how the body works. The Bible gives a couple of examples of this, a negative one and a positive one, a lot of places, but in Luke there's two that are especially helpful. Verses fifteen to twenty one, you remember Jesus talks about the man building all the barns. And he said, Hey, we're gonna have a sale on money today. Because this guy knew what he wanted and he knew how to get it. I'm trying to be honest with this person, but I'm just going to do the best that I can. And the principle is that my parents' wants become my needs. Someday I'll even be able to get it. Uh, you know, I'll put it on my card, I'll pay for it somehow, but my mind has now become fixated on that as an object of pleasure, and without it I will never be happy And he looked at his yard and he said, Boy, I sure wish that I had neighborhood's yard. So Ahad goes back and he sulks and he pouts and he says, Boy, I you know life isn't worth living. She says, Hey man, no sweat, I'll get it for you. Uh she pays off, bribes a couple of guys, and says, Um, there's been a rumor here that uh Naboth's been cursing God and the king. Well, you know, he counted with something like a hundred, you know, so I came up to sixty and he's down the ninety back and forth, you know. feel guilty or to take away, you know, like the old bumper sticker or signs you see on the walls. And James is saying he wants us to see that in fact joy is not found by simply trying to cram as many pleasures as we can into this brief existence. But you know, somewhere out there in the mall where all of us would be very real, you see, as you're sitting here now, it may not seem so real to you. In temptation number four, verse six, you have condemned and murdered innocent men who were not opposing you. First of all, point one then. To 1982, approximately the year that the head of that home died, they had only two cars. in how we treat other people. as it reflected the person who that picture was of as they progressed in their own deterioration into greed. but somehow there's always enough phone calls and other things to distract and the arrows never get in there. You see, these days are very short. that a couple of others joined together to pay that out of their savings. And he says, Okay, today for today only have I got a deal for you. Thousand bushels a week. so often and so eventually they'll hear this, you know. Verse 4, look, James says, the wages you failed to pay, the workmen who mowed your fields are crying out against you. the ambivalence between serving God and money. Now a lot of people say, what in the world does that verse mean? We didn't have very much and we lived in this place. And I'm still thinking I'm gonna get the best deal out of this guy, you know, and so I keep going, you know, and pressing and pressing. and then go hire a lawyer to find loopholes in the contract. And brag about it, while in fact it's simply greed seeking to take advantage of other people who are weaker. What is our attitude? What does it mean as a teenager to read this verse? It's interesting. You know, I mean it's an awful lot of fun you can get from this, and after all, God hasn't called us to be ascetics, and maybe it isn't all that bad a deal after all. And and they all have it and they're enjoying it. What's our temptation in verse 5? What about those in middle life and older? What is the day of slaughter? And those who have set their heart on this world and not on Jesus Christ, God says you could describe that judgment as a slaughter. Now what does that refer to? Ahab, you remember, was a religious leader of God's people. And so he went to Naboth and he offered himself, I'll pay the best price, what do you want for it? And so after she's paid these people off, there's the condemnation. Or are they being used in certain things here in the United States that I couldn't condone? the kids in your own family by neglect and the pressure that you have placed on by imposing your lifestyle. We went to look at houses to invest in, and as we looked at the beams in a likely small house, I said, Art, look at those termites. She went on to tell of their praying for clear certainty as to where to use this money during three months. Hundreds and thousands throughout the world have come to know Jesus Christ through the ministry of Francis and Edith Schaefer as they operated that uh that uh retreat over in Switzerland for so many years. They needed within 24 hours $1,000 for a down payment to buy a chalet. He said he saw one mother feverishly mopping the brow of her sweaty little kid, checking off the things that they had seen, and yelling at her husband, Ai! He has warned us that those who set their hearts on this world and not on the kingdom, as we've just sung, show by that that their hearts are not transformed by Jesus Christ. and that the very riches that we have assimilated and gathered so feverishly to ourselves will then for the rest of eternity eat away at us in the fire of remorse. Their coercion will testify against you and eat your flesh like fire. And so I want for us to look at those and to learn what we can learn from them. uh idols and all of the uh sacrificial altars, you know. or uh you know the new car showroom, you know, or uh the visitor center with all the things that you'd like to get and say, okay, now that's where I'm going to think about what James is saying to help me to apply it What is it that James then is trying to say to us? of this person who's a m who's an outgoing, utter, thoroughgoing materialist. Well, first of all, let me read them so that we have them in mind. By which James is seeking to illustrate to us the progressive, corrosive nature of greed, sort of like the deteriorating face of Dorian Gray. But forget him, it should be evil, more evil than one arrow leading to two. One was a 1947 Chevy and the other one was a 1965 Plymouth and it wasn't even the best model Plymouth. But he had a little um hobby. and uh solid gold, uh all kinds of things. Now, you know, there is a guy that you can say, hey boy, you know, no lavish living for him. to hoard because of remembering the lack and the tremendous want that there was back then. That's one of the reasons why it is so important that every Lord's Day part of our worship is the taking up of our first fruits offering, the giving of our tithes, at least 10% of what we have made to the Lord. Just to remind us that our security is in him, not in how much we can accumulate and how much we can save and how much we can gather to ourselves Uh I was really pleased to see that when one family in our congregation some time ago was suffering in enough want that they couldn't pay their rent In fact, he says the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord Almighty. And 15, the law says, do not take advantage of a hired man who is poor or needy, whether he is a brother Israelite or an alien living in one of your towns. Pay him his wages each day before sunset, because he is poor and he is counting on it. Incidentally, a demonstration that the Old Testament law is still in effect in its principles today. So that you know when he finally screams loud enough, then you'll pay attention to him. So I went down into Wilmington, Delaware, in a place where I heard you get some good deals and really bargain. He called me a number of very uncomplimentary names and a very loud voice and told me to get out of his store that he never wanted to see my ugly face again and that I couldn't have his floor if I wanted it He says, For as soon as that lust for gain takes hold of us, it is certain that we will become thieves. Calvin's saying, as soon as you and I do not resist greed, but we entertain that idea of hoarding and gathering to ourselves, inevitably we will not treat others honestly. We will cut, we will cut corners, we will do all kinds of things, and that is so fed into the American mindset. Japanese people, for instance, consummate deals with a shake of a hand. This leads to the third point. You see there's a progression here. What is necessary as a provision for your family and for your future. In order to understand this, let me try to apply this more specifically to three age levels right here in this room. As you look at your life goals and say, where do things fit in that and where does kingdom service fit in what I'm aiming to do, what I'm preparing to do, where I go to college and all the plans that I have for training as well as for career. in order for certain things that I need to get now. We'll determine, for instance, as we go into our missions conference next month. The second stage is as you go on you begin to notice it more and more, and you begin to notice there are a few Christians that have it. Now that's something that can consume you and me as we move through those years where we're acquiring and determining the level of our lifestyle. So finally, to those of us, I'll put myself in this category, all right, of the older, the middle and the older ages of the congregation And so if I'm going to have any kind of pleasure in this stuff, particularly when I look at all my friends going beyond me and they're enjoying all these vacations and all the things that they've acquired, I begin to review my sacrificial lifestyle commitments. And I begin to wonder, really, is was I committed to that for the long haul, or was it just an idealistic idea for the short haul? Now I'm going to sit back and I'm going to enjoy some things. I begin to lose my commitment to examining my priorities closely, but rather I begin to forget what James is warning about here in the sin of self-indulgence. What James is talking about is that self-centered investing in this world so our hearts are wrapped around our possessions and our pleasures in this life alone. And when I begin to, as I get older, look at the rethinking, the rationalizing of that sacrificial lifestyle, I move into what I call midlife complacency. Because my heart now has become dulled. But James wants to call our attention to the fact that these days are so short. Selfish cruelty to others. You remember in chapter 4 and verse 2, James had talked about, he says, you want something, but you don't get it. And so the killing that he refers to there is not necessarily literal murder. Jezebel. in uh the Flyer and a number of other papers last fall. From his profession of Jesus Christ as Savior of his life. One time a few years ago God convicted me of this to find out money that I put into my pension or my investments is being used for something. You know it's been uh it's been surveyed and demonstrated that in a number of suburbs of the United States where teenage suicide rates are the highest, there are two things in common in almost every case. They are affluent suburbs in which the parents have put pressure on the kids to be overachievers and they have spent very little time with them developing their character. And how you've treated other people, Jesus says, is the way you've treated me. It was for thirty pieces of silver that the innocent man was condemned and murdered by Judas. And I think we have in Judas here the classic picture of what James is speaking of as the ultimate conclusion of a heart of greed. Do you remember he took Zacchaeus and he went into his home? Hart said, yes it did. That when it's gone, you will be welcomed into eternal dwellings. Produces in us a spirit of giving and generosity because of our love for Him. He's saying, if in fact you set your heart to find joy on simply cramming in as many pleasures and possessions as you can into the brief span of this few years on earth. you will miss joy. Therefore, when we come to stand before him, we will be judged justly by our sin, separated from God for eternity. He has said this, you remember, in James chapter 1, beginning with verse 1. Weep and wail because of the misery that is coming upon you. And then James, in the rest of this little section from chapter 5, verses 1 to 6, goes on now to describe what kind of person it is that is going to suffer this kind of misery and fate. And I believe that in this description you and I can see four temptations of materialism, of riches, that assault us aggressively daily. Temptation 3, verse 5. Now again, let me let me tell you that you and I can't look at this and say, I don't identify with that at all. Now notice that temptation one and three have to do with ourselves. And then under the main Roman numerals, you have Roman numeral 1, and then put little arrows next to 2, 3, and 4, because 1 leads to 2, which leads to 3, which leads to 4. Notice where the problem begins. We need to save, we say. The other side of that is in Luke chapter 16. The fellow whose boss had kicked him out, and so before the last day came, he decided that he was going to at least try to make something out of this. That he says after verse 8, people in this world know how to use what they have to get what they want. Your money in paying for others, you're not over in some other country, but they're over there preaching the gospel. They're gonna know somehow, whether symbolically or really, I don't really know, but they're going to know somehow that you and I were part of bringing them into the kingdom And Jesus is saying, you really want to know how to use your wealth, invest it for eternity. Investing it so that people are brought into the kingdom, and he says they'll welcome you when your money doesn't matter anymore. That first point that the temptation to hoard for myself will lead to a selfish dishonesty to others The second point here is the matter of selfish dishonesty to others Well, as I thought about that I thought, you know, there's a very fine line between bargaining and simply the greed that says, I want to get this person as low as I can get 'em. That leads to cutting corners, dishonesty, taking advantage of people that you think you can, that are weaker. This is a further downward progression of this whole matter now. You know, you see that all around. Approximately 17,000 of them through the rest of the world, the possibility of doing that in the next perhaps twelve to fifteen years, and you say, that's a tremendous challenge, but it doesn't fit my goals Because my goals are to fatten myself. to what James talks about in investing ourselves for people rather than for things. After we get this, then we can give more time to starting or paying attention to our family. Fattening ourselves, rationalizing this is what I need to have. Maybe it's really not all that wrong to have it. Wonder how much it really costs to get that. And I begin to rationalize sacrificial living. This is not saying that God doesn't want us to enjoy things. Where I lose the cutting edge. That kind of notion, you see, that kind of mentality leads to the last thing in this person's life, point four, selfish cruelty to others. Now you see, it was all done without neighbor, without Ahab necessarily involving himself in anything wrong All he did was let certain things unfold so that he could get what he wanted without any concern for his neighbor. You think of how cruel we can be, for such little things we'll gain. Killed Angela, Angelica, the girl, a friend of his that worked in the High's drugstore for a hundred dollars. in this area while scheming to take over a business and by fraud and deception ruin a business for his own gain while going every Sunday to church, totally isolating his business ethics. condemning and destroying innocent people. Now you could say, hey, the parent would say, I don't identify with that verse at all. Thoughtlessly, other people, because of the greed that you and I have for gaining for ourselves. That that last phrase there, you have condemned and murdered innocent men, literally in the Greek is the innocent man. It's singular and it's another way you could translate that is the righteous man. Do you remember why Jesus was betrayed? Exactly on the day that they needed them. The check was exactly $1,000. That we would be delivered from the bondage of that greed, from the penalty that we deserve for that greed, and that Jesus has delivered even a man like Zacchaeus, that greedy tax collector. And Zacchaeus says, I'll give back to anybody that I've cheated. A number of us are familiar with the ministry of Libri Fellowship and how God raised that up and how many, many people We're aware, many of us, of how God miraculously provided for that fellowship when they were being kicked out of Switzerland. And the first two were inconsequential, but the third one, there was a check in it. Next-door neighbors where I grew up were people who lived extremely modestly. And that kind of a goal determines what you are open to in the leading of Jesus Christ in your life. leads to the next stage. Utter separation from the presence of a holy God. But to be sitting there right in the Temple of Columbia, where you be before all of the So what we want to do is to look at this progression. He says, You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. That's one way that we can see this work out. A proverb says, He who oppresses the poor shows contempt for their maker, but whoever is kind to the needy honors God. This was the letter that came with a check. Where people exhaust themselves in the pursuit of as many pleasures as they can possibly squeeze in to all the time that they can afford and only care for the moment. Whatever your uh your position about uh the South African problem and how to solve that, it may be of interest to you to know, are my investments being used in South African mines? Jesus died that your greed and my greed, that your thoughtlessness and my thoughtlessness as a result of that would be forgiven and could be removed. But it's not just to the teenagers, of course. That selfishness that isn't concerned for the good of others and may in fact lead to destruction. The mind of Christ, when you and I understand what it cost him to suffer and to die so that your greed and my greed would be fully forgiven. But you know, I've sacrificed long enough. He said that he was recently at Disney World with his grandson, and one of the things that especially struck him was how desperate people were to have a good time and yet how few of them seemed to be really enjoying themselves. You you can apply this to many, many different things. Great. And she went called Je you know, we get the word Jezebel from the kind of woman that Ahab's wife was. God used that to accomplish his own purpose. That's supernatural. Today only. Well, it's another way of referring to what he says in verse 3, the last days. And you're holding up for all that you're going to think you're going to enjoy, and you're never going to enjoy it. James says it starts by, you know, going to be a good steward, want to save, save leads to and by the way, there's nothing wrong with saving and investing. To give what is legal and honest, or to try and take advantage of a system that we don't like simply so we can accumulate more? Well you remember back in chapter 3, verse 16, he had talked about the selfish ambition that can lead to disorder and every evil practice. You accumulate only for yourself. And I said, Would you be willing to take that literally and for us to invest this money in heaven by giving it to the Lord's work somewhere? I mean if God provided a lot of money and I had it all, maybe someday I'd be able to get that too. Why don't I have it? That was the beginning of the Lebris work. Charles Coulson has written that one of the very best pictures of the value system of contemporary America is Disney World. Everything is really fun, uh, is something's wrong with it. Verse 6. The third point is that of indulging yourself. All my friends have it. Again I remind you that James wants us to have joy. Eight hundred bushels and you're clear, you know. I go on a spiritual plateau and I sort of accept the level of my commitment to Jesus Christ as that's where I'm going to be. Notice also that temptations three and four are more evil than temptations one and two I believe there's a particular temptation that's distinct to this age group too. We give to the Iversons, they're over in Japan preaching Jesus Christ. And so uh there's nothing wrong with saving, except that the saving can become an insatiable appetite for accumulating, not necessarily a lavish lifestyle. It was I actually lived in a girl's dorm. Bart came home from work three months ago with a check that was a surprise. It is not a problem that begins necessarily in anything bad. And he goes to this one guy and he says, How much do you owe? I don't do that naturally. I think it's rather clear in the context that Jesus is saying, when you invest in missions, in the worldwide work of the church, in the global outreach of the gospel He says, You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. I mean, you know, I notice more and more people have it, and you know, maybe it isn't all that bad. And it's said that when he died he had hundreds of thousands of dollars of gold stashed away upstairs And that is a tremendous danger, I believe, as we get on into where we have acquired the basics and the things that we've been satisfied with, but now compare ourselves with others who are enjoying more and more. His hobby was collecting gold. You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. Now, if there's one thing that I can do that will guarantee frustration in the offices each week, it's to put little arrows in my bulletin outlines. So Jezebel calls together a kangaroo court, assembles some people around, and she says, Okay, now Well, in verses 3, the third part of that verse, through verse 6, as I mentioned, James is giving to us four temptations. But there are other ways. And here was a fellow that was as greedy as any of us. And Jesus says in verse 9, I tell you, use your worldly wealth to gain friends for yourselves, so that when it is gone, you will be welcomed into eternal dwellings. Uh for those of us here who are in our twenties and thirties, I find there's a dynamic that functions too, and that is the need to always defer certain people type goals. But think of this progression. He says, You have condemned and murdered innocent men who are not opposing you. Naboth is executed by stoning. You know, and for some people maybe that's okay, and well, you know, on to the third stage. This is what the standard that I am used to. You know, I could do a lot over there, extending my garden, and you know, the view would be better if only I had his yard. And so what happens is whoever types the outline always puts it in and says, I know I'll go back and I'll do those arrows. My goals are to indulge myself. Anybody that knows me knows that there's a lot of things I like to enjoy. And the point in Luke 16, 9 is that Jesus says, I tell you That was the beginning of the Lebris work. The first temptation is in the end of verse 3. And I've come to the point now where I realize if I don't start getting some of these things, I'm going to be too old to enjoy them. Fella lives right here in Colombia. That's the positive example. You see, it's because of the greed that we will inevitably try to find ways to gather more to ourselves and even as Christians perhaps justify it as a good deal. And you remember Ahab that looked out every day from his backyard and he saw his neighbor's backyard. Naboth says, it's against the law of God for me to sell my father's inheritance. Now you're not just accumulating and saving, but you're rationalizing a richer and richer lifestyle at the expense of others. And uh you and I have a responsibility in our money for that. So maybe be sure about that. Well, you know, there's a principle that I think operates pretty much from generation to generation in an affluent society, and we are in an affluent society. Now all my friends of course is defined by all the people that I notice who have this because I'm very interested in it and so it seems like everybody that I look at has it Which comes to the seventh stage finally. Because grace converts grabbers to givers. For us to there be considering this might help us to feel the impact a little more. And in that I begin to lose the notion of a servant-disciple lifestyle. I think of a person who went to an evangelical church You don't do that naturally. After we get this, then we can slow down our pace. But many people don't know the other side of that story. Four hundred gallons and you're all free. So you guys and Jesus commends that. They don't know how to deal with Americans because Americans want a fifteen page legal contract that they can write up, have the guy sign with three notarized witnesses And we talk about the opportunity of completing, reaching the unpe the unchurched or the unevangelized people groups Separation from his presence forever in judgment. No one knew about this need for $1,000. So the space there between three and four on that second line should have a little arrow. This guy had a floor there, was maybe retailing for $150, so I heard you could bargain and I offered him fifty bucks for it And bit by bit I begin to change my priorities. I can't have that yard on there, you know? But your whole intent is to get the best deal you can get, as a good steward of course. Now, I wish that we had the kind of flexibility that I could preach this sermon in the mall. It was a demonstration that we can give from what we have saved, not to hoard it, but to invest it, to give it for a brother and sister. Or you take, for instance, Proverbs chapter 14, verse 31. It was by Judas for money. Probably not in front of Sears, you'd be too close to all the eateries and everybody'd be getting hungry Where you and I, we look at our investments. Uh but you know, it was there was some privacy there, I'll assure you of that. You see something and you say, boy, that's something I'd never get. You remember his warning. Everything I like is either immoral fattening or uh something else. And he says, eight hundred gallons of oil. And I didn't have the sense to know when to quit. John Kelvin in his sermon on the eighth commandment had, I thought, a very insightful observation, so good that I put it into your bulletin there. Amen. The temptations, while we may not be doing the exact things that James is talking about, the temptations are the same for all of us But where was his security? You notice he says in verse 5, You've done this when? I had to find out about my investments and satisfy myself that not only was I making money, but I was making it in a way that was not being cruel to other people. You know, and he'd collect all kinds of minted coins, you know, the the proof sets But what James is actually saying here is that you are trying to invest what you have, hold off from somebody to get a better deal. You have fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter. He's not talking against saving. That purpose was that through Judah's betrayal for money, Jesus died for greedy people like you and me. My goals are to get all that I can get that this world has to offer. It's those last days before the return of Jesus Christ when God will judge the hearts of men. But James says, you have condemned and you have murdered Only for yourself. Now what's he referring to? Kid went to school here just like any other kid in Colombia. Now, you know, my parents may be 30 years older than me, but that's what I want, and I want to get it within 10 years And you notice a couple things about these temptations. There's kind of an anatomy of a developing need, you know. So you kill. Jezebel comes to Ahab and she says, Hey Ahab, guess what? Do you remember the story of David Hartless back It's gonna give me cancer or it's gonna make me uh fat or do something else. That's the spirit of Christ. What my parents got by retirement, I want to have by the time I'm 30. We looked at the last couple of weeks. Your wealth is rotted. Progressive corrosion progressive corrosion of greed. And his point there, he says, is that life does not consist in the abundance of the possessions that you accumulate. The Iversons get these tapes, you know, every uh The cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord Almighty. I gotta have it. And James is trying to call our attention to something very similar. So, you know, hey, great. That's something that you need to think about. After we get these things Do you remember in Luke chapter 16, Jesus told that strange story of the fired manager? That's the opposite of hoarding it for yourself, you see. That leads to then going beyond that to indulging yourself, James says. And James is saying this hoarding is showing where your heart is. Otherwise he may cry to the Lord against you, and you will be guilty of sin. Indulging only yourself. And Jesus said today, salvation's come to this house. And his problem, Jesus says, problem that you have is you're ambivalent about how to use what you have. Not that they're weaker, but this attitude is certainly demonstrated as you and I fill out our income tax forms, isn't it? He is not trying to lay heavies on us in order to discourage us or to just simply make us Our money, used for that purpose, is gaining people into the kingdom so that when you and I go to heaven, Jesus says they're going to welcome us. The company paid all the insurance premiums for men who had worked on a certain for a certain length of time and made it retroactive. From 1960 when they moved in next door. Finally, after my last offer And his wife, remember her name? And Jezebel comes and say, Hey Ahab, what's the matter? Now we have to examine in our own case what are any ways that you and I have mistreated Now tonight we are convinced that we should send the enclosed to you to buy a house that will always be open to young people. That's uh olive oil, not crude oil And that will matter for eternity. And so you say, well, you know The nature of this temptation is that you look back on your life and you say, you know, when we started out, all my friends along with me were struggling and sacrificing. It rather may have to do with the direct or indirect destroying of other lives through our greed. When I thought about that, I realized that Jesus said at one time, inasmuch as you've done this to the least of these, you've done it to me. You have fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter. Is that true? Doesn't that remind you of the verse in Matthew which says, not to lay up treasures on earth where moth and rust corrupt. Jesus says, use your money to gain friends for yourselves That has to do with our own attitudes, and temptations two and four have to do with how those attitudes are worked out. First of all, think about what this means for you teenagers. And so how you determine what is important to you This is not saying that God wants us to be ascetics You covet, but you can't have it. Let me conclude by an example that I think illustrates this so well. And so the fifth stage with some help from some salesmen and others, you know, you find out, you know, it really isn't that bad a deal. And how the next day there were three pieces of mail. James says, you abhorted wealth in the last days, and he is he puts in there the last days to show you. Now he writes off four hundred gallons, you know, and somebody else is I'll just think about that as something someday. And I'll credit, I'll I'll go on time for it Temptation number 1, you have hoarded wealth in the last days. For those of you who have may been through the depression, there may be a tremendous temptation Do you know what your investments are used for? He's referring to there an Old Testament law, Deuteronomy chapter 24, in verses 14. You look at that and say, boy, what a scoundrel. You have fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter. It begins by good Christian stewardship. I don't even know that it had a radio in it. Or to take another example What about those who sent the thousand dollars? Now listen, James says, you rich people He's talking about the hoarding, which is simply that greed which goes beyond what is necessary. The problems of materialism And I just want to refer you to them. A classic Old Testament example of this was in the life of Ahab, recorded in 1 Kings 21. I cannot do that. These two guys they come up and say, Yeah, yeah, I heard Naboth cursing God and the king, a couple others James says, when you don't have Christ, you hoard. But, you know, it doesn't stop there. It cannot be otherwise. You need to be really honest I begin to say I have sacrificed long enough Maybe it's something that I could use to reward myself in the years ahead if I think about saving for it. Verse 3C. But in conclusion, let me remind you Maybe Moths have eaten your clothes. So if it helps you, imagine yourself now sitting in the mall But in this place we had a little kitchen and we wanted to put a floor in it I can't understand a Christian having that. What's it being used for? I forget what I didn't plan to say that so I forget what the third one is. In the day of slaughter. That was right. Murdered her for a hundred dollars. See three leading to four is more and that word should be evil. And so he went to all the bad debtors, you remember He says, Oh, I can't have Maybell's yard, you know, these things are pretty grim That yard's free over there now. And Zacchaeus says, My life has changed. This is this guy Naboth over there What he's talking about here, of course, is the hoarding that goes beyond He couldn't do it Your security is in yourself And he replied, Yes, Helen, I would. First of all You can't have what you want, and so you quarrel, you war, and you battle for it. Certainly didn't have white rolls or anything else. In Luke chapter 12 But Jesus says that's great You have hoarded wealth in the last days, James says. Anything good? And so I'm not open to consider the call of Jesus Christ. I remember back in nineteen sixty seven when we first got married. Why did they do it How many more do we have to go? You know, that's all you in the back, the upper, you know, the gallery and all the rest. And I don't look at growing and stretching beyond that. I mean the guy's the king, he's got you know how many yards does he have, but I want neighbours yard. I'm not going to be concerned about whether this is fair, about whether Fourth stage I mean that's just too rich for me. It's a self-indulgence. Verse 5 Neutral? He's describing four characteristics. You can take it. Your gold and your silver are corroded. That's what James is referring to But you've seen them all around Verse 13 says No, not neutral. Use that temptation to gather to yourself. Temptation number 2, verse 4. Two cars And he confiscates it. That's the first steak. Anything good or anything bad? That's what I want us to see. I don't know how Will got in there. Just rule it out. Look.