Well the night is a view that uh prayed for Kathy and I while we were government. I spoke on the topic over Pentecost pizza and the power of the Spirit today. And uh Christ that God really gave freedom and ability to Oh yes, I'm sorry. I should have told you as I thought you know you watch everybody get up and walk down. It's kind of a funny feeling you say, Hey I didn't even announce the text yet and you're getting up and walking out that's congratulating Okay, you you caught the message. Good. Glad you did that. Otherwise if you're waiting downstairs and if you want I guess thinking nobody came down this week. But that did work and we're we're glad. We appreciate your prayers and those of you that asked to see what God was doing in that. It was good to be back ministering in that kind of capacity. again. And uh I want to say that uh despite the slide comments of last week's preacher, we will get to James chapter two. And uh as a matter of fact, uh I'm planning to finish James 1 prepare August vacation. And James 2 will then be the beginning of the fall series. And so hang on. We will get there. James, you remember, is a book of wisdom. It's a New Testament book of wisdom. And so you think about it and you say, Lord, Lord, make things long suffering and to be like Jesus, loving and patient. And then ah, right into your life comes this big trial, you know, some irritation, some discouragement, some hopeless situation. And as you see that come, you pray, Lord, I I prayed that you'd make me long suffering, not long bothered. And it's as if the Lord speaks back to you that you can't become long suffering until you've been long bothered. And so James wants to surprise us, as we said in the beginning, by saying, you can rejoice when God does that. You can rejoice that in fact he's hearing your prayer to make you like Jesus in this tough situation. Come. Whether it's having a move out of Texas, or whether it's things that uh affect your life and your marriage or anything else, your health, whatever it is. God's saying, I'm working and we saw how God has provided two things. Uh we saw that uh he shown in chapter one here that he is doing a work in you to provide character and he's doing a work for you to provide a crown. And so these are the two promises, the two encouragements of chapter one, character and a crown. God's word goodness and God's word for us. But we need wisdom to see that. And that's what we want to think about this morning. And so we're going to read again James chapter 1, and we'll read through from verses 1 to 8. James chapter 1. Chapter 1. Take the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ to the twelve tribes scattered among the nations. Greetings. Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials as many times. Because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. The perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. Because if you lacks wisdom, he Should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to him. Over the rest, he must believe and not doubt. Because he who doubts is like waves of the sea blown and tossed by the wind. That man should not think that he will receive anything from the Lord. He's a double-minded man, unstable in all that he does. You see there the promise of wisdom in verse five, if er you lacks wisdom, he should ask God, who gives generously to all kinds without finding fault, and it will be given to him. probably one of the most frequently tamed verses of all scripture. But the concept of wisdom has been rather lost to our culture, hasn't it? I mean we really don't hear much about wisdom. Today our culture Thinks in terms of knowledge. The knowledge of the expert. Experts say that sexually transmitted diseases produce this and this and this and this, and therefore adjust your lifestyle and your values according to the knowledge of the expert. experts and what they had found. Now that was the substance of the article of U. S. News and World Report the week before last. Research has demonstrated. And so we look at the They just research in order to find out how we should live and what we should do. But we don't think in terms of we wisdom, we think in terms of research productive uh findings or research uh information that's given to us. When we think of the insights of experience or the findings of scholarship, but not wisdom. Because you see, wisdom has kind of gone the way of the cottage. It's part of a past era because wisdom Speaks about absolutes. Wisdom speaks of revelation. Wisdom implies there's a right way to do it and there's a wrong way to do it absolutely. And that wisdom is something that you attain to. Not because of somebody's research, not because of the knowledge of some expert, but because of something that's beyond that. Something that transcends information and can simply be passed as discovered by somebody's experience. Wisdom is given, the Bible tells us. And so I want to consider wisdom and four things that God says about wisdom in these verses. You see there in Bolton outline? I want to kind of preview the four verses. main points we want to take a look at what is it? What is wisdom? How do we get it? What encouragement is there to ask for it? And then fourthly, what warning is there in asking? Wisdom. What is wisdom? James says here in the beginning of verse 5, that any of you lacks wisdom, he says God. What are you lacking when you're lacking wisdom? I think when I say in scripture that there are two ways that you can sum up what wisdom is according to the Bible. The Bible says that wisdom is first of all you see their insight. And now just make sure you're listening so you fill in there. The first word is wisdom is seeing God's perspective. Wisdom is seeing God's perspective. We're binded by and large to reality. And the media doesn't help. It distorts reality. You know, the world really isn't the way Miami life and dynasty presented. And as much as we like to think that we can get clues about out the good life of these kinds of shows, they distort reality. Interesting to me that three times in the first chapter of James he says, don't be deceived. Because that's essential to wisdom. See there in verse 16. Don't be deceived, my dear brothers. Verse 22, don't be deceived. Verse 26, don't be deceived. Or if you do this, you will be deceiving yourself. Again and again, James wants to deceive. Us. He wants to unmask reality and help us to see things the way God sees them. And if you and I are living in some sort of a fantasy world in which we try to believe that the world is one way, that we think Is the way we would like it to be, but the world in fact is very different. Then we will continue to be frustrated, we will continue to be disillusioned. Wisdom is seeing things as they really are. And we need the Bible to tell us the way we are. they are. Secondly, wisdom is skill. Not just insight, it's skill. It's not only seeing God's perspective, but it's being God's person. And that's the second one. It's being God's person. So there's one a little more simple way to remember what wisdom is. It's seeing and being. It's seeing God's perspective and it's being God's person. And that I believe really sums up what wisdom is according to the Bible. word you see for wisdom means literally skill or skillful. And so wisdom is living skillfully. Wisdom is being able to live not intellectually, but morally and practically in a way that in touch with reality. The point is that I find in almost every case my natural reaction to situations is wrong. You know that you know you just gotta go by your gut feeling unless that gut feeling has been so sanctified and hung by the Spirit of God through the years that there's a kind of almost second nature response, our immediate natural reactions are almost always ungodly ones. I just sort of illustrated my own life this week, uh you know, I've played tennis and uh played tennis with a few of you here. And uh you know, I haven't been too doing too well in my tennis game. In fact, my tennis game's been getting so bad, you know my wife gets tired of hear me. come home every Tuesday and Thursday and complain about getting beat again, you know. And I thought, you know, I'm not even going to worry about whether I win or lose. I'm going to just concentrate on cool. Because, you know, I used to play tennis somewhat regularly. I once had a coach. And I remember some things that I'm just gonna practice on my board. I'm not gonna worry about the pace or anything else. I'm going to do what I know in my mind I ought to do. But that's very different from my natural response, because I also play racquetball. And so when I see the test ball playing, I sort of crossed. Now, this isn't a tennis lesson, so I'm not going to develop that very far, but you get the idea, you know, my reactions, my natural way that I Go after that ball to make sure that it gets into court on the other side. It's all wrong. If I do what I think naturally I ought to do, I'll blow it every time and I'll be 6-0, you know, and I've seen too many of those in the past already. I just practiced on four matters, it doesn't feel right. But this is the way you ought to do it. That's the way the book says to do it. true. And I thought afterwards I'm not going to even tell you who I beat, but uh you you know you can sort of look around and you'll find out probably but and he usually beats me, so that's okay. But I thought afterwards, you know, that's too much the way I live. My natural reactions will always mess me up. And I've got to back off and I've got to say, what does the book say? What does God's word say is how to respond to this person or this circumstance or this situation. situation. And it always surprises me because it doesn't seem like the natural way to do it. And so I've got to constantly be learning. In fact, wisdom, as you see there, I think is the unnatural reaction, supernaturally learned To life's situations. And so that's why James is so full of surprises. You see? As by verse 2, you know, it says now what you naturally action with your child. Well, if it's to weak and complaints, something James is wristly rejoices. Yeah, and then he goes on. In verse 9, he says, if you don't have anything, what's your natural reaction? Complaining and outcoming. Jesus, then you've got to rejoice because you know supernaturally what your inheritance is. Verse 13, when you're messing things up, what's your natural reaction? Blame everybody else. James says it. Accept responsibility for your own sin. Don't even blame God for the situation He's put you in. Verse 19, what's your natural reaction in conversation? Talk, talk, talk, talk, listen a little bit, talk, talk, talk. James says, God's wisdom is to be slow to speak. Well, let me get to that verse. I'm going to tell you when that one's coming. Nobody will beat it. James says the natural reaction in conversation is an unwise, it's a foolish reaction. In fact, then he goes on to chapter two, he talks about naturally cater to the powerful and the rich and ignore the poor days. That's not wisdom. That's the opposite. All wrong reactions. Chapter three at the end, being a contrast wisdom from above with a wisdom that the earth, that the world thinks is wrong. And he shows how utterly in contrast they are. So wisdom must be supernaturally learned. And that's why it's so important to get to the second question. How do you get it? And that's what this acceptage of adverse is in. Jesus, you know, reason you're never going to do naturally. And so he says, When you're in this situation and you're hurting and you're frustrated and thinking hopeless, and he says, What do you do? Jesus, you're lacking in reason. You don't know how to cope. What do you do? And then he says, it's simple, ask God. First class. There it is. You see? If you lack wisdom, you're trying to go in your own natural reaction. What do you do? You should ask God. That's how you get wisdom. Books, people who will say, Well, this is kind of apparent research and this is the way we understand that people operate today, you know? And so if you live long enough, you sort of see phases of that in disciplining kids or whatever else that it is. And all the things that people were saying to do in the sixties, you know, now they're all turning out away. You know they're all saying, oh no, heads like kids in early, now they're saying no, no hold kids off and on it. But God says, go to God. Because this word is constant. But if you see a principle in here, it's not going to change. You can trust it. He says, go to God. Ask God for listening. from him. That's what I know. I've tried to practice in my counseling. When people come, you know, sometimes they come and I sort of feel the pressure that I should have the answers. Hey, you know, I'm a professional. Here I am, you know, I'm a pastor and you come to me and you have some problems in your marriage, you've got a problem in your life, this and that, you know, I'll maybe give you an answer. But the other verse has really been convicting me and I've been trying to practice this to say, hey, I don't have a clue what we should do. Let's stop right now and ask God. Maybe two or three times in a counselling session. To just stop for just a moment. They say let's go to God. Let's ask His wisdom. Asking for His wisdom. Let's search the Scriptures. Let's go to God and asking that involves searching His Word in order to get that wisdom. But that search is an intense kind of a search. Having experienced that just uh this week. In fact, I did this without even thinking of this message. It had it was totally unrelated to that. In our family, we only had dream one night. And so uh I decided to do something to illustrate Proverbs chapter two. And I said, uh, okay, you Proverbs, God's word says, that to get wisdom we seek for it and search for it, it's out there, Tom Reddit, as for silver and for hidden treasure. I said, now I I've hidden a little bit of silver here, a few dimes, pennies, you know. And I said, they're hidden somewhere in the house. Somewhere in the kitchen, dining room, or living room. And I said, You got five minutes to find it. Go for it. So there it is, they go all over there in drawers. up and down and everything, you know, and finally, you know, I'm counting down the minutes, you know, and after four minutes, you know, we start a couple of little warms and colds, you know, kind of business, you know, helping out a little bit. Finally he finds it there in the teapot and he pulls it all out, you know, and he's got it. And I said, how did you feel? uh while you were looking for that. He said hopeless. Hopeless? I mean he got this prospect of treasure to work. I'm hoping he's gonna say, you know, kind of intense, you know, unexpected and I said, really, why were you hopeless? He says, 'cause I knew I wouldn't get there. Wait, I I still try to say I thought I was just not going to be able to find it in five minutes. And you know what? That's why God gives us the second part of this verse. That's why we are going to go for it, but now everything. has a different opinion. I'm probably not going to find anything. So God says, No. Well, the old says that. And I said, are her going to oh come on, Dina, I knew I was going to make sure you found that. Because I wanted you to find it. I probably wanted you to find it more than you wanted. Because, you know, you just, you know, that's a few times, a couple pages ago, but I'm thinking I wanted to learn this lesson, you know. And I thought, how much like the Lord. Because he says there now, go to God and ask him. to all without finding fault and it will be given. God wants he needs to find his wisdom more than we want to find it. And he's going to design various things in our life that will push us and head us in. Get us over to where he wants us to be, so that we'll have a greater thirst and hunger, sometimes through hurt and pain, but a hunger for wisdom. Because God wants us to find that wisdom. It's that God wants us to have it. He's not bothered when we come to him again and again. And that's basic, you know? Again, I see the over I go and wait. The things that I have to learn are things that I'm relearning over and over and over. And we've never come to this before. And here our God are really fought up and do it. I mean, here is one bit of reason nobody's ever discovered and going out of a situation now to break new ground, you know. What is it? You know, I mean it's Lord, you know. I know I botched this up ten, twenty times, and I have to keep relearning. Lord, remind me of your wisdom. Remind me of power to react to that person. Power to react to this situation. What this says is, when you come that fifteenth and twentieth time, God isn't kicked off. He's not like the father in old cartoon I saw this week. This little boy, you know, he's been asking for glasses of water so many times, you know, the kid's got a stopwatch there and he says, Great going, Dad. You shaved off thirty-five seconds off your previous record. You know, ten times, I want another drink, I want another drink. Well he went on the paw was ready to belt the kid right in the mouth, you know, so to give him a drink. Well, ten times only look at God that way. What I've come so many times you must be so irritated that I'm coming back again and again and again. But this verse is contemporary. He doesn't chive you. He doesn't say, hey, you know, this is the third time this week you've come for that bit of wisdom, you know? And who do you think I am up here, you know? But God's not like that. He's generous. He wants to meet our needs. He wants to teach us. And you know, the thing that really encourages me in this is the connection. connection that I see in the Bible between wisdom and the Holy Spirit. You know, if you want to study sometime, it'll be really, I think, help to see how this breaks open. All we see saying the scripture, this connection between the Spirit of God And the wisdom of God. You know, you start right from Genesis. How is the world going? By the Spirit of God. And then you see in Proverbs, Proverbs 8: How is the world built? By the wisdom of God. How is the tabernacle built? In order to worship God, it was by the wisdom of God. wisdom of the craftsmen. Their skill. That's the same word. Wisdom and skill of the craftsmen. And then we read in other parts in Exodus, in fact the very next verse there which talks about that, and it's by the Spirit of God that they built the tabernacle. In the book of Joseph, In Genesis 31-38, we're told that he was a man who was filled with the Spirit of God. And so verse 39 says he had more wisdom than only other counselors in Egypt. Where Isaiah says that the Messiah is going to come and he is going to be the One filled with God's Spirit. And so what does Isaiah 11 say is the consequence of that? That he's going to be the one filled with the spirit of wisdom and counsel. And so the spirit is the spirit of wisdom. And then it comes to Luke 11. But Jesus says ask and seek and mock. Remember that your heavenly father is not begrudging in what he wants to give you. And so he says that you can come and if he and if you come and you as earthly fathers do an evil know how to give good gifts to you. Children, how much more will your heavenly father give what? The Holy Spirit to those that ask. And you see, that's the same thing that James is saying. James 1:5. If you lack the spirit of witness, Then what do you do? You ask God, not for some abstract principle, but for the Spirit of God to reveal to you wisdom, to fill you with wisdom. Paul's letter in Ephesians to verse. purpose of our church. The first purpose is what? Paul says, I pray that the Spirit will fill you with wisdom in knowing Christ better. Colossians 1. 9, that you might be filled with the Spirit of wisdom to do his will. And so when you and I are seeking wisdom, we're really seeking the spirit of Christ. And if you want to have wisdom, you've got to have Christ, and you've got to have his spirit coming into your life. And God says, I want to give you that. I want you to have his spirit. I want you to have your spirit. To have my son. You can't do it of yourself. Everything that you do is wrong in your natural reactions. But God says, I want to give you my spirit because my son came and he lived and he died to be eligible so that he could be eligible. Executed in order that his death and his resurrection might provide for you my spirit to change your life, to provide forgiveness, to clean your life, to change it, to bring it to Jesus so that you'll be filled with the spirit of. wisdom. But so when you're in a situation where you lack wisdom, you know, don't just say, Oh, pray, Lord, Lord, give me give me wisdom. Sometimes we're so big and I don't think we know where we're at and we just sort of say, Lord, how do we do the right thing? you know, make my feelings sort of move the right way. And God said, Yeah, that's not what I'm talking about. I say, Help me, Lord, to understand your word and that your spirit will calm and give me enlightenment and the wisdom of Christ and begin to transform my thinking. Again I had an experience of that. This was last week when we were at uh Dublin Gather. After a couple of days there I I had a real sense of a kind of a vague oppression, a guilt, you know, you ever get that kind of feeling then you're not really sure what's wrong with feel sort of out of touch with the Lord, you feel like you ought to be repentant of something, but you're not quite sure. And you don't know if Satan's just attacking you with kind of a feelings of guilt or whether you know there's really something you need to come open before the Lord with. And so they had a couple of hours of prayer with one point fasting and prayer and took advantage of that and I went out and I had a book along with me and I had uh my Bible. I began to pray and I I wrestled with the Lord there for a while. And after wrestling with the Lord I still wasn't getting really a whole lot of clarity on the subject and I just began to wonder It was just particular attacks of Satan because I was uh in charge of opening the Word of God to try and minister to these students and thought, well maybe Satan's singling me out for particular oppression here or whatever it was. But then I sat down on this bench and I opened up the book to where I happened to be reading. And uh it was uh Eve Shaker's book, Common Sense Christianity. And it just happened to be told in this one section and there, just like God had just brought it, exactly in answer to my prayer, is exactly what I needed to clarify all that was wrong. And it helped to bring Bring me to a specific confession and a specific repentance and specific hope of what God was doing and intending to do in my life. You know, you do that and all of a sudden you have such a sense of God's kindness, don't you? He really isn't playing games with me. He really does want me to understand listen. He really does want me to grow in godliness. And he wants to teach me. And he wants to relieve me of the guilt and the oppression. But there's a warning here. And that's the final thing. The warning is that you don't play games with God. You don't play games with God when you're seeking his wisdom. What do I mean by that? I mean by that what Jane talks about in verses six to eight. He says, When are you asked? He says, again, come back at this girl, take a band in texture, come out in every different direction so you can see the light a little better here. It's not talking about you don't have enough consistency and great enough things. That's not what he's saying here. He's saying, oh look, you like listening? You like seeing God's perspective? You like doing God's perspective? person or a calm and ask God because he wants to give you. He wants you to have it more than you want to have it. But where do you go? And when you ask, you must believe or not doubt because he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind. That's the clue to what kind of doubt he's talking about. It's a radiant doubt. That man should not think he will receive anything from the Lord. He has no confidence, you see, because he's a double-minded Man, literally a two souled man, because I pictured on the back of your book and the outline there. Two souled, double minded, double faced, unstable in all that he does. Pictured by John Bunyan Pilgrim's Progress, that classic is Mr. Fishing Both Waves, the character that you see pictured on the back of your bulletin outline. What kind of a person is this? He's a guy who wavers. When things are going okay, he's not very concerned about wisdom. He just sort of moved along with his own agenda. But then when the trial comes, you see, then when the thing hits and all of a sudden he's overwhelmed by something he can't cope with, then it is to God. It says God, the happy Arabs but they know how I haven't really been very good Christian. I haven't looked in the world a whole lot now, but God gets on really good now. And if you'll just help me now, go out of promise and go walk with you a little better. You know a moment, maybe God is gracious and He gives some relief. And pretty soon, just right back. God leave you. Before he became a Christian, had this experience again and again. God scared the soul off that guy by so many different close calls that he had. Every time he said, Lord, I'm gonna I'm gonna really call it, I've got to really reform my life. And after a couple weeks or two months, he'd be right back to his own. ways. You see, double minded, two souls wavering, back and forth. Now I'll tell you, I have no dance of this file is full of examples of people who have the softening wealth plan and don't make it man. I have loads of examples in my file on this kind of a person. Woman calls me a year or so ago. She says, uh, you know, your church had a uh had a seminar on homosexuality. I found out my husband's a homosexual. Can I come talk to you? We came, she talked We met her a few times. About the third and fourth time together, she prayed in my office to receive Jesus Christ as her own Savior and as your Lord. We continued to counsel and I began to try and help her to see what this would mean in her lifestyle and pain and trying to help out in the situation. The more we moved out of NASA, the more the Ganesh back off. I said, you know, you really need to get some Christian counseling. You need some regular input on this. You need to become part of a body. Because uh, you know, that's not kind of where I'm at. And after a while things began to there began to be some relief in her marriage. Things got a little better. They ain't here anymore. I didn't even hear from her anymore. It was a hurt. A lot of it got hurt, it was a tremendous spiritual interest. But then as soon as that pressure was relieved, back to living for an agenda. Mother women we had a couple that came to our church for a few months. And they came and they they seemed like they were really interested. And uh Began to get involved in some things. And then at one point they said, uh, you know, we think your preaching's too strict. And uh we we really feel like we're uncomfortable here. And they they stopped coming. About a year later, the white call. She says, You know, uh we wandered around from church to church after we had left Columbia Presbyterian. He says, As my husband began to get into some uh uh seminars and some uh things to put him in touch with his schoolings and he began to really pursue this and found that this was a lot more helpful to him. Last he told me his feelings had let him believe me. He doesn't love me anymore. He said, I'm devastated. What can I do? He spent hours on the phone talking about her situations where to just pour out her heart on for you And we've got to talk about counseling. How can we get together? How can we rescue that marriage? After about a week of talking about some things that she could do, she said, Wait, praise God, you've answered prayer. It's like, okay, but what's the next step? You've got to get back in the body, you can do the search scripture. You've gotta get some regular spiritual disciplines in your life. You've gotta see Christ. So well yeah, we need to do that. But uh right now we need to get our marriage together. As if the two were somehow uh pitted one against the other. And again, it was the drifting away. No more interest. He's back into these uh seminars, he's still trying to get in touch with his feelings, and I haven't heard from them for months. I remember that uh only Ruth uh stating her plans for her to do this. She's a Christian, she says. Listen to the letter. But perhaps some of you know Stuart and I have separated. This decision came after many soul searching moments. We love and care for each other and want the best for our youngest daughter, Linda, and ourselves. We are composing and writing our own divorce decree with our hearts and minds committed to the goal that we will all come through this prime transition as winners. It's a high-level commitment, we know. But a level of cooperation, agreement, and respect that we are experiencing is a direct reflection of that commitment. We ask that you align your prayers with ours and that we remain attuned to the Father's God. guidance and loving presence during this time. Thank you all for your love and your support for all of us. Unstable in all his ways. Lord, I want to take that your words says about marriage and I want to move it to what I want to do. And I want to pretend that it's all consistent. Looking one way and then looking the other way. That's the kind of doubt that Jesus is talking about. He's not talking about this fleeting moments of lack of confidence, those feelings that all of us have when we wonder, is this really truth? James is talking about that laboring spirit that oscillates to and fro. It's like window shopper. from the mall. But they look and you know some girls wonder they'll try on the dresses, they look at one window and another window, but you come to the point where you're ready to buy, no, I'm just window shopping. I'm just looking. And so they look back and forth and they never commit themselves. They never come to the place where they say, This is what God says, I will do it no matter the cost. I will follow what He says. One last example. Some of them have been reading Mary Pride's book the way home. In that book, Mary's. talks about the fact that women must not practice uh birth control, that they should uh work at home to raise children and to help someone in the quality of life by doing home prayers, home working. That God's called women is very clearly to remain in the home. to raise children. Because Timothy and Titus in the scripture call women to do this. Absolutely. Yeah, we're all breakfast looking this what's this guy going to say about this thing? Okay. Well listen, I'm telling you right now, I am not going to resolve that. I'm not going to say a word about evaluating of that piece. Alright? Well, I say you can hear a pin drop there for a minute. I wanna say another about that. Here's the point I want to make about that book. So anybody is seeing or just the hears and understands that D The danger is that as Christians we read that and they look at me and say, Yeah, there's some good points there, yeah, there's some points I'm not so sure But I really don't know how to evaluate that. And so I'll sort of tuck it into the can as one more idea. And then I'll just sort of move along And I'll say, no, you know, on the one hand, but on the other hand, and not the sign. And so we just have all these inputs, but we don't ever say this is right and that is wrong and I will follow it. If it's right, let's do it. If it's not, let's say it. But let's not oscillate back and forth on areas where the scripture gives us guidance or be dogmatic where the scripture doesn't. Because that's the wavery that leads us into trouble. But you only get the kind of help to evaluate those things by Proverbs 2. Go and seek me as for treasure. Deal with the confidence that God will hear you, that you can go to this word, and it says things that will give you direction in your life. See Jesus Christ, his spiritual thing with an understanding of his word, and you'll know where to go. Let's pray. There we pray. It can help each of us to be able to understand. What are those areas? So we're wavering back and forth. So that we might even sort of seeking to really uh identify those areas, be able to know how can we test them? your wisdom. We might have that tremendous satisfaction that comes out of doing something that's unnatural, supernaturally by your spirit, and seeing you vindicate yourself.