For those of you that uh missed the congregational meeting one Friday, you uh really missed an event. Um I feel kind of bad for you. I mean I don't know what fun you thought you were having, but I mean you might have thought that a congregational meeting wouldn't be But it did. I'm sure whatever fun you were having, we were having more fun right here as we were doing the Lord's work and business and uh things were being decided And I want to tell you that concerning the announcement of what we decided concerning that property, I am not going to tell you. If you aren't there, you missed it. You'll find out through the grapevine. But if you really want to know, stay for the second hour. Because rather than uh telling you just uh briefly in a sentence or two We want to be able to share that a little bit more. So if you miss that time, come to the second hour this morning where we will be giving in the different classes a brief report about what we decided and what went on. And uh I'm really excited. I just really was praising God for what He did, not only in what was decided, but how God brought that together. So it's worth your invitation to say for that This morning, we're going to begin a major series, as Ken mentioned to you. A series on the book of James. And as he mentioned, it's going to take a little time. Going to go through it verse by verse. Uh it's going to take uh for instance uh with some interruptions until from now until July to get through Chapter One. That much I know Then we'll see where we go on in chapters two through five. I've been intrigued with this no-nonsense books for years. And then uh last spring, 1985, uh Tito Fide and Van Iverson and I got to go to some lectures that Jay Adams was giving on counseling in the book of James And that even piqued my interest more, and I became more fascinated with that book. Did some intensive study since that time, and I believe it's now beginning to be the time to share with you some of what God's given me And I think that it's going to help each of us in our lives as we look at the very practical book of James, what he has to say for us. Some people have trouble with James. They find it hard to read James because James is more like an Old Testament book than a New Testament book in some ways. Seems more like Proverbs than Philippians. It's a book which says more about our behavior than God's salvation. It's a book which is a book more oriented toward what we do than what God has done. And that's just the point of the book, because the book is about the response of the life of faith. The book is about the behavior of beliefs. James is in the Old Testament tradition of wisdom literature. Now uh wisdom literature is sort of fallen on hard times today, you know. Uh Christians are very big on faith literature. Uh we love to read books about people who had great faith to trust God And we love to read about their exploits and experiences. We're very big on how-to literature today. And you go into any Christian bookstore and you'll see the counterparts of the secular how-to books, how to love your wife. How to Love Your Husband, How to Love Your Mother in Law, How to Love the Neighbor's Dog, you know, everything and no intended connection between the last two. But all kinds of all kinds of how to's. And if you read those You begin to get a little suspicious of the fact that there seems to be a rather close connection in the advice that's given between the Christian how-to books and a lot of the secular how-to books. And so we've come to where we tend to borrow all this practical wisdom that we seem to find in the secular world. And Christians need to return for counseling to God's Word. We need to return to wisdom literature. We need to understand the preciousness of wisdom literature. We need to go back in our counseling to Proverbs in the Old Testament and James in the New Testament. And so it's with that kind of concern and hope That I want to bring to you a series of these messages from the book of James. James, as I say, is about wisdom. And the word wisdom, literally, in the Hebrew, means skill. That's what the word basically means. A wise person is a skillful person. It can be used about a handcrafts. You know, if you're good at woodworking, you are wise. You can use that same word. It's used of those that built the tabernacle. And um were very uh skilled in doing that. The word used there is the word for wisdom. And so James is about skillful living How to live skillfully. And that kind of skill involves two things. It involves number one, seeing life from God's perspective. And then doing things the way God would have you do them, or the way God does them. It's seeing from God's perspective, it's doing God's way. And so that's skill. That's wisdom. And this practical book is going to help us to live skillfully. Just to give you an idea of what's coming up, you notice that yellow insert that's in there lists for you the topics. That we're going to cover. And these aren't all the topics. In fact, we won't be hitting topic one this week. We won't be doing that until next week. Some of them we'll hit a number of times, others will hit just once But at least we'll give you some idea of where we're going. And I would probably refer to this from time to time to remind you of kind of how we're picking up a paint again because James doesn't write in an outline form. It's hard to outline James. Because he writes in the Hebrew style of repetition. He hits something and it'll come around and it'll hit it again, hit it from a different angle, so that we begin to see it sink in. And uh that's the point, that's the purpose of how James writing it. So you see the list of topics there, and if none of the rest of you appreciate, at least John Hunter told me he thought it was a good idea, so I'm glad that I did it. And God, I'm glad that you'll keep your copy at least. Thank you. I hope that you will uh hang on to that thing if you hang on to your bulletin outline, especially helpful if you're going for a book because uh that way you kind of get the flow of it and you don't miss something in the context. That's also one of the reasons why we send all of Maplines and send it uh messengers uh when you miss so that uh hopefully we catch you, sometimes we don't, so that you'll be able to have some continuity in that Well, this morning we're going to begin with chapter 1, verse 1. And because we are praying, as you see in that yellow sheet when you read that, I'm praying that we will be changed from this book. Let's take a few moments right now to stop and let's commit ourselves and pray that God would give us teachable hearts as we approach this book. That God would enable us to come to this book open to be changed, not just to sort of look at James and say Wonder what kind of interesting points we'll get out of that. You know, I've always wondered what that passage means. Be nice to hear what his opinion is, and on and on and on. But rather, Lord, this is your word. Now, I want to come to submit myself under your instruction. This is your counsel. James comes to us with a profound and appealing pastor's heart. And he comes to us with infallible wisdom. When Jacob says, here's the way to live, that's not just an opinion, brothers and sisters. That's God's people. So let's take a few moments now to pray for teachable hearts and that God was through this morning, but through a whole series of changes. Let's pray. Lord, we confess that in America today sermon listening can almost be a spectator's sport. And it's very easy to fall into detaching ourselves. Except maybe where something emotionally grips us, uh, to really expect to be changed. Lord, I know so many times I've gone to messages and I confess I just didn't go expecting to be changed. But Lord, the whole point of this book is to change us. It's to make us people who are able to live more skillfully. And we pray then, Lord, that by your Spirit you will be pleased to do that because you've given us book for that purpose, and we don't want to frustrate your purposes by stubborn hearts. And so we ask, Lord, that you will speak, that you will honor your word, and that you will have your way with us. And that you will make us moldable people, teachable, ready to be changed. Lord, I can't do that. All I can do is try in my feeble efforts to open this book up. Holy Spirit, you must do the changes. We realize we can't even change ourselves. And so we come humbly before you to ask you to change us. In Jesus' name. Amen. And I'm excited about how God is going to answer that. I want to just cover verse 1 this morning, so let's read simply that one verse. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. To the twelve tribes scattered among the nations, greetings. That greeting there to the twelve tribes probably refers to the whole church. The church is the New Testament Israel, and it is a letter addressed to the church throughout the world. You notice it is not to one particular city or region, as many of Paul's letters are. It's a letter, therefore, that is not written because of some a local occasion. It is a letter written to the whole church, to the twelve tribes, scattered among the nations, God's people. It probably has some reference to some things that were going on in Judea in the 50s, that is, around 20 years or so after Jesus' resurrection. But uh other than that, there is no particular occasion. Now why do I say that it was written probably in the 50s and uh just that amount of time somewhere in Judea Well that's based on who wrote it. And you see, who wrote it is James, a servant of God. Well that's fine, but James who? Well, uh James, uh you look at that and probably if you're like me when you read a book, you know, you start off with James, the servant of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, twelve tribes scattered among nations, greetings, okay, now let's get to the good stuff, you know Let's get to something that's meaty. I mean, meditating on game doesn't exactly give me spiritual shivers. Uh it's not exactly something that makes your pulse rate quicken to read the greetings, you know, James, a servant of God and Jesus Christ of the Twelve Tribes, greetings. Okay, let's move on. Well, wait a minute, though, because I think if we understand who this James is It will make all the difference to us in understanding this book. You see, uh, we're gonna spend some months now getting to know this guy through what he wrote And it's very important to us to understand who it is that wrote it. In fact, I think that you may be in for some surprises about who wrote this book. And some things about that character that I'll help you to keep in mind as we go through that book. James Who Well, James was kind of a common name, and he doesn't tell us anywhere in this book, and so we can only ultimately guess But we do know that this James, by what he wrote, was a very prominent leader in the Church of Christ. And so it wasn't some sort of James that nobody ever heard of. He's very prominent. And of those prominent James, there are only two serious contenders down through the ages of who wrote it. It's either the brother of John or the brother of Jesus. Now, the brother of John, one of the twelve disciples, could have written this book. But unfortunately, that James was martyred in 44 A. D. Didn't have a whole lot of time And there are some other indications in the book that it was not from him. And so, by and large, the overwhelming opinion of scholars, particularly those that hold a high view of scripture Is that this James is James, the brother of Jesus? And they say, I didn't even know Jesus had any brothers. Well not only do we know that Jesus had brothers, we know how many he had, and we know their names. Did you know that? In Mark chapter 6, verse 3, we're told that Jesus had four brothers And we are told their names, James, Joseph, Judas, and Simon. Matthew thirteen, fifty-five also confirms that. And so we're told that he had four brothers, we're told their names, and it also tells us that he had a number of sisters. The sisters, unfortunately, don't get numbered or named. But we had four brothers, an unknown number of sisters. And James, because he's listed first, was probably the oldest of the four. That was the custom of that time to list them. in the order of their birth. So James is Jesus' younger brother, his younger half-brother, more accurately. And this James, not only are we told about him that this James was Jesus' half-brother, but we're also told his attitude toward Jesus. In John chapter 7 We're told in verses 3 to 5 that Jesus was avoiding going up to the Feast of the Tabernacles at that point because the Jews were after him to kill him. And we're told what his brother's response was, and that includes games. Loosely paraphrased, it went something like this. They said, Okay, hotshots, this is your big chance, you know. We see that you're trying to make a big game for yourself. And so you surely must want to go up to the Feast of Tabernacles, because all the crowds are going to be there, and you don't want to miss that opportunity, so you better go on up. They were mocking him And verse 5 tells us the reason, because it says, For even his brothers did not believe in him. So James, at that point, close to the end of Jesus' life, was an unbeliever. He not only was an unbeliever, he not only mocked Jesus, Mark chapter 3 tells us that he thought Jesus was out of his mind. Mark chapter 3, verses 20 and 21 talk about that time when Jesus was so busy with his disciples they didn't even have time to eat an uninterrupted meal. People were coming and going with all of their needs. And we're told there that his family, his brothers and his sisters come and they say he's out of his mind doing this stuff. You know, so much for going home for sympathy And so Jesus did not get support from his home in what he was doing. And that's the first lesson, brothers and sisters, that we can get to this. As you see in the bulletin outline, he'll change the order a little bit. But you see that under point two B. The first lesson from this is that Jesus understands your rejection from your family. How many of you, we'll ask for hands, but you know, how many of you are Christians who have non-Christian families Your mother, your father, your sisters, your brothers. You go home, and if you go home, there's always that mixed feeling, you know. You're so glad to see the family. You're so glad to be with them again. But you also know that there's going to be a certain amount of rejection. Rejection of your priorities, of how you spend your time and how you spend your money and what your lifestyle is. And this fanatical hope that you have in Jesus that makes you impractical as your family sees you. Do you identify with that? Isn't it comforting to know that Jesus himself identifies with that? That James, his younger brother, perhaps the one he was closest to because closest in age. Was a mocker. That James not only didn't believe in him, he gave him a hard time. When you pray to Jesus, Lord God Why does it seem that my family is the hardest of all the people that are in my life to reach? I remember Robin saying that as she asked me to pray for them going away on this weekend down to Richmond She says, I feel so bad because it seems that's the hardest when I'm around my family. Why is it that that's true? But certainly your family knows you the best because they're the hardest people for you to be open and vulnerable to, and their rejection hurts the most But when you bring that to Jesus, he not only sympathizes, he empathizes, because he too was rejected by his family. Now we don't know what happened to the other brothers, but that's whole. But we are told what happened to James. Jesus certainly, on those nights of prayer and those times that he separated himself, must have prayed for his family. I can't imagine that he didn't He must have prayed for James again and again through the months and the years as he grew up with him and as he saw James rejecting his ministry. And God gives us hope here. Because sometime in the last months of Jesus' life, or at the time of his death, James was transformed. Sometime in those closing weeks, James was laid hold of by the Holy Spirit, and he was transformed from a mocker to a believer. From one who rejected Jesus Christ to one who accepted him. And you know, Paul in 1 Corinthians 15 adds a precious, precious detail at this point. You remember in 1 Corinthians 15, Paul talks about the gospel that he received. And he talks about how Jesus died, lived, and died according to the scriptures, and how he rose according to the scriptures, of which we're reminded of again today. And he Paul talks there about the orders. In 1 Corinthians 15, Paul says he appeared first to Peter, and then to the twelve, and then at one point to over 500, and then he says And then to James. Now he's not counted for the twelve, but with the apostles in that list. And the overwhelming opinion of scholars about that verse is that that James is this James. The Lord's breath. Can you imagine the reunion after Jesus rose and saw perhaps for the first time His half-brother, as one who was able to call him the Lord. And James, in all of the repentance and the remorse that he feels of how hard a time I gave my brother, my elder brother Jesus And how I rejected him and added to his misery, and he comes to see that he is Savior and as Lord. And then Jesus makes a special appearance to James. So that the two of them can have fellowship together. See in this the second lesson of this verse. Don't give up praying for your family. Don't give up. Don't despair and think because I have never known this person as a Christian. That's the problem with your family when they're unbelievers. You never knew them any other way. You can't conceive of them as being believers. That's the hardest thing when I pray for my family. I know what they're like, just the way they are, but I can't imagine what it would be like for us to not have the kinds of tensions that we have. But this verse says, don't give up. God hears and answers prayer. And he was able to change James the mocker to become James the believer. And he's able to change your mom, dad, sister, brother. He's able to hear our prayers too. Gates not only became a believer James went on to become, the New Testament tells us, one of the pillars and the leaders of the early church. In Galatians 1 and 2 Paul refers to this James, the brother of the Lord, as the pillar of the Church of Jerusalem, one of its leaders. James is on a par with Peter. He's beyond Paul in leadership in the early years. In Acts 15, it is James who settles the dispute in the first General Assembly of the Church of Jesus Christ. James becomes the leader of the largest church. He's very influential. He's risen to become one who is so known for his godliness. And for his love for Jesus Christ, that he's recognized and he's respected for his spiritual leadership. God is able to do amazing things with mockers and unbelievers Perhaps even for someone right here in this room who thinks that you could never come to a place of really bowing your knee to Jesus Christ. God's able to get a hold of you and turn you around and make you a James. The Lord hears and he answers prayer. The third lesson that we get from this one verse, James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, is an incidental matter, but I don't think we ought to pass over. But it is the testimony of a brother. This is pretty weighty evidence, if you ask me, that Jesus' own half-brother with whom he lived and grew up Says, I believe that that man is God. I believe that his claims are thoroughly attested and vindicated, that he really is the Messiah, Savior, and Lord. Of Jesus' family, only two do we know became believers. Mary his mother and James his brother. Well, Mary, we know, trusted Jesus as her Savior and her Lord. And I don't know if you've ever stopped to think of the weight of that. I mean, how many of you mothers could seriously be deceived into thinking that your little cherubs are God, you know? I mean, they're sweet and all the rest of that. But if they grow up and someday One of your children, one son says, Mom, I just wanted you to know that I am God and you're to worship me. You'd say, right, I always thought there was something strange about you. You know, I don't think any of us would be fooled. I mean, I know how I love my kids, but I don't think the dean would pull it off, you know. Now, mothers, however can tend to idolize their kids. I mean, you know, they they just, you know, he's just he's really special. But what about brothers? I mean, can you imagine having Jesus as a brother? I mean, every time you get into a scrap, you guess who's right and who's wrong, you know? Every time James comes in from playing and he says to Mary, You know, Jesus did it again and we're fighting and Mom, I wish you'd go out with you, you know. And Mother says, that's go apologize to Jesus. We mean to haven't even hurt. I know, but he's right and you're wrong, you know. And you don't have a chance. And so there would be a certain animosity that would be building up. Yes, this guy is always right. And he doesn't understand his agenda. He doesn't understand what he's like. What is it then for a man like this to come and say, I want to tell you that I believe my brother is God. I believe that he is the Messiah. I know him as well as anyone can know him. And I tell you he's God. I tell you I'm his servant. In cults, there are family members Who will buy into and attest to the fact that uh their brother or their sister is divine and they have uh all the claims of deity or whatever special prerogatives that they have and why. as in some of the gurus uh that we've seen come along in the last years, because they're swept along in the entourage of all the popularity and the steam and the money and all that goes along with that What did James get out of saying here, I believe that my brother, my half-brother Jesus, is God? He was martyred. He sealed that testimony with his death. Josephus in his book, The Antiquities, chapter 20 in section 9, tells us that this game was stoned to death at the hands of the high priest Ananus after the death of the procurator Festus in 61 or 62 A. D. For his testimony to Jesus, James was stone to death. He never got rich out of it. He was well known, but only within the church he was despised by the rest of the world. And this game says, Jesus is all that he claims to me. I am his servant. And that brings us to the last lesson. Notice how he refers to himself there in verse 1. James a servant of God. And of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to tell you, if Jesus had been my half-brother, there'd have been no way you'd have gotten that verse down there without some reference to the fact that I'm the brother of Jesus. There's no way that I would have called attention to something about my standing, you know, just to be able to add a little spiritual authority for my ministry, you know. But James doesn't do that He says, I'm a servant of Jesus. Here's a man that grew up with Jesus. Here's the man who was personally visited by the resurrected Jesus, a private appearance to him Here is a man who was a close association, who has been close association of all the biggies of the day in this Christian world. He outranked Paul the Apostle. I mean Paul was just a guy coming up and looked to James to give him validation of his public ministry. James was a biggie among the biggies. Do you realize that James was the pastor of the largest, most influential church of his day in the entire world? He's the pastor of the church at Jerusalem. But he does not refer to himself in any of those ways. There is only one identification that he gives to himself. He says, I'm James. A servant of Jesus. That's all it really matters to him. He says, no, you take all the rest of that stuff that you can throw away. Because all really matters is that I'm James. A servant of Jesus. What really impresses me about this verse is James' lack of impressing me. What really impresses me about this guy is his security in Jesus Christ. What really impresses me about him is the fact that he's not out to impress me. He's not out to compete. He's not out to get status and recognition. He simply states that he's the servant of Jesus. And he's content with that. I'll tell you, I fight with it. I mean I in myself I can't claim that. Yeah, I like to be recognized. I like to get credit for things I like to be noticed. Yeah, it it's nice occasionally to associate with the biggies. Closest I ever got to Billy Graham was being his bodyguard in Navanas. convention, you know, I sort of go on I stood with Billy Grant. Of course he didn't know it, you know. Nobody didn't know who I was. But there's a certain joy in being associated with somebody who's important. And we we feel important when we're like that. Can you imagine if Billy Graham set up chairs here Sunday morning? Every time he'd be signing up for setup crew, you know? Because all of a sudden now Setting up chairs has gained a certain status because I can set up with Billy Graham. Or if he's a schafer, worked in the nursery. You know, you can say, hey, you know, I'll sign up for nursery duty next week Because we like to associate with important people. It gives us security and status and a feeling of importance. And so we like to have those kinds of opportunities. I can imagine James setting up chairs or working in the nursery. He wouldn't care even notice. Because he says, that's part of being a servant of Jesus Christ. I don't need that recognition. And he shows it in his first verse. I'm Jacob. I'm simply a servant of God and of Jesus Christ. And notice, by the way, the way he links God and Jesus Christ there implies an equality between the two. Because he does not distinguish between what it means to be a servant of God and a servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. Those two are simply linked in the Greek as equal. James says Everything else is not worth anything. Everything else will tarnish and vanish. The only thing that really matters to me is that I'm a server of Jesus. We're people who seek status, don't we? We're people who want to be recognized, to feel that we're important. At the very beginning of this book, God's calling us to realize that if we're going to learn from this man, It's going to be because we're willing to be identified as servants of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. My Lord Jesus, and you who gave up your prerogatives to be served. And you came to be a servant, so that you came even to be obedient unto death. And you have died for us. You have risen for us. Lord Jesus, you who suffered the hurt, the disgrace of being rejected and misunderstood even by your own family. Who in all the pressures that you went under couldn't go home to find their sympathy and encouragement So you, Lord Jesus, have vindicated yourself. You have risen, and even your brother, James, has come to acknowledge that you are Lord God. And you, Lord Jesus, can therefore understand our frailties. You can understand our hurts. But you require and you demand our allegiance. Lord, if there's anyone here this morning who has not bowed their knee to you We pray, Lord God, that you would lay hold of that person and show them how well attested are your claims, that even the one who had grown up with you as a half-brother could see that you are all that you claim to be. Lord, how stupid and silly for any of us to say no you're not. Lord, we pray that you would work in each of us a heart that bows. And to trust you as Savior and mouse to you as our Lord. Lord, we pray. Give to us a freedom from competing. A freedom from needing to be recognized and wanting to trot out All of our accomplishments so that people notice that we are something, that we are somebody. Lord, deliver us from having to impress people Because Lord, I know in my own life whenever I try to do that. And then um I'm not really able to serve. I'm more interested in being served by being recognized and noticed Lord, give us that heart of James to rejoice in simply being your servant, even though he was your half-brother. Give us, Lord, those who have been called and adopted as your sons into your own family, the joy of saying, We're your servants. And therefore we're able and willing to serve one another. And to serve even where there is no credit Or recognition. Oh Lord, speak to us. Begin to do that work in us, which is so pleasing to you And so free to us.