Well Dan, I really rejoice to hear you reporting and sharing some of the things that God's done and what we mean to you as a body. But there was one question that was on everybody's mind that you did not address, and that is, does Dan Iverson know Ollie North? Now, I I suggest to you there will be that opportunity to find out the answer to that. Because uh this afternoon you're all invited to uh come to an open house at our place and uh some of you might have heard over here he murmured yes, you see Ollie North is a professing Christian from what I understand and so you'll be able to hear more about that. But not only that, but some other things that would be of interest too to be able to just spend some time. Come and go as you uh need to. But uh if anybody needs directions, see me afterwards. We're Tamar Drive, just the other end. Come on over, stop in. Also, um you've heard some of you about the uh video that they did uh that was on uh Japanese TV, and that video is here and will be shown a couple of times during the break between the two services as well as after the second service. So for those of you who uh would like to be able to view the Iversons in Japanese television, uh go on out there, will it be out in the hall or here? It'll be in here, back in that area just in front of the pit where the refreshments will be. Good. It's kinda funny preaching with no mirror back there this morning. I I just no feedback, you know. Uh I I Won't quite know what I'm doing, but I'll try to manage. You notice we've been uh in the book of James uh working through the beginning of chapter four, and and we've been seeing here how our selfish desires, that is, as James puts it our hedon destroy our relationships with one another. We saw that in James four one and two. What causes fights and quarrels or wars and battles among you? James says, Don't they come from your Your desires, your heathen, uh that battle within you, that are warring within you as a person. And then uh remember the uh alternate translation I offered for verse two. You want something But you don't get it, and so you kill. You covet, or you really desire it, you intensely crave it, you're obsessed with it. and you're not able to have it. And so you quarrel and fight or you battle and go to war over it. Now that's the relationship between us and other people. But God also teaches us here that our selfish desires destroy our relationship with God. Because he goes on then in the rest of verse 2 and verse 3 to say, you do not have Because you do not ask God. And when you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives. That you may spend what you get on your pleasures. And so our desires destroy our relationship with God by deadening our prayer life. How's your prayer life? How was it this week? What if we uh randomly went around and I just called on people at random and said, uh stand and tell us about how your prayer life's been this week, you know, and what you've seen God doing and how good your relationship how intimate it is with the Lord. You know, these chairs are a little less comfortable even the ones downstairs, but I bet you we'd be sort of slinking down in those chairs and sliding down to try to hide behind a person in front of us. Because there's few things That makes us feel more guilty and deficient than to discuss our prayer lives, aren't there? Prayer is one of those things that we give so much lip service to it, and yet We feel so guilty about it, about what we're not doing that we know we ought to do. I do. I feel that. And yet I believe that the Lord Jesus would not have as his purpose in your life this morning to simply have you feel more guilty about your prayer life, but rather to help you And so what I want to do is make that my purpose, not to simply make you feel more guilty about not praying or wrong praying, but to help you in praying. I have just two messages, including this one, before we take off for vacation, and I want to spend those two messages on prayer, talking about how to encourage us and improve our prayer lives. Now, James then wants to help us here by showing us two ways that our desires deaden our prayer life. Make it worthless or unfruitful. And so that's what I want to consider this morning. And I hope you follow along with your bulletin outline as we look at this, Dan. You can finally hear this. I guess you get the outlines with the tapes, but you don't get them with the tape, come before and after After and you get them usually before or after? We don't get the L. You don't get the out there in the bulletins. I thought you got the All right, we gotta make a note here in the office. Poor guys get us along. No wonder he can't follow along with what I'm saying. Gee, whiz. You gotta get those outlines to you. Okay, well you got the outline this morning, so now you can finally follow along what I'm saying and make a little more sense to you. Two things then that keep us from praying. The first Is that our desires keep us from praying at all? That's the first two words to fill in. At all. You see, that's what he says there in verse 2. He says, you desire, you have Uh you want something and you do not have it because you do not ask God You just don't ask them. There's things that you're wanting, that you're fighting for, that you're clamoring for, that you have tension about, and uh you're feeling like you're a street orphan who's struggling for survival. And you don't have these things because you've forgotten that you have a heavenly father. You've forgotten that there's someone who has omnipotent compassion on you, who wants to give you all those things that are good for you. James says you want, but you don't have because you're not asking God. Very, very simple. Not very hard to understand that. You want things and you're not having the things you want because you're not asking God for them. J I thought about that some. As I thought about it, I thought, why is that? Why is that for Christians who believe in prayer, believe that God answers prayer, that believe we have a Heavenly Father? Why is that? And I come up with four reasons why I think our desires keep us from praying. Four reasons why we don't pray. So you see them listed. Four problems there. The first one, the problem of self sufficiency. Self sufficiency. I don't need to ask. That's the first problem. That's partly the curse of our affluence, isn't it? Partly the curse of our having so many things that we see that we can provide of ourselves One of the saddest things I think is that it's very typical in American homes when we come to family devotions to come to the end of our time and ask the kids, All right, is there anything that we can pray for you about now? And the answer is so often, no. Because you see that question translates to our kids, is there anything that you need that you're not able to provide for yourself? And so our kids say, No, you know, anything that I really need that I either can provide for myself or I can just, you know, not that important to me. I have what I need A sense of self-sufficiency. That's equated with, therefore, I don't need to pray. I don't need to ask God for the things because most of it I can provide for We view prayer as kind of an automatic teller at the bank, you know, where you go if you need money and you sort of put in your number into the account and you get that money out for yourself, you want to make sure that you don't overdraw the account and in these terms to therefore owe God too many favors for what you're asking him to do for you. So you want to keep things moderately on an equilibrium. You know, God, I won't bother you too much so that you don't ask too much of me. And a sense of self sufficiency and independence that we derive from From that. And yet that is so foolish, because it's an illusion that we're self sufficient. And when the Lord then in his kindness comes to reduce us to a sense of urgent need, we think, how mean of God. That He's taken something away from me or He's frustrated me and there's something I don't have. And now I need to ask, and He hasn't given it to me immediately. And so God is a big meanie. He isn't really the God of love that I have thought that he was, and I have difficulty squaring how God's responding to me. Because we have such an inbred sense of self-sufficiency in our praying. There's a second problem, a problem that I call vague generalities. I don't care what I ask. A problem of vague generalities. Now, as I go through these four problems, obviously I want you in each case to look in your own life and say, yeah, do I identify with that? Do I have something of that attitude that's keeping me? from asking God for the things that I desire, that I want, that I think I need. Now the second problem of vague generalities I describe as a problem Of sloppy praying. That's Lord, I thank you so much for this day. Thank you for providing all of our needs, and I pray that you'll bless our family, and I pray that you will keep us healthy, and I pray I pray that you'll bless our church, and I pray, Lord, that you'll bless the missionaries, you'll bless the Iversons, and you'll bless the others. And Lord, I pray that you will cause your work to really grow and to prosper. Do all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Now the trouble of course is that when you finish that prayer and you stop and think for a moment, you say, Now, if God answered that, how can I tell? Now I mean if if God heard it or answered it or if he didn't hear it and didn't answer it, what difference would it make? How would I know And so because we have this notion of praying in vague generalities, we think that the prayer doesn't relate to real, concrete, practical needs. Let me tell you that the church began to turn the world upside down in the first century because people saw the reality of Jesus Christ and his power pitted against the demonic and earthly powers. People were healed. People saw daily, immediate needs and prayers that were answered. Now the reason that the gospel has made such an inroad into Africa in this century is because people have seen that the God of Jesus Christ is stronger than the God of the witch doctor. They've seen that when people have immediate needs, that this God answers in practical ways. He is a strong God who hears and answers in practical, concrete, daily realities. And so if you and I move into the kind of vague spiritual kind of praying that doesn't relate to concrete realities. Then when we come to our needs, we don't think to ask him. Because prayer is saved for either the vague spiritual generalities or the emergencies. But in terms of daily asking for the things that I want and I need, prayer somehow doesn't seem relevant. It's only saved for those other special occasions. The third reason that I think we have trouble asking God and living daily in prayer is the problem of what I call trivialities. The problem of trivialities. And that's the attitude, I don't want to bother God. It's really amazing to me how many Christians think that there is a threshold of importance to God. You know, so you're late for an appoint appointment. And you realize that five years from now, you're not going to care whether you got this parking space within the next five minutes. But right now it is the most important thing in your life. You must find that parking space. And yet, are you going to ask God, Lord, please help me get a parking space so that I can get to this Disappointment or give me peace to be late. But no, what do you do? You scrap at your wife, you bark at the kids, you snap and you grouch. But you don't ask God why? Because you're saying to yourself With all the thousands and hundreds of thousands and millions of starving children in the world and all that's on God's mind of the political crises and this and that, how can I bother him for a parking space But what are you doing? You're really saying, you see, there's a threshold of what how important something has to be before I bother God for it. And until it crosses that threshold, I'll stew and I'll fret and I'll try to work it out on my own until I'm finally reduced to tears, and then maybe I'll say, God, I know this is silly, but I really need this. The problem of trivialities. Amazing. How many Christians deny 1 Peter 5, I think it's verse 7, where God says, cast all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Isn't that good news? Cast all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Literally the Greek says, because it matters to him. concerning you. What does? All your anxieties, no matter how trivial they might seem to you at this point, God says if it bothers you, then I'm concerned. And if you are bonded and don't bring it to me, then there comes a wall between you and the Father. Because again, you see, it's an attempt to maintain your independence. To say the little things I'll work out, but I'll go to God for the big things. James says, look, there's things you want, you don't have them, because you don't ask the Father. What a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer. Scriven goes on to say, Oh what peace we often forfeit, oh what needless pain we bear, all because we do not carry everything, not just the big things, not just the spiritual things, everything. To God in prayer. James says, you don't have? Because you don't ask God. Then there's the fourth reason that I call the problem of vanities. The fourth reason why we don't ask God, the problem of vanities. of vanities. Here the attitude is, I'm afraid to ask God. Now this I believe is the problem that is most relevant, though all of them are. This one is most relevant to the text. Because what we're saying here is, I'm afraid to ask God for this thing that I want, because if I ask him, that's going to raise the question of whether he wants me to have it. You see, and I'd rather sort of avoid that question. I'd rather avoid asking whether I can really pray this in Jesus' name because that's going to take all kinds of emotional energy. And look I can probably work it out on my own anyway, and God probably isn't very concerned about whether I have boresuits or five suits so why should I pray about that? Or whether I have ten pairs of shoes or eleven pairs of shoes and what color they are and where I get them, you know. And so I'll make those decisions Because somehow there is a fear that if I begin to bring all of my life on a daily basis to God, then his priorities are going to begin to intrude on that and I'm going to have to raise some questions that I'd rather avoid. And so it's the praying, that it's the avoiding of praying, because I'm afraid that what I am seeking are vanities. What I'm seeking are really things that he probably either doesn't care about or isn't very happy about my having, and I don't really want to bother him about it. I'd rather not raise the issue, you know I mean grace will cover if it's a few mistakes here and there. That's okay. But I'm not going to bother myself raising the issue about whether God wants me to have the things that I want. And what are we doing? Again, you see, we're driving a wedge between us and the Father, maintaining a certain degree of independence. Saying, I'll take care of this area of my life, and God will bring to you certain other areas, but I'm maintaining a certain independence from God. What a terrible way to live What a terrible way to live, where we think that we take to God just the vague spiritual generalities or the emergencies or the big things and all these other areas, daily living. We don't share with him. We don't bring to him. And why is that? That third thing, excuse me, that fourth thing, the idea of the vanities, is what leads James to verse 3. Now, you see, verse 3 is an anticipation as a counselor of a question that we have. In verse 2, he says, you don't have because you don't ask God. James says, I hear somebody there saying, oh, wait a minute, James, now I have asked God, and I haven't gotten it after I've asked him. So I'm discouraged in my praying. It doesn't work, James. It's fine to talk about all this business of ask God for all of your needs, but James, I've asked for an awful lot of things and I haven't got them. James says, Ah, I thought you were going to say that. And so he comes right back with his counsel. When you ask, he says, you don't receive. Right, that's what I just said. Sure. He says, Well, I'll tell you the reason. Because he says You ask with wrong motives. That you may spend what you get on your Pleasures. Now what does that mean? This is the second point that prayer, that our desires keep us from praying in Jesus' name. First reason, first way they do it is to keep us from praying at all. The second reason on the back is that they keep us from praying in Jesus' name. You see, this is a very important verse for us. Very important. I believe if this verse was not in the Bible, we'd have a lot more problem with the people that go around saying that if you ask anything in Jesus' name and feel faith for it. God promises to give it to you. But you know, James 4, 3 cuts right through that erroneous thinking. Because James is saying here, fact, the Bible does not promise everything that you and I pray for, even if we feel close to God when we pray it, that it will be given. James says you're praying. You must believe that then you can bring it to God, but you don't get it. There are numbers of things, James says, that you do ask God for that you do not Get. And so when you don't get things that you pray for, that does not in any way contradict Scripture. James 4. 3 says that will be our experience. But then it gives the reason, not only the fact, but the reason. What's the reason? The reason is very simple. Wrong motives. Praying with wrong motives to spend what you get on your own pleasure. There are other reasons why prayers aren't answered, and I will get into that next week But this is the one that James focuses on right now. He says you spend, you want to spend what you get on your own pleasures, and therefore God is keeping it from you. Pat Robertson recently I don't know about you, but there's times when I feel in my own self that I am a self-centered and materialistic child. And if you're honest with yourself, don't you sometimes feel that way? You know, we live in such a self-centered, materialistic generation that it's hard for us to even be aware how self-centered and materialistic it is. Until you read an article like Time magazine a couple of months back had an article on a new subculture, the dinks. You know what the dinks are the yuppies and the puppies and the rest of them. There's the dinks now, you know, the dinks are double income no kids. The reason the dinks are dinks is because they have become so addicted to their affluence that they have ruled out ever having kids because it would interfere with their lifestyle. And so this has now become an accepted kind of you know, these are the kind of people that, you know, they both work put in hard long weeks and then they take off for the weekend to bora bora or something, you know, to regroup, so go back on Monday, you know, and then they charge in again, you know, and they usually have big Big dogs, you know. These things that, you know, fill up the living room when you come to the front door, you know. I'm not against big dogs, I've had big dogs in my life, see if anybody has a big dog, I'm not trying to, you know, convict you of your big dog. I'm just saying that there is Is in our culture such a notion of how much disposable income I want to have and disposable time that I want to have and all the things that I want to center about me and nobody is challenging that centeredness because it looks so normal around here. And because it looks so normal, we don't see that these desires This notion of a spend it on my pleasures lifestyle is coming between us and the Lord. It's coming between us and being able to commune with Him and to be able to pray in Jesus' name. Because all we're concerned about is do I need it? Does it affect my family? Does it affect me? And so the church calls for a corporate concert of prayer or a missions concert of prayer. And we say, that doesn't interest me. It doesn't affect me. If it doesn't affect me or my family, why should I go? Why should I be part of it? Why should I engage in that? That's why we put the sessional prayer request in the bulletin each week to help us to grow in getting outside of ourselves As many of us do, and I acknowledge that freely as a church, uh, this is one of the most unselfish kinds of churches that I certainly have known And yet, even in our unselfishness, we are unaware, I think, on deeper levels, of how selfish a culture we live in and how that affects our praying. How that affects our being frustrated in prayers because we don't recognize the selfishness that just centers in on spending it on my own pleasures. You know that word spend is the same word that's used in Luke 15. In Luke 15, the story of the prodigal son, you have there that the prodigal son, you remember, asked for his inheritance And then Luke tells us, Jesus parable here, Luke recording it, tells us how he went out and he squandered it And totally spent it on his own pleasure. And then the next verse, Luke 15, 14, says, when he had spent everything The word there spent is the same word that we have in James 4. 3 here. Spent it on his own pleasures. How empty he was. What a terrible emptiness there is in spending things on our own pleasures, isn't there? And this is what James is getting at. He says you want and you can't have. Because what you want, because it centers on yourself, will never really satisfy. It'll never be the kind of thing that God can give you because it's not the best for you, not because he wants in some stingy and mean way to withhold it from you, even though he knows that it would really make you happy. But because he's training us to change our desires into those things that will make us happy. See, I think that when we come to a message like this, the the tendency is to think, ah, Al's trying to challenge me to pray for things that I want So that I'll pray for things that I don't want. And that's what really makes God happy. The less I want it, and the more I pray for it, the happier He is. But that's not what this is saying. You see, what this is saying is that when Jesus Christ comes in to the world, our life, he wants to change our desires. And as he changes those desires, he makes those genuine desires. So that when I pray those things, my desires merging with His become the thing I really want. It will really make me happy. And when I see God grant that, it is something that gives me tremendous joy. Because the Bible tells us in contrast to the prodigal son, there came another son. And when that other son came, he was the second Adam, in contrast to the first Adam, who said, Not your will, but mine be done. And when the second Adam came, he knelt in a garden of Gethsemane, and he prayed with genuine desires, Lord, if there is any way, let this cup pass from me. Lord, I desire something. I deeply desire to avoid crucifixion. I profoundly desire to escape facing the full thrust of the attack of Satan and the hosts of hell. But Father, there's something I desire, really desire, even more than that. Not my will But yours be done. Even if that means taking me to a cross, even if that means for me to be mocked and scourged. Because my desire is the people that you love. And I'll do anything for that. Not my will, but yours be done. And when you and I get a glimpse of Jesus, And understand what it meant for him to go to the cross for us. That changes our desires. That changes the things that James says that we want and that we will ask God for That changes the spend it on my own pleasures attitude to let me spend myself for your pleasure And when we do that, we begin to see our desires merge with the desires of Jesus Christ, and we begin to see prayers answered. I think of a fellow who has been to me a particular model of prayer. He was a Cornish alcoholic by the name of Billy Bray. God got a hold of that guy's life. He brought him to himself and he put away his alcoholism. And Billy Bray, who was barely literate, used to go in the streets of the villages around where he lived and he would preach Christ. He'd just walk and talk about to anybody who would want to. Listen about Jesus Christ. And then what he would do is he'd get people together and he would gather a crowd and he'd build churches. He'd form a church and then he'd build the church with his own hands One occasion he was building a church in an area and he had the foundation laid, he put the floors up, uh the walls up, had a ceiling, uh was down to furnishing it, but he needed a pulpit. He didn't have any money. And he was uh at an auction. And he asked God, Lord, provide the pulpit I need for this. And so I went to the auction and there was a fellow standing next to him and he saw this three-cornered cupboard And he looked at that and he said, That'd be perfect for a pulpit. I could use that and knock that drake down a little bit and that'd be perfect. He asked the guy next to him, he said, How much do you think that'll go for? He said, Probably six shillings. Well, Billy Gray didn't have six shillings, but the man gave him six shillings. So here, just six shillings. Why don't you go take that and must have talked to him about the pulpit and he said, Why don't you take that and use it for the pulpit? So when the uh auction came when this item came up, the auctioneer said, How much am I bid for this? And Billy Bray, because he was rather naive, and uh you know, was purely uh as they say, literate. He didn't wait for anybody else to bid anything. He just said, I'll give you six shillings for it. And a guy said, All right, going once, going twice and then another fellow said, seven shillings And he said, going once, going twelve. Well Billy Barry only had six. So he let it go. The guy said, sold for seven shillings. There's a fellow, you know, disappointed. I prayed, Lord, I thought that was for you. It seemed to be your desire. Why didn't you give me that? He was so discouraged he turned to the fellow who had given the six shillings to return it and the guy had gone. He couldn't even return the money. So he put the six shillings in his pocket and he thought he'd follow the guy. Find out where that thing ended up Put it on this cart with some horses and went out of town to this house. They got it to the house. They brought it up to the front door. They couldn't get it through the front door They tried sideways, they tried long ways, they tried this way, they tried there was no way they could get the cupboard through the door. Finally the owner comes out and he says, Now I've got to chop the thing up for firewood. Billy Bray comes up, he says, I got six shillings, I'll give you for it. Only now he's a I'll give you the six shillings for it if you'll take it down to my church. The guy says, sure, six shillings, I'll do it. He says, okay guys, take that thing down, unload it, and put it in his church. Billy says, uh, how like the Lord Not only does he give it to me, but he knew I couldn't carry it, and so he provided the transportation. You see it when our desires merge with the Lord's There's no limit to what he can do. They say, Yeah, fury if you're building churches and one pulpit, but you know I got daily means Listen, let me tell you, share an example with you. This week there We were praying about this, the same kind of thing I was talking about, family devotions. As we talked about that, uh Heather said, You know, I'm discouraged. She said, I need shorts. Now let me tell you, I asked her if I could show this example and she said it's okay, and she's not here anyway, she won't be in She said, I uh you know, she's I I need shorts and I d I don't have money for 'em. And all her friends, you know, one kid gets two hundred dollars to spend, go out this weekend. buy whatever he wants, you know, and somebody else doesn't that. And she says, That's hard, Dad. It's really hard. I'm supposed to be a Christian, you know, God's our father and all this. And she says, All my friends, you know, get whatever they want and I don't have So we say, Hey, you're not gonna make us feel guilty. Let's pray. Let's pray God will provide you shorts. Like, you know, well, you know, right how can you argue, you know, but do you have anything to pray for tonight? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Shorts, that's what I need, you know. So he prayed. That was Wednesday night. Thursday, she went into work. The boss said, today I decided that I'm going to cut everything for employees fifty percent. You can pick whatever you want off the rack. She said, I got two pairs, twenty-four dollars worth of shorts for twelve bucks Yeah, she comes home and she says, Does God hear prayer? You know, it's not just the things about building churches and about bringing people to Christ. It's daily, everyday needs as we bring our desires to Jesus Christ. So I have the those little suggestions on the back, don't have time really to go through them, but you see there in the little acronym there PRAY, and I suggest you just follow those four steps to help you in this Pray, persevere. Luke 18. 1, Jesus said, The thing that I fear most is you will not persist in praying. He taught them a parable that they would pray and not faint You're never going to learn to pray unless you keep on praying for the things that you desire. Then let God change those desires. Don't give up. Secondly, record your prayers Record the request, then put next to that in another column any scriptural command or promise that relates to it. Examine God's word that you'll have a basis for that. That's taking your desires and conforming them to Scripture, to the mind of Christ. And then after you've done that, then record what does God do? Keep a record, keep that thing, cards, notebooks, whatever you do, keep that, whether it's months or years, don't throw it away till you see something happen. Positive, negative, Whatever it is, record it. Then you will learn, you see, how to pray. And so as you do that, you put down. Now here's what I learned about what God wanted to do with my desires in that case. Or here's what I learned about how to pray persisting or whatever it is. the lesson is. Record it and learn. Third thing, apprentice yourself to Jesus. Look at Jesus' prayers. See how he prayed. Look at the Lord's Prayer and model yourself after Jesus. And then finally, yearn for Jesus. As I said before, when you spend the time with him, seeing his desire for you, and your love grows for him, you will spend yourself for his pleasure with delight. And the joy. Let's pray. Lord our God, teach us to pray. Lord, we're tired of feeling guilty about how we don't pray. We're tired of dichotomizing our life into the big spiritual religious things that are important to you And meanwhile trying to trudge on through with our own petty concerns that nag at us and worry us and we fret and we snap and we bark And our relationship with you is so distant because we've come to think that you don't care. And Lord, it's terrible. Lord, we pray, wake us up now, humble us before you Show us the great love and the desire that you have for us, how you want to show yourself strong on our behalf. Lord, how you are concerned for my daughter to have shorts. You're concerned for our food and our clothing and the things that we need. Lord, we pray, help us to bring our desires to you. To let them be transformed and changed where necessary. The Lord teach us. Teach us to pray. I know if there's somebody here that, like Ben, didn't know how to pray because he didn't know you. Pray that you bring that person. To see your desire for them to have eternal life, and that you would offer that to them, and that they would come into that relationship of child to a father. Lord, we give to you our desires then. We give them in Jesus' name. Amen.