Somebody stepped on your rights this week, didn't they? Maybe it was um in traffic You know, you come up to those construction areas and it says merge left for a mile ahead, and so you dutifully merge left and everybody comes whipping past you on the right, you know, and so your line never moves because you're sitting there in the lane that you are. Colombia has these two lanes that narrow down to one lane. I sometimes think that it's not so much to increase the flow of traffic as it is to train Colombians in aggression, you know, somehow to test it and to develop it in the people. So they'll succeed in their job somehow or something. Maybe it was somebody that uh made you late for an appointment this week, something, some place that you had to be. Or maybe it was the kids who robbed you of that peace and the quiet that you thought you so very much needed and you can't believe that it's only the second week of summer vacation. You know, or maybe it was Some insensitive remark that was made to you this week. What was it Was there one day that you or I this week didn't get angry, at least for some brief period of time? Maybe it was it somebody who was incompetent, who was thoughtless, who was trying to take advantage of you. Maybe it was quick. Maybe it's a long-term deep hostility. Maybe there's somebody whose name, if I mentioned it to you now, just to hear their name would make your blood pressure rise a little bit, you know You can't think of that person or talk about them without saying something critical about them. And you say, that person makes me so angry. And yet James tells us that people don't make us. get angry. Do you remember he had said in chapter 1, in verse 19, My brothers, take note of this. Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to become angry. Now, if we don't control anger, and other people make us angry, James could not command us to control the rapidness with which our anger develops. But Jing says, be slow to become angry. Other people don't make you or control your emotions to become angry. Now they may sure provoke them, but they don't ultimately control them. And James picks up this idea of anger here in chapter 4, and he develops it in more depth, and in an extremely insightful and helpful way in his counseling to us. about the anger that we deal with in each of our lives. Do you remember he said in chapter 3 and verse 18, peacemakers who sow in peace raise a harvest of righteousness. And then in chapter 4, verses 1 to 3, he develops now how he didn't, that is our desires, those desires that are controlled by our own selfish, innately uh rebellious natures Divide us, destroy our relationships both with people in verse one and beginning of verse two and then also with God in the end of verse two and verse three So let's look at those three verses again as we try to get some help from James on this problem of our anger. James says, What causes fights and quarrels among you? Don't they come from your desires that battle with In you, you want something, but you don't get it. You kill and covet, but you cannot have what you want You quarrel and you fight. You do not have because you do not ask God. When you ask, you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get. On your pleasure. Now I see in this three stages of anger that James is outlining for us in order to help us to understand it. And the three stages that he talks about here are desire, frustration, and violence. Desire, frustration, and violence. Now it helps, I think, at this point for us to realize that there is probably a better translation of the beginning of verse 2 than the one that we have in the NIV. The NIV generally I find is a excellent translation. I seldom quarrel with it, but in this case I think that there is a better translation. And I put that translation on your bulletin. You see it right there at the top of the bulletin, right under the uh this the uh reference James 42A. It's the translation that's pretty close to the New American Standard Translation. And so Look at that one because that's the translation that I think helps us to understand what James is saying and the one that we're going to be following. He says, you want something, but you don't get it, so you kill You covet, but you cannot have what you want, so you quarrel and fight. Now, see, in the original Greek there is no punctuation, and this whole thing simply rests on how you decide to punctuate those words. And I think by putting it in this form, we see that what James is doing, and what I think he intended to do, so that we'd understand it, is that he is stating the process twice Each time he states the three stages, but the first time he simply states it, and then the second time he intensifies it so that you can feel the frustration. You notice? He says, you want something. Desire. But you don't get it. Frustration. So you kill. Violence. This is now. You covet. That word means an intense consuming desire. So it's intensified. Then secondly he says, but you cannot have what you want. Now he's saying it's not just a matter of you don't get it. You're not able to get it. And you realize that And so there's a deeper frustration. And then he says, so you quarrel and fight, and those two words are the same two words we considered last week in verse one, which more literally mean you go to battle and you go to war over it. Now, having understood that, seeing the intensity so that you feel the frustration and the mounting anger, let's take a look at the different parts to get some help from James on this. First of all, there is desire. That's the first then blank for you to fill in there on the outline. Number one is desire, the first stage. You want something. It's a word that's compared to that word hidane that I say is so key to understanding these three verses. A word that reads But the problem is that because you and I ref have selfish, sinful natures that are by the very nature of who we are set against God and centering on ourselves James says in chapter 1, in verse 14, remember, he says that each one is tempted when by his own evil desire he's dragged away and enticed. And so it's not just a question of desires, you see, it's a question of what's developing those desires. And what do we do with those desires? And James says, left to ourselves, those desires all turn in on ourselves. And they become, rather than simply innocent desires, sometimes obsessions. You um like clothes And you pride yourself in the fact that you have good taste in your clothes. You have a sense of style, a sense of coordination, a sense of texture and color matching. And people have complimented you on how you look in clothes. And that's fine, but then you find that gradually you become obsessed with style. You've got to have the best and the newest style clothes. And you become obsessed with quality in your clothes. You become addicted to the compliments that are given you when you're wearing the right thing and people notice you about it. And the desire has become an obsession. You James says, you desire, you covet, you really desire it. You're obsessed with a desire. That's what he's talking about here in verse two. You like to go shopping. And you pride yourself on the fact that you're a good steward of the resources that God has given you. So you shop carefully Uh but that shopping carefully begins to become an obsession with shopping. And so you find yourself from simply Finding shopping to be a pleasurable pastime in which you can make the best use of your money to get the things that you want. to where you find that eventually you're putting that little bumper sticker on your car, which you've probably seen that says, when the going gets tough, the tough goes shopping. You know, and shopping has become an obsession to you. That's what James is talking about. You desire something, but the desire now has become a coveting. It's become an unhealthy desire. Well you like cards? I like cars. Hey man, I come into the office this weekend. You know what do the copier man and I talk about? Well he just got this Toyota FS. sixteen, you know, and he can wind the thing up in first and second gear to seven thousand RPMs without redlining or doing any damage to it. Yeah. And we're talking about cars back and forth and we enjoy it. But then, you know, gradually you notice that you become obsessed with cars. And as you're driving along rather than praying, you're noticing the cars on the road. You're sort of comparing them, and you're fine trying to figure out how can you rationalize getting rid of your car at sixty thousand rather than a hundred and sixty thousand miles because you really need to get a new car. And a design Desire has become something that controls you, so that you begin to want that thing more than Jesus. You think about it more than Jesus and it begins to control your motives and the things that you do. It could be vacation or a vacation home. It could be your house, your furniture, your hobby, any of these things, which, as I remind you again, that word desire is a neutral word. It's not talking about evil desires. It's simply talking about desires, and James says those desires can become something that is destructive. because Jesus Christ is left out of it. Having said that then, we move on to the second stage, and that's the frustration stage. Now in the frustration stage, James is saying here, you don't get it. Notice the number of times that you read in these couple of verses how you don't get what you want. You notice in verse 2 he says you want something but you don't get it. You cannot have what you want. You don't have it because you don't ask. Verse 3, you ask, you don't receive it. Four times he's mentioned in two verses that you don't get what you want. And so you're frustrated. That's the essence of frustration. To have some desire blocked in your being able to obtain it. And so that frustration can come on two levels. The one level is that you simply want the Mercedes-Benz believing that you'd be happy the rest of your days if you had the Mercedes Benz, but you just can't get a Mercedes Benz. You simply don't have the resources for it. Or that vacation home that would become your oasis from the pressures for the rest of your life. You just can't get it. Or that husband that if you only have you'd be happy. Or the wife that would make you happy. Or even a boyfriend or girlfriend. You'd settle for that. And at your stage, maybe that's appropriate. But you can't have it. God has not provided it. That's one level of frustration. But there's a deeper level of frustration that James is also talking about here, and that's where you get the thing that you want But you discover in the obtaining of it that it hasn't satisfied because there is a deeper longing, an insatiable longing and desire that never gets satisfied. Proverbs twenty-seven says that death And destruction are never never satisfied, neither are the eyes of man. Getting what we thought would make us happy And then finding out that we're still unsatisfied. Probably my favorite story in our collection of Grimm's fairy tales at home. is the old tale about the fisherman and his wife. I don't know how many of you have ever heard that story, but you know it's about this uh simple old fisherman who uh one day while he's fishing, he catches a flounder out of the sea. And as he's throwing the flounder into the sack, the flounder pops up and says, Sir, please don't eat me, because I'm not a normal flounder, I'm an enchanted flounder, and I'd really ask you to be kind to me and throw me back into the sea. Well, of course the fisherman thinks he don't want to eat a flounder that talks and so, you know, he takes a flounder and tosses him back into the sea. Gets home and his wife says, You jerk, here we are living in this miserable Hubble and you're so stupid, don't you know that enchanted flounders can grant wishes? Then go back to that flounder, you'll get him out of the sea again and tell him we'd like a nice cottage instead of this miserable hole that we're living in. Yeah, so the fellow goes back to the sea and catches that flounder again, he calls him up and he says, You know, my wife would like a nice cottage instead of this miserable hobbler within, you know, can you do anything about that? He says, Hey, go home, she's already got it Biggest home and there's this beautiful cottage where the you know just this old little shack had been. And he says, Wow, this is great, like we can be happy here forever She says, Yeah, we'll see. About a week later, she says, You know, I was really stupid. I should have asked for a castle. instead of a cottage. This place is really too small, you know. S I want you to go back to that flounder and I want you to go get him out of the sea again and you tell him, look, you can do a cottage, you can do a castle. Up with a castle Then he goes back, you know, he's getting a little unhappy about this whole thing, but he goes back, gets the flounder out and the you know flounder. My wife wants a castle now. How you know you can do that? Hey, go home, she's got it. He goes back and there's this big castle sitting there now, you know. He's got a park that's a half a mile About two days later, she says, hey listen, I'm not happy here anymore. Let you and me be king and queen of the land He goes, Wife, I don't want to be the king. She says, All right, you don't want to be king? I'll be king. You be the queen. So she sends him back to the flat and he says, My wife wants to be king. She says, Go home, she's king. He goes, Home, there she is. Now she's got this big, huge castle and she's got everything at her disposal. Surely you'll be happy now. Next day she says, I want to be emperor. No more of this king stuff. Goes back to the Flanders. She's emperor. All right. Go home. She's gone. You know, you think your wife is never satisfied? He goes home, she's emperor. Then she says, This is an old story. She says, now I am not satisfied with merely being emperor. I want to be Pope. He says, wait a minute. You want to be Pope? Yes, I want to be Pope. I will not rest until I'm Pope. He goes back to the Flounders. She wants to be Pope. She says, go home, she's Pope. Now she's Pope. So the next morning at sunrise she gets up and she says, I can't stand it. The sun rose without my bidding it to. Go back to that flounder and tell him I will be Lord of the universe. He goes back to the flounder and he says, hey, you're not going to believe this one. The flounder says, go home, she's back in the hovel. That's it. I'm finished with her. And there is in that story something which captures me every time I read it. And I say, yeah, I can identify with that. And how foolish, how foolish we are, aren't we? We think that if I had just a little bit more I'd be happy. A little bit more money. A little higher salary. A little bit more at my disposal. Then I'd be happy. And we're constantly frustrated, James says, because he says, what you want, you cannot obtain. You simply can't get what you think that you want. And because you can't get that, you are frustrated. The famous man of letters, Samuel Johnson, who uh wrote the the biographies, wrote once in uh one of his uh writings Of all that have tried this selfish experiment, let one come forth and say that he has succeeded. He that has made gold is idle, has it satisfied him? He that has toiled in the fields of ambition, has he been repaid? He that has ransacked every theater of sensual enjoyment, is he content? Can any answer in the affirmative? Not one. Or as Sean McMurray succinctly put it, the best cure for hedonism is the attempt to practice it. Or you think of one of the richest men who ever lived. He was a man who said that he had everything that one's heart could desire. He said that he built himself great houses. He had the castles, he had the gardens. He built the gardens, the parks, he said he put all kinds of trees in it, had his own arboretums, had his own reservoirs in order to water the arboretums, had his own fountains, had male and female slaves. He said that beside that, he had all the flocks and the herds that anyone could wish. He amassed silver and gold and had kings' treasures in his own storehouses. He said that he acquired men and women slaves. He said he had a harem as well as that, the delight of a heart of a man. Became greater than anybody who was known in the entire world at that time. And he said, what was my conclusion? He says, I denied myself nothing that my eyes desired. I refused my heart no pleasure. My heart took delight in all my work and was the reward of all my labor. That was King Solomon. And what did he say was his conclusion after having done all of that? He says in Ecclesiastes 2. 11, the next verse. When I surveyed all that my hands had done, and what I had toiled to achieve, everything was meaningless. A chasing after the wind Nothing was gained under the sun. Frustration, frustration at being able to fulfill the desires that we see are necessary. When James says, what does that frustration lead to? It leads to violence. Violence. Notice the language, shocking language that he uses. A language that sort of jars us. He says, you don't you want something, you don't get it, so what do you do? You kill. And then he says uh the word to kill is the word for murder And he says, then you uh you go to battle and you go to war about this. Interpreters have debated for many years is this to be understood literally or figuratively? We can't rule out the literal meaning. James himself, you know, says in chapter 5 and verse 7 that he's talking about, excuse me, by verse 6 Talking about those who were greedy, he says you've condemned and you've murdered innocent men who are not opposing you. That may be figurative too. We'll consider that when we get to it A little later on. But it's possible I believe a Christian is capable of every possible sin. uh not on a regular, continuing basis without repentance, but capable of every sin. King David, a man after God's own heart, committed murder because of his desires. We can't rule out the literal. But I think the primary meaning here is a figurative one because you remember Jesus said in Matthew 5. That he who hates his brother is a murderer. John said in 1 John 3 and verse 15, that he who hates his brother is a murderer. And I think that what John is trying to do, excuse me, what James is trying to do here is that he's trying to shock us when we tend to minimize the conflict that comes by our own self-ish desires and frustrations. When we get angry at people, whether it's a flare up of anger or whether it's that deep hostility, that we say, well, you know, everybody's got a temper and well, you know, uh just sort of ticked me off and well, yeah, I just can't get along with that person. It's a personality conflict, it's this and that. James says, hey, no. So I want you to understand that's killing. That is destruction. And then he goes on, you see, in the intensification to say you're going to battle with that person. You are going to war. And by using this military language, he is seeking to shock us awake to taking this seriously. So that we'll repent of it. So that we'll see how ugly and terrible it is. We'll see it in terms of military conflict and war rather than simply, well, you know, everybody's got that problem. And by doing that, it drives us to Jesus Christ. Now, what is the solution to this? Let me suggest the solution is only in Jesus Christ and what He can provide. And that solution, you see it on the back of your bulletin, can only be through Jesus who can set you free from this by his providing three things. The three things are number one, personal contentment. Personal contentment. See, I think one of the major problems that we have as Christians, when we get angry And react grudgingly, critically toward other people, is that we have forgotten what we've been forgiven of in our own offenses against God We have forgotten how we've been forgiven, of how we have wronged the great and holy God. Do you remember in Matthew 18 when Peter asked the Lord Jesus, Lord, how many times have I got to forgive these creeps? And he says, seventy times seven. Let me tell you a story, Simon. You remember he told him about that fellow who had been forgiven a ten million dollar debt. Now, how are you ever going to pay back ten million dollars? It's impossible. That's the point. But then you remember he went right out, and a fellow who was a friend of his owed him about a thousand bucks. A major debt, but one that was possible to pay And he throttles the guy and he says, Pay everything that you owe, and he says, Have mercy, and he has no mercy. Now what's the point of that parable? Jesus is saying That he treated his friend on the basis of law because he had forgotten grace. And listen, when you and I Forget about the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to us. We begin to treat others on the basis of law. And when we treat others on the basis of law for getting grace, we become very angry people. We bear grudges. We refuse to forgive because we must defend our rights. And we become angry, bitter people. The only solution to that is as James says a little later on down there in verse 7, he says, come near to God. And let him come near to you. Or in verse 10, humble yourself, he says, under the Lord, and let him lift you up. Come to the Lord Jesus personally. Perhaps you've never come for forgiveness. Perhaps you've never humbled yourself before Him. And you need to gain that contentment that come from the first time in your life by for the first time receiving his forgiveness for all of your offenses and for all the way that you've wronged him. Perhaps as a Christian, you've forgotten about grace. And you need to come back to the Lord. You've been functioning on the basis of law. And you need to come back so that he can remind you of his grace, of his tender forgiveness, of all that you've done against him So that you can come before him and you can say, Lord, you remember I've done this and this and this, and he says, I know that I have forgiven every bit of that. I don't hold any of that against you. And all of a sudden, in the realization of what he has given to you You find yourself saying, how in the world could I be mad at anyone? Lord, what contentment you've given to me By showing me again what you did at the cross when you took all of my sin. And you took that and you carried it away and you bore it on yourself so that the Father cursed and condemned you. So that you'd hold nothing against me. Have you forgotten grace this morning? Did you find that you forgot grace this week in the traffic and against that thoughtless person or that incompetent and all the others that irritated you or the person whose very name would raise your blood pressure Draw near to God, and He'll draw near to you. And He'll speak to you of His grace and His kindness, and you'll find a contentment. It will drive out the anger. The second thing that he gives is also a personal submission. A personal submission. You see there in verse 7 he says, Submit yourself then to God. And that word, which we'll consider in a little more detail later on in the series, that word submit is very key to the understanding of all that James is talking about here. Submitting yourself to God. You see, that's part of the key to his whole counsel here You and I desire things more than we desire God and godliness. And we forget in those intense desires that the Lord wants to use the frustrations. Like a sculptor uses a chisel, and he wants to form through those chiseling frustrations the image. of the Lord Jesus Christ in us the way a sculpture chips away a stone in order to form a beautiful statue out of a formless mass of rock But when you and I fight and resist the frustrations and refuse to accept the circumstances God has placed us in. Then he's got to find other ways to do that. Until he gets our attention, and we say, Lord, I'm just getting angrier and angrier and angrier. And finally I stop and I say, Lord, okay. That's enough. I submit. And in that submission, we find all of a sudden the peace. Now, that submission may not mean that we don't take any action And we don't confront the people that are making us angry. But the attitude of submission places us in the state of contentment Because we recognize that Jesus is in control and I don't need to fight for my rights. Think of the example of a husband Who was having a great deal of difficulty in getting along with his wife? She was very critical of him. And they used to fight terribly. The turning point in their relationship came when all of a sudden he realized, as he had never realized before, that he was defending certain rights against her. She needed to be the certain kind of wife toward him before she would earn his love toward her. And when he realized that he desired her respect for him more than desiring to love her as Jesus had loved him. When he saw that and when he repented of that and said, Lord, that is wrong that is the kind of desire that James four two is talking about. I desire that my wife treats me this way and until she does, I don't have any obligation To love her as Christ loved the church. Then he said, he realized how wrong that desire was. He repented of it, and the whole relationship changed. Because now his desire was to please God. His desire was to please the Lord Jesus. And he knew he could please the Lord Jesus. Maybe he can never please his wife, but that's okay. Because if he pleases the Lord Jesus in loving her, as Christ loved the church, he can be at peace with that. And the chances are she'll be a bit happier of a wife, too. And that in fact happened in this case. And then there's the third thing. The personal hope that Jesus gives us. The personal hope. Again, look at verse 1. He says, What causes quarrels and fights or wars and battles among you? Don't they come from your desires that are battling within you? James says, hey, there's going to come a day when Jesus is going to fulfill every good desire in your heart. And there will be no more baffling of desires again. No more conflicts and turmoil of desires that are mutually exclusive battling within you. Every good desire will be fulfilled. And so he says in chapter 5, verse 7, Be patient then, brothers. Until the Lord's coming. See, that's another key point in understanding the train of his thought that you'll see it develop. Be patient then. Be patient and understand that you have something to look forward to. Be patient and understand what it means for the Lord to come and fulfill every desire, good desire in your heart. And practice Colossians 3. Now what's Colossians three say? Well, very briefly, Colossians three says in the beginning, since then Paul says, You've been raised with Christ, set your hearts on the things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things above. For you've died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. And so when Christ, who is your life, appears, then you will appear with him in glory And so he goes on to say, therefore, put off the evil desires that are conflicting. You know, go later and read that section, Colossians 3. And notice that in verse 8, he links that meditation with saying, therefore, put off the Off anger, malice, and rage. Why? Because there is a contentment in the hope that you have in Christ. The hope that comes through meditating on the riches that you have stored up in the Lord Jesus Christ in glory. You don't have to fight to get everything that you want now. For the Lord Himself is going to give you all that you could desire in that day when he comes. You know, we, I think, so often get angry because we have lost the art of meditation. We've lost the art of meditating on the character and the contentment of Jesus Christ. We lost the art of meditating on his control of our lives and on his coming and on his kingdom. You know, it was John Owen, one of the great pastors of the church of all time, who wrote back in the eighteenth century, he said, If I have observed anything by experience, it is this A man may take the measure of his growth and decay in grace according to his thoughts and meditations upon the person of Christ and the glory of Christ's kingdom. and his love. You meditate on the glory of Christ and of his kingdom and of his love, and you will find that you are not nearly so much an angry person. Because it's in Jesus that we sow peace and raise a harvest of righteousness. So the next time you get angry, remember Jesus. Repent of your desire. More than your desire for God and godliness, and renew your commitment to be an instrument of his peace. Let's pray. Lord our God, we each of us have things that, as is commonly said today, push our buttons. And it may be flare-ups of temper, or it may be the deep residual hostility that we feel toward certain other people. And Lord, you've brought that to our attention through your word again this morning. Lord, that could simply be a reminder that makes us feel guilty for a while until we get ticked off again. Unless your spirit takes that word and shows us Jesus Christ, brings that word to reside in our hearts. And I can't do that, Lord. You have to do that work. Each of us here, Lord, needs to humble ourselves before you, that you will lift us up. And so, Lord, now in this moment of quiet, we seek to humble ourselves before you that you might speak to us of your solution to our anger. Speak to us now. In Jesus' name. Amen.