I'm not sure, but I heard a rumor. that um if Ken uh had referred to a small group they were all gonna get T shirts and they were gonna sit in the front row here and cheer for 'em, but uh I'm not sure that was true. That's just kinda was circulating around. It's quite a couple but I've really noticed how much it's meant to Ken. in doing that ministry. Um he just uh is so encouraged. Every morning we Thursday morning we play racquetball, you know. It's uh tougher and tougher because he's so charged up, you know, with these uh Wednesday night meetings. So uh any of you who consider that kind of ministry, God really blesses the person that's doing it. Notice also we have uh some chairs over here in the front. And uh so um we've taken care of the uh latecomer problem now. Uh for those that uh kind and everything's still there in the back. We no longer have to say, well, we just don't know where to put you. Uh I've heard that the ushers are willing to interrupt my message to a spur people up here over the front and uh we figured that that will get everybody here by nine thirty. Many of us were really touched last week as we heard Mark Pett speak to us from God's Word and from his own experiences of the Lord. A friend told him recently that though he is about forty years old God has given to him the wisdom of a seventy year old man. For the simple reason that he's facing the issues that seventy year old men face. The issue of the brevity of life and of facing his own death. case an imminent death possibly by cancer, unless God heals it in a miraculous way. And so his days, his life, his walk with Jesus Christ have become very precious to him. He sees things now That's wisdom. Wisdom is seeing things as they really are. Seeing things from their proper perspective. We've been going through The book of James, particularly chapter 2 in the last weeks. And James is a book of wisdom. James's purpose is to de-delude us, to strip away the delusions of our culture. And our times in order to show us what reality is. And one of the great delusions of America today is that you can be saved by what I call a TV phase. You know what a TV phase? This TV phase, the state in which you agree with the electronic speaker on the television tube in the comfort of your living room. You acknowledge that everything he says sounds good. You acknowledge that If you say yes to Jesus as he's proclaimed across the two, but that makes you feel good because you realize that Jesus is the way that you can go to heaven. And so in the comfort of your living room, you say yes to Jesus. And you acknowledge that he is everything that that preacher is saying that he is. But it's entirely passive. The very nature of the electronic media, of television, is that there's no interaction. You simply receive The images that they come across, and you acquiesce, you passively acknowledge them. And that's what I call TV faith. And Jesus is saying that there is an utter radical difference between TV faith. TV face that he was maybe writing in our culture, okay? TV face and real life face. See, the point that James is going to get across to is that he's saying the power of Jesus Christ Christ And his nature is so radical, it's so transforming, it's so great, that it is impossible to be united to this man, this bad man Jesus Christ, and not be transformed in your life. You can respond to him passively. That's what James is telling us. He's telling us that if you're going to have an interaction with Jesus Christ and really place biblical faith in him, with that faith by its very nature It's a submissive, reliant faith that transforms your life. It transforms your life in the way you relate to other people. It transforms your life in the way the way that you relate to God Himself. It's everything going through. What James's argument is. And you remember he started in chapter one and verse twenty-two, trying to give us wisdom and delude us, talking about deception. Verse 22 of ver of chapter one, he says, do not merely listen. Listen to the word and so deceive yourself. Do what it says. Then remember down in verse 26, he had said, If anyone considers himself religious and yet does not keep a tight ring on his tongue, He deceives himself because religion is worthless. Then he talks about true religion, true Christianity, which is a concern for those who are in need, the orphans and the widows, to keep yourself unpolluted from And then he picked up, remember, in the beginning of chapter two, with this idea of mercy. And James gets right to the heart of it. You remember he talks about the question of favoritism. And you see, favoritism gets at the heart of the matter of mercy because favoritism, James is saying what you're doing is you're relating to people on the basis of what they can do for you rather than on the basis of how God can use you to meet their needs out of mercy. And so having raised that question, that brings us down to a very Precise question in verse 14. And he says, if in fact you're the kind of person who is not demonstrating by mercy, where you say that you have Jesus as savior, you say you're saved by the blood of the Lamb. And you're going to heaven because you believe John 3. 16. He says, if you say that, if you're not practicing it by a transformed life. Then verse 14 raises the question, what good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith, but he has to And that's the question that he seeks to answer, you remember, by giving four examples from the rest of chapter 2, verses 15 to 26. And I'll wrap up that whole thing today by looking at the points that he makes between the examples. Now we've looked at the examples. But remember I said that between each example there is what I can what I call a connecting proposition. It sort of sums up the the previous that example and it leads you on to the next next example. And then at the end in verse 26 there's a concluding proposition to wrap the whole thing up. Now whether you're doing here or whether you haven't, take a look at the chart in the bulletin outline just so we can review it out mind. So what are we going to do this morning? They're going to lay out some data, okay? And that causes us to have to think. And part of the problem again with so much of the way we expect preaching to be, I think, today, is that we expected to sort of entertain us and carry us along. And I'm going to require of you to think a little bit this morning and and you're going to have to work a little bit for the first part as I try to lay out the data of this passage. But I respect you as a people who I believe want to really understand the word of God. You don't want me to just tell you some interesting stories. You want to know what is James, in God's word, saying. And so what I want to do in reading the scriptures, I'm going to tell you the example and I'm going to read the poem and follow it through and fill in those key words so that you can understand James's flow of thought. And then we'll seek to apply that to our own lives. First of all, you remember he gave in verses fifteen and sixteen a a manward negative example of faith, that is, false faith in the way it responds toward man. He gave the example of Mr. Rishua. You know, the fellow says, you gotta need, you're hungry, you don't have any clothes, you don't have anything to eat. Well, he always he fed, and he doesn't do anything. And then Gay says, wrapping it up in verse 17, in the same way. Faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. So faith without action is dead. That's the first word of this. Secondly then he goes on to another example of false faith This time in how it behaves toward God. And he talks about the person who says he has faith, but there's no evidence. And he compares that to the demons, remember. He said, Yes, I believe there's one God, sure they do, and they tremble at the thought. And then he wraps that up in verse twenty five. saying, you foolish man, do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless? Now you're saying that faith without deeds is useless. The second word, the second point he's making. Just as with the demons, to believe there's when God is useless in terms of their relationship with God or being saved from judgment at the end. Then he goes right now to the positive two examples. And he immediately to bring them in the closest possible connection to contrast the negative example of faith toward God with a positive example in faith toward God with the example of what we call active Abraham. Active Abraham contrasted with the demon face. And so we saw Abraham demonstrating By being willing to sacrifice his son in verses 21 to 23. And then he sums up the point of that in verse 24 by saying, You see, that a person is justified by what he does. Not by faith alone. So, justification is by faith which is not alone. That's the third key word. It's a faith which is not born. It's not alone. And then the fourth example. He gives was that of how true faith behaves toward man. And here in verse 25, he gives us the example of whiskey Rahab. And then the concluding proposition to wrap the whole thing up, verse 26, he says, as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead. Now you notice that the subject in each case is faith. That's important because people sometimes get confused and they think James is teaching that salvation is by words in this passage. But you see, words is never the subject of his propositions. Just check the words we looked at. Verse seventeen, twenty, twenty-four, twenty-six. In each case, what's the subject. It's faith. His concern is what kind of faith is shading faith. And so again, just to help you as we kind of go through this and help you to have it down there and to see it more easily, I put it down. And so there's the four propositions, verse seventeen, twenty, twenty-four, twenty-six, subject, each case, faith, is concerned what kind of faith. You say in the first case, it's a faith that's by itself. That is the words that are not accompanied. by action. And Jesus says, what's the result of that kind of faith? He says, it's a dead thing. It probably is another, it's a corpse. Spiritually dead. Second example, faith which is without deeds. comparing it to the demons. This is the kind of faith it is. It's a faith that has no action working out of it. TV faith rather than real life faith. James says what's the result of that? Useless. Useless in terms of a relationship with Jesus Christ. Yes, here's the third example, faith. He says this faith is alone. This is the kind of faith he's talking about. A faith which is barren of action. What's the result of it? James says it doesn't justify. See there? Verse twenty-four? You're not justified by that kind of a faith. Your sins aren't forgiven by that kind of a faith. You're in the same condition you ever were in that kind of a faith. And then the last example of Ahab is a faith, he says the negative side is faith without. out these again, wrapping the whole thing up now and he says that kind of faith is dead and he says it is dead as a body without the spirit. We got a body laying there and the spirits left that body, James has muffled. It's dead. It's lifeless. There's nothing to it. It's a shell. James says that is the kind of faith that I'm saying. Does not save. But his concern is faith. Now why is that? Why is it that faith without works doesn't save? And we just thought it was. about that? Well after all we say it by grace. We saw based on what Jesus has done. Therefore why do we have to do something in order to say that we have saving faith? Doesn't it all rest on the finished work of Jesus Christ and not what we do? Hell then And James say it's what we do that shows, and in fact, vindicates the fact that we have a genuine faith. The answer to that, I believe, is to understand the New Testament view of faith. It's to The New Testament view of faith in three ways in its nature, its object, and its purpose. And that's what I want to help us to see as we wrap up this whole chapter before we get into our holiday series. Faith is consistent with James' argument when you understand the New Testament understanding of the nature of faith, the object of faith, and the purpose of faith. But first of all, what is the nature of biblical faith then? The very nature of New Testament biblical faith is that it is a submissive trust. It's trust that relies. It's a faith that is reliable. Relying on the one who is trusting. In fact, that's so true that New Testament faith is sublicit, that if you go through the New Testament, you find that the word believe or trust can be used interchangeably with the word. Now we've already seen how James does this in verses 14, 18, 21, 24. But let me give you another example that might even be clearer. Turn to John chapter 3. John chapter 3. In John chapter 3, not James writing down, but John, the apostle of love, the basic evangelical apostle, writes so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God in heaven. life in his name. When he talks about the nature of faith, he gives us a clue to his understanding of it in John three thirty-six. Because John aimed from a Semitic background, and in Semitic thought, you often use two statements, one way after the other. the other that mean the same thing but you state them slightly differently in order to make a thing. And you see that in John 336. Because he says there, you see, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. And then he gives the other side of that. You see, but whoever does not believe in the sun will not see light. For God's rather than able. But now we're reading the verse as I read it. Does it say whoever does not believe, does it? What does it say? What's the word that you have it? Okay, a couple different responses. Reject. And I think if you have the uh new Bible standard, it says not obey. Now, the NIV says the word reject, but literally the Greek is not obey. Obey. John says, you who believes in the sun has eternal light. No problem. We all understand that. But John says, the other side of that is if you don't obey the sun, you don't have light. But the wrath of God abides on it. He could have turned it around just as easily. He could have said, Whoever obeys the Son has eternal life. But he who does not believe the Son does not have life. You see? It could be used but it changed it. Or take another example. 1 Peter chapter 4, verse 17. Peter is talking about the judgment that is going to come for God's cleansing upon the very church, the household of God. And his point there is he says that if judgment is going to come to us who God cleansing. What will the outcome be for those who what? Who do not believe the gospel of God? No, that's not what he said. Who do not obey the gospel? Let me tell you the good news of the gospel, so that you might obey the gospel. You say, believe the gospel. But the Bible says that that kind of belief, biblical belief, is so Reliant and submissive by its very nature, is to communicate it with the word obey. Because to obey the gospel is to believe the gospel, and to believe the gospel is to obey the Lord of the gospel. And those two things are Interchangeable. First John 2, 3 and 4. Well, read it to John 12 right there. He says, How do you know that you believe the Son if you obey him? And John says, If you don't obey the Son, then he says you're a liar. And just in case you aren't listening, he says it again. I don't skip a kick on it. He's a liar and the truth isn't in it, either, you know? He says, I really want you to see the point. I mean, this guy really doesn't know what's going on. That's the nature of biblical faith. Why is that? The reason is when you is clear when you understand the object of biblical faith. And that's the second point. You see, the object of biblical faith, James says, is the Lord of glory, Jesus. To understand that, you need to do what's often not done and understand this passage. You've got to remember that the question of verse 13 of James 2 started with his discussion at the beginning of the chapter of verse 1. And what did he say in verse 1? My bloggers, as believers. Now, another way you can translate that is, my brothers and believers give the Lord of glory, Jesus Christ. So you see, this is who he's talking about. Faith is in faith in faith, belief and belief, for the sake of belief. In order to help you to feel good, it can go to heaven. Faith has an object. If I faith that I believe that I can thrive, and if I just believe that's strong enough, I can jump up on top of the stonehouse and tap my arms and I'll fly if I just concentrate hard enough and I hit him a thud on a car down here instead of getting the book. You know, you say, well you know if he didn't have enough space. That's what some people would say today. If he just had enough space. Scripture has no notion of that kind of faith. It says faith is as valid as the object in which it's placed. It says the object of biblical faith is the Lord of glory who delivers. You see, that Lord Of glory is the Lord Jesus Christ. And today we tend to separate that. That's the delusion of American evangelicalism. We think we can separate Savior from Lord. And we can no longer separate Savior from Lord or Lord from Jesus, then you can separate Alan from Harris. It's as easy to say, come in Jesus, but stay out Lord as it is to say, come in Alan, but stay out Harris. You can't do it. Why? Because he is. When the Bible calls the New Testament called Jesus Savior, how many times? Twenty-third times. That's no other once the book. He's called Savior. But how many times does the New Testament call Jesus Savior? Jesus Lord. Twenty-four times? No. 38? No. 64? 72? 128? 512? No. Six hundred and ninety-four times the New Testament says Jesus is Lord. You ever wonder why that is the original creed of the New Testament church? It was simply that Jesus is Lord. That's what they confessed. That's what they lost their lives of. Jesus is Lord. Do you know what that means? That means that for every one time the New Testament calls Jesus Savior. He calls him Lord twenty-eight times. Now if if the New Testament writers want to get anything across by emphasis, what do they say about Jesus as Lord? This ain't that. He's savior. But he's savior because he is Lord. You see, Romans 14, 9 says, for this very reason, Jesus first died and rose again that he might be Lord of the dead. In the living. That's the reason, the very purpose. And we need to understand that that is the object of our faith. Jesus, the Lord of glory. That's what James is talking about in verse 1. That's why all the rest of it blows up. Yeah. I was just thinking about this this week and I was driving along thinking the Lord of glory and thinking of some of the evidence as I see of that. Driving along down Central Art, uh driving along to uh meet with Roman and I was thinking about you know, all these cars sold by all the consuming, you know, you see a jet fire and you know there's a few more thousand gallons, you know, all this fuel that's consumed. Do you ever stop the picture that fuel comes from? Yeah, I've checked with Roman barb and they checked it all out for me. I appreciate that. Fossil fuels are off from organic matter. Most we plant some animals. And the animals mostly sea animals. Here we start to think how many animals we consume every day, how many trees, you know, you don't have to drive to the store and pick up a paper and burn up a tree. Each little sea creature. plant, tree, all those things that grew so many thousands of years ago and then died and decay, set up to the bottom, turned into fossil fuels. But think of the Lord, the glory. And all that we consume, which speaks of his Lordship every day, just in terms of the fuel that we consume. He's the Lord of every detail of life. You think of that when you think of the Lord of the microuniverses and he understands that we're just beginning to understand the world of the atomic matter. You know, if you were to take two cubic inches, or cubic excuse me, two cubic is a centimeter inches. Two cubic inches, yes, two cubic inches of copper. There's as many protons in those two cubic inches of copper as there are drops of water in the entire Atlantic Ocean. And he understands each proton in a electron and neutron and holds them together. You know there's a guy at the Moody Bible Institute one day, didn't have anything to do, I guess, so he took a butterfly wing. Took this butterfly wing, one little butterfly wing. You don't see moths and butterflies all around the place. And you know if you ever take one, you take the wing And you see like little dust, little glittering dust that comes off of your fingers. Well those are like little feathers to the butterfly in the moth. And this guy sat down, he, under a microscope, he counted the number of feathers in one butterfly ring. Feathers on a butterfly ring, you've always got it to know this, haven't you? There are 794,544 feathers on a butterfly ring. Every one of them in perfect design. And did you ever see a better drawing? You know, it's kind of messed up. The line sort of started this way and then it messed up, you know, and it jokes. They're all symmetrical, all perfect. The Lord of glory has every detail in his control. Every detail of your life is of concern to him, and he understands it. There is no detail in your life that escapes his notice because he's the Lord of glory. And he's concerned that every detail comes before him, that he can control that. That he is able to care for you. He who designs the butterfly wing is able to care for your life. We take the fact that he's the Lord of the macro universal. He's the Lord of creation. You know, our Sun is just an average size star. Latrificate 1,300,000. Earths and stick them inside the sun. 1,300,000 planets to the size of the Earth to stick inside the Sun, which is just an average star, in our own neighborhood, the Milky Way. The Milky Way of the galaxy. of between 10 and 100 billion stars. The Milky Way rotates. It rotates at a terrific speed, but it's so huge that even though it's going at a tremendous speed, It takes one excuse me uh two hundred million years to make one revolution. Light traveling at 186,000 miles per second takes a hundred thousand years Just to go from one end of the Milky Way to the other. A hundred thousand years traveling at the speed of light. And that's just our own neighborhood. We now know that there are somewhere nearly a hundred. Billion galaxies, some of them as far as 15 billion light years away. And he is there and here at the same time. moment because he's Lord and there is nothing beyond his control. Faith in the Lord of glory is simply coming to grips with reality that he is Lord. Of all creation. But he's Lord also of your body. He's the one who's made you. You came originally from one cell that weighed fifteen. 10 millionths of a gram. And within that one cell, weighing 15 ten millionths of a gram, all of your systems were determined. That cell began to reproduce, and as you grew through those nine months before birth, yourself began to specialize. So that by the time you were born, if you weighed about seven pounds, you had multiplied in your weight two billion times. It's a good thing the weight did not continue after you were born. Weight launches had really have their hands full. In nine months you multiply two billion times in your hand. You had at that point somewhere around 200 billion cells in your body. As an adult we had trillions of cells Each of those cells specialized, coded, having its own purpose and function. If you just took your circulatory system and stretched it out in linear fashion from one end to the other, it would stretch 12 thousand miles. Your heart to pump blood through that system pumps five thousand gallons a day. For whom? The bottom is the Lord. What Jesus is saying, you can't say that you believe and rely on the Lord and glory and not submit to Him and rely upon Him. Because the very purpose of salvation is to save you from disobedience. You see, to come to grips with who the Lord Jesus is, is to say, I come realizing that I have lived my life my own way, as if he didn't matter and didn't have control. And now I realize what a terrible, stinking offense that is to the Creator God. How arrogant. And I've repented of that. And I've submitted and have come to him and said, Lord Jesus, You, in spite of thy sin, have come and you've laid down your life for me to pay for that sin, to take that sin upon yourself so that I might be forgiven. But I could never consider my United to you by faith, it doesn't submit to who you really are, and who wouldn't want to. You see, that's what the Bible means, and it says the very purpose of faith is to save us from disobedience, not just from its consequences. You see, the purpose of faith, as Matthew 121 tells us, is that real man's day will be Jesus meaning Savior, because he will save his people from not simply the consequences of it. What's that say? From their sins. Genesis 8, 28, and 29 tells us that all things are worked together for good to the God who has called us for his purpose. And what's that purpose? Verse 29 says, to be conformed. to the image of the Son who learned obedience. It is to its submission to the Father. And so now we are being conformed to his image. We might impact the righteousness that we might become like Jesus. So being transformed to delight in the Lord of glory. That's what faith means. That's New Testament faith. So you see this is a faith, real light faith, not TV faith, is a faith that delights. Knowledge that all of life is lived in the light of the Lordship of Jesus Christ. TV says, What does the Bible say I have to do then? How much do I have to be different in order to get a Heaven. Do I have to change this? Or can I live as a Christian and not? Real life faith says: How much can I do for the Lord? How far away can I get from sin? How close can I get? Can I get to Jesus? Because I love him. T D thinks that where does the Bible say that I must give him this part of my life? And he shows them the verse, and then they say, But I can't believe that God would want to take away my Real life biblical faith says I trust him to know what's good for me. And I'll give him that area. It may be a struggle, but I'll give it to him. Real faith doesn't ask. How little do I have to do for these spies and still be able to escape the destruction of Jericho? Real life base says, what do these spies mean? I'm no longer alive with Jericho. Because I realize this city is under God's condemnation. I've wounded myself from being identified with it. My eye is on the kingdom of God. I'm identified with that. How much can I do for these who are God's people? Whatever the risk, my allegiance is for them. And so I'm not emotionally tied to the lifestyle of this world. TV faith says when God asks to sacrifice your son, he says, Well Lord, um that's right I heard that right. That just doesn't stir and put your mind. I just can't believe you'd do that. And so I must have gotten the signal mixed up. There must be something found up in the translation somehow, you know? Maybe if I upright high, then you know God will sort of forget this business of sacrification. sacrifice in the front, you know? Well or maybe if I just keep thinking about it, I'll find that it really doesn't mean what it seems to mean. And God really isn't asking me to take him out on Mount Moriah and sacrifice him. He must mean something different. Maybe if I just think about it for a while Things will change. And I become dulled to the sensitivity and the leading of the Holy Spirit. Real life is gets up the next morning, saddles the donkey, and it goes out to Mount Moriah. without questions. Because real life faith says it's the Lord who's asked me to do this. It's the Lord of glory, and I can trust him with every detail of my life. But he knows the number and has made it with irons on the butterfly's wings and I can trust to take care of my life. And so what's the issue with you? What's the issue with me? Career priorities? Commitment to your marriage? As a single commitment to chastity? In a culture where 58% of Roman Catholics believe that there's nothing wrong with sex before marriage, 44% of Protestants poll believe there's nothing wrong with sex before marriage. But the Lord says chastity. The Lord says sex within the bonds of marriage. What's the issue for you? How to raise your kids according to the priority that the Lord gives in his direction in that? What's the issue for you? That lordship reveals the pocket of resistance. The matter of timing. The matter of meeting with him. To just get to know him and understand what he's saying. But for you is it the basic issue that you've never acknowledged in this Lord. And therefore James says, your faith is dead. It's useless. You won't be justified until you recognize who He is, the Savior, who's died, that you might have life, and risen, that he might be Lord, to direct that life. Let's pray. Lord, I think of my own life this week. I think of uh the time driving along when it is at me as I was feeling sorry for myself and beginning to whine and complain to you about unreasonable demands on me. And then I realized that uh I had gotten my eyes totally off of you. I was serving man. I was dealing in bondage. Lord, I thank you that you freed me up from that somewhat by helping me to see that it's you that I serve. It's you, that me as your people. Serve because we love you, because you are Lord of our lives. Oh Lord, we pray that you would help us to see our lives in that context. Lord, I pray for those who are touched by these issues and see the need to think about them and to resolve them, that you would direct them to register that they might come to the weekend to go. A number of people that you're working in this next Friday and Saturday, we might grapple with these things together, and that it might be freedom gained by living in touch with reality. To see all of life is under the loving hand of the Lord of glory. Speak to us, Lord each, and what this means for us. Give us open and teachable hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.