Well, good to be back in the plaza room, huh? Wasn't that floor worth waiting five weeks for? What are you laughing at? The ushers were going to tell everybody to take off their shoes as they came in, but uh somebody forgot to do that. I wonder how long it's gonna take those kids that all left for children's church to realize that the grain of the floor goes this way. And it's good for sliding. But don't tell them. All right. One thing I'd like to just add to what Rob said about the uh Perspectives course was that uh they uh the part of the reason that the course is more expensive than a lot of the conferences and things that you'll see from many Christian activities is that they bring speakers in from all over and it's a pretty high powered kind of uh presentation of videos and different things. I've participated in one in the past And uh I can tell you that they really bring in nationally known people to present this stuff. So this is not any kind of an amateur presentation. It takes a lot of coordination and a lot to put it on. It's very worthwhile as a course, even though you may have no intention of ever going abroad as a missionary. It'll give you a much bigger view of the church and of what God's doing in our day Well we're an introspective generation, aren't we? We're people who Spend lots of time thinking about ourselves, thinking about our feelings, our inadequacies, our guilt, our insecurities. And yet the Bible makes very clear that you and I will never have a balanced understanding of ourselves. unless we look away from ourselves and see Jesus Christ. In fact, I would like to suggest that a pattern, a basic pattern for Christian growth and comfort would be, as you see on the bulletin outline there, that when you have seen your own need and you find yourself thinking about it, thinking of your own inadequacies and guilt and the rest of that That you then discipline yourself to look away to see God's character and his provision, And then from that to then look back and see your access to that, how you can lay hold of that, how you can have it for yourself. And we see that pattern beautifully illustrated in James chapter 4, verses 4-6, the next section in our study of the book of James. So turn with me to James chapter 4. If you don't already have it out, you know, most of you I know you just sort of anticipate as soon as I start walking up, you know, my sort of a conditioned response, you turn to James. Page is sort of wrinkled there so it opens very easily to it, you know, and you got it all laid out by the time I'm ready to read it. Well, okay, let's read then. In context, James chapter four, verses four to six, but I'll be beginning at verse one of James four. What called and I'm going to be putting in also some of my translations which I've worked through on this so that you get kind of the flow that I've said I think helps us to understand. James's meaning. This is a very, very difficult section to translate, and you'll see that as we go along today. What causes fights and quarrels or wars and battles among you? Don't they come from your desires that battle within you? You want something, but you don't get it, so you kill. You covet or you intensely desire it, but you cannot have what you want, and so you quarrel and you fight, or you battle and you war. You don't have because you don't ask God. And when you do ask, you don't receive because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures. You adulterous people, don't you know that friendship with the world is hatred toward God? Anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God. Or do you think Scripture says without reason the spirit he caused to live in us envies intensely? But he gives us more grace. And that's why the scripture says God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. I believe there's four things that James wants us to see in these three verses four to six. First of all, I believe he wants us to see, as we talked about last week, to see my infidelity. That's the first word. there under number one, to see my infidelity in verse four. As I say, we looked at this last week and I'd just like to sum up what I said at that time by simply uh the statement that you see in the bulletin there. We talk there about friendship with the world or worldliness, and I believe that that can be summed up as affection for the world. The word that James uses here for friendship is a Greek word which means affection. It's the word that Peter used, remember in John 21, when he said, Lord, you know that I'm fond of you. And that word is a word which means to wrap your heart around something. And so I believe that friendship with the world or affection for the world is what James is talking about here when he says that you're wrapping your heart around, and I have here also some blanks, around the pleasures The possessions and the patterns of this world, that is, the pleasures, the things that the world says gives real fun. The things that the world says that are self-centered, uh sometimes simply hedonistic pleasures The possessions of the world, acquiring and having certain things in order to be content or happy. The pattern of this world, the way that it behaves, its system is the same. of competition and gaining of status and security. These things, when my heart is wrapped around these things and I buy in to that wor way of gaining happiness, then it then becomes between me and my love for Jesus and his people. That's friendship with the world The kind of thing that Dick Stum talked about last week when he shared one of his favorite verses, you remember, from 1 John 4, 15 and 16, where John says, Don't love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world. The love of the Father is not in him. For everything that's in the world, what's he talking about the world? He's saying, you know, you should be an ascetic that you should not uh enjoy anything, you go out and you have a steak dinner, you say, Well I don't really like this steak dinner, you know, it's just I guess you know I gotta feed my body and so I'll endure it, you know. And I don't really enjoy having a new car enjoy having things or being able to walk around and enjoy the things in the world. You know, that's not what he's talking about. What's he talking about? James 1 John 516 defines it just as Dick uh shared with us last week. The cravings of sinful man, the lust of the eyes, that insatiable desire to acquire whatever you see, the coveting, and the boasting of what he has and does. I'm something because I have done something. My sense of status always comes from my accomplishments. I boast about who I am and I'm always competing and comparing myself with other people. John says, this comes not from the Father, but from the world. You see, but the problem is, John says, the world and its desires pass away. But the man who does the will of God lives forever. What's that mean for you? You and I need to stop, and we need to be honest with ourselves and say, well, what are the possessions? What are the pleasures? What are the patterns? of this world that have seduced me and have made me unfaithful in my affection for the Lord Jesus What's come between my heart and him? Because I have felt that I must have that. I must be like that in order to be happy or content. What is the chief weakness in your own life? Remember, James made a distinction in that verse 4, a distinction in the first part. where he talks about friendship with the world, which I would call flirting with the world, the term that John White uses, Christian psychiatrist, flirting with a world where I daydream too much about something Or maybe occasionally I'll make a wrong choice. I will decide for something that really doesn't take Jesus into account as Lord of my life. I will do these things and you do them and we all do them. That's flirting with the world. It's unfaithful to God. It's expressing hatred toward him. It's deciding against him. James doesn't minimize that. But he says the second part's even worse. You see, the second part of verse 4 talks about choosing to be a friend of the world. The Greek word there indicates a deliberate, decisive choice. To take the side of one thing as opposed to the other. And in that case, we're talking about a lifestyle that is carved out from these little choices that begin to melt up. So that I begin to take a side against God and I have now become his enemy. Well now be honest with yourself As you think about yourself, as I said, we think a lot about ourselves. And I know that as I'm saying this now, there's things that are going through your mind and you're thinking, yeah This is what I feel guilty about when you say that. This is what I struggle with. But think in your own mind, would you check which word that you see there? You know, the little lines. Is it flirting in your case or is it choosing? Make that distinction. Is it something you occasionally slip into and you need to try and avoid it? Or is it more serious than that, and you say, I've got to be honest with you, I have chosen that lifestyle. I have chosen against following Jesus Christ wherever it has cost me anything. And so I'm choosing to be a friend of the world, and I'm setting myself up as an enemy of God. Well now once you and I have come to grips with that honestly, we then need to go on to the second part, verse 5. And the second thing I think James wants us to see, once we've been honest with the first part, is we need to see God's jealousy. We need to see God's jealousy. We need to look from ourselves, and now we need to see Him. Now, when we look at verse 5, there are immediately two problems that confront us. And the two problems are, first of all, what does this verse say? How do you translate this verse? This is one of the most difficult verses in the entire New Testament to translate that. Let me give you just an idea of what I mean by that. This verse is translated, when you look at this verse, verse 5 First of all, literally, if you were to translate as as as literally as I could from the Greek, it would say, Or do you think that in vain the scripture says so far so good, nobody argues about that part, but then it gets a little more interesting. Literally to every uh excuse me, to envy yearns the Spirit Which dwelt or he caused to dwell in you. To envy yearns the spirit which dwelt or he caused to dwell within you. Now is that referring to the Holy Spirit or to our spirit? Is it referring to sinful envy or is it referring to God's jealousy? And there are so many different ways. I have six or seven different translations of this. Every translation you look at is significantly different from every other translation. We can take a couple minutes, we have different translations here, and hear all the wildly different ways that this verse is translated. One of the best commentators on the book of James that I have found, when he comes to this verse, he says, here's three possible things it could mean, and I'm not even going to guess which one James had in mind. He could mean A, he could mean B, and he could mean C. Now, that's only one problem. The second problem when you come to it is that you notice he says, as the scripture says. Well that ought to give you a clue. You say, well now what you know, just find out what scripture he's quoting and that'll tell you The problem is, nobody knows what scripture he's quoting. No matter how you translate that, nobody can come up with any scripture that matches it. And so you don't know what he's talking about. Now, I have thought a long time about this, and I have tried to give due weight to the context, particularly verses four and six. So now I am going to be as bold and as arrogant to go beyond some of the wisest commentators in this, and I'm going to suggest to you what I think it is saying. Because I think I do understand James's flow of thought here, and I would like to suggest what I think he is saying. It turns out, if you notice the NIV even gives you three possible translations They give you one in the text, and then they give you alternate one and alternate two. I think that alternate two is the actual way that James intended for it to be read. Therefore, it would read, the Spirit He caused to live in us, that is the Holy Spirit, longs jealously. So therefore, verse 5 would read Do you think that the scripture says without reason that the Spirit, Holy Spirit, that He has caused to live in us longs jealously, implied for us? This you see then is speaking about God's jealousy. Now what is he quoting then? Well I think what he's quoting is not any particular scripture But he's giving the general sense of the Old Testament scriptures that speak about God's jealousy for us. For example, there are some that come very close, like Zechariah eight, verse two Where God says, This is what the Lord Almighty says, I am very jealous for Zion. I am burning with jealousy for her. God is a jealous God. That's why he gave us verse 4. He says, you see, you're being unfaithful to him. Now James says, do you think that the Scripture is speaking to no effect when it says that God is a jealous God? And He's jealous, I believe, in two ways that James wants us to understand here. First of all, he's jealous for his glory. He's a jealous God, and he's jealous for our affections God by his very nature can brook no rivals. The Old Testament again and again speaks of God as a jealous God. Do you remember when God brought Israel out to Mount Sinai? And he called him out to be his own particular people. He said, I'm going to make you a kingdom of priests. You're going to be a people for my own possession. And then he gave them the Ten Commandments. The third commandment says, You will make no other images, because I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. And Moses, remember, went back up into the mountains and he spent forty days there once God began to unfold to him the law by which his people would live, because he was a holy God. And what were they doing while he was up there? You remember after a couple of weeks they began to wonder if Moses was ever coming back. I mean, you know, after seeing all that smoking and quaking up there on the mountain, they thought, well maybe the guy's never coming back now. And what are we going to do? And so they became restless And they said to Aaron, let's make a calf, because that will symbolize to us the kind of God that we have, the God who brought us out from Egypt. And so Aaron, probably uh hoping that uh he could put them off, says, Well now if you're gonna have a golden calf, then you've gotta give me the gold from your own jewelry to do it. Ha! Mauri says, that'll stop 'em. Little did he know. They all take all their rings off and everything. Okay, Aaron, here it is. And they all give him the gold. And now he's stuck. Because it's all in a pile. You see nobody's going to be able to retrieve it and they want it. They say, okay, make the calf. And so he makes the golden calf And they have a big party and they bow down and they say, This is our God. And what's God's response to that? Well, you know, I mean they got the general idea. They're still calling it Jehovah. They're still saying they're my people. I mean, you know, let's not push this too far, you know, you don't want to be possessive. God says to Moses, you remember in Exodus chapter 32, in verses 9 and 10, God says, I have seen these people. And they are stiff-necked people. Now leave me alone, Moses, so that my anger may burn against them, and that I may destroy them, and I will make you into a great nation. Plan B. You see. But Moses says, God, you're not like that. You can't do that. But God says, I am like that. I am a jealous God. They cannot say that they are my people and then set their affections on something in this world as their ultimate God. Moses says, but God, have mercy. And remember what happened? Moses went down into the camp and he saw the people in an orgy of worship in that calf. And many of those people were destroyed by a plague, and many were cut down, as the Levites were commanded to take the sword and to hack their own families and the people who had violated. Their troth to God. Because God says, I'm a jealous God. And right after that incident, God reveals Himself to Moses. And what does he say? Do you remember in Exodus 34? He says, My name. is jealous, for I'm a jealous God. You see, you can't name the name of Jesus Christ And say that you belong to him and that Jesus is your way to heaven, and you're going to go to heaven because you've trusted in Jesus. And then set your affections on golden calves and other lovers in this world. For Jesus is a jealous Savior. Jesus says, if you've given your heart to me, I claim the full allegiance of that heart. And I brooked no rivals. The very foundations of the universe would crumble. If Jesus were to share his glory with anything else. For if he did, then that would be the true God. And Jesus would have to abdicate the throne. But he's a jealous God because he is the only God. And therefore we can never share our affections with something else. That doesn't mean we can't love things of the world. And that means that we can't enjoy things that we have in this life. But it means that whenever I come up with a choice that says either I serve what Jesus says in this word, or if there's anything that causes me to veer from that Then I must renounce it. And if I don't renounce it, if I decide that I will compromise at that point, I have shared my affections. James says, I want to remind you, the Scripture didn't take all those stories and all those incidents in the Old Testament to no effect when it was trying to describe to you that the Spirit that He caused to live within you longs jealously. For your affections. But there's a second way, I think, in which James means this in verse five. And that is that I think he means that he's also jealous for our good. Not only for his glory, but also for our good. What do I mean by that? I believe that what he's saying here is that the Spirit loves you With a very possessive, a very tender, and a very consuming love. The Spirit longs for you He longs for your good. And he's very tender toward you. He's very devoted toward you. And nothing can turn that devotion away. The Spirit realizes that whenever you and I give our affections to something in this world that come between us and Jesus and his people The Spirit knows that that lover only wants to use us. The Spirit knows that we're ultimately going to be hurt by that compromise. And the Spirit longs jealously for our good. I think of a man by the name of George Matheson Who found out early in his life that he was going blind. He was engaged to a girl that he loved deeply Yet he felt that the only honest thing to do at that time would be to tell his fiance about his impending blindness, something that would come over him gradually over the next years. He shared that with her, and he was absolutely devastated by her response. She immediately broke the engagement. And told him that she wanted nothing more to do with a man who would become dependent upon her. And it was in that experience that George Matheson sat down and wrote the words. O love that will not let me go. I rest my weary soul in thee. I give thee back the life I owe, that in thine ocean depths its flow may richer, fuller be. Think of that the next time that you read that hymn. The context out of which those words were written, O love that will not let me go. In contrast to all the loves of this world and of this life, the Spirit longs jealously for you. And he will not let you go. He wants only for your own good, and he's like a devoted parent. When he sees you hurt yourself, it bothers him. It grieves him. Isn't it interesting that sin in the Christian's life is described as grieving the Holy Spirit? Just last week I came home from the office and I pulled up into the driveway and there was Dean. It looked like he'd been hit by a Mac truck, you know, and his eye was all scarred and, you know, some just a board from a tree house had just fallen down and had missed his eye by about a half an inch, had just hit that bone right along here. It was all uh big scab beginning to form, it was all black and blue and you know, I didn't know if it was a truck or some kid in the neighborhood was a lot stronger than I thought he was or something had happened to this poor kid. But immediately tears welled up in my eyes. Why? Because I feel so close to him that when I saw him hurt, I hurt. And I think that's what James is saying here. Don't you know that the Spirit He's caused to live within you longs jealously for you? That when you do stupid things and I do stupid things in our life and we hurt ourselves, that his spirit is longing jealously for our restoration. He's longing jealously. That we might be able to get perspective again and be faithful to the Lord Jesus as a faithful holy bride. And Hanoah a holy happiness and because we haven't done those stupid things that will always hurt us in the end. How many of us as parents see our kids make stupid choices, throw away gifts and talents, and we say, What can I do? What are we doing? We're longing jealously for them, aren't we? That's what James wants us to understand in this verse. Now, seeing that, he then moves us on to see a third thing in verse 6. And that is, he wants us to see God's grace. He wants us to see his grace. See, the Spirit this morning, I believe, wants you to know that whatever your struggle, whatever your situation There is more grace available. See what he says, verse 6. Look at the context of verse 5. Now see, in you know, my translation. Do you think that the scripture says without any reason That the Spirit He caused to live with us longs jealously for us. So you see, that's why He gives to us more grace. Because he wants that grace to be available to us, to overcome in whatever struggle or situation that you're in. But you say, huh, but you don't know my situation. I have failed the Lord so many times in the same area. I'm tired of bringing it to him. I feel like I have no right to his grace. I have forfeited that. I'm a weak-willed wimp when it comes to fighting in that area of my friendship with the world. And I'm tired of the struggle. But I'm tired of coming back to God again and again and begging for his forgiveness and asking for him to give me victory in that area. What's the promise to you this morning? You see? Being in verse 6, he says, wait a minute. There's still more grace. You haven't exhausted it. He's like, you and I are like swimmers in the ocean, thinking that our splashing is somehow going to empty the ocean. Afraid that somehow we're going to use it all up. We're like a fish swimming within the ocean, fearing that perhaps if it drinks too much, it'll drink up the ocean. There'll be nothing left to swim in He says, He gives more grace. All if there was just some way that I could rivet those words in your mind so that If nothing else you would be able to go out this morning and have those two words emblazoned within your mind this week, he gives more grace. Say, but I've already used it all. He says there's more grace He said, but I've come again and again. He says, there's more grace. But it seems like he hasn't been faithful to me in those struggles that I've had already. He says, you haven't known the grace there is. There's more grace. There's more grace, the grace of forgiveness for your guilt. And you say, But Lord, I've compromised with the world. I've given my affection so promiscuously to the world again and again, and I'm tired of coming back. I've compromised again. Again and again he says there's more grace for forgiveness. You say, But Lord, how can there be more grace? When again and again you remind me how serious the sin is. Yes. The sin as he told us there in verse four is very serious. Adultery, he says, spiritual adultery, giving your affections to Mr. World or Cosmo, is not a light matter. It's very serious. It's actual hatred toward God. It's spurning his love. But his grace is infinite. There is no sin greater than his grace because he says he gives more grace. There's an inexhaustible supply of his forgiveness in Jesus Christ. And there's more grace available to you in your temptation. Say, oh Lord, you don't know the temptations that I have. Everywhere I go, I'm tempted with the world. At work all they do is talk about their accomplishments and achievements and the status and the competition and I go to my family and every time I get together with some member of my family, my brother or my sister, aunts, uncles, parents, whatever it is, it's always things. things, things of the world and it's gossip and it's always accomplishments. And I feel like I'm so left out. And I feel like I need to compete within this to just keep my head above water. And he says, Do you want to resist those temptations? I'm the only one that can enable you to do that. Come to me. He gives more grace. in the temptations that you have to endure. He promises more grace. You say, but Lord, I thought I'd had all the grace that there was and it's not enough. He says there's more grace. Grace that you haven't begun to experience. You know, you and I, when we go out uh to the outside at night, if we had a perfectly clear sky, And in a perfectly dark night, on a perfectly clear sky, on a mountaintop, we were to look up and see all the stars we can see. Ever notice that? You know, I mean it's so vastly different from what you see in Colombia Somewhere out in the desert or out in the mountains, perhaps you were somewhere like that this summer. And you looked up and you saw all those stars. How many stars you're seeing? At most, you're seeing about 10,000 stars He said, but Lord, that's all the stars there is. The whole sky is full of them. That's a mere 10,000 stars. How many stars there are in our galaxy? In our galaxy alone, there are 200 billion stars. You're seeing just one tiny corner of the Milky Way. And and there's millions of galaxies. Now you see I have put that in because uh if uh I don't give at least one astronomical uh example per month then Doug McElroy starts rattling his cage so Doug can be content for the next couple of weeks. But the point still is well made, you see. We think we've tasted all the grace there is. Lord, I've come to you and I've said, give me grace, help me to overcome this. Lord, help me in this temptation. Help me in this trial. Forgive me of this. And the Lord says, you've only begun to taste the slightest bit of grace. You need to come to me. Come to me unreservedly. Cast yourself upon me For more grace. More grace in the trials that you don't think you can bear. And James said in chapter one, he said, if you really know that grace, you can rejoice in the trial. Because then you know he's giving you grace to persevere, to form character in you that only that trial can form. But there's more grace available in persevering. More grace of wisdom. More grace of strength. There's more grace that's available even in material needs. You say, Lord, I don't know how am I going to make the bills, I don't know what I'm going to do. And Paul says in Philippians 4, I've learned how to be content when I had little and I had a lot. And I thank you people, he says to the Philippians, for meeting my material, physical needs. And then he says in Philippians 4 and verse 6 and verse 19, but my God shall supply all of your need. Talking about material needs there as well as spiritual. He'll supply all your need according to his riches in Christ Jesus. There's more grace. Whatever you need this morning, there's more grace available in Jesus Christ. But then the last thing he wants us to see. is the access to that. He wants you to see your access. To see my access. How do I get this grace? And the end of verse 6 tells us. And that's why the scripture says, he says, quoting from Proverbs 334, this is very clear, God opposes the proud. But he gives grace to the humble. Very clear, isn't it? There's only one way to gain the grace of Jesus Christ. It's for you and me to cast ourselves humbly before him. No conditions. No bargains. Lord, I'm helpless. Lord Jesus, I don't go to any other person. I don't read any other self-help book and try any other technique. I come to you. I remember a few months ago. In a real time of trial and difficulty in my life. Very discouraged by a few things that had just happened, and I went out to pray. And was there in the woods without any other commentaries or anything except the Bible, just coming to Jesus Christ, I felt absolutely cast upon him, and I said, Lord, I need your grace. And he met me. It was a very precious time, you see. And I felt at that time this is like nothing else that anyone else could ever do for me Because all I had to come to, Lord, was you. And I didn't have anything to offer. You see, he says here he opposes the proud. That word means he sets himself against them as an enemy. Very interesting, isn't it? Same word, same idea as verse 4. Do you remember when Jesus talked about a wedding banquet? He said, I have a wedding banquet. And that wedding banquet was to picture his grace given in his salvation. He said, here's this banquet. And he said, I called all the people who were noble and who were the relatives of the son who was getting married and he says, All these people were called to come into the banquet and one says, Well, you know, I just bought a cow and I've got to go check 'em out, you know, and another one says, Well, you know, I've got this to do and then somebody else said, I've got married. That's the end of that excuse, you know. And all these different excuses people gave. And then the Lord said, Forget those people. They're too proud. Go and take the people who have no excuses, who have nothing to bring, who have nothing to offer in this banquet. Go out in the highways and the byways and get the pimps and the whores and get all the people who are the street people. Get them all and bring 'em on in. Because they know what grace is about. And the banquet was full. It was full of people who had come prostrate because they said, My only access to more grace is to realize I have nothing to offer. Maybe that's your situation this morning. It's a situation that each of us needs to come into if we're going to have more grace. That principle of humility is so important to James that he's going to take the next four verses and we'll take the next six weeks to talk about five specific steps to a humble heart. In verses 7 to 10. But you don't need to go through those five steps in order to understand what you do this morning. You and I simply come with a humble heart and say, Lord Jesus, take me as I am. I need your grace for my need, and you receive a humble and broken heart. Let's come to him. Lord Jesus, whatever the need that's been expressed in our hearts as we've heard you this morning We see your promise there. Emblazoned before us. He gives more grace. Lord, some of us are thinking we've used up our supply, but you sub you promise to us here. There's more grace available. And we say, Lord, but I've been unfaithful to you. And you say, that's exactly who I just wrote this to People who are spiritual adulterers. And I say to you, there's more grace available. You say, but Lord, I've provoked your jealous nature again and again. And I've lavished my affections on things that are so foolish that I find my security and I find so much of my well-being in simply going along with the values of this world. And you say, for me even, there is more grace. If I come before you and humble my heart. Lord, we pray that in whatever situation any of us is in this morning, you would bring us to the feet of Jesus Christ. We would see the one there who had humbled himself to become a perfect sacrifice upon a cross, the vilest of all Roman punishments. And that hanging on that cross he could meet our need. Lord Jesus, come. Come and meet us as we humble ourselves before you.