Thinking as I was coming up here for this, that uh I love to pray with this congregation and hearing those of you who led us in prayer Concerning God's faithfulness has really encouraged me in bringing to you God's word on this. I feel that there are prepared hearts for this this morning. Let's hear then from God's Word in the book of James, where else? Chapter 5, reading from verse 7 through verse 12. James chapter 5, verses 7 to 12. Be patient, then, brothers, until the Lord's coming. See how the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop, and how patient he is for the autumn and the spring rains. You too be patient and stand firm because the Lord's coming is near. Don't grumble against each other, brothers, or you will be judged. The judge is standing at the door. Brothers, as an example of patience in the face of suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. As you know, we consider blessed those who have persevered. You have heard of Job's perseverance and have seen what the Lord finally brought about. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy. Above all, my brothers, do not swear, not by heaven or by earth or by anything else. Let your yes be yes, and your no no, or you will be condemned. Now, the first question as we look at verse 12, our text for this morning, is how in the world is that related to verses 7 to 11? James has said here, be patient, persevere in the midst of difficulty. And above all, don't swear, but tell the truth. How's that related? Well, there's a lot of opinions from commentators on what's going on here, and without recounting them, I'll tell you the one that makes the most sense to me. And it's the one that says that really, verse 12 begins James' conclusion. It's a new section. The above all is the kind of above all like Jesus truly, truly, I tell you. It's saying this is a very important matter. One of the most important things that I want to tell you now. And the reason that it is thought that this is the beginning of James' conclusion is that a very common pattern in writing letters of that day Was that after you had finished the main bulk of your letter, the conclusion would have three parts to it. You would have an oath, a wish for your health, and a statement of the purpose of the letter. And what James, in fact, does here is he warns us about oaths. He then tells us in the next few verses how to have full, true health, and then he states the purpose of his letter. So what James is doing here is he's giving now the conclusion to his letter. And the first thing that he's doing is he's saying, now, you know that I'm supposed to sort of end this with an oath here, swearing that all this is true, but I'm going to tell you there's a danger to that. You see, what James is talking about here is not the matter of cursing. He's not saying, don't swear, don't use profanity. That's not what his point is. He's talking about the importance of truth-telling. Above all, my brothers, do not swear, not by heaven or by earth or by anything else. Let your yes be yes, and your no no, or you will be condemned. Now, I want to suggest to you that that is very relevant for today. It is very relevant to you and to me. Last year, U. S. News and World Report ran a seven-page cover article entitled A Nation of Liars, and in that seven pages, they uh uh detailed the cynicism that there is in the United States concerning anything that we read Are anything that we hear in the news from our political leaders and especially in advertising. The article talked about the erosion of the value of truth, particularly in business ethics. And basically concluded, we seem to be a nation of liars who have lost the sense of the preciousness of truth. And you and I have become very cynical in our understanding that truth is to be expected, or that perhaps even we should tell the truth under all circumstances. We see truth eroded so many places around us, don't we? One of the things that I thought was particularly interesting Well, as you know, whenever you read those articles, uh you always read the responses to them the next couple of weeks, let you know how people thought of it. This was a response that came in a week or two after that seven-page article on A Nation of Liars. It says, honest guys finish last just as surely as nice guys do. Ours is a predatory A predatory, nihilistic species that rewards honesty, the wimpiest of wimpy virtues, with bemused contempt. Honesty is the right policy for losers. Now, um, if uh if a guy by the name of Justin Reed from Phoenix, Arizona tries to sell you anything, I wouldn't trust him. Uh because you see there what his view of honesty is. It's a policy for losers. Only suckers are honest. You can't trust me, he says, you know. Anybody that's honest today is a wimp. You know, and you see this in so many places, particularly in advertising. You know, Consumers Report has for some time run a little section in their last page called Selling It. I don't know if any of you have seen that, but I find that fascinating to follow. They talk about things like orange juice that has no orange juice in it, uh products that are labeled all natural, that's all artificial. You know, they talked recently about uh an ad from uh ERA Real Estate that said, if we don't sell your house, we will buy it. And then there's her a an asterisk and in the fine print it says, at a price solely determined by ERA, you know. Hey tough, we didn't sell your house. Here's ten bucks for it, you know You know, then there was one about a car dealer, a mercury dealer. It said uh we will sell you our brand new mercury $2,100 under the uh retail sticker price for this particular model. Then you see a little asterisk and it breaks down where the $2,100 comes from. 600 of it is your down payment. I mean, you know, you talk about lying through your teeth. You know, these things go on and on. They talk about uh a uh mattress, uh canon mattress that says it's flame retardant And then there's some washing instructions. It says for detailed instructions, instructions see inside. Well, of course, to see inside, you've got to buy the mattress. So you buy the mattress, you rip open the package, and you look at the instructions inside. And in the inside there's large letters that says, do not wash, or you will wash out the flame retardancy. That's the detailed instructions on how to wash it. You know. I mean it goes on and on. In fact Just yesterday we received in the mail, we thought of uh and Kathy was trying to talk me into maybe saying if we should turn in our resignation here, go on to bigger and better things, because they're right on the cover, you see. Mr. and Mrs. A. Harris is the one million dollar winner. I mean who could not open so you see, look at the frenzied way this envelope has been torn open, you know And then you find inside it says, if the enclosed entry is returned in time with the grand prize winning number, you know And what's the effect of all this? We become very cynical, don't we? We see something and we say, ah, baloney, you know, they don't mean that. You can't trust them. And we begin to develop a mindset of cynicism on anything anybody says. And that kind of cynicism erodes our own understanding of truth. And that is exactly what James is speaking to. That's what he's writing about when he says, watch out when you take oaths. Lest in doing that you begin to develop a double standard about truth. Now what does this really mean? I'd like to unfold it in three points. First of all, what does it mean? Then why is it important? And thirdly, how we can apply it. First of all, then what does this mean? Well, in order to understand what James is saying here, it's not, you know, it's not kind of the way we would probably address the question of telling the truth. Uh he does it in a different way. Above all, my brothers, don't swear. Not by heaven or by earth, or by anything else. You say, well, what else am I swearing by? Let your yes be yes and your no no, or you'll be condemned. You have to understand the Old Testament background to this. The Old Testament background to it, of course, is that The root idea of telling the truth is given in the ninth commandment of God's law. And in that ninth commandment you have the basic statement, do not bear a false testimony against your neighbor. In other words, tell the truth, don't lie, in anything that you tell to your neighbor or about your neighbor And that idea, as you look at the rest of God's law, is spelled out in two kinds of ways. First of all, there's telling the truth about the past And then there's telling the truth about the future. In other words, telling the truth about what happened and keeping your promise or your vow about what you're going to do in the future. And those two ideas. In the Old Testament, were solemnized by oaths. If you wanted to solemnize the idea that you are going to tell the truth, that you are speaking now in the presence of God. You would use an oath to show that you were not afraid to say that, recognizing that God Himself was your witness. And then on the other hand, if you were going to make a vow, a promise about the future, you would speak that giving a vow, an oath. uh in which you would swear that uh you have no problem recognizing you are stating this in the very presence of God. Now in terms of the past, the clearest example of this is in Exodus chapter twenty two. Don't bother turning, I'll just read it and you can look it up later. But in Exodus chapter 22, you have a very interesting case that apparently was often referred to in Old Testament legislation. It says, if a man gives a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any other animal to his neighbor for safekeeping, and it dies, or it's injured, or it's taken away while no one's looking, then the issue between them will be settled by a taking of an oath before the Lord that the neighbor did not lay hands on the other person's property The owner then is to accept this and no restitution is required. Very interesting. Now what does that mean? Well, translated into what we would do today. Our family has two cars. Alright, now let's suppose we go on vacation this summer and you need a car, so we say, okay, we'll let you have our nine-year-old Volkswagen rabbit. And you can have that during the time that we're away. We come back from our vacation, and there the right front bender is a big dent. I mean it is mashed. Headlight, the whole thing, you know. I don't care if it is nine years old. I don't want big dents in my Volkswagen. And so I come to you and I say, hey, you know it's nice of you to take that car, but uh, you know, I think you owe me a fender. You say, Oh no, no, no, no. I had nothing to do with that dent. It was parked. I didn't do anything to it. Somebody else came down the street, must have done it while I wasn't looking. I have no responsibility for that dent. And I say, Oh yes you do. You say, Oh no, I don't. And God says, now how are you going to settle it? You know, besides beating each other up or, you know, small claims court or something. It's very simple. God says, my people settle it because they should tell truth. And so you say, I take an oath before God's presence. I state to you, I had nothing to do with that dent in your Volkswagen. And then God says, I have to accept that. I have to say, well, that's the truth. I believe you. There's nothing I can do. Can't sue you. Can't uh try to get it out of you, you know, force offender out of you one way or another. I have to accept it. Now, this Hebrews 6 says, the purpose of this, Hebrews 6. 16 says that men swear by someone greater than themselves And the oath confirms what is said and puts an end to all argument. Solomon, when he dedicated the temple, prayed. Lord God, if anyone comes before this altar to swear an oath and he does it falsely, may you bring the curses that he calls upon himself. May you bring those curses down on him. In other words, Lord, make it really happen because this is a holy place. In Leviticus chapter 6, we're told that swearing falsely this kind of an oath required a special kind of atonement. Lying and doing that by being solemnized before God's presence was a very serious sin in Israel Now that has to do with the past. The same thing had to do with promises or vows that you made toward the future. For instance, in Psalm 50, God says, if you're in trouble. Then call upon me in the day of trouble, and you may with that calling on me take a vow that you will give to me a sacrifice of thanksgiving when I deliver you, as a way of glorifying me. And I will deliver you. And then you can glorify me in that. And I'll get credit for delivering you. But God says there, and Ecclesiastes chapter 5 says, if you make a vow, Don't back out on paying it. It's not a light thing to vow to God and to not pay that vow. or to some other person. Anything that we vow, particularly God says, as you solemnize that, recognizing that you are doing it in my presence. Then if you back out on that, if you lie or if you don't keep that promise, then I hold you accountable. Now then how did it work out? What was the effect of this using of oaths to remind God's people that they were speaking in his presence? Well, to tell you the truth, it didn't work too well. In fact, it was a mockery By the time you come to Jeremiah the prophet in Jeremiah chapter 5, Jeremiah says he's grumbling about what the things the people do, and he says, one of the things that shows how low things have gotten is that people say, as the Lord lives, and then they lie between their teeth. And Jeremiah says, people have no sense of taking oaths that that solemnizes the truth. They simply use it in order to be more credible in their lying. And by the time you get to the New Testament, the whole thing has become a farce. By the time you get to the New Testament, the Pharisees, in the legalistic way that they handled the law, had developed a system of graded oaths. So that some oaths were binding and other oaths were not binding. If you swore by the temple, that was not binding. But if you swore by the gold of the temple, that was binding. And so Jesus in Matthew 23 says, this whole thing is absolutely ridiculous. And he makes mockery of it, and he speaks in the strongest condemnatory terms about the fact that what the Jews had done was take what God had intended as a reminder of the solemnity of telling the truth, to in fact make loopholes in order to lie. And so God is saying, so Jesus says then in Matthew chapter 5, forget the whole thing. Don't use oaths at all. You have misused the concept. Let your yes be yes and your no be no. And James is echoing what Jesus says in Matthew 5, verse 12, when he says the same thing. Above all, my brothers, don't swear. You have abused that notion. You've misunderstood the whole purpose of it. That it's reminding you that you speak whatever you say in God's presence. So don't even do it. Just then don't do it by heaven or by earth or any other thing you want to invent in order to make loopholes. Just let your yes be yes and your no by be no, because as Jesus said in Matthew 12, whatever idle word you speak falsely God will hold it to your account on the day of judgment. And James is saying the same thing. He says if you don't, you'll be condemned. Truth is very important. And so today, how do we do this kind of thing? A person uh says, Well, cross my heart, you know, or Boy Scouts honor, or I swear on a stack of Bibles. Or, may God strike me dead if this isn't true. You know one thing I've learned about that is that whoever says that don't believe 'em. You know? Do you ever notice only the only people who ever say those kind of things are the people who lie. Because a person who doesn't think about trying to deceive you and needs something to add to their credibility doesn't have to bother doing that. They simply have their yes be their yes, and their no is their no, and you know it. But the person who's always protesting by an oath that they're telling you the truth is probably lying. Now, why is that so important? Well, I believe that it's very important for a very important reason that we often miss in its connection. It's important to tell the truth because our God is a God of truth and faithfulness. And we are to reflect his character. That is to say, we can always believe God's truth. John 17, 7, Jesus said, Your word is true. Utterly believable. And in 1 Kings chapter 8, Solomon said, concerning God's promises, he said, not one promise that you have ever made has ever failed. Our God is a God of truth, and He's a God who is faithful. In fact, the basic antithesis between God and Satan is the fact that Satan is the liar. And the God is always true. Now, James, of course, has been making quite a point of that. Do you remember from verse 7 on down to verse 11? James has been making the point that God is a God who is faithful, who can be believed. Therefore, you can have patience, you can persevere because you know that He'll be faithful to His promise. And why and how that is so important, I believe, is most clearly spelled out of all places in 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Turn to that for a minute. In 1 Corinthians, excuse me, 2 Corinthians, in 2 Corinthians chapter 1, you see this relationship to the gospel. Because in 2 Corinthians chapter 1, Paul had planned to make two trips to the Corinthians. He said, I'm going to visit you twice. On my way to Macedonia, on my way back. He changed his plans. He visited them only once. And so he raises the issue here in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 of whether he is a liar or vacillating. whether he's a guy who can't really believe be believed. And he uses the same language that James does. He said verse 17, when I plan to do this, did I do it lightly? Do I make my plans uh in an unworthy, in a worldly manner? Uh you know, does he say so that uh in the same breath I say yes, yes, and no, no? Yeah, you never know what the guy's saying. On the one hand he says yes, on the other hand no. You can't really believe him. And then Paul connects this to the gospel. Now notice how he does it. He says, as surely as God is faithful, by the way, that's an oath that Paul's taking in doing that. As surely as God is faithful, Paul says, our message to you is not yes and no. It doesn't vacillate. It's not, you know, this way one time and the next minute it changes. For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by me and Silas and Timothy, was not yes and no. Jesus doesn't vacillate. But in him it was always, it has always been yes. For no matter how many promises God has made, they are yes in Christ. What's he saying? Paul's saying, all the things that God has promised and said, He has confirmed and made sure in the person of Jesus Christ. He's fulfilled them in Jesus Christ. All of his promises. Have been fulfilled. All of his promises of life, of peace, of all that he would give to his people. Every one of them, Paul says, have been fulfilled in Christ. And that's why you and I say, Amen. Do you ever know that? I mean nobody does it among Presbyterians, I realize getting an Amen out of this group, you know, is like you have to jump up and down and say, Now say Amen at the count of three. But Where people say amen, which is a biblical practice, this is the root of it. What does he say? Notice the next verse. He says This is why, so uh he says God's made it has said in Christ, verse, yea verse 20, so through him the amen is spoken by us to the glory of God. Now, why do we say amen to the glory of God? The reason you say amen is the word amen means to confirm or establish something. And when I declare God's truth and you say amen, you are saying that is true. We confirm that. God can be trusted. You don't have to doubt his word. Amen. That's true, you see. Amen? Amen. You confirm it. You see, you're witnessing. That's the dialogue of preaching. I declare a truth, you say amen. We confirm that that's true. What God has said is true. That was kind of a weak amen. Well, a wimpy amen. I'll give you a chance later, maybe. Then Paul goes on and he says, now Not only has God spoken the truth, but his promises are true. So notice how he uses as a play on words, verse 21. Now it is God who makes both us and you to stand firm in Christ. Play of words on the word amen, you see. He's confirmed his truth in Christ. He confirms you. He makes you to stand firm in Christ. He anointed us. He set his seal of ownership on us. He put his spirit in our hearts as a deposit, guaranteeing what is to come. Now what's Paul saying there? He's saying not only can you believe God for everything that he has said, that he doesn't vacillate, that everything God has said he will confirm and be faithful to, but in that God has also made promises that are still not fulfilled There are still some things that He is going to do to your life and to mine in Jesus Christ, the things that James has talked about. God is going to fulfill his promise. You're going to yet see what the Lord brings about to those that persevere in Christ. And Paul says the Holy Spirit is the down payment, the engagement ring of that marriage to come. And that Holy Spirit that you have in your life, Paul says, is the guarantee that God will keep his promise. That you will never have to doubt God's word. As you see the Holy Spirit working in you, as you are reminded by your brothers and sisters, yes, I see evidence of the Spirit in your life Then you're reminded that he is that deposit guaranteeing that every promise that you see in the Bible, the promise there will be a time when there will be no more tears, no more sadness, no guilty conscience. All rest and peace in Jesus Christ. Paul says that is going to be fulfilled. You can bet your life on it because God is faithful. Now you see the difference between a legalist and a Christian, a person who really is standing in Jesus Christ, is that a legalist is always a loophole looker. Because to a legalist, truth is bondage. That's the word you need to fill in there, you see. For a legalist, truth is bondage. A legalist is always looking for a loophole to see how far he can keep within the letter of the law. How far can we go before marriage? What I actually said was, see, a legalist always sees truth as bondage that he has to escape from. But the unique thing about the Christian is that for a Christian, the truth sets us free. Jesus Christ has set us free in the gospel. The gospel is yes in Christ. It is the fulfillment and the confirmation of all of God's promises. And when you get a hold of that concept, that the gospel, the truth of God, the truth of the scripture sets you free and doesn't hold you in bondage, you want to tell the truth. Not because you have to, but because of grace in Jesus Christ. Why is that? Well, because you want to reflect his nature Because you love him. And therefore you want, because your whole hope rests on the fact that God has told you the truth. You want to reflect his nature. You love him, so you want to tell the truth. On the other hand, you want to rely on him to take care of you. You see, your telling the truth is an expression of your faith in Jesus Christ And so you rely on him to take care of you. And you show that you trust him by doing that. And that's the other word. See, you reflect on his nature because you love him, and you rely on him to take care of you because you trust him. And so telling the truth is an expression of our faith in Jesus Christ, in our love for Him, and our trust of Him to take care of us. Even when you are in a tight spot, as James has talked about the pressure in chapter five that he's been reminding us of. Even when you're under pressure. You see, I hope you can get a grasp of that. That the gospel, by setting you and me free, sets us free to tell the truth. We don't have to look for loopholes to let us out. Because we're sons of our Father. And as sons, we are freed to be able to speak truth. Because we don't have anything to worry about. We don't have to fear what the truth will do to us. We are liberated by the truth of the gospel, the hope of the gospel. Because the Holy Spirit in us is the down payment reminding us that God will never leave us and He will never let one of His promises go unfulfilled. Amen? That's a little better. Finally, the last thing, how we can apply this. To see how this works out in our own situations, James says, above all, my brothers, then, do not swear. That is, James is saying, don't have to use some sort of oath in order to protest your innocence in telling the truth, to protest your credibility Whether it's by heaven or earth or any other ridiculous thing that Jesus had recounted in Matthew 23 and touched on in Matthew 5, James is saying, don't fool with that stuff. But simply let your yes be yes and your no no, or you will be condemned. But if you're not condemned, and you are standing in the righteousness of Jesus Christ, having trusted him as your Savior and Lord, Having trusted him to forgive your sins, including your sins of lying, your sins of deception, my sins of deception, then James says, you're free to tell the truth. Now how does that work out? First of all, one thing I didn't put in here, but what it does not mean is that it is against Scripture to take an oath in court. Some Christians think that what James is talking about here means that you and I should never take an oath. That is not what he means. Why is that? Why do I say that? Well, first of all, because Jesus took oaths and Paul took oaths. In fact, in first second Corinthians one that I talked about, there's twice in that passage that Paul takes an oath to affirm what he says. Hebrews six talks about the right use of oaths. But the reason that it's okay for a court to demand an oath is because a court doesn't know you. A court simply realizes that it works in a sinful, broken world. Recognizes that implicitly. When it was based on a Christian foundation, it recognized it explicitly. But the court, recognizing that not everybody tells the truth, seeks to solemnize the truth By having people declare under oath that they will tell the truth, hoping that maybe there's a little better chance that people will recognize that it's serious to lie, commit perjury. And because you and I as a Christian are unknown by the state and the court and our reputation, there is nothing wrong with our taking an oath under those circumstances to to confirm the fact that we are truth-tellers. We have nothing to fear in that. The point is, James is saying you shouldn't have to take oaths among your friends, among your family, among those who know you. Your reputation of saying yes and meaning yes and no and meaning no should stand in itself. That stands both in terms of telling the truth about the past and the future. A couple of examples concerning the past. That means that when you and I speak about uh when we're in the matter of uh kidding, Uh saying, you know, that something is true and it's not really. How do you how do you handle that? Well, hey, I'm not against kidding. In fact, uh in our family, uh April Fool's Day is a national holiday. Uh so you know I have nothing against kidding and we kid around a lot. But I think we have to be careful in kidding about two things. Number one, that we don't leave the person with the impression that something was true when it wasn't. We haven't cleared that up when we have parted from them. And the second thing is that I don't think that we should say, I'm not kidding. when we really are kidding, in order to try and confirm that we'll be more credible. If the person says, come on, are you kidding? I mean you may try to weasel out of it, but you gotta say the truth. I think that it's wrong for us to lie in that kind of circumstance. Your yes should be yes and your no no. What about the matter of exaggerating? Well this is something that maybe only I am guilty of here, but I find that this is a real temptation to me. I You know, making myself look good, building my impression that what I did, my accomplishments, what happened, looks better than it really did. And I think in doing that, we can fall into what James is talking about here. Our yes is not simply yes. We're going beyond that. We're trying to make the situation look better, to put us in a favorable light, to give us a better image. And I think we as Christians have to be careful of that as a way of violating truth. What about in promises or vows? A couple of things just uh quickly to mention. This opens up the whole question of business ethics. And believe me, there is a lot more that needs to be done among Christians to encourage each other in business ethics. Because business business ethics are held so low in our society. That it's very easy for a Christian to begin to rationalize and say, well, you know, I mean it's not only everybody's doing it, but my job depends on doing it. You know, one of the biggest problems in America's relationships with Japan in terms of trade is the fact that for the Japanese, their word is binding. Japanese says, Sheikh, give you my word, that's it. What's the American doing? He has a 20-page contract written up, you know. So he comes in, here's this 20-page contract, you know, and somebody just watching that would say, truth is much more important to the Americans. Look at this guy. You mean he had five lawyers write up twenty pages to make sure that this is true and binding. When in fact it's the old legalist mentality. The contract is far less binding to the American than the word is to the Japanese. Because the American who hired five lawyers to draw up the contract has another five waiting out behind the door to find the loopholes in the contract so he can break it after it's signed. The legalist mentality will always look for ways out of truth. Only the grace of Jesus Christ really brings us into the freedom of telling the truth And so a Christian can never be involved in writing shady contracts, can never say, I will lie for the sake of my company. The Christian has to trust Jesus in that and let God protect him in what may be a very hard situation. I may get ten phone calls this week, people saying, Oh yeah, well let's deal with my situation. Bring 'em on. I need to try and help you that, but we need to take God's word seriously. Finally, the last thing is the matter of breaking our personal promises. You know, I mean this this boy this really gets tough now. How many of us have said I will be there at 8. 30 to help set up chairs? And showed up at nine o'clock? How many of us said I'll be there at whatever time for ushering and show up 20 minutes late? How many of us said I'll be there to help set up for nursery and pull in at the last second? You know, just ready to you know people start squirming their chairs and I'm not gonna get any amends on this part, I'll tell you. You know, or showing up to children's church for the same thing. It's very tempting, isn't it, in our society with all the pressures we have to say, yeah, I'll do that and in our mind we're saying if it's convenient. You and I need to let our yes be yes and our no no. And here's where the grace of the gospel comes again. God has forgiven us for those times we've broken our promises to one another. Those times that you and I have said, yes, I'll help you out, yes, I'll do this. And then something came up, and we broke our promise. James says, let your yes be yes and your no no. Because God never breaks his promise. And in Jesus Christ, he has not only forgiven the times you've broken those promises, but he has given his promise to you, which is so sure that your very life can depend on it. It's only the grace of Jesus Christ that will deliver you and me from the guilt of what we've done and motivate us to tell the truth. Let's pray. Lord, we pray in Jesus' name that you will convict us of those times we have lied, exaggerated, given false impressions, those times we've broken promises. There's times when it wasn't convenient for us to do what we said we'd do and we rationalized our way out of it. Lord, we thank you for the grace of Jesus Christ. But Lord Jesus, when you died on the cross, you died for our lying. You died for our deceptions. We are all deceivers. The flesh is deceptive And we confess that to you now. We thank you for the forgiveness and the grace that we have in Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray that every one of us would know that. That you would set us free with a new understanding of the freedom of the gospel, that we would love to tell the truth, because we love to reflect your nature. And because we want to trust you to take care of us rather than our own self-protection. Lord, we bring ourselves to you in confession and in this prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen