One of the reasons that we come to church is to find out how God wants us to live. Right? And yet we find it very hard to obey what God reveals to us from the Bible about how it is. Right? Right? So every once in a while somebody will say, you know, I wanted to pay amen after that quote, but I knew that nobody else would want to do that, you know. So you got about half of you out there saying, I wish I could respond, but nobody ever does. You know, that wasn't rhetorical. We do. We come to learn what God wants us to do, we find it difficult. And I think we can hardly identify some of that. We because of that we're very grateful for the finished work of Christ. It takes away that guilt and so that we know that even though we Well again and again we can stand complete before God. And yet, I want to suggest three reasons why I think it's difficult for us to obey the Bible. Why it's difficult for us to obey the law of God. The first reason that I think is difficult to list is because we see the law as impersonal donors. That is, we see the commands are given without any particular thought for our personal well-being. Somehow the commands seem separate. Separated from the Jesus whom we love so much. Somehow it seems that there's nobody behind those commands. They seem to just sit on a page in an impersonal matter, separated somehow from the living personal God that we have. we serve and love. So you say, well, you know, what if our dog keep it? So what? Aren't they rules from an ancient civilization? And um I find it very difficult often to know how they apply to my own life? So that's one reason. It seems impersonal. A second reason I would suggest that it's difficult for us to obey the Bible is because you have this foolish notion that you can divide commands and things into bigums and little. We are avoided like the plague, often because of certain cultural values as much as because the Bible says so. And then there's certain little things that sort of just maggots, and those that we're not going to get too exercised early. a wasp in the kitchen, you know? You'll drop everything and you've got to get that cutter out of there. But uh you're not gonna exactly stop everything when you've got a few ants crawling around on the floor, you know? And so the wasp is like a some of those big sins that you're gonna stop and you're gonna have to stop and deal with it. But yeah, okay, the answer's there and they sort of bug me, but I'm not going to stop what I'm doing to deal with it. The take all around is a kind of a big, gnawing dip but there's all these things to know the Bible tells us to do. But uh they're really not the ones that are gonna stop for and make sure that we obey because we're not really sure how it applies and we'd sort of rather deal with annoying big do it than to get very specific. Well there's the third reason, and that's perhaps the one that hit Most of all, and that is that guarantee we suspect that the law is designed to place us in bondage rather than to give us freedom. We suspect that in fact there is a dichotomy between what I would enjoy doing and What the Bible tells me to do. It seems like it's often an either or situation. Do I do what I want to do, or do I do what the Bible tells me to do? How I spend Sunday? How I spend my money. How I spend my leisure time and on and on. Here's what I've been required to do, what I think I'd enjoy doing, but the Bible says to do it a different way. And so we really suspect that the law will play us in bondage rather than And I'd like to suggest that James speaks precisely to these three ideas. And he does it right here in James chapter 2. Because these three ideas, I suggest, reveal three misconceptions about the First of all, that the law is impersonal. James says in verse eight that the law is personal. It is a royal law of his faith. Secondly, our misconception that the law is here, by the way. I want to mention to you that I have had a great deal of difficulty with this message. I uh was sharing with the elders this morning that I have probably changed this message more than any message I can think of that I've been changing maybe in the last year or two. I have really struggle with this message. If you saw these notes up here, you'd shudder to think that I'm going to preach to them. I have changed it again and again and again later on down to a few minutes before I got up here, or at least got into the service. So one of the things that I want to change that I think will help you to follow along with a wrestled with what James is saying to us and how it'll help us in our living is that there should be a second point between point one and two. In other words you have on your outline two points. There should be three points. The first one that the law is royal, and I want to add a point in between that and the other one. Secondly, that the law is a whole. Our misconception is that the law is a collection of commands. The law, in fact, is a A whole that's W H O L E. Okay? The law is a whole, it is of a piece, it is a unit. You see that in verse ten. And then the third point that you see, which is the second point, we can read. under the third point. The law we think is bondage, James says the law gives freedom in verse twelve. The law gives freedom. Now I want to read the scripture, which is God's word to us, and I want you to follow the argument. Remember that uh this that what James is doing here is he's dealing with the problem of favoritism. Now you recall that uh last week we saw that he gave five reasons why favoritism is wrong. Favoritism you remember member is favoring someone or trying to impress someone with wealth or status for what I will get out of it. And James says, describing that situation in verses two to four, that he says somebody comes and you want to impression because of what you will get out of it. James says I'm going to give you five reasons why that's wrong. If you want to know the five reasons, refer to last week's message or at least pick up an outline or something, because I'm not going to read you those now. But the fourth reason, he begins in verse eight. And that's the one that we want to look at more close than distant. The third reason that he gives is it's simply favoritism violates God's word. It violates God's law. It disobeys the Bible. And James is saying that's all there should be good. Maybe many other reasons. That should be enough. Now it gives us a number of other reasons to help us. But what I want you to do as I go through this is imagine a dialogue going on between James and the person that he's rebuking. Alright, so I want to give you two slides to this so that you can see the flow of James's argument. He gives these different reasons, and then the person comes along, and let's suppose this person says after verse 7, hey, wait a minute, James. How do you know that I'm not loving that person just because I'm being nice to him, there's something wrong with that? I'm being nice to this guy who's got a lot of money and I'm giving him a nice key. Hey, why did he catch my heart? I'm just loving him. So James says in verse eight. If you really can't The royal law, abandoned scripture, love your neighbors yourself, you're doing right. Hey, no problem, no problem with that. But, James says, verse 9, if you share favoritism, then you sin and are convicted by the Lord of God. lawbreakers. James says, I can't see your heart. And so what am I going to tell you? But he says, you know your heart. And I want to tell you if your motive is wrong. See the same action to take a notice. One is right versus the other is wrong. Sometimes we can see a person do something, we can't comfort soon enough. The scripture has to reveal that, as God speaks for that person's heart. James says, but verse 9, if you're doing it from the wrong motive, what you get out of it, then he says you're Convicted by the law as lawbreakers. Better person as far as that clear. And a weird is the Bible for bidding being nice to somebody because of their wealth and status over somebody who's not. And James doesn't give the answer here, but who know it? nineteen verses fifteen and eighteen specifically forgive that kind of action. So Jesus said, this is breaking the law. And it's that kind of a law that he probably has in mind. Now suppose you were to quote that. The person of course would respond to that, oh come on. You know, a couple of obscure verses out of Leviticus and a reference, a general reference in Deuteronomy ten, and some big reference in Pro in uh Job thirty four, and one or two little references in Proverbs, and you're gonna say that I should just reorient my whole behavior and think about every one of those little laws on a day based. Come on, James, get curious. I've got to deal with priorities in my life. I've got to focus on the big things. There are certain big things and I've got to focus on them. I'm not going to get hung up on all these little details of the law. The suggestion comes back in verse 10 to answer that objection. But he says, Ha, of whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one He's guilty of breaking all of it. Because he who said, Do not commit adultery, is the same one who said, or also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery, but you do murder, you have become a lawbreaker. The only objection I can imagine to that is the person comes back and says, James, you know what? You're a real dragon. And James's response to that is verse 12. Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law. law that gives freedom. Jesus says, on the one hand you can't escape from God. Don't look at what I'm raising as some picky in little point to destroy your thoughts. On the one hand realize you face standing before God one day. And on the other hand, I want you to understand that the law gives freedom. Doing it God's way is in fact the most enjoyable way, ultimately. It's the way that brings joy. It gives peace and satisfaction. So, what I want to do now is to look at these three misconceptions. And I want for us to be able to examine these in a little bit more detail so that we can see now how these three correct understandings of the law will help us in our Christian laws. First of all, to say that the law is royal. You see that in verse 8. If you really keep the royal law found in scripture, the royal law, that is you see, he says the commands come from a king. They're from a king, the king. That is their personal commands. You notice that verse eleven says he who said and he who said they're not very personal, just ancient laws inscribed on a text for us passed down through Jesus. tradition. It is God Himself who is speaking to us. In fact, the Hebrew word for law, which is Torah, means instruction. It means one person instructing another person from mouth to ear. It tries to capture that idea of verbal communication rather than simply static words on a page. And therefore, you see, my response to that is a question of an attitude of obedience or submission to the person. But I decide whether or not to obey what the Bible says in any area of my life. The question ultimately, James says, is not whether or not you are correct in keeping the command. It is your attitude to the command giver. It is the attitude whether you see that it is the royal law of him who is speaking to you. Do you have that sense when you read the Bible that that's Jesus speaking to you? But the Holy Spirit takes those instructions, those commands, and then he takes those principles and he's putting your name there. But he's speaking it to you as a to a person. And so the attitude is an attitude of submission. overbands. That leads us to the second point that doesn't exist there because stick it in, and that is that the law is a whole. But that follows along with this. The law is a whole. W-H-O-L-E. That's first ten, we see. Whoever keeps the head the law and get stumbled at just one point. He's dealing there breaking all of it. You see, the law is not like a bunch of chess pieces. Now we've got a beautiful marble onyx chess set from Acapulto, Mexico, from some friends of down there once. All these chess pieces, I don't want to have twenty pieces or something on each side, so maybe 40 pieces or so in all. Beautiful chess pieces. One day our little two-year-old, the one that's not here in the room right now, uh decided that he would have have some uh target practice using these chess pieces as missiles. And so I came home and my wife is rather pale and shaking, you know, you know something's wrong at the end of the day and coming out. Yeah, and there's the you know and there's about uh you know maybe uh fifteen chess pieces smack. You know, this that these people are giving us a lot. Now, these could have said, hey Dad, but there's about you know twelve or I mean there's about twenty here or twenty five that I didn't read. Yeah, let's see if slap that look at all the ones I didn't read. I would break deep You see, the law's not like that. You see? The law rather is like a sheet of glass. You take a rock and you grill it at that sheet. And if you break it, you break the whole pane of glass. And so the glass is sheet. shattered. And Jesus said that's what God's law is like. Even if you were to break one tiny part of it, even if if that were possible, and we know it's not, we break major parts of it, constantly. But Jesus said, even if you just took one little part of it, we'd The point is, your attitude is rejection and rebellion against the law. And you've broken the whole thing. Well, maybe a better illustration is to look at the law as a chain, combined with all of the looks of the particular commandments. And you look at that chain. In order to hold, a chain has to be intact. You take the tiniest link of that chain and you sever it and you've broken the chain. You haven't just broken that one link and you say, ah, but you know, the rest of the chain's intact. If that chain is held in you, you know, you're hanging over a cliff by that chain and you can just break more work, you don't say, hey, but the rest of them is still holding you, down you go. You will no longer held by the chain. And that's what God says his law is like. And so if you this morning are thinking that, you know, I come here and I basically am a good person. God's got a great one by the curve, you know, when he gets the judgment back. So now you guys do the first, you know, you think we're an early generality, but that's the first thing you asked is how's anybody else to? So that's everybody you know, I once took a calculus course in this after the first exam, I was really sweating. But then I found out that the median grade in that course, in that uh exam so far, was a 10. We agreed with a ten, I thought I was better, you think. Because I thought it was 10, good with all, you know. And in fact, the grade was a terrible in that quote, but that's finally what he did. He just abided the class to this. A, B, C, D, S. And where you fell is what you got. think well you know that's the way God's going to be. He's going to divide up the humiliation. He can't broke it all. And so it's going to have to pass some. And I think that I'm doing enough of those commands that I'll get past. And James says it's not like that. Verse 12, you are going to be judged by that law. You're going to be judged by justice. You're not going to be judged by the rest of the human race in comparison to them. And so you see, the only hope that you and I have is that when we come to their trial, But there would be one person who would say, I have kept the entire law. I have never thrown a rock in rejection or rebelling against the royal lawgiver. I have never broken a single link of that. change. The law is intact in my life. And now I give myself on behalf of Alan and on behalf of you and anyone here who says, I want to stand with that man. Because he says, I offer myself to you now. To stand under God's judgment and take the full punishment of breaking every single limit, of smashing the glass to pieces, and endure God's full wrath and curse, so that you would be given the credit of having kept. Every single day. Of having looked at that glass and having come in total submission and an attitude of utter obedience to the King, the lawgiver. And that's what Jesus Christ does. Jesus Christ offers himself to you. You as the one willing to stand in your place so that you and I can read verse 10. Whoever keeps the whole law and then stumbles at just one point, oh Lord, I stumbled at so many points I've lost count long ago. But Jesus stands in my grace. And Jesus offers himself to say, I'm taking your place. You go free. And so God gives to us the hope in Jesus Christ. And that no matter what laws we've broken, we are therefore Forgiven and made complete in heaven. That leads us to a third point. And that is for as Christians, having that forgiveness, realize, and if you don't have that, let me urge you in the name of Christ. Don't let today pass. Without coming to one of us as one of the elders, speaking to somebody in one of the lab communities next hour, speaking to someone to make sure that you would have the peace of knowing that Jesus Christ stands in your place and that you have just righteousness, not anything you can ever try to gain by keeping the law yourself. Because those who have that righteousness aren't be tempted to see the law and setting us in bondage. And that's the third thing. Law gives freedom. James says in verse 12, So speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom. Well, the law then gives freedom. Freedom. And he had said that same thing in chapter one, verse twenty-five, the law, but perfect law he said there which gives freedom. What does he mean by the law which gives freedom? Well, I say It's the siblings one, two, three. Follow along just three points of the argument. Number one, realize that you are made in the image of God. You are made to reflect God's character. That's how God formed you. Adam and Eve. You just thought the picture did the law think normally, uh, naturally? That is for normal reaction to in fact reflect God's character, then miss it as vulnerable. And that was the end. But in all honored before that act of disobedience in listening to the slave rather than to God, there are normal reactions to things. That reaction escape from freedom and which gives them all the pleasures that they enjoy, is in fact to reflect God's character. The second place then is that the law is made in God's image. Not only are you made in God's image, but the law is made in God's image. Then God revealed himself to Israel at Sinai. Moses looking back on that in the book of Deuteronomy says, How did God reveal himself to you at Mount Sinai? And Moses says, Do you remember? Did you see anything? Moses a answers his own question. He says, No, you didn't see anything of what God Himself looked like. God was invisible. How then? Moses asks, did God reveal himself? He says, Through his words. He revealed himself Through his law to you. And that law was like a diamond, of which each facet was a command, the whole which put together reflected the glory of God's being. And so the law reflects and communicates. who God is and what he's like. God's character is like the law's character. Now people give a bunch of arbitrary rules and say, that looks like points, I'll set a rule against that, you know, instead of arbitrary laws in order to spoil our fund. The law is simply the reflection. of what God's life. You're made in God's image, the law is made in God's image. You put the two of them together and what do you have? You follow the law, you got freedom. Because you're operating according to the owner's manual. Well you take a new car and you say, hey, this car is really nice but gas is too expensive to put in a gas tank. Does it put in the gas stuff you're not going to put in water, it's a lot cheaper. You can't put water in the gas tank, the car won't operate. It's not operating according to the owner's mandate. It will not function. It breaks down every time I can tell you, it does. Then you say, Well, all right, proper gas in. But when I go to the pump, I find that there's these uh three pumps and one says super unleaded, man, that's way out of sight. touch that. Then there's a phone that says 10 letters. And then there's a phone that says letters. And the letter's the cheapest. So that's clearly the easiest way to go. I mean if you gotta put gas in it, all right. If I got to put gas in it, it's why I adjust the nozzle on the thing that is so I can get that fat and the nozzle in there. And I say I I don't care if it says on the other on it, I know it's gas. Hey man, gas is gas, so you stick it in there, no catering converter, you know? Whole thing doesn't function, you start smelling bad and then you know and then you get pulled in and the car breaks down. It doesn't function. Why? You're not operating according to the other standard. You may think that's freedom. But God says you don't operate according to what I tell you, you'll break down. But so when somebody comes to me and they say, You know, there's no love left in our marriage. And so I want a divorce. I mean this is ridiculous. Why should we stay in the kind of marriage that we have when it's just no love on it? And if I divorce, I'll find freedom. I'll finally be free out of this, she'll be free, I'll be free. Man comes and protests to me, I say, Anna, you're headed for slavery. You think you're headed for freedom. You think that you can violate the age manual. But if you in fact violate that age manual instead of the two believers Divorce is no option. And even a believer is an unbeliever, if the unbeliever's will deliver the believer, there's no divorce as an option. And so if you violate that, you're not headed for freedom. You're headed for slavery. And so you see people making up their own rules. When they seek to think that by writing your own rules we'll find freedom, God says no. Freedom is operating according to the law. Freedom is to go back and learn how to love your life. That's where you'll find freedom. I've been trying out as binding, man. Learn how to want your wife for Christ's sake. Not just to make her happy, but to please Jesus and to do it his way. Here's freedom. And so God says to us, the law, is freedom. Trust me. You need to function the way I have given to my word. The law provides forgiveness. Excuse me. The law provides freedom. It provides freedom according to its sacrificial provisions. That Jesus fulfilled and therefore has given to us forgiveness? And the law provides freedom in its counsel. In its counsel, it teaches us to live skillfully. Remember that the word wisdom Is the word skill. The Hebrew word wisdom is the same word for skill. And so to live according to God's wisdom, His law, is to learn to live skillfully. It's like the Bible's like a map. So if you are going in a skill, Yeah, some of you, you know, remember when you were new to Columbia, maybe some of you are new to Columbia now. And you look and you say, Hey, why didn't anybody ever think of intersections like this in Columbia now? Why does everything always have to go, you know, like this? Yeah, and we live in one of those dead end places, you know If I'm out doing anything in the front yard, I'll get about ten people there saying, you know, how do you get to them? You know, how do I get out? Where am I? And all this kind of stuff. Nobody knows where they are. So you get a map. And line by home, you find that the little lines on that piece of paper Correspond to reality. And that if you follow the little words on there or follow those little lines, you get to where you want to go. Because the map is faithful to reality. God's word is a map that's faithful to reality. When that map will give you freedom because if you follow it you'll get to where you want to go. You may not even be sure where you want to go. This isn't even a better map than a map. The map says you gotta know where you want to go, I'll take you there. The Bible says you don't know where you want to go. Let me show you where you want to go. And then let Jesus take me there and I'll show you who Jesus is. And so you follow this map and it gives you freedom. It counsels you in how to live. Better than what are the ways that we violate this? Let me give just two illustrations. Two ways that my friends could be commonly violent, seeing the Bible as personal, as a whole, and as given to his freedom. But what is the situation where it doesn't a clear command, this is on the back side of the board and outline if you're still trying to follow in a some of through the sense what's it there. The first is an example where there is a clear command, but the application is fuzzy to you. Well it says, but how do you apply it? It says the tendency is for us to rationalize away the application. The Bible says very clearly, why submit to your husband as to the murder? You say, yeah, of my husband in my situation? Hey, you know, I'm trying to find a correct decision that that guy's made in the last year. If I follow him and I don't object and I don't, you know, raise all kinds of hassles and black and it's never gonna work. You can't say, hey, I know. the command is clear, but somehow it doesn't apply to my situation. God says, Do you believe this also to give you freedom or don't you? Do you believe it or don't you? Lord, uh the words of turn the other cheek and somebody is clean, uh arrogant, mean to me. The words have turned out of cheek. That's clear. But when I apply it, I always feel that in my situation there's a principle at stake that I've got to defend. And somehow that that generally applies, but it doesn't apply to me here now. That's because you believe the law will give you freedom. That doesn't always simplify how it applies. factors do I believe it will give me freedom. But that's Jesus speaking to me when he says that. Not something vague and abstract. Let me give you an example for my own life. A year ago May, we had our twenty fifth high school reunion. You know, you see all those people that are sag and jowls and everything else, you know, we went back to that day and to send to get to that uh big party, I had to send in a fifty dollar check for the two of us for Kathy and me. So I send over fifty dollars, we get to the reunion, I meet all my old classmates, you know, all the ones, you know, the docks who now have pot bellies, you know, and I kind of challenging them, you know They tell these people and all are particularly with the treasurer. And I talked to him around with everybody else and then we get back home about two weeks later my fifty dollar check comes back in the mail. And here it is from this guy who I talked to at the reunion saying, G sorry couldn't make the reunion better off next time. Here's your check in return. So what are you gonna do with it, you know? And I know the Bible says, you shall not steal. But that did it, I talked to him. And he's given me my check back. Clearly, this is a tradition of the law. So I wrestled with that. I said, yes, but he thought I didn't come. That's okay. I talked to him. He knew I was there. It's a clean or you ever had that kind of situation? What do you do? You stick it. check in the file, and I would say I'll deal with it later. I forgot about that, so almost a year later, a clearing down what I did when I did what my desk was like, I come down to that check again. No one is, oh man, that was almost a year ago. Surely he's forgotten about the accounts and Because I wouldn't do that. The Holy Spirit conted me. He led to a you know that he is not giving that back to you the way you thing, you know that you're going to be sleepy if you don't turn that back into. That's false pretenses. Not only does there a very real sense of God speaking to you personally, but to speaking to me. But as I sat down, I actually ripped up that check said that's it, cross it off the checkbook, started to walk away and I stopped. It was half away on the shoulder and said, uh-uh, come back here. Back down another desk, I wrote out another check. And in doing that, I experienced freedom. Why freedom? Because there is a freedom in realizing number one, I'm not the one who's ultimately responsible to make my energy. If I simply Albert, honestly, it's up to the Lord to take care of it. I don't have to sit here and think, Well, you know, I need that fifty dollars. He was afraid of him saying, Lord, that's what you tell me to do, that's what your word says to do. Even though I could rationalize the applications, that'd be wrong. Lord, you take care of my needs. There was a freedom in that. Secondly, there was a freedom from greed. By doing that, I was able to say, Lord, I am going to renounce the greed that would make me want to clutch onto this. And it is fitted. The second illustration is where there's an obscure command so that you don't take it seriously. That is, unless it's to your advantage. And so James here says, All right, basic prism is forbidden in Leviticus. In Deuteronomy. You say, Oh Lord, I can't read all the biblicals in Deuteronomy and go through all that stuff You know I'm just having trouble with Philippians And James says, Yeah but if you really believe there's freedom, you'll be motivated to find out what's in Leviticus and do And in doing that you will hear me speaking and you will find freedom to know how to apply the principles and the commands of the Old Testament in this age. How do you look at God's law? Do you look at it when you read the Bible? Is this best Jesus addressing you personally? Is this the Holy Spirit puts your name in those principles and commands? Did you believe that the law is designed for your bondage? Did you really believe that the law is designed for your freedom as you come to Jesus Christ and you trust him to lead you in the paths of righteousness in order to function in the way that he intended you do. Let's pray. Oh Lord, forgive us for seeing the Bible as something impersonal and even without regard to our needs. Forgive us, Lord, for thinking that somehow we could ever Keep that law enough to get you a favor and squeak in past the judgment into heaven, apart from the righteousness of Jesus Christ alone. May there's any who are still trusting their own righteousness. Pray that you would give to them eyes to see Jesus Christ on their behalf alone as their hope of salvation. And Lord, we pray that you would deliver us from the idea that the law will hold us in bondage. And we could believe, Lord, that this was intended for our freedom and trust you. And in following you, wherever you speak to us, to be open and teachable as your word speaks to us, to find in that. a freedom and a joy so we could never find any other way. God help us to apply this to our own lives. For Jesus' sake. Amen.