George, the only problem with your uh not telling the kids to leave before is that I always feel kinda bad when I get up to speak and everybody leaves. You know. I I just wish we could do that before. I Well well. Two weeks ago I made a strong statement and issued forth a strong challenge based on James chapter three verse two. Where James says that if anyone is never at fault in what he says, he's a perfect man able to keep his whole body in check. And I remember I said at that time that I'd like to encourage you to put aside all that low-lying background guilt Of all the things that you see are your various deficiencies, your lack of consistent quiet time, the uh ways that you are not bold in your evangelism. Those different things that nag at you, those bad habits and all the rest of it. And I suggested that for three months, That we put those things aside to focus on one thing as our number one priority in our discipleship. That is a an attempt to focus on one thing to grow as a Christian based on James Chapman Chapter 3, I was lost. There we go. Based on James chapter 3 and verse 2, James saying, if anyone is never at fault in what he says, he's a perfect man. able to keep his whole body in check, that we make that number one priority, tone control. Well, I'm excited, frankly, about what could happen if we do that. Some of you have already spoken to me about that, and I think that God could really do something that would be very significant in our lives as we would try to practice this for the next ten weeks until the end of the month of May. To see what God would do. James is saying that this is the key to holy living. John Wesley made tongue control one of the primary parts of his discipleship program. And we see the effects of that ministry as it revolutionized England. New Life Church, probably the most Effective church in making disciples, reaching out with the gospel and even to the mission field in our own denomination, has made this one of their basic six points of discipleship, tongue control. What would happen? If in Columbia Presbyterian Church we made this a very high priority in our discipling, and over the next ten weeks made this our number one priority In our own attempt to follow the Lord, what would the Lord do in that? I'm excited to see what God will do as we seek to practice this. James E. C. , I believe, is saying that we as Christians tend to overlook tongue control and the sins of the tongue as being a very serious matter. James is saying that this is something we tend to minimize. Hey, you talk about sins of sex, sins of violence. Talk about going to bars and being uh addicted to various chemical substances and we say, well, those things we realize are important and we're free of that basically as a congregation And so very often I will hear people come and they'll say that they have visited with us, but that their impression of Columbia Presbyterian Church is that these are a group of highly educated, overachieving, non-center people. Now, you know, see you can chuckle because all the people that say that to me think they're the only ones that think that. But of course it's not true But because we have rid ourselves of certain cultural things that are not acceptable within the Christian evangelical subculture, we tend to therefore minimize the other things that are much more subtle. And we have missed what James is saying here. James is saying, you think that you people have it together because you don't practice various overt sins that are not acceptable culturally. But James is saying that the tongue and the lack of control of it is a very basic sin in our lives. It's so basic that when Paul in Romans chapter 1 talks about God giving up the culture to depravity and goes into the homosexuality and the lesbianism and all that describe the decay of that culture, he says in verse 29, they're full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice. They are gossips. Slanders, God haters. Yeah, puts gossips next to God haters But we don't tend to do that, do we? Yeah, hey, God hater is one thing. Lesbianism's one thing. Gossip? Hey, everybody gossips Yeah, a little slander here and there. I mean who can help it, you know? A few critical remarks here and there. I just can't help it. It's part of my nature I once told you about a Christian that I worked with for some time that decided that he just simply had a rotten temper and that was part of his personality. He was going to have a rotten temper till the day that he died and mouth off to people. I There's nothing I can do about it. That's just me. You see, and we can tend to accept sins of the tongue as a basic part of our unchangeable nature. James is saying not so. James is saying tongue control is a very vital matter. And for those of you who look at us and say, well, you know, I'm not sure I fit with this congregation. It doesn't seem like uh I'm on the same level as these people. They all seem to have dealt with the sins that I'm still struggling with. They all seem to know the Bible much more than I do. They all seem to know much more about most things that we could talk about than I do. Then let's all come before the searching gaze of James and the words that he has to say to us as he reduces us all to sinners in desperate need of grace and forgiveness. And let's come together as sinners, realizing that, not threatening any of us because we think that we have conquered certain sins in our lives. Now, in order to see this, I'd like to suggest that James makes four points. Now that he's gotten our attention, you see, with verses 1 and 2. He makes four points in verses 3 to 12, and he does it by means of seven illustrations. And so what I'd like to do is I'd like to call to your attention these four points. Each of them I have stated as beginning with a D, and that's to help you to remember it. Some people think that I work on my messages six to twelve months in advance because I need to understand the passage. It's really just so I can come up with all the points that begin with the same letter. But uh yeah, it takes a while, but I got them all into D's here, and I think it's faithful to James's meaning But uh there are four points and notice the seven illustrations. Notice them now, and then I'll read through the passage so we can see James's flow of thought. The first point is that the tongue has disproportionate power, and that's in verses 3 to the beginning of verse 5. Uses two illustrations, tiny bit to direct a mighty horse, and a tiny rudder to direct a large ship. Then he moves on to the second point that the tongue is a destructive evil. He illustrates that by a tiny spark that can set ablaze an entire forest. Then his third point is that the tongue not only is disproportionately powerful, disproportionate to its size, that is and that it's a destructive evil, but it's also a disobedient beast. And he gives in that illustration the illustration of an untamed animal. And then he finishes off by saying that the tongue can make discordant sounds, two sounds that just don't fit together, praise and criticism. And he gives three illustrations of that, fresh and salt water coming from one source. A fig tree bearing olives and a grapevine bearing figs. Now having noticed that, and you might even find it helpful in your own Bibles if you're the kind of marks and margins, to just note those illustrations so you can see the flow of his thought. Let me then read through from James chapter 3, verses 3 to 12, noticing his points and illustrations. This is God's word. Let's hear it. When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal Or take ships as an example. Although they're so large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a very small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go. Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. The tongue also is a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole person, sets the whole course of his life on fire And is itself set on fire by hell. All kinds of animals, birds, reptiles, and creatures of the sea are being tamed and have been tamed by man. But no man can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. With a tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing. My brothers, this should not be. Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring? My brothers, can a fig tree bear olives or a grapevine bear figs? Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water. I want to do an overview now of these points. And then in the next couple weeks, we're going to pick up a couple of details within them. First of all, then, the tongue has disproportionate power. We tend to associate power, you see, by size or by impressive appearance, don't we? And here we have a mighty, powerful horse And James wants to de-deceive us again. That is, uh I said, one of the main themes of James is that he's trying to constantly open our eyes to see reality as opposed to the way we tend to perceive reality and are deceived by misperceptions. And James says, you take this big, mighty, powerful horse that's got a mind and a will of its own. And he says, this puny little man, you know, jockeys, you ever see jockeys? You know, they're you know hundred pounds, hundred and ten pounds, they're always smaller. You know, he says this little guy can turn that horse whichever way he wants it to go. Why Well, by means of this tiny bit of metal that he sticks in the tender mouth of the horse. And because its mouth is so tender, that little metal bit Can exercise the force to control that mighty strength and the will of that horse. Can break even a wild horse Or James says, take a ship. Now we think of ships and you can think of the mighty tankers, the oil tankers that displace thousands of tons. or perhaps an aircraft carrier that's over a quarter of a mile long? Or thinking of James's day, ships that were driven by the wind. And James' point here with this illustration is he says, now you take this ship and it's got these sails, and the powerful wind drives that ship in a particular direction. But James says the m the amazing thing is that that ship is not forced to go the direction that the wind is going. Because of a small, relatively small rudder, the pilot can decide either to go with the wind or he can tack against the wind. As I reminded you after last summer, uh in my own experience, it takes a certain skill to learn to tack against the wind, as I bounced off various boats in Wellfleet Harbor, trying to decide how you can drive a rudder against the wind. But nevertheless, if you have the skill and the ability, that small runner can take that ship the direction that you want it to go, despite the wind. Now James is saying, so, there you see in verse 5, likewise the tongue is a small part of the body. But it makes great boasts. I mean I think he means by that great boast not that it's bragging about what it can do, but he's simply acknowledging that the tongue is able to do far more than the size in the body would indicate. indicate. This tongue is able to boast of much more power than its relative size would lead you to believe that it has. And of course, in doing this, he's using the tongue as a symbol of our words, the effect of our words on people's lives. As Curtis Vaughn has written concerning this passage. The tongue can sway men to violence, or it can move them to the noblest actions It can instruct the ignorant, encourage the dejected, comfort the sorrowing, and soothe the dying. Or it can crush the human spirit, destroy reputations, spread distrust and hate. And bring nations to the brink of war. The tongue can comfort or the tongue can crush. The tongue can make peace where the tongue can declare war and bring about thousands of deaths. And you say, huh, not my tongue. My tongue doesn't have any of that kind of influence. Don't deceive yourself, again, as James would have us to understand. Even though you may not think the sphere of your influence is very great, there are other people in your lives who are of infinite worth made in the image of God Who long to hear you say, I love you. I really appreciate you. A simple word of encouragement that can mean so much to them. Or with that person, you can crush their spirit, you can discourage them, you can nag at them, and you can continue to harp upon their faults until they're reduced to utter dejection. Every one of us have a tremendous power in the use of our words as they affect other people in our lives. An evangelist, George Duncan, who is the author of several books, an evangelist who's traveled the world in many countries, has led hundreds to Christ. Wrote recently in Decision Magazine, he said in 1924, my 15-year-old brother heard a preacher, and he asked me to go along to the next meeting. He said he used simply five words. Will you come with me? And as a result, he said, I went with him, and I heard words. Those words showed me my sin, and I gave my life to Jesus Christ. And through George Duncan's words, hundreds of others found Jesus Christ. The simple power of a few words. Our tongues are disproportionately powerful. I remember one time in my life, back in eighth grade, I thought I was going to lose my life because of my tongue. It was the first time I remember seeing the power of the tongue. We were sitting around just before class and we were having kind of a debate because our school was uh sixth to eighth, seventh and eighth grade was separate, like here. from nine to twelve, which was the high school, only we just had seventh and eighth grade as junior high. And uh the high school was in a different community and so uh we had school and there was some discussion going on as to whether the high school had off that day. And some thought maybe they did and others thought they didn't. And I piped up quite confidently, no, I know they have off, because I just seen Dale and Rich and Dave riding around in a car a few minutes ago Well, the eighth grade teacher was listening and not saying a word, and he didn't say a word then. He just turned around and walked out of the room And all the rest of the class turned to me and they said, Harris, you are dead meat. Because those were the three toughest guys in the senior class And they were playing hooky that day. And they said, you know those guys have been suspended a number of times and one more suspension. They're not going to graduate. And you know what they're going to do to you? Man, I wouldn't want to be in your body for anything. I want to tell you I walked the streets of Alden, Pennsylvania in terror for the next few days And I remember thinking at that time, oh, why can't we take words back and stuff them back in our mouth? Oh, how I wish that I hadn't said those stupid words. And just spoken off of the top of my mouth and thought that I was going to bring destruction on my body. Uh just so you don't uh sit there wondering what's gonna happen for the rest of the sermon, I don't know whatever happened with those guys. I never heard anything else I uh saw Dale just a few years ago. He had been a powerful football player and I didn't bring the subject up to him, I'll tell you, even twenty some years later, but he had sort of gone to pot, and so I thought at this point maybe I could take him on, but I I still thought it was better part of wisdom to not bring it up. But have you ever had that experience thinking of something that you've said and oh if you could only take it back the power that there is in a few words that you can never again withdraw. And James goes on to say, not only is there power, but he said that power has such destructive capabilities. And that's how you see he adds that third illustration. He brings a new element there. The first two have just talked about the power of the tongue, for good or for bad. Either way, it doesn't talk about it, just you know Turn a horse either way, turn a ship either way. Doesn't say whether it's good or bad. But now he talks about a spark. Just a little match. From a campfire or from a cigarette that was carelessly thrown by the side of the road, James says, that little spark Can set that whole forest ablaze. Think of it. How long it takes for a forest to grow How it started from scrub and then from the scrub it moves to a softwood forest of pines and evergreens. And then from that gradually you see the oaks and the hardwoods taking over. Fifty, hundred, two hundred years it takes for these trees to gradually mature. For them to be the dwelling place of birds and of various animals and their nests, for meadows to come and for all the different parts of the forest to come together. I've seen just in the nine years that we've lived in Colombia, various places that we walk along the bike path. We're just scrubby when we moved here, now have full grown trees. And you see the process of the forest maturing over hundreds of years, particularly if you think of a sequoia, redwood forest out in California. And in hours, from one careless spark, the whole thing can be reduced to charred embers. The meadows obliterated, the nests of the birds and of the animals absolutely destroyed, and thousands of them killed The trees that in their beauty gave shade and delight now just charred stumps over a barren landscape for one tiny spark. And James says, so, verse six, the tongue is that kind of a fire. Can you think of a more powerful illustration when you begin to let your imagination roam to what that means? When James says the tongue is also a fire. A world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole person and sets the whole course of his life on fire. And in itself is set on fire by hell. We're going to go into the process of those steps, the progress that you see there in verse 6 more next week, and so I'm not going to touch any further on that now, but simply understand James's flow of thought. The tongue, your tongue is not only powerful, but uncontrolled, it has limitless capability for destruction. Then he moves on to the third point that he makes about this. He says that tongue, which is so powerful and has such ability to carry out evil is incredibly disobedient, incredibly hard to control. You see, he says there in verse 7, all kinds of animals, birds, reptiles, creatures of the sea are being tamed and have been tamed. But no man Can tame the tongue. That's really amazing, isn't it? To liken the tongue now in this fourth illustration to an untamed wild beast. And so you you you picture, you know, uh people have tamed animals, uh you go to a circus and you see lions that will sit down like pussy cats and a man can pet 'em, he can put his head in their mouth, you know, and tigers that are so powerful and destructive. And hear this tiger is so docile. And you think of parrots that are trained to talk? You think of dolphins that people can ride? You think of seals that can shoot baskets far better than I can? We at home have this uh wild guinea pig that we have trained to be able to fall asleep in your arms Everybody's arms, that is, except Dean, he never keeps his arms still long enough for it to fall asleep. But all kinds of animals that we can train. To do our will. I had a friend that uh had a friendly boa constrictor. Used to just wrap itself around his head and his arm while he'd study, you know. All kinds of things you can do with animals But James says there's one animal you can't tame. You know, you've probably heard the old riddle, what's the wildest beast on earth and where does it live? And the answer, of course, it lives in a cage of teeth behind your lips The tongue is the wildest beast on earth. Untamable. I sometimes uh picture this fellow that's in the circus, you know, and he's with his chair and his whip driving that tiger back into the corner and he gets it to sit down and he finally gets it to roll over like a pussy cat and he pets it and he sticks his head in its mouth and gets it to do all these things and then this guy puts down his chair and he puts down his whip and he goes home and his wife has dinner late and he yells and snarls at her, you know, and then he has to go back to her and he has to apologize. I'm sorry, hon, I just lost control. And this guy can tame a tiger, you see, but he can't tame his own tongue. That's the way it is with us, isn't it? We can do so many technological wonders, but we can't tame our tongues James is saying, gives a lesson here for you and for me. Over the next ten weeks in this experiment You are going to fail more times than you can count. I know I've been trying and I've already failed more times than I can count. And there's a tendency to get discouraged in that, isn't there? To say, look, you know, you told this experiment and you said, Look, we're going to practice tongue control. And so, man, I really so I'm going to carry through this week, and I am going to control my tongue. And by Monday, I already sinned so many. times that I began to just curse and swear about the whole experiment. Listen, be patient Take heart from what James is saying here. Realize you are trying to tame the wildest beast on earth And so you're not going to do it overnight. Training wild animals takes time and patience. And you are not going to do it in your own strength. And so when you fail, come back to the Lord. Say, Lord, yes, I understand. I failed again But that's okay, Lord. I know that this is a very large project that only you are capable of carrying out. And then the fourth point that he leads us to is how the tongue can make discordant sounds. Now he's getting around more and more to the specific. He's saying it's a disproportionate power, that power can be so destructive, that power just seems absolutely untamable. And he says, what is really terrible about this is just the utter inconsistency of what we do. The discordant sounds that we make. Verses nine and ten he says, With a tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Out of the same mouth comes praise and cursing. James says that's utterly discordant, that's utterly inconsistent. We're going to sing in a few minutes. Oh, for a thousand tongues to sing my great Redeemer's praise. And then five minutes later we'll be out in the lobby. Complaining how uh the worship goes on or the preacher went on or things aren't set up for the laugh group or somebody didn't set up our class for Sunday school right and the chairs weren't right And somebody didn't make the coffee right and Dan Wecker's away this weekend at the youth retreat, so who knows what the coffee'll be like, you know, and the cookies aren't right and you know, and he's kids people that don't discipline their kids and look at all these little grubby monsters that go up there and grab all these cookies and I never get to have And on and on and on it goes, you know. And here we've just been praising God, and then we look at our brothers and sisters as absolutely deficient idiots many times James says, that's absolutely discordant. James says there's no harmony to that. He says, don't you see the inconsistency of that? It's like a freshwater spring sending forth salt. It's like a grape tree, it's like a grapevine sending forth thi uh figs or an olive tree, a fig tree excuse me, that bears olives. It just is inconsistent. You see, James is saying, what is in your mouth comes from your heart. And if you have a discontented heart this morning that's out of sorts with God You lack contentment and peace with Jesus Christ this morning. James says it's going to show in your mouth. James says that lack of peace is going to express itself in how you speak, not about God, but about other people. See, James is telling us that the only way that we can really come to be able to use our tongues to bless and not curse is if we come to see the grace of God in Jesus Christ. That when we come to see, that we praise him for the fact that he not only has made our tongues, but he has forgiven us for the sins of our tongues. Whereas God could have used his tongue, anthropomorphically speaking now, as if God had a tongue, that God would use his tongue to speak judgment and cursing upon us, absolutely justly. That rather than curse us for the sins of our tongue, for our blasphemy against him, our cursing him, and our cursing our brothers and sisters, our making their lives miserable. By sometimes intentionally hurting them with our tongues. James says, he implies it here, and particularly we'll see this as we go on, that God has forgiven you. And therefore, when you understand his grace, then you're able to forgive. And when you understand his grace and his mercy to you in Jesus Christ, your heart is content. It's at peace. It responds to God in blessing and in thanksgiving. And all of a sudden you realize, Lord, how can I be critical of this person when you have forgiven me so much? How can I use my tongue to hurt them when you have used your words to bless me so richly? When you have forgiven me So much, so many times that I've used my tongue against you and against those made in your image. And so we're going to go on this 10-week experiment to the end of May. Think of the last day, Memorial Day. There it is. That's the end of the experiment. And just between now and then, be thinking of tongue control as your number one priority in discipleship. But as you do that, remember the last two things that are there on the back of the bulletin outline. We're doing it because it's so important. It's the key to holy living. James says, if anyone is never at fault, verse 2, in what he says. He is a perfect man and able to keep his whole body in check. You want to keep your body in check under the rule of Jesus Christ? Begin with your tongue. After the message that I gave two weeks ago, one person here in the congregation said that they wanted to jump up and say, it's true, it really is true what you say, about that being the key. And that person went on to tell me that last November I was involved in a particularly gossipy conversation. It really convicted me. I felt very guilty about it. And because we were studying James, I decided to read James, and as I read James, I came on this section about the tongue, and so I decided, on my own, see, you know, I don't have to preach it, you can read the Bible yourself, on my own I decided to practice tongue control as my number one priority. And you say, you know what happened? It's just amazing what God did. I blew it again and again and again, and I began to realize I couldn't control my tongue in any way. But then, after failing miserably so many times, I began to ask myself, why is it that I feel a need to come across like that? Why did I respond to that person the way that I did? Why did I have to give that kind of impression the way I felt the need to give it? And I began to see my mouth as a bucket that was bringing up all the filth that was in my heart. And that drove me in a new way to Jesus Christ. In confession and in repentance. In honest self-examination of what kind of a heart I had and what work Jesus Christ needed to do in that heart. It meant real searching and real repentance on new and deeper levels than I had experienced. This person went on to say the effect of that was that I began to have a new hunger for the word. I began to have a new hunger for Jesus Christ like I had not known for a long time. My quiet times had been stale. My relationship with God had been dry. But all of a sudden now it was exciting and it was vital. Because I was coming before him with real needs. And I was desperate to meet with him, to do in my life what I knew that I couldn't do myself. And God met me. He forgave me. He washed me from my sin. He began to expose to me that sin, and he began to take it, and he began to heal it. I began to experience a new discipline of my tongue. And now I love God's word more than I've loved it for a long time. And I love Jesus Christ more than I've loved him for a long time. And you're all wondering who that is, aren't you? I'm not going to tell you. But what I am going to tell you is, wouldn't you like to experience that in your life? You know, that's not a testimony from the 700 Club or something, you know, on television. That's from our own midst. God can do this in your life and in my life. But you've got to realize the second part of that, and it is that it is not only so important, it is so impossible in our own strength. And so we begin with an honesty concerning what our sins of the tongue are, and then a realization of our own inability to ever drive out that sin on our own. And that inability drives us to Jesus Christ for forgiveness and for healing, for a deeper awareness of what is in our heart that's coming up in that bucket that comes out on our tongue. And then for God to show us that and to come to Him in repentance, for forgiveness, and for healing, and to see the power of Jesus Christ in a new way. As it begins to change what comes out of our mouth from cursing to blessing. Do you believe that Jesus Christ wants to do that in your life this morning? That he wants to do that in your life this week. That he wants over the next ten weeks to give you victories you have never known in this area of your life. And that will begin to touch all the other areas as well. I believe that Jesus Christ is waiting, willing, and extremely desirous Even excited about doing that for us. Let's come to him. Oh Lord, hear us. Hear us as we admit to you. Lord, our tongues are very powerful. We have seen The havoc that they have wreaked. We have so often wept over things that we wished we could take back. Lord, we have seen the destruction. And we've seen, Lord, that like no beast we have ever known, our tongues seem absolutely untamable. Lord, I pray that in Jesus' name, that as brothers and sisters here who are in Jesus Christ, seek to make tongue control our number one priority over these next ten weeks till the end of May. That as they are discouraged by seeing how many times they fail, that you would remind them again and again. Remind me, Lord, as I fail again and again. Of the fact that we are up against the wildest beast on earth, a beast that only you yourself can tame. And then Lord, that you would drive us to yourself and you would show us that you are not against us, but that you are for us, that you are wanting to show your power. In taming that beast in the cage of our teeth, that we might not only bless you, but that we might bless and edify one another. Not only in controlled situations, but around the dinner table. At the end of the day when we're tired, when the kids have tested and tried our patience to the limits. Lord, show your power. We pray in Jesus' name. And we pray, Lord, that if there's any here who does not know that power because they don't know you, That you'd show them your power to forgive and to transform. Amen.