There is James Chapter Two. Now we come to you know I studied the book of James, one of the most controversial passages in the whole Bible. James is seen by many as slightly contradicting what Paul says. In his writings, in this most important matter of how a person can escape from the wrath of God, be put into a right relationship with God, and gain a place from heaven. Paul says in his writings quite clearly that we are saved by For instance, in Galatians chapter 2, verse 16, Paul says, So we know that a man is not justified by observing the law. law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by observing the law. Because by observing the law, no one will be justified. He says in Ephesians 2. 8. 9, that works by grace we're saved through faith, and that not of our fault, not of works, lest anyone could boast. Remember in Titus 1. 9, Paul said that we are saved by grace and not by anything that we have done. Pedas 3. 5 makes the same kind of thing. Well, the whole book shocks that message. We're saved by faith, apart from Works. Chapter 4 uses the example of Abraham in the Old Testament as one who was saved not by what he did. But by his faith through Jesus Christ, apart from his works, in 1 Corinthians 15, 6. And then come to an old James. And James uses Abraham to say that Abraham was justified by works. If you know that this is the word of God now, and let's read it, James chapter two, verses fourteen to twenty-six to see if we can understand what it is. that God's trying to say to us through this. James chapter two, verses thirteen to twenty six. What good is it, my brothers, if a man comes to have faith, but has no deeds. In such faith David? Because the earlier sister put out clothes and daily food. If one of you said to him, Go, I wish you well, keep warm and well fed, but there's nothing about his physical needs, because by itself, because it is not accompanied by action, is dead. But someone will say, You have faith, I have ease. Show me your faith without ease. And I will show you my faith by what I do. You believe that there is one God. Good. What did a few of them believe that? And shudder. What are you foolish man? See what evidence this faith without deeds is useless? Was that our ancestor Abraham can Considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar? He said that his faith and his actions were working together, and his faith was made complete by what he did. And the scripture is So filled that says Abraham believed God and discredited to him as righteousness, but he was called God's friend. You see that a person is justified by what he does, not by faith alone. In the same way. Was not even Rahab the prostitute considered righteous for what she did when she gave lodging to the spies and sent them off in a different direction. As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without the spirit. bees is dead. There's no less a Christian than Martin Luther himself, who after reading that passage concluded, Jake is flatly against Saint Paul and all the rest of Scripture when ascribing justification to works. But he says elsewhere, this James does nothing more than drive to the law until it works. Besides he throws things together so chaotically that it It seems to be he must have been some good pious man who took a few sayings from the disciples and the apostles and then tossed them off on paper. In a word, he wanted to guard against those who relied on faith without works, who was unequal to the task. uh Lucas thought so little of James that he thought it was a mistake to have had it given to the New Testament. He called it an epistle of straw that would have been buried left out. How then can we try to reconcile what seems to be an Incompatible teaching. Paul, you are saved by faith. Apart from works or anything that we can do, James, you are saved not simply by faith, but by faith plus works. How can we understand this? Others have sought to reconcile it as good this way. It's had many apparent contradictions in Scripture. It drives us to understand more deeply what the message is refused to contradict it so that when we have that deeper understanding. We find out that in fact there is no contradiction whatsoever, but in fact the two are seeking to come across from a different point of view and to supplement one another. The key is understanding James's context and purpose. One of the big problems when people come to this passage and have problems with it is that they start from verse 13. Another story read verse 14 to 26 as if that sort of an epistle in itself, as if it had no context. But in the organic of our taking scripture, going through expositionally, beginning at the beginning of the book and moving on through, is that you get the context for each passage that we deal with. And so the important thing to understand what James is driving at here in this message. is to understand what questions he's dealing with. You see, verse 14 to 26 are really a follow-on of the discussion about favoritism. It's raised by that discussion. Remember that uh Joseph was speaking about the problem of favoritism, that is giving particular favor to somebody because they have wealth or status for what you will get out of it, as an example of what he was talking about in chapter. 1 verse 22. Chapter 1, verse 22 is the principle. Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourself, but do what it says. And then it gets even more specific in verse 27, where it says, the live in the God. our father accepts and pure and faultless is this to look after widows and orphans. Those who may not seem to be able to offer you a lot, but who have need, and so out of mercy, the mercy that has come to you And then he raises as an example the question of favoritism. He says, knowing what the Bible says, but actually doing it. Hagesty, you look at how a person treats rich people and poor people, whether they differentiate, whether they have mercy towards the person who doesn't seem to be able to offer them anything when he comes into the church or into the body. What kind of an attitude does that person have? Just by that behavior, you can tell the quality of their face. And that you see leads to the question in verse 14. Because you have to sort of anticipate here that if James goes through this, then here's a person just saying, okay, what if I don't have that mercy? What if in fact uh I have Jesus as my savior, but my life isn't characterized by the kinds of things that you've written about. Isn't it possible that I can have Jesus as my Savior? And he goes to heaven because I claimed John 3. 16. I've claimed it that God said his only son and the weather. Whosoever believes in him should not perish. I believe in it. You know, I know the answer to the diagnostic questions of evangelism explosion. I know what the Spirit of God is. When he said, Why should I let you into my heaven? I got it all down, Dave. I understand that. I'm going to heaven. But my life doesn't look like you said it, so I'm what commonly called a corner Christian. You may maybe see the in a booklet. You know, where there's the three kinds of people, one in which uh the cross of Christ is totally outside of the light, that's the person who has no relationship with Jesus Christ. But then the book that goes on to say there's two kinds of Christians. of their light, and that's the way things ought to be. But there's another option. That other option is that you have the throne in the center of the light, and instead of the cross on that throne, there's a cell on the throne. And the cross is kind of down in the corner of the light. This thing described as having no interest in Bible study, no interest in really following in any kind of a consistent way the lordship of Christ over the various areas of their life. So this person is called a carnal Christian because carnality is the dominant characteristic of their life. They say, I know I'm going to heaven because I've trusted Jesus. But you look at their life and you say, I don't see any difference between you and the person who doesn't say that they're trusting in Jesus. But you say that's okay because it's a matter of faith, a lot of works, you see. It's a matter of what I believe. It's like you can't bring works or those kinds of things into the discussion. And that's why James raises the question he does in verse 14. He's a very psychological kind of person. It was just finished, remember, this discussion on mercy and how a person who doesn't show mercy is not going to receive mercy because that's the evidence that they've received mercy. Verse 14 follows right on to that, you see. heavy folk paragraphs and all that stuff out of the way. They just look at it as a flying manuscript, the way it is written. And you see there that they came to it right over the tell, what good is it, my brothers? If a man claims to have faith, but has no deeds. Such as Mercy. Or these other things. What about that? And you see then all of a sudden that Paul and James are dealing with entirely different questions. You see, Paul is dealing with the questions of the means of salvation. It's root. James is dealing with the question of the assurance of salvation. In its fruit. James is dealing with the question, how do you know that your faith is genuine? Savings, savings. Have you ever asked yourself that question? I would say that probably most of the people in this room, 95 to 95% of you, if I were to say to you, Are you a Christian, you'd say yes or yes. I'd say how do you know? So if you ever ask yourself the question, how did I know that my faith in Jesus Christ is a genuine saving faith and not simply an intellectual belief. So that when I stand before God in that final day and he says, Why should I let you into my heaven? And you rather off the answer to any questions, you know, well, because Jesus I sacrifices and took for my That's a finished book and I don't add anything to that. You know what Matthew 721 says the same that happened that day? That the series happens. Don't look at it right now. Look at it sometime later. Matthew seven twenty-one says, make it Many, not a few sprinkled here or there. Many are going to say me that day. I get the right answers to the questions for you. And his answer is going to be to them: I never leave you. Depart from me into the Everlasting condemnation. There is not one of us in this room, myself included, who should not seriously and soberly ask ourselves, just because I have the right answers to the gospel. Doesn't mean that I don't need to seriously examine in my life more. How do I know my faith, this genuine faith? That it's not a faith in which I deceive myself to think that I trusted in the world. Jesus when in fact I'm trusting myself. Do you know that there are thousands, millions in this world who are trusting that there is such a creature as a carnal Christian who knows the right answers to the gospel Without any evidence of a changed life. And Matthew seven twenty-one says many, many of those will ultimately be cursed from God because their faith wasn't genuine. And that's what James wants to help us with. That's what James wants to deal with. And in order for us to understand that, it's so important I'm going to spend five messages on these verses. And all I'm going to do this morning, because we don't have a lot of time, all I want to do is I'm going to just give you the overview. And in order to do that the most efficiently, the most quickly, and I hope the most clearly, I'm giving you a little diagram there. So it's just not an outline today. It's a diagram. Now my data surface is an atom, but it's not really because this is a diagram of J214. Alright? There's a lot of protons and neutrons. Now, let me say that what James is doing after he raises this all important question in verse 13 is that he answers it by giving me four illustration. Now for us if I've read verse fourteen to twenty six and it sort of doesn't make head to testing you get the general thrust of it, but it all seems sort of mixed together. Yeah, you get that impression and you read through it and personally a little bit of Rahab, a little bit of Abraham, one bit about Jews, a little bit about these people saying he wanted say, you know, how does it all fit together? Well, I I hadn't really had a handle on that until I saw a very excellent insight on what I consider to be probably the best commentator on James in the world, and that's Alex Major, in his little book, the Message of James. And he talks about how this open is uh is really structured on four illustrations. And so uh Fen Lana began to develop this and came up with a little diagram. These four illustrations that he gives us are very significant because you'll notice that first of all, two of them Are Godwards and two of them are man words concerning the behavior of real belief or false belief. The other thing to notice is that of the illustrations that he gives, the first two are negative. They give us an example of the great false beliefs. beliefs behaves, first toward man, then toward God. The second two illustrations are positive. They show the nature of true belief toward God and toward man. And the way James does this is so beautiful because He shows to us the message that he's giving visually as well as verbally. Because he starts manhirt with a negative illustration, then it says Godworth in a negative illustration, then Godword and other positive illustrations, then they're So that you look and you see that in the two conceptual circles at the very heart of it is your attitude toward God. Going from that, either way, is your attitude toward other people. And those are the illustrations change gives and you can't use two tests. Here's how you can tell literature is in fact saving genuine faith. So you see the first one then, the M of course refers to man word example, the G refers to a godward example. The first one Which is in verses fifteen and sixteen is a negative example of how how falsefully behaves toward man, which I call kenophic compassion. You see there in verse fifteen and sixteen it says, Now, suppose the brother and sisters without girls and they're only good What are you doing? You say doing the other, I wish you well, keep going and keep fair, but you don't do anything about a physical need. What good is it? You see, Jesus' point here is that he is comparing words with actions. He's comparing a person who says some things about compassion but does nothing about compassion to the person who says things about their faith but does nothing about their faith to show that the faith that they have is just as genuine. If I had only known that you had that aid, I should have been glad to meet it. But I should have made sure that I didn't know about it until afterwards. myself as compassionate until I talk about it but I don't do anything. It won't cost me anything. Jesus say that's just the way some people are. They like to think of themselves as having faith in Jesus. They like to think of themselves as going to heaven, but they don't want it to cost them anything. It's all simply words, he's saying. It's simply words about faith. It's not faith itself. Here's what he says here, verse 15. If he says, uh excuse me, verse 16, that he says to him, it's not yet. And then he follows that, you see, on the other end, in verse 25, with a positive statement. I call these two characters Mr. Wishwell, in the first example, is Wishy Rahab. In the second example or the fourth example here, be verse twenty five. You see 'cause here's the contrast. It's verse fifteen and sixteen versus verse twenty five. Where Rahab says, was not Rahab the Prostitute, considered righteous. What? For what she said? No. See the contrast? For what she did. And she had needy people come to her, spies whose lives were endangered. And she risked her life and sent them off in a different direction. direction. You see the contrast? And then the two middle examples are the energies toward dogs. But between each of these examples, the little CTs refer to what I call connecting propositions. That's what they sort of get messed up in because these things sort of flow through and they say you've got to sort of separate them in your mind from the illustration. Question, verse 14. First illustration, 15 and 16, false belief toward man, counterfeit compassion. You see, then verse seventeen is his connecting proposition. It comes to the point of itself. In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. That's the point of the illustration. Second illustration. Now it's a negative illustration towards God. And he says, now somebody's gonna say uh you gotta say my ID. What is that? Hold it over there for a long time. What does that mean? I do not say my ID. What does that mean? Best I can come up with is I think it's it's a person who teaches called up Christianity. I don't know about you, but I used to go to conferences. I don't like to still hear these kinds of speakers so much, tend to avoid them these days, but all in my background, I go to conferences and you something like this. Now you have faith in Jesus. I understand that. You're saved, you're going to heaven. You have faith in Jesus. But you don't have any need. He's not your Lord. And so even though you're going to heaven, I want to challenge you at this conference today. Make Jesus your Lord. Be like me, a Christian that has deeds, who has Jesus as Lord of your life, and watch the exciting things you'll do in your life as a result. It's not a question of salvation. The question is getting a little more action in the kingdom, you know? But so this is what this person says. Give it faith, I have ease. Come, submit your life to Jesus as well now. And you will see the greater thrill of the deeper Christian life of somebody like that. And then all these invitations. I don't know how many of you ever had that. How many of you ever Let me just hear him. Thank you. Would you all come forward now and You see it the same kind of thing? Well, let's see if you sit there in the puzzle, and I want to say, Am I a Christian? If I'm a Christian, my Christian brother, my or Just Bellone. And he says, show me your faith without your deeds if you can. How am I going to see a face if it doesn't show itself? And J says, I'll show you my face by what I do. If he isn't your Lord, he doesn't have any faith to show. He says Toward God. Second illustration. Verse 19. You believe there's one God. Big deal, he says. Jewish monotheism. Hey, I believe there's one God. The devils believe that. They understand that there's one God, but their attitude is of rebellion and assurance. You see, they understand the truth of them, but there is no submission to that truth. In that contrast that you have Abraham. So the designer says, now come on, you see second connecting proposition now. Between the second and third illustration. You see why you need the diagram to follow it, right? Second connecting proposition. He says there, you foolish that you want the evidence, doesn't have to show you more now, that faith without works as useless as so it is with Abraham. But he talks about how Abraham was a man who trusted God, that the nature, the quality of that trust. Well said he submitted to God, even when God said, Give to your own son Isaac as a sacrifice. But Abraham didn't say, Hey, be warned, he said, Yeah God I'd love to do that, but I'm busy on Thursday. Isaac and I had sons. He went out and he took his son. And he showed his faith by his deeds. What's the result? Don't miss it. You see there in verse 23, Abraham believed God and was credited in his righteousness, and he was called God's friend. You see the contrast between the relationship of Abraham and the demons. They believed, and they stand in terror. Abraham believed, submitted, and God called him a friend. And Abraham could say, God, did my friend. That's the nature of true faith. It doesn't stand in terror from God, but it draws close to us. And there's a final illustration for us to Jehab. Now, having seen that, having understood that, you see then that the very core of all the points of this is that when Jesus comes to change a life, when Jesus comes to save a life, excuse me, he only does it when he changes life. When Jesus saves you, it is not only from the penalty of you. Sin. But it is also from the sin itself, Matthew 10, 21. You shall call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins, not just from the penalty. And so when you come to Jesus as he is, and he forgives you and he wants He says, Look to see whether I'm ruining your life now. Look to see whether I have reoriented your life. your future. Look to see that alright giving you a new hope and you've got a new master over your life. And if you see that, then you take confidence in the fact, Jesus, you have to give him. My faith is a saving faith. James is giving you here two tests, and it's interesting to me the nature of the test. The test he says to know whether your face is genuine is not the number of religious activities you're involved in. It's not the dramatic testimony that you can give. It's not the correct answers to the Easy dog master questions about why God should let you into heaven. Those things are important. But the tasks are your mercy toward people, your compassion toward others. James 21 says, Before Christ a man uses people and loves things. After Christ, he loves people and uses things. Just look at that as a test to see whether your faith is genuine. But the love of Christ constraints me, says Paul. I guess this the one died for all the all died, and he who died for all died that we would no longer live to ourselves. But as a whole who died for us and rose again. My life is directed to him. That's the second test. of loving submission in the nature of your faith, so that you can call him fair, so that his leadership of your life is not burdensome, but rather a joyful thing. And like Abraham, You can say, Jesus is my friend because I see the changes he's bringing about slowly but surely in my life. There is no more important question that you can ask. So you ask yourself, is the nature of my faith such that I can look Jesus Christ squarely in the eye on that last day and say, Lord, I know that I have that relationship with you. Let's pray. ask them of ourselves seriously but of others who we care about so deeply and get after this ourselves we just like the faith that they'll go to heaven because they say they trust Jesus. But we haven't really seen in their lives any evidence of that. We probably have dilated any in this room. We would have a faith that they would not be genuine. We'd go from here today or any other day, thinking. that they have heaven, when in fact their faith is no better than that of the demons. Lord Jesus, come into our lives, that you might give us understanding of that. That each of us might be able to know But our faith is a genuine faith because of your rule in our lives. Imperfectly, but substantially, for Jesus' sake, our death. I thought the Lord in a brief time of petitionary prayer now for some of the needs. in our congregation. Let's pray. Lord God, feel to your h feel to our hearts the message of your word. And Pastor Harrison brought it to us. Indeed, Lord, may we um not have mere intellectual ascent kind of faith. For that is no better than the demons have and they tremble. But Lord help us to have true saving faith, that trusts in you and shows itself by scrubbing. And in It's concerned to love people and use things and not use people and love things. So we're grateful for the Olson family as Ruth Olson's father, Mr. Fitzsimmons, died last night. We pray that they would know your presence and the comfort of your spirit, Lord Jesus, as they are in this time of grief even now. And Lord God, as you've called us to disciple all the nations All the people who stood the earth and baptized them. Even as we're bat even as we're disciplined Larry and King Clark and and as we have baptized their son Caleb and Julian Allen today. We pray for the Stuarts who are now back in Paris. We thank you for their whole missionary assignment here and the rest that you gave them. We do pray that for Lennon leads that team of four new couples that will be coming very shortly in Paris. We pray for the new pastors. that have learned us to slap in us the next two years. Help uh learn to equip that man for your work, Lord. And we pray for Robert and Stefan and Aaron that you would be gracious to them and build solid relationships and that family that they would be a shining example of your grace before a city that so needs a city of Paris. We pray especially for the J. Carnay family and thank you to Anne J. Carnay, professed faith in New World Jesus, as she visited here in the States. We pray that you would bring forth fruit out of that um confession, Lord, fruit to eternal life. We pray for Mr. Des Carnet, her husband, that he would see his need of the Saviour Jesus Christ and turn to him as well. And Lord, we do think of the articles as they are preparing to go for Japan and have just heard that they need an extra some eighteen thousand dollars to do that on time. And O God, we praise you that you've raised up a third of that extra need already. And we look to you to be the Lord who provides the the rest of of their need. We pray that you grant peace to their hearts and give them the joy in knowing that they are serving you and that you gain that you are in control of even them. All this and what was unspoken on our hearts, Lord, we offer to you. pray that you be pleased to answer our prayers for Jesus' glory for his sake alone. Amen. But stand to praise our God one last time in the words of one song.