Now, as I thought about that little half verse this week, I I've I've really come more and more to think that this is one of the most magnificent, simple statements in all of Scripture. Look at that. There you go. Don't just hear me. Look at it there. You know. Don't watch Lorena take her seat. You know, she'll take care of you over here. Look at the verse. Come near to God, and he will come near. to you. That's powerful, isn't it? Come near to God and he will come near to you Three things that I'd like for us to understand about that, as I say, not only in our minds but in our hearts. Number one, that we will realize the privilege of that verse. Realize the privilege of it. You see, I believe that God has made himself so accessible to us That there's a danger that we can take for granted that which was gained for us only at infinite sacrifice and is in fact infinitely precious. simply because it is so very accessible. The Old Testament's constantly reminding us of how we should not take this for granted Do you remember back in Exodus 3, Moses, the former prince of Egypt, was now a nobody? out on the outback of Midian as a shepherd, the absolute monarch of a few scruffy sheep. And there he is in the desert, and one day he sees an amazing sight, a bush that's burning. And as the bush is burning, it's not consumed. And Moses says, I've got to see what this is. And so he goes over to the bush. And as he approaches the bush, he hears a voice come out of the bush, and what does it say? Moses Do not come any closer. This is God speaking. Does he say, hey Moses, come on. In general, enjoy my fellowship. Come nearer. Take a look at this bush No. He says, do not come any closer, because the place where you are standing is holy ground. Take off your sandals, Moses. Stand in awe of my presence. Don't come any closer, or you'll be consumed. And God speaks to Moses, those words of commission. Directs him to go back into Egypt and bring God's people out. For what purpose? That they may meet with God. He says, I want my people to come into the desert and I want to bring them to myself. And so he brings them to Mount Sinai And what does he do to bring his people to himself? Do you remember they gather all about the mountain? And God says that he's present in that mountain. And how is that revealed? The people come to the base of the mountain, and the mountain begins to shake. It begins to tremble There begins to be thunderings and lightnings, and you see smoke and fire billow from the mountain. You ever stood before a big mountain that just sort of shot out? You know, you you see that if you drive from the Midwest toward the Rocky Mountains, you know, they just sort of stick right up there, you know, and you can't believe it's real as you come and certain mountains just sort of loom straight up And so as they're standing about Mount Sinai, they're at the base, and it's very clear where that mountain begins. And as they look up, the whole mountain is shaking and trembling. I don't know how many of you heard last night, you know, everything was peaceful and quiet, a little bit rain. And all of a sudden there was this big boom, you know, and it was just one burst of thunder. You know, it rolled on and on and on. You said, Yeah, it's sort of startling. You imagine multiplied times of That sound and that reverberation and the very earth under your feet shaking and trembling. And God says, You touch this mountain and you will die. For I am a holy God And sinners cannot approach me without some preparation and provision for their sin. And so Mount Moses and the priest are called up and God says, even the priests must consecrate themselves, or they will be consumed as they touch the mountain. You remember how Moses alone in Exodus 24 was called up onto the mountain. And there Moses was given the revelation of God's own word. As the people who were cowering down at the base of the mountain said, Let God not ever speak to us directly again. It strikes turn to our hearts. In Deuteronomy, Moses reflects back on that. He says, You told me, please, Moses, you intercede for us. We can't take God's presence. And one of the provisions that Moses received when he was up on the mountain was that God said, even the priests who come to minister to me, none can come with any defect. You know, if you were a priest and you had a sore, you know y yet you couldn't go and serve while you had that sore. You had to be off duty. Nothing with any imperfection could come into the presence of God or draw near to him. God said that for his people to come to him, he said the the people in general can't come to my presence. He says even the priests can't come into my presence, they can come into the holy place. But only one priest, the high priest, and only once a year, after elaborate preparations, could that one priest come into the presence of God And then pass into that place called the very Holy of Holies. And then that one place he could meet with God and he could sprinkle the blood for the atonement Of the people of God upon the ark, the very symbol of God's presence. Now you see, it's with that kind of background. That we come only to appreciate the startling message that we have in Hebrews. And unless you have that kind of appreciation of what it means to come near to a holy, majestic, awesome God who cannot be approached with any sin. Can you understand how startling is the message of Hebrews chapter 7, where the author of Hebrews tells us that Jesus came. Now this Jesus, he says, Who's going to bring us near to God has to be so unique as a priest he's not even of the tribe of Judah. This priest now is of a very special order. The order of Melchizedek, an eternal order. And this priest, Hebrew says in chapter 7, in verse 19, says that this priest is going to set aside the former regulations who are that are weak and useless for the law can't make anything perfect, you see. Not through the law are we going to be able to approach God. But it says that this one now comes with a better hope by which we draw near to God Then he goes on to chapter 10 to say how again the law can't make anything perfect. Those who draw near to worship cannot be made perfect by the law. And so Hebrews ten and verse fourteen, it describes that this one then, Jesus, by one sacrifice, which he made, he has made perfect those Who for made perfect forever those who are now being made holy. Isn't that amazing? I mean, God is working in you and me through his spirit to make us holy gradually in our experience. But he says, you have been made perfect through the once-for-all sacrifice of Jesus. And because of that once-for-all sacrifice, you can enter into his presence. And so he goes on in the verses that you heard Mark read before. Verse 19, in Hebrews Chapter ten therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter into that most holy place. The Holy of Holies, where God's very presence was. This holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and a living way opened to us through the curtain, that is his body. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near to God. Draw near with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith, having a heart strength Sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience and having our bodies washed with pure water. Is your conscience sprinkled clean this morning? by the blood of Jesus Christ. Is your body washed, clean this morning by the blood of Jesus Christ? If it is, you see. But then Hebrews says there is nothing That can keep you from the very presence of God. No matter how you feel this morning, God says the provision has been made And that is a daily provision for you and me in Jesus Christ. And get what happens? Daily, God invites us to come into his presence Daily he says, take that time to fellowship with me. But because he is so accessible, we take it for granted, don't we? We say, well, you know, I need to relax, need to watch some TV, need to read the paper or magazine or do something else, all things which may be valid activities, but if they shut aside The drawing near in that very holy place, conscious of his presence in a very special way, then they become activities which cause us to take for granted that which was gained to us by infinite cost of our God. How can we take for granted that which He's purchased for us by His own blood? So James says, now you, because the way has been opened, draw near, come near to God, and he will come near to you. But perhaps you say, yeah, but that all sounds nice, but I still don't know how do I come near to him. What does it mean to draw near to God so that I will sense him drawing near to me? And at this point, I want to go to the second principle then, and that is to understand the practice. Understand the practice. of coming near to God. First of all, we need to understand when we do this. That's point A. When. And the when is once and ever What is once and ever mean? I mean by that that on the one hand, you and I have come near once for all into the presence of God. Turn to Ephesians chapter 2. In Ephesians chapter 2, in verse 13, we read, But now in Christ Jesus, you who were far away Have been brought near through the blood of Christ. Now you notice there, Hebrews 2. 13, it puts that in the past tense. You once were far away You are alienated from God. You couldn't think of God without feeling some sense of guilt and alienation because of your sin. And Paul says there that you now have been brought near There is no longer an alienation between you and God. He says that back in chapter 1 and verse, excuse me, chapter 2 and verse 6, that you and I are seated in the heavenlies with him. So you see, there's no question about whether we are near. Our eternal position is to be in the very presence of God. We are seated with Him. We can't get any closer to Him. But on the other hand, we feel distant from them at times, don't we? And so while we have once been brought near in our eternal position, on the other hand There is the matter of our daily practice, the experience of our fellowship with God. And that's what James is talking about. He's not talking about your eternal position in Christ, whereby you are near to Jesus, and nothing can keep you away from him. He's talking about the experience of your daily practice in fellowship with Jesus. Our children are always our children. Their position is that they're our children. But there are times when our children are closer to us than at other times, aren't they? Or if you're a child and you think of your parents, times when you're closer to them than other times. I think of just this past summer, Dean and I were at Hershey Park. A special day that we had together. It was just him and me. And we had just gotten finished with one ride that uh we were getting a away from and we were walking on, planning the next ride, you know, what are we gonna do for how many rides you can fit in, engaging the shortest lines and all this kind of thing. And all of a sudden I look back and he was gone. Yeah, just disappeared. Some delight off to his left had distracted him, you see, and he lost sight of me. He was gone. And after a few uh anxious moments, I spotted him before he spotted me And I saw him and I I always remember that look in his eye. It was a a look of terror and panic. He's looking all around you know these big adults all around, you know, and How's he ever going to find his way back to daddy? He's looking all around, you know, he can't s and all of a sudden his eyes met mine. And a smile like a sunbeam broke through, you know, and all of a sudden he looks and there we are and he runs to me and we take hands again and we're back together again, you see. You see, he was still my son. There's no question about the status of our relationship. But there for those few moments was a distinct sense of panic and alienation on his part because he couldn't see me. But when he drew near to me, he found me again, then there was the restoration in his heart of the joy of our fellowship. That's what I think James is talking to us about here, you see. James says, look, there's conflicts, there's tension, there's turmoil in your life. Things in the world, verse 4, he says, have grabbed your affections. And now he says you sense that you're alienated from the Father, don't you? But James says there's infinite grace available. Once you recognize that you are submitted to him And then James says, when you do that and you know that you're in conflict with Satan and you resist him, then James says, now draw near, come back, run back to the Father. Run back into his presence and sense and know his fellowship in a way that you can taste and feel A. W. Tozer speaks of this kind of thing. He speaks of it, uh I guess I left the book over there somewhere, so won't quote it, but Tozer talks about the fact in his book, The Pursuit of God of the fact that we as evangelicals have been sold, he says, a false bill of goods, whereby we believe that when we come to know Jesus by an initial act of accepting him We don't think that there's any more need to pursue our knowledge of God. You think, well, you know, I know God, and so the rest of it's just sort of working it out. And Tozer says that is a despicable lie. For he says, those who have walked closely with God through the ages will tell us there is a constant pursuing of God. a constant thirsting and hungering for him, a longing to enter deeper into his fellowship, to know more about his character. To spend that time with him, whereby you get a whole different perspective on the earth because you understand God's character. And standing before his face, prostrating yourself before the presence you get a different sense of what reality is. And James says, I want uh Tozer at that point says, I want purposely To challenge you to a thirst, a new and deeper thirst of the experience of God in His presence. That's what James is saying to us here. He's saying, listen, he says, you want to have that peace? You want to know that grace? He says, come nearer to God. But how do you come near to Him? We still have that question. How? Well, you know, I did a study of that, looked up all the places I could find in the Bible that said come near, and I found that they fell into two categories in what they were talking about. You see them there in your outline. So B here is how now A is when, B is how. And the how is through repentance and worship. Those are the two ideas that seem to be communicated in coming near to God. First of all, repentance. You have that in a number of uh places in the Old Testament especially. Especially in the minor prophets, and in particular in Zechariah and Malachi, you have a number of times God calling to his people to come nearer, to return to him. And he would return to them. He would come back to them. For instance, in Zechariah in chapter one, you have what's basically the theme of the book The Lord was very angry, he says, with your forefathers in verse 2. Therefore, tell the people, this is what the Lord Almighty says. Return to me. You see Come near to me, come back to me, declares the Lord Almighty, and I will return to you. Very parallel to James 4. Come near to God, he will come near to you. Zechariah. Come to me, and I will return to you. And I will return to you, says the Lord Almighty, and do not be like your forefathers Who the earlier prophets proclaimed, this is what the Lord says, turn from your evil ways and your evil practices, but they wouldn't listen or pay attention to me. And so God is calling them, and he calls them through the rest of the book there. Turn away from your evil, turn away from your disobedience, turn away from your refusal to submit, turn away from not resisting Satan and come back. You see how this ties together? James is talking about the worldliness, our affections going astray, and and focusing simply on the things in this world and in this life. And he says Now submit to God, resist the devil, turn from those things, come back to God. Come back to Him and leave away those things that distract and seduce you away from your affections for Jesus. And so the first way that we do it is by repentance. Now I'd submit to you that that's very practical. See, I think there's a lot of people that say, I can't feel God's presence. I never feel close to Him And I suspect in many cases it's because they have never felt the weight of their sin. You know, in human relationships Often you will feel closest to a person when you realize that you wronged them, you ask their forgiveness, and all of a sudden you're restored in your relationship. Do you ever find that somebody you don't like, you know, somebody you just don't get along with real well? Can't never be close to that person, sort of write them off. And God keeps nagging you on that. And you come to a place where you have to confess how you felt toward that person And all of a sudden, they begin to open up to you. And there is in that a reconciliation that brings you closer to that person than other people that you've gotten along with far better. Now that's on the human level. Far more. We have hated God. We've refused his rule in our lives. And God says it's when you come to realize what you have done to offend me. It's when you realize how hopeless and helpless you are in your sin. And come to confess that, that in that drawing near to me, in your helplessness, weeping, James goes on to say, you see the next part of the verse, the last part of it there, he says, um That you uh wash your hands, you sinners, purify your hearts, you double-minded, grieve, mourn, and wail. And James says, when you understand what your sin is against God and you come to him broken. He says then he comes to you. Then he comes to you in a new way like you've never known before. Then he comes to meet you with infinite grace that he speaks of in verse 6. And he shows you what the work of Christ really is. and how it applies to you personally and directly. But the other idea of this coming near to God is not only the repentance, not only the recognition of our sin and our need for forgiveness, but it's also worship. You see, the second part on the back of the outline, the other idea that's communicated as we look at all these different references, is the idea of coming to God in worship. The idea of drawing near to God in order to give him worship. Now again, I would suggest that there's a lot of people I talk to that say, you know, I never feel close to God. And what I find is in many cases the problem is that they're saying when I come to God and I want to spend time at a quiet time or extended time of prayer, I want a feeling of his closeness. I want to know that God is there, and I want to feel that. And so what you're really looking for is not God. You're not drawing near to Him. You're drawing near for an experience. You're seer seeking some sort of liver shivers or some sort of uh emotional spiritual goosebumps or something so that you can feel the presence of God in some way that you know you can identify with the mystics or something, you know But God says that's not the way it works. So the way it works is to realize with your mind who I am, what I'm like And then you come to me like the priests of the Old Testament in order to serve, to lay a sacrifice on the altar, to give to me. that which I deserve. And God says, when you come to me with that attitude to give and not to get, when you come near to me in order to give worship, so that I will be pleased, so that I will be lifted up. Then he says, what you find is to your surprise, I draw near to you. So many times God has met me in the most precious ways Not when I was determined simply to get a feeling, but when I came to him in the depths of my need, or I came to him pouring out my heart, or I came to him just realizing who he was and giving to him worship. And at that point, God drew near to me. At that point, all of a sudden, I realized in a new way what the nature of my God was like. The nature of the God who overwhelms us with his fullness, it comes when we come to give to him, not simply to get from him. And so Hebrews again tells us that in chapter 4, verse 16, he says, Let us approach then the throne of grace with confidence. with confidence, so that now as we approach to him to give him worship, we find that we receive mercy And we find grace to help us in the time of our own needs. Whereas we saw in chapter twenty chapter ten, we come into the very holy place. With confidence, and there he meets us. We're in chapter twelve. He says, You now have come not to that earthly Zion. But Hebrews twelve tells us you and I have come to the heavenly Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem, whereby we come to give to him worship. And realize, he says, as he ends that chapter, that we worship a God who is a consuming fire with trembling love. But As we come to give him worship and he draws near to us in that act. We need to beware that like Israel, we do not come near with our lips only But rather, as Psalm 145 says, that we come with our hearts calling upon him in truth, so that he will come near to us and meet us. Finally, then Once we realize what it means to draw near to him, to recognize the privilege, to realize the practice, finally we delight in the promise. Delight in the promise that he gives to us here. And the promise is very simple. He will come near to you. He will come near to you. Do you believe that? That Jesus Christ wants to come near to you this morning. I can't convince you of that. All I can do is to point you to some examples in Scripture of the fact that God does want to do that. Do you remember one of the most appalling books in the description of sin in all the Bible is the book of Hosea? I For Hosea pictures God's people, his own precious people, as an adulterous wife. He says, You are to me like a man who marries a woman and finds out that she's a whore. Finds out that she not only is seduced by other lovers, but she goes after them, and that she sells herself cheaply. And God says, and He speaks of the in uh great vivid expressions and pictures of what spiritual adultery is like. And the result of that is that God's people come back to God in repentance, just as we've seen. In Hosaiah chapter 14 Hosea calls to them. He says, Return, O Israel, come back to the Lord. Come near to the Lord, you see, as James is saying. Come near, your sins have been your downfall. Take words with you. And return to the Lord, not simply sacrifices, but take your words, take your words of repentance, say to him, Forgive all our sins and receive us graciously, that we may offer the fruit of our lips. The Syria cannot save us. We will not mount war horses. We will never again say our gods to what our own hands have made. We're done with trusting in the security of this world. For you, in you, the fatherless, find compassion. And they come back to God. And what is his response? Too late? Too many times you've done this. I've heard these words before. Hosea 14, verse 4. Again, one of my favorite verses in all of Scripture. God says, I will heal The way the waywardness and I will love them freely. You capture that? I will love them freely. No strings attached. Nothing else to do. God says, you come to me broken. And I love you freely. Then he says, For my anger is turned away from them, and I will be like the dew to Israel. Sometimes feel like your soul is parched and you need refreshment. God says, I will be your due in the desert. I will love you freely. Or you think of Luke fifteen that speaks of the prodigal son who had gone away and decided he wasn't going to submit to the Father. He's going to do his own thing and he's going to find his own way in life. He's going to find his own fun. And he comes to the end of himself, and you remember how he came back, and when he returned, came back to the Father Did the father put stumbling blocks in his way? Did he say, I want to see, I want you to prove that you're really sincere this time? Luke 15, Jesus tells us the Father ran to him. The Father left what he was doing and ran down the path and embraced him, gathered him into his arms. Come near to God, and he'll run down the path to meet you and gather you into his arms. So that he can love you freely. Or you take Revelation chapter 3, in a verse that everybody quotes about standing at the door and knock. The context of that is the church of Laodicea. That church which was lukewarm and so despicable that God said, I'm going to spit you out of my mouth. Because you've lost your love for me and you're fooling around with spiritual things and you're not submitted to me. And you're an adulteress. As James 4:4. And all those things were described of them. But he says, Come back to me. And he says, I stand at the door and I knock. And I say, Come, let me come in. And let's eat together. He pictures there of the fellowship meal of the Lord's Supper that you and I are invited to come to tonight so that we can come back to God and He, Jesus, meets us at this table tonight. So that we will come to him and he will come to us and declare his love for us, that he loves us freely, that he gathers us in his arms, and that he wants to eat the meal with us. Or you take John chapter 14. John chapter 14, Jesus says that for those who love me, the Father wants to show himself to them. He wants to Have you experienced his presence? Tozer does a study in this in the pursuit of God where he says that God pictures our experience of him in physical terms, taste and see that the Lord is good. He speaks of our smelling his garments as fragrant. He speaks of our hearing his voice. He speaks of our touching He speaks of such physical descriptions of our experience of God so that we would know how very tangibly he wants for us to experience his presence. And John says Jesus says in John 14, not only will God show himself to you, but in verse 23 he says He that loves me and obeys my teaching, my father will love him, and we will come to him and will make our home with him. He's saying the Father and I are going to move in with you. We're going to take up our abode with you. We're going to show you our presence so really that it's going to be like we're living in your house. It's like we live with you in companionship and fellowship. If you see the point that I'm trying to get through, James is saying when you come near to God, he's anxious for you to know his presence. He's anxious when you and I are willing to humble ourselves before him to meet us and for us to know, perhaps as we've never known before, his reality. But what is it this morning that keeps you from that? What keeps you from coming beyond the veil? Is it perhaps unrepented sin? Is there something in your life, some kind of bitterness that keeps you from being able to come near to God because you refuse to give that up? Is there some impurity in your life that's keeping you from knowing God's presence? He says, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. The pure in heart, draw near to him and know his presence. Is there some sin that you need to say, Lord, I want to come near to you and therefore I'm going to give up this area? I'm tired of fighting it, Lord. I'm tired of struggling with it. Take it now. Take it and remove it. Or is it perhaps some love that's come between you and Jesus? The kind of thing he's talking about back there in verse 4. Something in this life and in this world that has so captured your affections that you say, Lord, I I want to come near to you, but I really have my affections fixed on this. And it'd be nice to have both, but if I can't have both, Lord, then I'll just Take you as a cognitive reality and know my sins are forgiven, I'm going to heaven, but my affections are wrapped around this. He says, Don't deceive yourself. If that's really the case, he says, You're the enemy of God. Not his friend. But there can be among in the true Christian's life that divided loyalty. He'll go and talk about that right in the next part of the verse. That kind of divided loyalty where our affections are still fixed on something here. He says, You'll never really draw near to me with that. Maybe there's something in your life that you need to confess before him that has captured your affections, and you want him to take that and give you a heart that seeks him first and foremost. Or perhaps in the third case it's simply that you've settled for a mediocre experience of Jesus Christ. You've simply settled for the mediocre because you've said, well, you know, I haven't really expected to know God in any better terms than I do now. Nobody has ever really told me that I could know God in a more personal, intimate way that can actually move me to realize the greatness and the fullness of Jesus Christ in my life. I want to urge that. I urge you as you take a look at that. You see there are those three things that you might want to circle one of those and think, is there one of these or two of these or all three of these things? And between now and the time we come to the Lord's table tonight. To have that time with the Lord, to draw near to him in repentance and worship, and to see if he meets you. Let's pray. Oh Lord, Lord our God We are a people who so easily settle for the mediocre. As C. S. Lewis said, it's not that our desires are so strong that we don't know you. It's because our desires are so weak, we are so easily satisfied with toys that we lose our thirst for the living one. Oh Lord our God, help us to realize the privilege that you have purchased for us through the blood of Jesus, that we can come into your presence. And not be banished or consumed, but rather received by the Father who bids you, bids us, I love you freely. I want to sup with you. I want to eat with you. I want to move in with you. I want to show you my presence. I want to walk with you. Oh Lord, give us a thirst and a longing to know more about that. May nothing keep us, any of us, from that And may we bring that which keeps us from that before you now, that you would take it and remove it. Take it, Lord, for Jesus' sake. Amen. He knows that you mean business, and stop leaving the back door open. But stand in Scripture, cut off, make no provision, Paul says, for the lust of the flesh, and stand and resist him, and James says, you will find relief. Maybe sooner, maybe a little later, but you will find relief. He will not continue the same level. He will flee from you. That's good news. And finally, the third thing is that he is not immortal. He is not immortal. You see, not only is he going to flee, but one day he will not only flee, he will be crushed. Paul promises us this. In Romans chapter sixteen, in verse twenty, Paul says The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. Another popular misunderstanding about Satan is that he is in hell. Let me tell you directly, Satan is not in hell. His hosts are not in hell. Hell is reserved for the punishment of Satan and his host in the future. Right now, Satan is around, he is the prince of this world, and he and his hosts are around and among us now. But one day, Paul says, the God of peace is going to crush him under your feet. And Genesis 3 will be ultimately fulfilled in the serpent being crushed under the heel of the Lord Jesus. I think it's instructive that he says the God of peace is going to do that because that means that you and I one day are going to have peace from our struggle. We will no longer be tempted to do evil. We will no longer be full of guilt. We will no longer be fighting those desires in verse 1, that war and struggle within us We will only want to do what is right and what gives satisfaction in the service of our Lord Jesus. Isn't that good news? One day The struggle will be over. But Paul goes on in Romans 16 there to say, the grace of our Lord Jesus be with you. See, right now, that power is available to you and to me. As we resist Satan, that he will flee from us because we know that the Lord Jesus has conquered him. And that the Lord Jesus will give you power today, this week, to resist him in his strength. Where's the battleground in your life right now? Let's bring that to the Lord together. Let's pray. Our Lord Lord, we thank you that you have given to us through our brother James here a reminder that we have so very much needed, a command and a promise that's very precious to us. To remind us of the reality of our foe. And at simple, direct command, resist him. Not less tactics. Stand in your armor. Lord, we pray that you would give to each of us discernment and insight on where it is that Satan is going to most likely attack us. and to find success. And then we will at that very point be aware of your armor. And we will answer his deceptions with your truth. We will not believe as lies. But Lord, that you would deliver each of us. Every one of us here, Lord, are believing lies. We're in bondage to lies. Free us, Lord Jesus, we pray. Free us from that bondage and liberate us by your truth that will make us free. We pray, Lord, that you will help us to see that you have conquered Satan, and that we can stand, therefore, in your protection, for greater is he that is in us than he that is in the world. Give us, Lord, that sense, then of your power as we stand in your strength. In Jesus' name. Amen.