You didn't know that Sandy was a missionary, did you? I hope that you uh as you heard that are asking yourself, gee, maybe there's some hidden people group that I'm in touch with too. One idea can spawn another. Well, now it's back to the study of genes. The letter of James, a guide for practical Christian living. So turn to the book of James. Remember As I've tried to caution you before in this book, James does not follow a kind of a Harvard outline flow of his thought. He does not make a main point and then give you a couple subpoints and then another main point and then some more subpoints and another main point. Rather, I like in James' thought more to like a fireworks display You know, do you ever see the fireworks where one burst goes off and then from that burst there comes another burst, and then inside that there comes another burst, and that's more like James's So that in order to understand this next section, chapter 3, verses 13 to 18, you've got to say it in the context of the bursts of thought out of which it's come. So that back in chapter 2, what James said, remember that was his main section, where he made the basic point that genuine saving faith makes an observable difference in a person's behavior. If you say that you're a Christian, somebody ought to be able to see that in the way that you lived. And James has said, if you don't see that, then he says your faith is dead and it's useless. Then he says, basically now, let me give you a couple examples of this. And so in chapter 3, verses 1 to 12, he gave the first example. of how you would see the difference in a person who really had a relationship with Jesus Christ. And he picked the tongue for two reasons. Number one, he picked the tongue because he told us that's so important. Because he said the tongue has such capacity for good or for evil. And so this is such a crucial area that he said, I want to focus on this. He gave some examples of that, you remember. And then he said the second reason is because I'm sort of distilling James's Semitic thought into our ones and twos and all that. But the second reason, he says, is because the tongue is so naturally uncontrollable. Remember he said it's it's like a wild beast that you can't tame. And so James has given us the example of the fact that he says uh if a person praises God, hey, he says lots of people can do that, non-Christians can do that. But James says what's distinctive and supernatural is when the person who praises God then does not curse those who are made in God's image. James says that is the evidence of true faith. And you remember he ended that by likening the tongue and its words to either sweet or bitter water. And he said you can tell the spring from the water. And so he gave the example of either sweet water or bitter water in verse 12. Now he's going to give us the second instance of an example of what to look for in a changed life, a life that's transformed by Jesus Christ. And the second instance picks up on that idea of the tongue and it traces it back to the source. He takes the water and he says, the water has to come from a spring. Now he says, let's look at the source. of that spring. And so now he gives us the second example, which is the heart of wisdom. And James says there's two kinds of wisdom. There's the wisdom of the person who thinks he's wise and doesn't know Jesus, and he says that wisdom is from below. That's in verse 15. Then he says there's the other source of wisdom, the wisdom that's from above, verse 17. So there's godly wisdom, verse 17, and there's counterfeit wisdom, verse 15. And verses 13 to 18 are a contrast between these two kinds of wisdom. You need to understand that in order to get the drift of his thought here now. Now, also in the bulletin outline, if you have that, make sure that's out before you Also, in that bulletin outline, you'll notice I gave a chart here on the front because I think it's so important to see how James is structuring these verses, 13 to 18, in order to understand. the nature of this contrast. Because what I want for us to do now, you see, is I want for us to in continuing our experiment on tongue control, remember I hope that You know, Palm Sunday and Easter didn't erase that from your mind, we're continuing that experiment goes till the end of May, June seventh, Lord's Supper. There'll be the opportunity to share anything that God has done in this 10-week experiment on tongue control as your number one priority in discipleship. But now, you see, what we're moving into here is not disassociated with that. We're not going on to another subject. What we're now doing is adding to that idea of tongue control and deepening it by a four-week self-test on wisdom. Notice it's a self-test. It's not primarily for you to test everybody else. It's a four-week self-test on the nature of your wisdom. That wisdom which is expressed through your mouth. And in order to understand what James is going to do in this self-test, you've got to see how he contrasts counterfeit wisdom and godly wisdom. So notice on the chart there, the way he contrasts is in three areas Three areas of contrast. The origin, the characteristics, and the results. You see that down the left side? Origin, characteristics, and results. Counterfeit wisdom is described after an introduction in verse 13 in verses 14 to 16. Then true godly wisdom is given to us in verses 17 and 18. You see that? We're going to read it in just a moment, but I want you to see the structure before we read it. In verse 15, James will talk about the origin. Of counterfeit wisdom. It's not from above. It's earthly. It's unspiritual. It's from the devil. Devilish. He'll contrast that in verse 17 with godly wisdom, which is from above, literally, or the NIV says from heaven. Then he contrasts the characteristics of counterfeit and godly wisdom. Counterfeit wisdom is characterized by bitter envy, selfish ambition, unteachable spirit. That's in a box because we're going to focus on that one today. Then in verse 17, we'll consider on another week, he will contrast with that what I call the seven fruits of godly wisdom. In contrast to the counterfeit wisdom, you'll know it because it's pure, it's peace-loving, it's gentle, that is, it's non-combative, it's persuadable, it's full of mercy and good fruit, it's not double-minded, not insincere. James says you just look at these two things, you can tell. When a person's trying to influence a crowd or somebody in a discussion, he says, look at the nature of what they're doing. And he said, you can tell. Whether that's godly wisdom or whether it's counterfeit wisdom, just by the the nature of the thing, the way the person's communicating. And then finally he says, now look at the results of this And he says there's very practical, distinctive results. Counterfeit wisdom, he says you'll know it because it always produces disorder and every worthless practice. We'll talk about what that means later on And then James says, you'll always know godly wisdom because of what it produces. Because what it produces will always be peace and a harvest of righteousness. Hey, see, that's a very helpful test, very practical as we try to apply this. So now I want to what I want us to do, flip around on the back there, is I want us to then First of all, read through these verses and then begin to work through them. Okay? Let's listen now to God's word as he gives to us this instruction for our own understanding, the two kinds of wisdom James 3 verses 13 to 18. James says, Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life. By deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. But, if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth. Such wisdom does not come down from heaven, but is earthly, unspiritual, of the devil. For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. But, now the contrast, godly wisdom. But the wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure, then peace-loving, considerate Submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere. Peacemakers who sow in peace raise a harvest of righteousness. Let's pray for a minute. Lord, it's easy to look at these things and to think that all just sort of runs together, and I'm not sure what it has to do with me. Holy Spirit, only you can open our hearts to show us the practical difference that these two kinds of wisdom make for us. And we pray that beyond that you will help us to see Jesus. That you will help us to see him who is the source of our wisdom. That we might find our security in him. And you'll lift him up before us now. In Jesus' name. Amen. James begins this section by verse 13. The question: Who, he says, is wise? Who's understanding among you? Well now remember that word wise, as we've talked about before, means to live skillfully. So James is basically saying, okay, who out there can live skillfully? Remember the word wisdom in the Bible? is a word that was used of craftsmen who were able to do good work. The craftsmen who built the temple were skilled craftsmen. It's the same word. And uh so it means anybody who's able to do something skillfully. James is saying, who out there has God's perspective on life and therefore is able to live it skillfully? Now when you put that question that way, none of us would say, hi me, hey, you're looking for a wise person? That's me right here. I got it together. None of us would presume to answer like that, would we? However, let me ask, okay, now who's why no, not me. Yeah. Well then let me help you to know how to live your life Let me give you a few suggestions on how you ought to run your life, you know. All of a sudden what happens? We bristle. We say, who are you to tell me how to live? I know how to live. I know how to run my life You see, what we're really claiming to be is wise and understanding, but we don't like to assert ourselves and claim it so baldly until someone challenges whether we know how to live. And so James would say, Okay, all right. So you say that you're wise and you say that you're understanding. James says, now, let me see it. And here he comes right back to the main theme of this letter that runs right through from the beginning to end. That which is true can be seen. Remember back in chapter 1, verse 22, he said, Now don't merely listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves, but do what it says. James says, let me see you apply it. In chapter 2, when his discussion about faith in verse 18, you remember he said, show me your faith. without deeds, and I will show you my faith by what I do. And of course that's a little bit of sarcasm there. He's saying, show me your faith without any deeds. You see, you can't do it Therefore there's no faith there. Real faith is shown. Now he's moving on, you see. And he's and he has said, now if you really have tongue control, you'll see that You see the s the salt water, the s the bitter water, the sweet water. Now he's moving on to the source of that spring and he's saying, Wisdom. You got real wisdom? Then show it Let it be demonstrated in how you live. And he gives two examples of how to do it. There in verse 13. Take a look. He says, show it by your good life. Now I translate that, sort of amplify on it a little bit, by saying there, by your beautiful and worthy conduct. Because that word they're good for good life is a word which does not simply have the idea of a moral quality, but it also has the idea of beauty. It has the idea of something which is well thought through and put together, sort of like a candlelight dinner, you know. You picture this dinner, you know, it's not just there to get nutrition into your body, you know, there's candlelight. And all the food has been arranged with forethought about which colors go together and the textures and the aromas and just looking at that meal you begin to salivate, you know, and there's a mood that is set from that. And that's the kind of thing that's communicated by this word good. You see, it's beautiful, it's worthy, it's something which is very attractive. Whenever I think of that, I always think of the contrast between that kind of a meal and an old Will Woody Allen film that I saw. It was one of his early films. And Woody was living as a bachelor and his friends come walking in, you know, and they say, What are you eating around here? He says, Well, there it is in the refrigerator, you know, and they open up the freezer and it's just full of T V dinners. And they look at us, you know, start throwing them out and they say, Well, is that all you eat here? Is that all you cook? You just cook TV dinners all the time? And he says, Who cooks them? I suck 'em frozen. You know. And and that's the idea, you see, it's the contrast. Remember that? I don't even know what film it was. But you but you see in that the contrast between what James is talking about, something which is just sort of thrown together, it's not thought through Not at all appetizing. And what he calls here your good life, that which is thought through, it has a certain beauty and attractiveness to it. James says you ought to see that. There ought to be something attractive in your life if you've got wisdom. And then the second thing that he gives, second way to show it, is he says, in deeds of wisdom That become that are that bear the mark of meekness. Deeds of wisdom that bear the mark of meekness. That is gentleness, humility. Cains says, here, if you're really wise, show it by your humility. It's very interesting that James uses a word here for humility. That was a negative word in that culture. The word he uses is a word which spoke of a kind of a servile servitude. It was the word that was used to people who groveled and were doormats. And that's the word that James uses for wisdom. Isn't that interesting? He says, if you're wise, you will show it by a taking of the lower, gentle, humble position. And when Greeks read that, they were turned off by it, because it ran absolutely counter to the value of self-assertiveness and aggressiveness in that culture. It's interesting, isn't it, how we've come full circle from that. From that which in the ensuing centuries became a virtue. But which is now rapidly taking on once again the idea of that which is negative to us, of a person who is humble, who does not fight for their rights. And in our aggressive, self-assertive culture, the culture that wins through intimidation, we have now come to see this as a negative virtue again. And so it's a radical, distinctively Christian idea. That wisdom, which in itself is not a very sought-after commodity today, wisdom is shown through humility, through not fighting for my rights. Now, in order to highlight this, what James does now, you see, is he contrasts that in verse 14 with the three characteristics of counterfeit wisdom. And so you see them, and this is what I want to focus on. James now contrasts this humble, beautiful, uh attractive wisdom with this jarring, shrill kind of counterfeit wisdom. It's the wisdom of the age. It's the person who says, this is the way you're supposed to be if you've got it together. Assertive. Ambitious You see, and he contrasts those two things. Now look at what he says in verse 14, because he gives in verses fourteen and sixteen three characteristics that are in contrast. The first one is bitter envy. You notice there, verse thirteen. If you're wise, then show it by your good life, by the deeds done, in the humility that comes from wisdom. But, contrast, if you harbor bitter envy. Verse 16, for where you have envy. Now what is that referring to? I sum it up there by saying it's the need for personal recognition. Interestingly, the word that's used there, bitter, for bitter envy, is the same word that's used in chapter 3, verse 11. Remember where he said, Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring? The word for salt in verse eleven is the same word, bitter As the word here in verse 14. And so he is linking that bitter water that comes out of the person's mouth, the bitter words, with a bitter heart. That's the source of it, he says. The word envy, interestingly enough, is not a negative word here. It is a neutral word. It's the same word as we have translated in other parts of the New Testament for zeal. The zeal for godliness, the zeal for truth, the zeal for the gospel or anything else. But you when you take that word zeal, which is a good thing you see, ambition, drive And then you modify it by the word bitter. What you have is a self-centered drive. It's a bitterness that comes from the fact that I'm not getting the recognition that I deserve. And so I'm jealous of someone else who gets more recognition. I'm jealous when my insights don't prevail in a discussion. I become bitter and envious when my position doesn't hold sway in some sort of a discussion or uh you know any kind of situation where I'm trying to influence other people What James is basically saying here is that pride and wisdom are mutually exclusive. You see that? Pride and wisdom are mutually exclusive. As soon as I walk into a discussion and I'm saying I'm trying to contribute, I'm trying to help, But what my real motive is, is that I will be recognized for my cleverness and my contribution and my wisdom in this discussion. Then James says, I have just ruled out being able to contribute anything wise. James Denny, the Scottish theologian, once said No one can at one and the same time give the impression that he is clever and that Christ is mighty to save. As soon as I begin to draw attention to myself in a need to be recognized as wise, I've just ruled out wisdom. See, it just cuts against the very nature of what true wisdom is. Because I'm saying that I am wise. I'm saying I deserve the recognition. Do you remember in the Old Testament, the story of Miriam and Aaron, that they were Moses' brother and sister, and they were called to serve with Moses, and God called Moses to have the chief position. Moses was the leader. He was the one that God spoke through and spoke to in the most intimate terms. And that was fine with Miriam and Aaron for a while, they didn't mind. But after a while it began to wrankle on them And you remember there came that time in the wilderness when enough was enough. Yeah, why does Moses give all the recognition? Why is everybody always looking to him for his wisdom and his leadership and all that he has to offer? Don't I have anything to offer? And so they began to criticize them And they harped on him, they nitpicked. And then you remember Moses, who was a white man, had married a black woman. And so they began to cast racial slurs on him for marrying a black woman. And God's response to that was instantaneous. Miriam was struck with leprosy. Because God said, I will not tolerate that kind of an attitude among my people. Miriam and Aaron's usefulness to God had immediately ceased because of their bitter envy for Moses' recognition. And if you and I want to be useful, whether it's in the kingdom, whether it's in the church, whether it's where we work, whether it's in our family, our usefulness will always be undercut when we need to be recognized for what we have to offer. I mean even Ronald Reagan has that little plaque on his desk, you know, that says there's no limit to what somebody can get done if they don't care who gets the credit. And it's a basic principle. In human dynamics. But James says it's essential to wisdom. And then he attaches that second idea on there, the idea of selfish ambition. Similar kind of idea. The word there is also an interesting word. It's a word which originally referred to a politician who would do anything to get into office. That's its etymology. A politician who'd do anything to get into his office. And it became generalized to anyone who had a self-centered ambition. Now you see, that's hard for us to appreciate, isn't it? Because our culture sees that as a virtue. Ambition, aggressiveness, get ahead, looking out for number one, and all the rest of that. And so it's difficult for us to realize how James says this is so radically foolish. It is so utterly in contrast to any kind of wisdom. And that's so difficult, particularly, to see in the church. I'm convinced of that. Because as Christians, we become such masters at hiding our selfish ambition. One of the most insidious things about church splits and church wars and battles over doctrine is that people are always fighting for the truth. They're always fighting for principles, aren't they? And they're standing as prophets for the truth that must be defended. And so we become so adept at hiding our motives, which very often may be simply selfish ambition A need to be recognized for my insights, the desire to compete and win. You know, hey, you and I have a discussion on something, and as long as we don't take sides, that's fine But the moment that you take a position and I take an alternate position, there's something in me that wants to win. And as soon as I want to win, I have lost wisdom. Because that brings us to the third point. And the third point is that James says that brings us to an unteachable spirit. You see what he says, how he says it there. Very interesting. Look at that verse. If you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth. That's a strange ending, isn't it? I mean, I've thought about that verse so long, it's hard for me to look at that verse and think of it as seeing it for the first time again But you look at that verse and isn't that sort of a surprising way to end it? He says, you know, if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, there's a lot of ways I could think that you might end that verse. But to say, do not boast about it or deny the truth, what do those things have to do with each other? I think what James is saying there is he's saying, Now look He says, if you have bitter envy, pride, that that selfish ambition in you, which craves recognition, competes to win. Then he says, at least don't deceive yourself by denying it and calling it wisdom. Because he says, if you do that, you deny the truth in two ways. First of all, he says you deny the truth that you're a fool rather than wise. He said, you know, in other words, he's saying you're really deceiving yourself. thinking that you're wise in standing for the truth, in forcing your position, in seeking to win. And James says, look, you know, you're really just a bag of hot air. Because you you've lost the capacity for wisdom in the very motive that's compelled you to want to win and to dominate. But then he says you've lost wisdom and truth, you've denied the truth a second way. And the second way that I think he has in mind denying the truth is that that very unteachable spirit, which seeks to win and seeks to influence and seeks to dominate has ruled out really being able to come to the truth. Because the only way you come to the truth, James wants us to understand. And he'll see this, he'll develop this more explicitly when he contrasts it with the true wisdom in verse 17, but I'll just touch it now. The only way you can come to the truth is by realizing that you are an ignorant sinner who desperately needs to learn. James says, until you and I understand how little we know, we'll never know the truth. You know, just this week, we were having a discussion. With the other pastors in Colombia. And I had written something up. And when I wrote this thing up, uh, a fellow who was in the group was responding to it, and he disagreed with some of the things that I said. It was a while ago that I wrote it up, and so I can't tell you right now whether I had actually thought about all of his rebuttals Or whether in fact in the discussion as he talked and I said, yes, I know I understand that but, you know, and then I countered and well yeah I understand that but you know and I found myself wanting to appear like I had already thought of all his arguments. Do you ever find yourself in that situation? In other words, I don't want to give you the impression that you can teach me something, because that makes me seem inferior to you and ignorant. And God rebuked me of that afterwards because I realized that whether I had thought of that or not, I'm not sure, but the fact is I wanted to make sure he thought that I had thought about everything And in doing that, I had minimized my capacity to learn. I was no longer in the role of a learner. I wanted to be the teacher. And you see, when I do that, I destroy the ability of a disciple to understand grace. There's a magazine that's put out by a pastor. It's one of the most critical magazines that I know of. It uh lambasts everybody for all kinds of positions, extremely polemical magazine. And I had a laugh when I saw that one of the articles in recent magazine was on the sin of criticizing your pastor. I thought, boy, talk about covering your bases. I mean, you know, this guy shoots everybody low and then he writes an article on the sin of criticizing your pastor, so that you know, hey, if you criticize him, he's already laid out the scripture why that's a sin. He's beyond criticism. But even as I look at that, and I sort of chuckle to myself in a pathetic sort of way, I look and I say, do I have that same kind of attitude? I want to always appear like I have thought things through and I can teach on it. But am I ready to be instructed by a weak old Christian? By a ten-year-old Christian, that is a person who's chronologically ten years old. Am I willing to be instructed by other people and admit I don't know? Because if I don't Then I have lost the essence of wisdom. Because just as Tito reminded us in the earlier part of this worship, the essence of wisdom is to understand from Proverbs 2: God gives wisdom. And you see, God gives wisdom in a person, in the person of Jesus, who, though he was omniscient, God knew everything. Nothing that he did not know because he had created knowledge. Nevertheless, the Bible tells us that he learned something. Now, how can God, who knows everything, learn something? And yet Luke tells us that he grew in wisdom. And Hebrews tells us how he grew in wisdom. Do you know how he grew? The Bible says he learned obedience. Jesus did not have an envious, bitter spirit of selfish ambition to maintain his position. But Philippians tells us that he laid aside his privileges and prerogatives as deity, became a man, and as a man humbled himself to learn obedience. That's the one thing God had never known before was how to obey. But Jesus reduced himself to the form of a servant so that he learned obedience. And in learning obedience, he fulfilled the law perfectly so that when he died, he died on the cross for your pride. For my pride, for your envy, for my envy, for your ambition, my selfish ambition. And in doing that, Jesus took our sin So that as I come to him recognizing God gives wisdom, I don't have any in myself. There is no innate wisdom in me The only wisdom which I would have is by grace, and therefore I can't boast of it. I should not try to give you the impression that I am clever. Even in my preaching, to try and give you the impression that I am a clever preacher. You see, anyone is, you know, I mean, even as I preach this, you see, God convicts me. How are you trying to give the impression in this that you've got this all together in your message? But you know, I know that I don't. One of the ways I know that I don't is I remember somebody saying to me recently, Alan, it's very important for you to be right, isn't it? I thought you're darn right it is. I'm paid to be right. I mean you know what my position would be like if I was wrong a fair percentage of the time, you know, I'd be looking for another pastor around here. Of course I'm paid to be right. I gotta be right. But what they were trying to say is, is it more important for you to be right than to learn? Than to see the relationship between you and the other person helped? Is it more important for you to be right than to be able to admit that you're wrong? And all of a sudden I was reminded again of the fact that when I need to be right, I've denied grace. Because grace is for sinners who can admit that they're wrong. You see, the essence of justification is that I realize that it's outside of me. It's in what Jesus has done for me. And therefore my security does not rest in having to prove that I'm right. My security rests in the fact that Jesus' righteousness has been given to me. And in his giving me that righteousness, I don't need to compete with you. Because as soon as I begin to compete with you, I've denied grace and I've begun to operate on the basis of works. I wonder if there's any of you who identify with that this morning and need to be reminded in the depths of your heart of what justification really means. That you and I come before God as learners and receivers. God gives wisdom And maybe you've been trying to compete at work or compete in your family or compete in your small group or compete in the laugh group for recognition or compete in some position that you're holding in opposition to somebody else. And God wants to remind you this morning, come and relax. Come to my son Jesus. Come again and see that there is your security, not in being right. And find in that your burdens lifted as you come to Him. Let's pray. Ah, Lord Jesus. Lord, I I think of the fellow that I talked to just this week who was being very critical of somebody he was working with. And it sounded like that person was doing a pretty good job and I just asked him, Are you threatened by that person? And he stopped and said, Yeah, maybe I am Lord, I confess to you, there's many times I'm threatened by those who appear wiser, those who seem to have things more together than me. And people who have greater recognition, more obvious skills and abilities. And I envy And I clamor for recognition. And I need to be right, and I want to compete and win. Lord, thank you for this rebuke from our brother James. It tells us that in doing that we are denying wisdom. We're denying truth. Lord, help us to see the truth Is in Jesus. And we only come to Jesus as needy learners and sinners who need to be forgiven. Help us to see once again whether for some here the first time ever, or for others of us who need to be reminded, that our security lies in justification. Which is totally outside of ourselves, what we have known or done, and totally in Jesus Lord, we pray that in the quiet of this moment, you'll bring us to confess that before you and to find our peace in Jesus Christ