Last week you remember I preached on the subject of blender. And what James's counsel was to Christians who had that problem, and who doesn't. Remember he said that it was uh message, it was a helpful message. But I need to ask you a question now. What have you done with that message since last Sunday? What have you done with it? On the Presbyterian only have one message really a week. You know, we don't have an evening message, not a midnight message, not a lot of other messages. One of the reasons we have one message is because we believe that that's about All that a Christian can really take and observe and work into their life for the period of the week. In fact, in the fall, when the new young couples without kids last route and the new campus and careers last route, they're going to The study time in those lances have the discussion and the application of the morning message to be proper. They try that whole life. Because you see, we need time to work a message into our lives. We are so Well of input. So full of input. I remember a long time ago reading from Alvin Topper's book Feature Shop that the average American absorbs seven hundred and fifty advertising messages every single day for bombarding seven Hundred and fifty messages saying, do this, buy that. And so we have become experts at tuning out when people tell us to do something. We're experts at tuning out commands to change or to consider this in your life or that and we've just tuned out so much to survive. And the problem is, of course, that we have taken that same kind of mechanism and we've applied it to God's Word. So now take a some counsel about that. And what we want to do is we want to look at that counsel this morning. So let's take a look, James chapter one, and let's begin with verse 19, what we looked at last week, and then see how he follows the message from last week. is another message for us to consider this week. James chapter one, beginning at verse nineteen. My dear brothers, take note of this. Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak. And slave become angry. For man's anger does not bring about the righteous life that God desires. Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and the evil that is so. And humbly accept the word candidately, which can save you. Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourself. Do that. Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like a man who looks at his face in a mirror and after looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like. But the man who looks intaking into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues to do this, not forgetting what he has heard, but doing it, he will be blessed. In what he does. Minnesota just goes four verses five times if you read the word do or does. Do the word. There's three quotes here in these four verses, very simple breakdown. again. The first point, the command that he gives. And then secondly, you see on the bolton outline there the consequences of not doing it, but simply spectating. And then the third point on the back, the consequences of doing the work. Consequence of not doing it, consequences of doing it. First of all, then look at the command that he gives. And the command is given in two parts: a negative command and a positive command. The negative command, beginning at verse 22, do not merely listen to the word. and so deceive yourselves. You see the link there? Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourself. To merely listen to the word, therefore, and not to do it is to deceive yourself. And I would uh like to point out that uh this is the second time he's used this word deceive. We used to remember back in verse 16. Verse 16 talked about deceiving ourselves concerning our natures, concerning the nature of sin, concerning And he said there, don't deceive yourself about what you're like, about what sin's consequences are, about what God is like. Now he's saying, don't deceive yourself about the nature of the word of God. That word Is not meant to be admired, it's meant to be used. And I believe that the best way we can apply this, at least as I've thought about it, is to apply it to what I consider to be three modern evangelical deceptions. believe that there are three modern evangelical deceptions that I see as I look at the uh current evangelical church. And they're the kind of deceptions that affect us all. They affect many, I'm sure. I see them in my own life and in my own heart. The first perception is sermon listening as a spectator's poem. Sermon listening as a spectator's poem. See, after you've become a Christian for a few years, you've heard hundreds of messages. Yeah, yeah, that's a quite a thought. You think you gotta look back and think of how long you're gonna push it. How many messages have you heard? He's confessing to you. How many you've heard week after week, month after month, year after year. And the the effect of all this is that you become very good at critiquing messages. And you've heard it out from all different speakers and different kinds of backgrounds, you've heard them on the radio, you've heard them on TV, you've heard them driving in the car, you've heard them at Joey Graham. you've heard of all kinds of stuff. You've got all this vast experience and you're an expert at criticizing a good message or a bad message. Somebody's going to say, hey here so and so on Sunday. Yeah yeah Well, what did he like? You know, he has made a couple of good points. He's kind of funny. Uh and uh I found a very Interested. Well I I felt moved by what he said. You know, he was very good. But you know, the question I have never in all my years heard anybody follow up that question is, what did you do? With the message last week. What did you do with God's word as appealed to you as a result of that guy? Hey, yeah, that's still too personal question. But what's interesting is I don't think it even crosses our minds to ask. that question. The th the way we think this proceeds is how was the message? Tell me as a spectator or as a consumer, give me your critique of the message or of the person who gave the message, his delivery. With content. You see, I I don't have to give that to you. I get just by looking at the mirror back here at the time. So I get constant biofeedback, you know, and I believe. But the fact is, if you think about that, it is gonna go the way we ought to think. We think about critiquing rather than about using, about doing. So you hear a message and you come to hear a message, you come hopefully to even be meaningful. But so often, with not the slightest intention, of thinking, how am I going to do something with what I hear today? Am I expecting God to change me? Am I expecting to be able to go from here with something that I can apply and really do this week? The approach message is often as consumers, I think. Yeah, you you come here and you say, you know, I you know, the often's gonna come so I paid for this message. Now, what I want you to do is you know, I want you to teach. And I want it to be interesting, uh and uh you know it's nice if it's a little bit entertaining. That makes it a little bit more interesting, you know? And and so I feel like my job is to uh teach, to make it sort of interesting, a little bit entertaining, to not offend you, but to make you feel like you're growing as a Christian without feeling too united. uncomfortable about the process. That's the perfect church. I feel like I'm going, I feel like I'm being fed, the messages are interesting, and I'm never too uncomfortable about the whole process. we have perceived with a mindset of a consumer. And if I don't get it there, I'll go somewhere else where I feel like that. So it reminds me of the parents who went to the Sunday morning service and on the way back, uh, they were discussing the service in the front seat, the guy was in the back seat. They were talking about the uh choir, you know, they're still a little bit off key and so they're criticizing that, you know, and then they're talking about the pastor, you know, and no reflections here with Tom, you know. And they were talking about the pastor, you know, and his message wasn't too hot, you know, and there's a certain phrase he keeps reading repeating, did you notice that, you know, and on and on, the message was too long and then they started going to the people and did you notice what Mrs. Jones was wearing and did you notice this person? They didn't say hi to me and on back and forth and the whole thing, you know. After a while got ten, fifteen minutes in this little Johnny play stuff in the back. He says, Yeah, that's like a pretty good choice for a buck. No, it's just this kind of a mentality that I go as a spectator. Well, so you evaluate last week's message. I kinda liked that illustration about Bob, the guy that was on the phone for fifteen minutes, you know, without knowing that I had hung up on him, you know. And then I and that that uh illustration about Spourge, yeah, that was kinda good. I like that, you know. I I remember that, you know. And it helped me to see the different relationships. Between those verses. I like that. That was a good point in it too. Christopher, some people weren't really clear about what you were talking about. And so that wasn't so good. And of course, if it's too long, it's always too long. And so, you know, that was not so good easy. So you've been able to think about and analyze. that message, but the question comes right back again. What did you do with it? Yeah, that's the real question, yeah. That's that's the question of God at. Jesus, if you really listen with orders, you're deceiving yourself. You're just deceiving it. The second evangelical, modern evangelical deception that I see, is the occasion that knowledge equals sanctification. But knowledge equals sanctification. And again, if you get Christian for a little bit, you've read a few books, went to a few conferences, heard all those messages. Um have a lot of listening. You've you've done a lot of listening and you've accumulated a lot of knowledge. Here's where I think that Christian radio, even more than Christian TV, Christian TV and especially Christian radio can be counterproductive. But I think that there's a certain counter productivity in Christians growth for this reason. Some people have Christian radio on like music instead of in the background saying, you know, the whole thing's doing dishes like and say, yeah, very much because I'm always getting this godly input. But if you ever start to think of something else, you're hearing message after message after message with music in between and all this kind of stuff. And the effect is that you begin to build in a kind of mindset that there is no possible expectation. of applying all those messages. Well they're just coming one after one after the other. And so what you begin to do is you begin to just sort of let them filter in, you know, it'll unmute you a little bit, maybe that'll do something, but you begin to just think of them in terms of their quality. But not in terms of their applicability. Because you can only apply things at a certain grade in your life. So many Christians I talk to are discouraged because they can list fifteen things wrong in their life, but they can only work on Do what it says. And so we have this idea that the more knowledge I accumulate, you see, little efficient radio, little processes, to get T V you you're accumulating a vast amount of knowledge. And so you begin to think that you're mature. Then you talk about all this stuff intelligently. Well you can compare Chuck Swedel with somebody else of the speaker, you know, and doing, you know, you hear this guy and that guy and we know I think he's better and this, well, but that guy's got a little better here. And so you begin to think that you're mature because you're a good critiquer of all the Christian doctrine and speakers that there are. He says you're deceiving yourself. doesn't equal sanctification, marriage doesn't equal maturity in the Christian life. Application. The word working in you is what produces that. Then the parable, as I said, looked, just give another illustration. on that. I I have met some of the most immature Christians I would say that I've met have been seminary graduates. In fact, when I was going through seminary, my roommate was a non-Christian. You know, the bad guy, you know, I'm convinced. He didn't know the Lord and he did it personally. But he got through that time. He only lasted one year, and then he left. But through that year he accumulated a vast amount of knowledge. And yet through that never came to know the Lord. In fact, I always thought He was in prison. And because he was in prison, he was fine he needed to keep his mind active, he started memorizing the Bible. And so he went from Genesis to Revelation and he memorized the entire Bible, verse by verse, word by word. Still had a little more time to serve, but still working his way backwards. And so he never liked the Bible backwards from Revelation back to Genesis. He could give you the verses and reverse. There's a guy, the only guy I ever heard of that literally knew the Bible backwards and doors. He had whole clouds He still was an unbeliever, but he got out of the time. He was simply at an intellectual exercise. And so we had to be very careful of this perception that I think we have. Knowledge equals maturity scientification. Or the third one, did busyness equals godliness? Did busyness equals godliness? Now in the tab here, you know, we come in and so you know we work at helping you to feel welcome as part of our congregation. We want you to know Jesus. Christ personally. We want you to be grounded in some basic skills of discipleship and some understanding of the gospel and the Christian life and for you don't you know you become part of a last group and then you uh maybe go into a basic step study or you're involved in some other basic discipleship thing or the newcomers class or something like this. And if you become more involved in this as a congregation, then we begin to help you with green and see where you fit in the bottom, begin to take on some ministries. If you take on some ministries, you take on more activity and some more leadership. And if you do that you get You and as you're in a Christian life, and the effect of that whole thing is that people begin to look at you as growing immature. While inside you may say, I am absolutely empty. But because I've taken on more responsibility in the body, people are looking at and it's mature. What a farce. Whoever says that because a person has a position of leadership in a church, that they are continuing to grow as a Christian? Now hopefully they're just put into that position because they show But so often we just assume that that person will continue to grow on their own. But in fact the busyness becomes a reason for you to say, Lord, I can't do this. Lord, I can't apply that. I can't stop to think about where my life is empty at this point. things to do. And if you understand that, of course, because I'm doing all this stuff for you. But so we find our relationship with the Lord becoming cooler and cooler and more distant. And we we long for those days when we were a brand new Christian where there was that fresh love and that zeal for the Lord Jesus. Because now they're so busy that we're not crying. Now we just listen to the word. We don't have time to apply it. And we need to remember that the Lord Jesus, his purpose for us, God's purpose for us is not to make us busy, but to make us godly. His primary number one purpose is to make us like Jesus in character because we serve him in activity. Being before doing. Character before ministry. I hope you all know quit what you do. So you say, now hey, right, you know, yeah, but all of a sudden we don't have anybody in ministry because we have another glow, you know. Obviously you realize there's a balance in those things, but you need to understand what James is saying. Hey, don't just move it, listen to the word. Thinking that because you're busy or because you know a lot because you're able to critique messages that you are in fact growing in Christ. But as positive that is so simple. Look at it there in verse twenty-two. Do what it says. Yeah, there you go. None of those words is more than one syllable. Four words, the maximum number of letters in the English is four. Do what it says. That's what it says to me. That's the positive fact. Do what it says. They said, Hell God, you want to not deceive yourself? You want that word implanted in you to save you, preserve you, and to produce godly character? So it says, Hey, do what it says. There's no more commands, it's just explanation. He wants to help us to know why it's not doing what it says. But that is the command. There's nothing to add to it. Do what it says. Look at last week it said, yeah, that message on anger, yeah, there's some things I could see that the Lord wanted to get home in. Great. By God's grace, do what it says. If we look at whatever the Lord is speaking to us, quiet time, message us, do what it says. But to motivate us, he gives us here a couple of consequences. There's not a consequence of the spectators. Verses 23 and 24. He says, anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like a man who looks at his face in the mirror, and after looking at himself, he goes away. And you immediately forget what he looks like. Two things he says about this guy. Well, no, why there's no life change. He goes away unchanged. Makes no difference. He sees himself, says, okay, that's what I want, all right. But he does not do it. He does not apply anything. So there's no change in his life. The second thing is kind of interesting and it's insightful from the point of view of the counselor, which changed this. He says he forgets what he saw. See, if you don't do it, you forget it. You listen to a You don't apply it. A week later, you don't know what the message was. You forget it. The way to remember it is to do it. It makes no impression on you if you don't do it. Robert MacDonald talks about in his book Um Talks about one of the characteristics of driven people is the fact that they have a limited regard for integrity. Because if they did, they That would slow their progress toward achievement or success that they're after. And so they rationalize not doing what Scripture says so that they won't be slowed down in their headlong assault for success. But there's a key effect of that. The accumulative effect is is uh I think uh seen in the kind of uh the story that I heard about what happened in St. Louis in nineteen eighty four. Uh in St. Louis there was a woman looked in a house and Beginning of that summer she noticed there were a few bees flying in and out of her attic. And just a few bees, and so she decided, well, you know, what's a few bees? You know, what can they do? And so she just let them down. She ignored them. Didn't take care of it. You know, just over the next few weeks There's still some more bees flying in and out, you know, but that's a few bees, you know, no big deal. Well, by the end of that summer, her attic had become a living beehive. But she continued to ignore the problem, not thinking it was going to be that she had to deal with until one day the second floor of her house caved in. And with hundreds of pounds of honey and thousands of angry bees who then proceeded to attack her, blaming hell, not building the house strong enough, I guess. She escaped really serious injury, but the house was irreparable. How? Because it simply just little problems. But of the little bees that are flying in and out of the attic. But can we let these things go on and on? And what's the effect? We forget what we saw. You forget that the Holy Spirit convicted you of that. You forget that God was trying to put his finger on that area of your life. You forget it. Until the second floor of your life comes crashing in under the weight of the feeling of the world. neglect. James wants to encourage us. So one one thing I would want you to to think about just as uh to try to apply that is to think of the purposes of our church. Sums up in Ephesians one, sixteen to twenty three. I hope those of you who have been around for a while remember those, to know him better, to know the hope of our calling and to know his power. You know, go back over your life, uh, as you do here in CPC. Can you say that since you've been here that you know Jesus Christ better? In your experience? What ways would you say, yes, I can see how the Lord Jesus is dearer to me? In what ways can I say that in my experience? I know the hope of my call of being a Christian. The Christ-like character he's producing in me, that maturity we talked about there in verse 4, the completeness. In other ways do I see myself moving toward that in my experience. ways do I see that I know his power better in my experience by doing those things that I know I can't do it myself. But that I've got to trust the power of the Lord Jesus to do it. How am I seeing God do those things in me? He said. James says if you do that, certainly the consequences of doing the words are mainly two things. Let's read the verse and see what they are. Verse 25. He says that the man who looks intently into the to the perfect law that gives freedom and continues to do this, not forgetting what he has heard, but doing it, he will be blessed in what he does. And if I could focus on two words there to help that those stand right out. The words freedom and the words blessing or blessed. First of all, you notice still enjoying freedom. Why? Because that's the nature of doing the law. What happens? You see? The man who gets intently into the perfect law that That gives freedom. Who does it give freedom to? The one who does it, the one who looks intently into it to do it. That gives freedom through the law. That's so different from the way many of us look at the law. We look at the law as bondage, gates us from all just freedom when you do it. Why? So you see in the book and that one I try to reduce it to the simplest basic elements and so simply follow it to see it. Number one, the law is made in God's image. The law, you see, is the reflection of God's nature. The law is what God is like. Secondly, you and I are made in God's image. God made you to reflect his nature. That's how he formed you and created you to be life in character. Therefore, number three, when I do the law, I'm free. When I do the law, I am fulfilling all that I. was intended to do. When I do the law, you see, I am measuring the years of my actions with how I was designed. And I run smoothly. If I in fact violate the law, if I depart from it, The dudes begin to clash. And I can come like a train that's running through a wheat field screaming about how three it is until all the cars come apart and the train's a total wreck. And the train realizes if it could state at that point. You know, I really enjoyed more freedom when I was riding on the rails. Because the rails was where I was meant to run. And as long as I was on the rails, I could go as fast as I could go within the limits of how those rails were designed to take me. And I could moved with freedom. But I wasn't meant to go through a weak field. And so if you and I, as we move in doing God's word and as we see what his word says and the principles and the commands and we say, God, by grace I'm going to trust you to do that. Then we enjoy freedom. Because we are becoming the fulfillment of the nature that God gave us. And we can only do that through Jesus Christ. And then the second thing he says that you gain He's blessing. He gave blessing. Verse 45. It says, continues to do this, not forgetting what he's heard, but feeling that he will be blessed in what he does. Blessed. How would he be blessed? Well just uh being able to look back I I have just looked at a few of the ways that he talks about. So take a look at them when we get home, and let me just call your attention real briefly just to what he says in chapter one. You'll be blessed, for instance, in verses nineteen to twenty-one by a lack of tension and turmoil. That comes to the person who's always shooting off of the mouth and therefore is alienated from people by their bad temper. And do you enjoy the blessing of a person who doesn't have that tension? So in the beginning of the chapter, we talk there about in verses two to four God working And if you do that, as you are doing his word, you enjoy a guilt-free, healthy self-image, because you see that what God has done in you and what God is doing in you as you obey through triumph and through difficulty is making you become something pleased. to him. And as you see God's work progressing in you, you say, yeah, I've got a long lead again, but praise God, he's using these things. And I'm beginning to see the satisfaction of obedience. And so you're enjoying a healthy kind of Or thirdly, uh you enjoy verse five, the skill. Remember the word wisdom he says, he promises there. The word blishing means skill in the Hebrew, and so you're enjoying the skill of living in skillful relationships. You live skillfully. And through that you see you are beyond the blessing of that skill. But verse 8 talks about the person that doesn't see the word. He's always waffling back and forth. He's always stable in all his ways. The person that does the word doesn't work. Therefore, it's supposed to enjoy stability in his life. He enjoys a stability because God's word gives him stability as he follows it. So fifthly, he says in verse 12 that if you are in fact persevering in doing the word, then you will never be able to do it. That you have such a thing as a crown of life. Before the person who does the word has the assurance of eternal life through Jesus Christ. What a blessing that is. Well, you take even from what Jesus said, you're a couple from the book of John, and John, the Lord Jesus. Peter said in John 14, If you obey my word, if you do it, Jesus said, then the Father and I will come to you and we will show ourselves to you, and we'll draw close to you, we'll make a gold with you. What a blessing. To know the closeness that there is in Jesus, when your conscience is clear, seeking to follow imperfectly, with many shortcomings, but nevertheless open at least to what the Lord is leading you to do. Well finally, he says in first. John, chapter two, verse five, John says, He that obeys and does the word will know God's own love made complete in him. What a blessing. To see God's love not only go me, but I begin to see that love filling. For me, I begin to see my attitudes change. I begin to see the peace that comes from taking on the mind of Christ. And of course the Lord Jesus Himself is the greatest example of this. You see, in the verse that you I have there examples of how Jesus did the word. Hebrews ten, quotes from Psalm thirty, to describe the whole character of Jesus' ministry, is summed up in saying that he was given a body. And in that body he came to Declare, Lord, I have come to do your will. Psalm 30, verse 8 puts it, to delight in your law in my heart and to do it. Jesus came, and that was the statement of his life. He didn't come to simply explain. expand the word. Well a lot of us look at Jesus as the one who's just only teaching other people what to do. The Bible tells us that Jesus did the word, that the essence of his life was that he was godly. He was practicing what the word said in John 1 Verse 34. Maybe he's talking to the women of Samaria. The disciples come back with food and they say, Do you have something to eat? And he says, My food is to do the will of my Father, which is in heaven. Not just to know that, but to do it. Let's go on to the next. says remember in John chapter five after he's healed that fellow on the Sabbath and the Pharisees are criticizing him, he says in John chapter five that he was uh that his desire was to do nothing which displeased his father In chapter six, verse thirty-eight, after he fed the five thousand, and they point to him, and Jesus says that my whole purpose, I've come not to do my own will, but to do that which is the will of my father who has sent me. And let him attest to that was a dissonance. follow through and do the will of his father will all the rest ashamed. And so Jesus comes facing hell and death, because he knows that's the only perfect way of his father for him to save you and me. Jesus comes to Gethsemane and he says, Oh God, oh how I wish that this cup could pass from me. But nevertheless, not my will, but yours be thine. Paul says that let me kept two that he was obedient even unto death, even a death on the cross. And it's because of that death that the law gives freedom. You see, James says here The man who looks intently into the perfect law that gives him freedom. That law not only gives freedom because it's made in God's image and we're made in God's image, and therefore he puts the two together in their ideas that mesh smoothly. But the law gives because the law appointed the sacrifice for the death of sin. And when Jesus Christ fulfilled in obedience all that the law commanded, Jesus Christ became eligible to take that that uh punishment that you and I deserve for our disobedience. And when Jesus Christ died on the cross, he provided the freedom from the condemnation of the law. And so when you and I look at the law, we we're condemned by it, we see our shirt comings, we know that that same law has provided the freedom through Jesus Christ. So that you and I stand complete in His grace. So that God looks upon you and that you have trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord. You stand in Him Innocence. And the law provides freedom for you to begin to fulfill all that is intended in godliness. But the law has already provided the freedom of a guilty conscience. So what are you going to do with that? I would suggest that in response that you and I look intently into this law. That's what he says in verse twenty five. Looking intently. The word means to stoop down and to peer in or to pour over something. scoop your eyes and study it. That's what the word means. You can look intently into God's word daily. You can meditate on it and ask God to show you what He has for you that day. Taking maybe a half hour, beginning of the day, fifteen minutes for study and meditation, fifteen minutes to pray as you worship and set that day before the Lord. Expecting that He's going to speak to you and change you. And then particularly that you Be prepared to start to worship. But you prepare as you come Sunday morning to say, God, I expect you to speak to me this morning. And I expect you to change me. I expect you to encourage and challenge me and follow me. Holy Spirit, if there's something that you want to work in my life, that you want to alter, I want to be open to that. I expect that you're going to meet me and change me. That you don't forget the law. He says, don't forget it. But memorizing it, putting it into your mind so that you fix that word into your thinking, that you might incarnate it into your life. And then following that you make concrete and specific applications of it. Boom, rare, and what. When I was in university, we used to teach weekends in which we taught students how to tear apart a passage of scripture and how to notice it and to observe it and to interpret it and apply it. Then we would give the finance and afterwards they'd hand And I always remembered that in the weeks after, I was amazed at how well they had learned to make their observations of what it said and then their interpretations of what it meant. But invariably the weakest point was the application. It still is there. General. Because we squirm under that. But oh my brothers and sisters, let me encourage you. When you break specific to the Lord, then the blessing comes. Then you step out of the word. trust and then you see that the law gives freedom and the law gives blessings. Let's pray. Follow our God. Help us to not deceive ourselves by merely listening. Make us a people that delight to do your will. To like the psalmist we declare, Lord, that I obey your previous. For they are wonderful. Would we stand in awe of your wisdom? And do we really believe that to follow your word is the way of freedom and the blessing? Lord this tells us that that's not for sermon critiquers or quiet time dabblers. It's for those of us who thirst after righteousness. Give to us with hearts who thirst after that. Hearts that have been set Free by Jesus fulfilling the law. Hearts thereburdened and gratitude seek to once appease you by doing what you tell us. Amen.