After a great four weeks, the sun, uh lots of sun, as you know, where we were there was uh just one beach day after another. other for those two weeks. And it was a really great time. But it's good, really good to be back with you all again. I got back just in time for the move of the office. After this past week I feel like I need another vacation. But uh I'm certainly grateful for the tremendous number of people in this congregation have been putting in uh an amazing amount of time for the renovation of the Potter House and then for being able to move that place over. Particularly uh Jerry and Chuck leading, a lot of that stuff has just been a tremendous work there. I think um if Anyone here is uh interested in my not uh looking for a call to another church, they certainly accomplished their purpose after moving about forty boxes of books and other sundry files and everything else in my office. I I'm in no mood to move again for a long, long time. But there were a lot of people to help yesterday and uh you know there were so many people that were helping and so much loving care shown in all of this in the moving of the office that it's really hard to preach about your sin. But I'll try. Make sure that I don't succumb to sentimentalism and just uh pure gratitude for all that you've done. Many of us back from the summer, various excursions around the country and around the world, I see Ben, Tito, Nina, some of the rest of us have been traveling hither and yon. It's good to be back together. It really is. I hope that this morning's message actually isn't one in which I'm so much focusing on our sin as to really encourage us. And of course we're back in the book of James. There's just four more messages in James. Realize that? Nor's reading because he's lay waiting for the last message. Four more messages in the book of James That's great. A few interruptions between now and then. That'll be um three of them on prayer. And then the last one, verses 19 and 20. We've been, of course, uh about two and a half years in the book of James. And uh next week at the Lord's Supper, I'm going to give an opportunity uh that next Sunday evening for anyone who would like to to just share anything that the Holy Spirit has done in your life as a result of the book of James. Any part of it, any way. If you want to say, you know, here's one thing God has done to change my life, or something he's taught me from this book, to encourage one another, then we can uh hear how God has changed us. Not just this was an interesting fact, but here's something God has done. So keep that in mind in mind for next uh week as we bring all of this to a conclusion this next month. As I said, we're in prayer now. And James's last major section is on prayer, from chapter 5, verses 13 to 18. Verse 13, you remember, he counseled whoever had any kind of trouble to go to prayer. And then verses 14 and 15, you remember he gave us instruction for prayer in particular need of illness for healing. Then in verse 16 he talks about prayer for a broader kind of healing for your life, any kind of physical, spiritual, emotional, relational illness. Tom brode very helpfully for those three weeks. Remember, focused on some of the specifics of healing uh in the area of fear and anxiety. So we've looked at all of that now. And then at the end of this, you see, after this tremendous challenge of what God can do, he encourages us with For this one statement, the end of verse 16, the prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. Now in the next three weeks I want to talk about prayer. For And what I want to do is uh next week I want to talk more about focusing on the meaning of that verse, that statement at the end of verse 16. But what I would like to do this morning is that I would like to review James's teaching on prayer. Kind of bring us up to where James uh has uh what he has talked about in prayer because he mentions it three times in his book. And this is the third and the last time And very interesting, if you look at the three times James mentions prayer, each time he's mentioning a particular distinct benefit of persistent prayer. And I think that those benefits are very, very helpful to me as I look at them because they encourage me in my prayer life. So what I'd like to do this morning is to look at those different benefits. and for us to understand how they apply to our lives. Each one a practical benefit if each of us needs. First of all then So you don't know what the benefits are until you come to the blank so it keeps you listening so you can fill it all in. The first benefit Point one is that prayer reveals God's mind. Prayer reveals God's mind. That's in chapter one, back in verse five. You remember that? Back in June of 1986. We looked at that. He says there that if any of you lacks wisdom, he should ask God who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to him. Prayer is a process. Prayer is not easy. Sometimes I think as Christians we may get the impression that if you are really spiritual, you will find prayer an easy activity. And that is a lie. I don't say it's a lie, just Because I find prayer so tough. If that was just true, I think maybe it was just my own sin. But every saint who has wrestled in prayer and taken prayer seriously will testify the same thing. Prayer is difficult. Why? Because prayer is communication within a relationship. In a relationship in which the person you're talking to is always right and you're always wrong, you see. And so you're always struggling to find out more about God and his ways and lay your needs before him. But it's not like a slot machine that's simply you just put in your request and get answers. Prayer is much more an interaction. In prayer, I am coming to God with my needs, and in our relationship, He's teaching me things. And I'm learning things and I'm growing to learn his ways. See how he uh what he's like and all of this through that relationship of prayer. And so James is a very good counselor. And you'll notice that in each of the three times he mentions prayer. He gives to us what our need is, then he talks about what the prayer is. Then he talks about how the prayer shows us more of Jesus. And then finally he talks, gives us some encouragement to persist in this because it's so worthwhile. Now notice in this first case, chapter 1, verse 5, prayer reveals God's mind what the need is. The need is given to us, remember, in verses 2 to 4. Consider it pure joy, my brothers. Whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance, and perseverance must finish its work. so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. You're in a rough situation. And you're confused. It doesn't make sense why God is putting you through what He's putting you through. You can't understand it. Lord, why is this necessary in my life? You know, why yesterday in the moves did I lose three boxes of books? Now you only get a hay out of books you know, forty boxes of junk, you know, how can you even notice three boxes missing? Well, you know, there's three holes, you know, and so if anybody knows where my three boxes As the books are, then I'll be glad to talk to you afterwards. But you know why, whether it's some little irritation or whether it is a major life-dominating thing, such as the animal in the hospital this week for brain surgery, and Mike Will. Her and all the effects that's had on her family. Why, Lord, do we have this to bear? Now James says, consider it joy, and when he says that, he is not saying, hey, chill up, look on the bright side, you know. Some people have it worse. That's not what he's saying. James is giving us a different perspective on our trial. And what James is saying is, if you understand what God is doing in your life through this, then you will be able to rejoice. If you understand That the formation of character in your life to become like Jesus is so valuable that it's worth more than any ease or lack of frustration in your life. Then James says. You will be able to rejoice in what God is doing in your life in that. Not simply a plastic smile that looks like you're spiritual, but James says, even through your tears, you will be able to say, God, I I thank you that you are through this producing a perseverance. You are forming character, the character of Jesus in me. Now, James then says the prayer If you're not seeing this, if you need wisdom to understand this, ask of God. And here I think is one of those classic misunderstood verses of the Bible. Because most Christians take verse 5 and they use that verse to talk about it as a prayer for decisions If you lack wisdom, whether to take job A or job B. If you lack wisdom about who you should marry, about what courses you should take this fall, about whatever else you should do. You see, wisdom for decisions. That's what most people take. That's not what the verse is saying. I'm not saying you can't use it for that. You know, don't say, hey, you'll watch around, you walk around here and tell Al that you're claiming Jinx 1-5 for a decision, he's gonna you know and say you've misunderstood that verse. No, I'm not saying that. What I'm saying is, however The prominent, the predominant meaning of that verse is that it's a prayer for perspective, not a prayer for decision. It's a prayer in which you and I are struggling and confused and we're discouraged and we're saying, I don't understand what God. doing in my life. Lord, give me wisdom to see what you're doing from your perspective. Remember the classic definition that I've said a number of times of what wisdom is in the Bible? Wisdom is seeing as God sees and being as God is. And so the prayer for wisdom here is the prayer for God's persistence. perspective, to see as he sees it. It's a prayer for perception. And the prayer is then to be as God is in reaction to those difficult circumstances in your life, in my life. James is saying that if you pray that, God will answer. He will show you the struggle that you're in from his perspective. And how will he do it? He will show you Jesus. He will let you know. You see Jesus in answer to your prayer. Because the Bible tells us in 1 Corinthians 1 30 that Jesus is God's wisdom. The Bible tells us that he is the epitome of wisdom. In Ephesians chapter 3 and verses 10 and 11, the Bible tells us something always astounds me when I look at it. The Bible says there in Ephesians chapter 3 that when God arrays all the powers and the authorities, powers and authorities infinitely greater than you or I have any conception of. Positive, good powers, evil, malicious powers, all the powers of the authorities, far superhuman. And he gathers those all around in the universe and he says, I want to show you, I want to display my wisdom. What does he display? Does he show them the infinite reaches of the starry hosts and the galaxies and all those distances and powers that boggle our mind to even begin to consider them? No. Does he show them the The small infinitesimal worlds. You know, I saw some things every summer when we go to Cape Cod. I do some study of the sea or things about that. A couple of things I discovered this uh summer was that, you know, Around every single grain of sand that you see on the beach, there there is a little shield of water. And that's why they don't break down into dust, because that water lubricates the sand and keeps it from Getting any smaller. But around every grain of sand, there is a whole host of creatures to whom that little bit of water, that that tiny uh shield of water around that sand is like an ocean. Far too small. small for anyone to see. Do you know that if you were to take during the molding season of of uh just uh common mussels, you know, just a shell that people cast on this on the shore all the time, if you were to take one square meter of ocean during the time that those mussels are in their season reproducing, there would be a hundred and seventy thousand mussels in just one square meter of shore. Now the creation Of God is mind-boggling. But when God comes to show his wisdom before all the assembled hosts in power, does he point them to those little minuscule oceans? of living matter around every grain of sand along the seashore? Does he show them how barnacles and and mussels and all these other creatures reproduce at a mind boggling astronomical proportion? No. Ephesians 3, 10 and 11 says, when God shows his wisdom, he shows them the church. He says, look at my people. Ephesians 3, 10 and 11. God says, his intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to all the rulers and the authorities. in the heavenly realities according to his eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. Now, what is the nature of that that is so fully much more than creation demonstrating the wisdom of God? Because it's taking sinners like you and me. making them like his perfect son, Jesus, at the cost of the blood of his son. You see, God has invested a great deal in you and me, and he is continuing in that investment, as C. S. Lewis said, to take common cottages and form them into palaces. And in that renovation project, uh far more than what's going on at the Potter's house, you know, we'd sort of be content if God was doing that, you know. rearranging a few walls and shoring up the floor and that kind of thing. God says, no, I want to transform this whole thing. And in doing that, some of it really hurts. And so James says it's only through persistent Prayer that you say, God, help me to see what you're doing. Let me see Jesus. So that as Ephesians 1 says, through his wisdom He called us and he's transformed us and by his blood he has made us into new creatures to reflect his glory. Hey, see, that's a very tangible benefit of prayer. It only comes through prayer. Whatever you're going to go through this fall, I don't know what it is, but you'll be having some tough times as I will. And in those times you can decide. to simply grumble and complain and gut it out, or try a plastic smile to sound as if you're spiritual, or you can pray to see Jesus. And then understand in a little deeper way what God is doing in all those frustrations. And all those things that don't seem to make any sense as you're suffering through them. That James says is the first benefit of prayer. And then you notice finally that he encourages us in that, by showing us the Father's willingness. He's saying, you're not arguing for God to show you this. God wants to show you this. Remember there, verse 5, chapter 1. If you lack wisdom, ask God. Who gives generously to all without finding fault and it will be given to him. He's saying, you know. Even if it's the twenty-seventh time this month, you say, God, I don't understand what you're doing in my life. Why? Why did you do this? Why is this frustration, this irritation, this difficulty in my job, or whatever else it is? Lord, why this? And he says, come on, come aside. Let me show you the cross. Let me show you again my son Jesus. And what he's doing in your life to transform you into a person of peace and contentment. transcends your circumstances. To make you less dependent on your circumstances for your joy. Let me show you what I'm doing. And he encourages us by the fact that the Father wants to do that. He He wants to draw you aside. He never tires of showing you Jesus, no matter how many times you need to ask. That's the first benefit. The second benefit that James tells us about is the one we talk about in chapter. That's just about a year ago, I guess. I don't know. But back there in chapter four, where he shows us that prayer reveals our motives. Prayer reveals our motives. Chapter 4, verse 3. You remember there, James said, When you ask for something, you do not receive it. Because you ask with wrong motives that you may spend what you get on your pleasures. So again, what is the need? The need in this case is a need that we are defining apart. From the spirit. It's something that you and I have selfishly set up as an idol to clutch. And we're saying, I will and I must have that in my life. I am sure that I will be happy if I had it. I am sure that I will be miserable and less than fulfilled if I don't get it. And so surely God wants me to have it. And if He doesn't give it to me, I will grasp and I will fight to get it. Lord, I'm gonna have that one way or another. It sure be nice if you gave it to me, but if you don't, I'm still gonna get it. And so James says you Fight, do you remember verses one and two? He says you you don't have it. And so you fight and there's wars and there's quarrels and there's internal struggles, all the things that we talked about, the complex uh meaning of all the phrases there. James basically summing it all up is simply saying you don't have it and you're fighting and grasping to get it. And he says, then when you even say, but I'm going to ask God for it, you don't get it anyway. Why? Because he's saying you're asking with wrong motives. He' He's saying, God, I know you want me to have that house. I'll use it for you. Lord, I know that you want me to get married. I'll be much more effective for you. Lord, I know that you want me to have that new job. I'll make more money and I'll be able to do the things that I would like to do. For you, of course. And Lord I don't understand why you're not giving this to me. I mean, I've had two weeks consistent quiet times. Haven't missed once, and you still haven't given it to me Seems to me God isn't fair. I mean what else does he want? And so we try all kinds of superstitious manipulations and every other kind of conjuration that we can to get God to give us that thing. And James says Keep on praying. I don't care what it is you pray. People come to me and say, Should I pray for a new Ferrari? Say, hey, go for it, man. Pray for it. Why? Because you see, James says, no matter what you pray for. Keep on praying and I will begin to reveal to you what the nature of that prayer is and I will sanctify it. Because you see, as you and I pray and we continue seriously before God, the Spirit will begin to reveal to us what our motives are in that prayer. Do you ever stop when you prayed something that you've prayed 150 times before and you finally get disgusted and you say, do I even believe that God wants to give me this? Yeah, I'm not sure I do. I'm just praying it out of habit by this point. Well, why don't I believe he wants to give it to me? I mean there's scripture that's that gives me a basis for for a promise in this. And you say, well, what's scripture? Well, I you know, no good thing will he withhold for those who walk uprightly. I don't know, you know. And you begin to think about what you're asking. You know, and then as you do that, you begin to reflect and you examine your motives. And as you begin to do that, what does James say happens? He shows you Jesus. The same thing again, you see? four and five. He says, as you begin and as you continue praying then, he reminds you that Jesus is your bridegroom. That you're engaged to him. And that when you go flirting with Mr. World, selfish desires, James says you've been unfaithful to your bridegroom. And that breaks your heart. You begin to say, Lord Jesus, I know the reason I want this is because my heart is wrapped around this more than it's wrapped around you. It means more to me than you do. And as you do that The Spirit breaks you. And you look and you see, Jesus, you're my bridegroom. You've loved me. You've given your life. That I could be your bride forever and ever, and that you could lavish me with every blessing that you yourself of infinite mind and imagination could conceive of. How can I possibly be unfaithful to you? How can I go flirting with someone else? James calls it spiritual adultery. And then the Spirit draws us back so that our hearts. Hearts are once again wrapped around Jesus. You see, he hasn't said that thing's a rotten thing you're asking for. But that person that you want, that house that you want, the job, whatever else, it may be great. But you see, the spirit. Wants to examine our motives, and he does that through persistent prayer. Until our hearts are once again wrapped around Jesus, and then the prayer changes, doesn't it? How many times you've prayed something for few months or years, you find that through that time, almost imperceptibly, the nature of your longing and of your prayer has changed from what it started out to be. And now God is beginning to take that. You sense a greater spiritual authority in this prayer now. You sense that you're becoming more in line with what the Spirit wants you to pray. And you begin to move with a greater assurance. And then God begins to work. That leads us to the third thing. By the way, what is the encouragement of that, in that second matter? James encourages us here again by the verses that he gives us right after that. Encourages us by the next verse, verse six. After 4 and 5, where he says, he gives more grace to the humble. Verse 8, draw near to God, he'll draw near to you. Verse 10, humble yourselves before the Lord, he will lift you up. See, I think that you and I often have this view that when we finally come to examine our motives and see them for what they are and repent before God of that, that in our repenting we feel rotten about the selfishness that's prompted the those prayers. And that God looks down and he says, Yeah, I agree with you, you're pretty disgusting. Say, yeah, yeah, that's a big help, you know But you know, one of the things that God's begun to show me is that He delights in my repentance. That when I come before Him and I've seen what I really like And I bring those rotten, selfish motives before him. He doesn't frown at me. He smiles. He looks at me, he understands, Alan, that's what I've been wanting you to see all along. Sure, that's what you're like. I've known that. Now you see Now let me begin to work in that and show you that's what grace is, that I love you as you are. And then the God begins to move and transform those motives because my heart is wrapped around my bridegroom, not because I simply feel right. About my selfishness. That leads us then to the third thing, the third benefit. And that's the one we have here in chapter 5. That prayer reveals God's power. Prayer reveals God's power. Chapter 5, verse 16, the very end of it, the prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective Now you see again, our need has been laid out just before this in verses 13 to 16. Any general kind of need? Prayer for healing? Uh all kinds of healing he's talked about are needing. Uh healing from some life-dominating problem, perhaps that's brought on certain physical illnesses, ulcers, other stress-related uh diseases, depression, alienation. All kinds of things. James is talking about deep life-changing answers to prayer, physically or spiritually. And James is saying to us here, when you understand what you're asking for here, you need to be encouraged that the prayer of a righteous man really can do that. It really is powerful and effective. And so you confess to God. And you pray, Lord, change me. Change this relationship. Change whatever I see that it is impossible for any human being to change. I ask you to do that. And what does he do? He reminds you of Jesus again. He reminds you of Jesus, as we heard last week from Elmira, expounding on our part of at least our purpose as a church. Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1 that he prays that our eyes would be enlightened, that we would see his power. That power which he says is at work in us who believe. What power? The power that raised Jesus from the dead and seated him at the right hand of God above all rule and authority, power and dominion. And so, in order to pray with faith, you and I have got to see the risen Christ. We have got to see that he is able to do immeasurably more than we could ask or think, according to the power that's at work in him. for the church. Ephesians three. And so as you and I look to see the resurrected Jesus, we're able to believe that God is able to hear and even answer this prayer which seems so absolutely impossible to me. And then James encourages us with verses 17 and 18. He says, let me encourage you. I don't just mean that abstractly. Consider Elijah, who's just like you. He's a sinner just like you and me. And he prayed that it wouldn't rain. It didn't rain for three and a half years. Imagine after the drought that we've had. Three and a half years. What a powerful answer to prayer. And then he prayed again and it rained. Boy, they sure were glad that Elijah finally got around to praying for rain. And it rained. And then all the drought was alleviated. And James is saying, consider what God can do through sinners who pray seriously and believingly before God. Do you believe that when you read that? The prayer of a righteous man. The prayer reveals God's power when we have understood his mind and his wisdom and what he's doing in our lives, and then we have come with him. and laid our motives before him, and we've been honest with him and say, purge that motive, and then we say, but still I believe you can do it. I consider a ministry that I'm involved in, or at least aware of, familiar with, this ministry recently suffered some real financial setbacks. People had just, for some reason, stopped giving to them. $20,000 in the hole in the nature of this ministry was that was a major blow. They decided that they were led of the spirit to simply Pray for God to provide that money, not send out a bunch of letters and phone calls, but to pray that God would provide that. And they set aside Every Thursday, two hours, prime time of their work, from eleven to one p. m. eleven AM to one p. m. to pray for God to provide that money. A couple weeks later, they got a check for For $20,000. A man said that in worship one morning he was nudged by the Lord with an impression that he should send twenty thousand dollars to this ministry. And he wrote out a check immediately. Do you believe God can answer prayer? Prayer. We've seen how God has provided for us in the potter's house and the money that was needed for that. In all the manpower and those that were needed to bring it into working condition. And just uh recently, just uh Few days ago, just a week before last, a family in Columbia had lost two children in the womb. And then there's the third, uh the wife The mother was uh pregnant with the third child, and the same thing at the same period of time appeared to happen. Went for a test, three tests, no heartbeat. Child curled in the same position. Elders came in to pray. One of the men said, uh, I'd like to pray for God to do a miracle here. I don't know what's going on. I don't know what's happening in your womb, but I'd like to pray for God to do something wondrous that will honor himself. And he began to pray, I mean, there was no reason though. The mother was protesting, the baby's dead, why are we doing this? And they prayed. She went in as was planned the next morning to Howard Community, Howard General Hospital. And the doctor said, I don't know why you're here. The baby's fine. There's nothing wrong. Everything is perfectly normal. You believe God hears and answers prayer for all kinds of healing? The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. I've counseled lesbians. I counseled once two lesbian lovers that were uh that people said uh they just can't change. They professed Christ, they found power in Jesus Christ. They conquered that, they they broke up. One of them got married happily to a Christian man. God changed their desires, changed their nature, some people would say, changed that sin in their lives. I once counseled with a fellow who was a shoe fetishist, sexual pervert. I found that out because he'd attacked a girl and had gotten arrested. And uh we prayed. What's God gonna do in this case? Talk to a Christian psychiatrist. He said those will take years of counseling. couldn't afford anything, couldn't afford to go to home one time. Within a year, God had changed his desires, had God had taken away that perversion out of his life, had changed him. He got happily married within the next couple of years, and God, I just saw God bring amazing healing in that person's life. Mostly through prayer. A couple of us at New Him praying that God would deliver him in that and doing what we could to help him out. Do you believe God hears and answers your prayers? In my prayers as sinners today, I ask you to answer those questions this afternoon. Just take some time to look at that. Where in your life do you need to see Your problems from God's perspective is wisdom. Write that out. Be specific. Where do you need to see that your motives are more clearly? See your motives more clearly for what you really want God to do. Saying, Lord, that's what I want you to do. Help me to see my motives for that. Thirdly, where do you need to see God's power where your faith is weak? We make it a point to seek him daily for these three things this week. You get choice things, you know? Put check there, you know. Yes. I commit myself to that. No, I'm not so sure about this. No, I'm not going to do it The Lord does your heart. Be honest with yourself and with him in how much you want to see these benefits in your life. Amen.