You'll notice um by the way that uh there is This week a special time called it together for a prayer, and um that's because we believe that God is calling us as a church to look to him for a lot of needs and a lot of exciting opportunities there are now. I mentioned to our last group last week that a church that we have good fellowship with here in Columbia Covenant Community Church Sets aside from 5:30 to 7 o'clock every weekday morning, Monday through Friday, for prayer. Now, the whole congregation doesn't come every morning at 530. But they sign up to come on a particular day, one day a week, to uh show up for that. And so uh I think God is uh stimulating us one to another as we have fellowship together to see that we need to place a higher priority on that. So if you take a look at the bulletin insert See if there isn't one meeting this week that you could make to gather together for prayer. And start it off by tonight, as many of us as possible to come to pray at that time too. I think we'll find it A time that God will really bless as we gather together to encourage one another and call on. Well, uh back to James. Do you want to become wise? You know, if you read the magazines today and watch TV, go to the movies People tell you there's not a whole lot of value in becoming wise. It's not exactly what you strain after. Uh in fact uh Our media would lead us to believe that it's much more valuable to become rich, to become glamorous, to be appealing in one way or another. All of these things are much more to be sought after than wisdom, despite the shipwrecks and the suicides of the rich and the glamorous. But God tells us in His Word that wisdom is more desirable than if you were to take your living room and fill it with hundred dollar bills. That's what Proverbs says. That's a rough paraphrase, but uh that's what God says. Wisdom is more to be desired than abundance of gold or silver And you and I look and say, I think if my living room sold a hundred dollar bills, floor to ceiling, wall to wall, you know, and then I think you could have that, or you could have wisdom, which would I take And for us uh may feed as a real tug there, you know, you say, well right, that isn't really easy. And yet because we believe in Jesus And we believe that this word, the Bible, is God's word. And it says that it is more valuable to have wisdom than a living room filled with hundred-dollar bills. We say, Lord, I'll choose the wisdom. Just don't let me look at that living room, you know. Let me just by faith look and say, I believe the wisdom is better And so we're going through God's book of wisdom in the New Testament, James. One person told me this week that because they've committed themselves To grow in wisdom through this series and this book. They have committed themselves to memorize the book of James as we go through it. I offer that to you just as an idea, but uh that's something that you see might help it. You'd only have to do a few verses a week. That's the rate that we'll cover it, and one week it may be one verse, and then another week a few verses But to uh just consider that possibility as we go through the book to memorize the verses so that that wisdom comes down into your heart And it'll help you to meditate on it through the week to get it into your life. We saw last week that James, the brother of the Lord Jesus, hit us right between the eyes with verse 2. Saying a greeting now, consider it all joy, whatever trial you're going through. Whatever it is Consider it all joy. And that we saw was a command. It was not a suggestion. James did not say You can rejoice if you think about this and this and this when you're going through this. Rather, get the force of that, brothers and sisters. It is a command Consider it joy, he says. That's my command to you. Consider it joy, whatever the problem is that you're going through. And then God graciously gives us reasons. And so from verses 3 to 8, we saw last week the reasons that God gave why we can consider it good. Because verse 3 begins. But, I didn't tell you last week really, but that's only part of the reason. Verses 3 to 8 give us the first part of God's reason. Verses 9 to 12 continue the second part of the reason. And so the first reason, verses 3 to 8, why we can rejoice is because of what God is doing in you in terms of character. The second reason why you can rejoice When you're thinking about the difficulties that you're suffering under right now, the pressure and the hurt, the second reason that you can rejoice is because of what God is doing for you. The crown that He has given you. What God is doing in you and what God is doing for you. Character and crown. Having that in mind now, let us look at God's word. Let's consider that word upon which we can stake our very lives in its truthfulness. And let's see what God says. After James has greeted us, he says, verse 2, consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds. Because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work So that you make him mature and complete, not lacking anything If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to us. But when he asks, he must believe and not doubt. Because he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind That man should not think that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all he does. The brother, in humble circumstances, ought to take pride in his high position. But the one who is rich should take pride in his lung position, because he will pass away like a wildflower For the sun rises with scorching heat and withers the plant, its blossom falls, and its beauty is destroyed. In the same way, the rich man will fade away even while he goes about his business. Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial because when he has stood the test He will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him I think the key to understanding these first twelve verses is to see the unity. Many times people look at James there and they think James is talking about all kinds of subject here, wisdom and faith and poor and rich and all the rest of it. What's the unity? The unifying thought is why you can rejoice under trial And there are two main reasons, because of what God's doing in you, and because of what God's going to do for you. And if you see that unity, and I'll try to demonstrate that Then you'll be able to see the train of James's thought and the beauty of the hope that you have when you're going through difficult times. First of all, then what God will do in you Is a cause for rejoicing. Character. We saw that last week. Remember, we looked at the fact that James has basically four points here. He's saying that the testing of your faith through trials Produces perseverance. And then secondly, that perseverance, when it finishes its work, produces a maturity, a completeness God is making you a flawless person. You believe that? You believe there'll be someday coming when somebody will say to you, you know She or he is an absolute delight. I can't find a thing wrong with him. He is absolutely perfectly patient. He is perfectly loving. He is just delightful to be with a hundred percent of the time. I look at that and I think about myself and I think, boy God, that takes a lot of faith. But you have promised it. That's what God's saying there, you see? When perseverance finishes it work You will lack nothing. God is making you as perfect in your own behavior as Jesus Christ Himself. That's what God does. Now it's not going to be finished in this life if you see. Take a little bit more. You know, there's some things that we got to do. And he just began to do those things But that's what God's doing. And then he goes back and he says, He's going to produce in you to be a person who lacks nothing. Now he says, that reminds me, you're lacking something, aren't you? You lack wisdom They notice I put down there perspective. Now, some of you with more cynical mindsets probably think I put perspective just so I can get three P's out of that And I assure you that while that was a bit tempting, you'll notice that I did not put down four P's, and so I was not guided by alliteration total. But the reason that I put perspective and not wisdom was because I think when we look at wisdom, we often have the wrong idea about what James is saying here. We think of it in terms of guidance about which thing I should do. among some alternatives. James is talking about getting God's perspective. That's wisdom. He's saying, look, you know, you're going through this This testing of your faith and it's working and it hurts and you see all these things that God's doing in your life and you're groaning under that pressure You know the the pressure that comes because of what God's doing that hurts. And he says, uh, now you lack something. You lack the ability to see what's going on That's wisdom. So therefore ask God. God help me to see what you're doing. Not how to choose necessarily, but help me to have perspective on this. And then as you praise that, you're reminded of a second lack. And he says that's the lack of stability, the lack of being able to be concentrated on wanting what Jesus Christ wants for you. You ask, but he says you're double-minded. You ask and you say, now Lord, give me your perspective. I really want to go through this the way you want. But in the back of your mind, you say, but all I really want to do is escape You know, running out. I know what I will enjoy better. And I want to have the way I want to have it. I want to get out of this And so I believe that 95% of Christians in our day flee too soon from situations that God wants to take them through. They think that immediately as soon as they're under a difficult situation, God must want them out of it because His purpose for them is joy and happiness. And surely He could not want for them to endure something difficult and hurtful. And so, because of that, we are unstable. We don't really believe that God can give us perspective in that situation. And so we go around to different counselors and to different sources of wisdom. And that's what James is talking about. He's not talking about how much faith I feel do I ever doubt or not doubt. We'll pick up on that again in a future message, but I want you to just see the drift of that. I'm going to give an example to try and help you to see how this works out. Let's suppose now that you're in a job And you have a beast for a boss. Okay? But I want to suppose that this job you have, you have committed yourself to this job for three years And so you have found out that you are trapped into this Satan robot. I mean, this guy is really meaty. I mean he gets us jollies out of putting people down. And he's defensive. And he never encourages you. I mean you put out your best for this guy, you know And then what happens? There's no appreciation. He may even publicly ridicule you or embarrass you. And you think, who needs this? You know? Oh, what else? And so most people, their first tendency to say is, you know, God doesn't want me to have this, I'm sure this isn't his will, I'll find another job next week, but you're committed And so as a Christian you say, but Lord, I can't get out of this now. Now, here's where James comes in. He says, Rejoice. Rejoice in that situation. Why? Because God is producing pressure to test your faith. You see that word perseverance in the Greek literally means to stand firm under pressure. And God says, I want to mature your faith by causing you to stand firm under pressure, not just to escape out of the pressure. But to be able to stand firm and grow in your trust in me. And you say, Lord, how can I do that? How can I hang on to see that work you're doing? God says because you need to ask for wisdom. And the wisdom that you ask for goes something like this. You say in this situation, Lord, here I am in this situation Now I want to see what you're doing. I've got to have some inside information in order to be able to put up with this. But yet every Sunday night I get a headache thinking about going to work, you know? I mean I talk to people who do that. Sunday night headaches, it's an American syndrome, you know? And as soon as you get home from whatever you're doing, Sunday afternoon or evening, you begin to get the throb, the tension, you begin to get clammy, thinking about driving to work Monday. You know how many people do that I mean I'm sure there'll be somebody after the service and say, boy, Mary, you were describing me so exactly. How could you ever guess that's just what there's a lot of people like that I'm a little fashioned at how you raise your. How many people I've gotten out of the don't bother going. But there are many people who hate their jobs today. And they hate their jobs not because of what they're doing, but because of the personal relationships often between them and a superior, or sometimes a co-worker, this or that, and they say, this is driving me crazy. James says, ask for wisdom to see what God is doing. The wisdom is not which other job should I take? The wisdom in that situation when you're stuck in it is to seek God's perspective in it. And that may go something like this. You say, Lord, now I know I've got some faults. Now uh I'm aware of him. What I mind is his being aware of him. I mean I don't mind you telling me that what I don't like is other people telling me And God says, well, unfortunately that's what I usually use. Because that's very humbling. And that's one of one of the things that I want to do in you, because I love you. I want to humble you And so, you know, you have this person and they say things and you say, God, give me wisdom. And that wisdom means that the next first time the person puts you down. You don't just react. put it inside and stew about it and uh start uh you know feeling all that internal pressure and it built like a uh a a pressure cooker in you. But you better say Lord Help me to discern what's true about what this person is saying. Maybe there's something you want to reveal in me, some character flaw that you want to reveal, and I don't particularly appreciate the sources But I'm going to bypass that to learn. I remember a person who at one point in my ministry said that I wasn't fit to be a pastor. Uh that I was uh had nothing to offer, I was insensitive, that I was incompetent, and a few other things that I was And I remember my first response as I heard all those allegations and accusations hurled at me in not an extremely friendly way was to say, boy, this is a really needy problem. I mean, my mom told me that I am God's gift to the world, and my mother would not lie. Therefore, it is obviously this person who has a problem And as I began to think about that, you know, I became very defensive. But then after all that got worked through, I had to ask God, give me this What are you doing in this? You don't want to punish me. You've already punished Jesus. He's taken 100% of that. You are not punishing. You are disciplining him. What do you want me to learn? At that point I began to yield and I said, okay, I thought she was 100% wrong, and now I'll concede 99%. Maybe there's 1% of truth in that. And as I began to open the crack that much to God's wisdom, pretty soon I was being negotiated down by the Lord to ninety percent versus ten percent, you know? But even if it was only 90% versus 10%, and I didn't particularly appreciate where that 10% of truth was coming from. The fact is that God had something he wanted to reveal to me about my sin that my friends were not willing to tell me. Charles Spurgeon, one of the greatest preachers who has ever served the Church of Jesus Christ, said, I learned more from my critics than I've ever learned from my friends. And oftentimes God will use in your life most effectively for your sanctification precisely the last person in the world you would ever choose to have ministry to. Because they don't do it out of love. And yet wisdom is to say, God, you are custom making this trial for my life. And so I will submit to that. And I will learn from that. And what that person says that is true, I will examine it, and I will repent and I will learn nondefensively. And what is not true? Then I can not feel all upset about that. If he thinks that I'm lazy and incompetent and all the rest of this kind of thing, then I'll say, okay, that's his problem. He thinks I am, I know I'm doing the best I can do, therefore I don't have to be defensive. And you see, you can respond nondefensively if you don't feel guilty or attacked or threatened. You can learn from that little germ of truth if you're open, because you see it from God's perspective. And as God does that, you won't then come to a place where you may say, you know, I'm learning, but I don't want to be a masochist. Sooner or later I may need to get out of this situation, and God may lead you out of that situation. And in his time, he will provide an alternative. It would be perfectly suited to you. Without going back on your word, without violating any contract or promise or oath that you've made. But so often we want to escape, and God says, I want you to learn perseverance. I want you to learn my perspective. I want you to learn stability. in the situation of activity. And as we do that, our perspective changes. Maturity changes your perspective. You're not going to wear that particularly this spring. Not this past week, but you know we've had kind of a rainy spring. And I remember when I was a six-year-old, I hated rain. I mean rain was just a nuisance April showers and all that business about Mayflowers, forget it, you know. I'd like it to be sunny every day. Who needs rain? Rain yucky keeps you from being able to go out and play and have a good time. Who wants the cold, raw, rainy days? I want it sunny. And then I experienced a couple of droughts And as I grew older and I experienced what it was like when it was sunny all the time, and we didn't get the rain, and I saw things dry up and wither and die. And I saw the earth turn to powder. I began to beg for rain. Because my perspective changed. I realized that even though rain isn't what I would choose on any particular day, that if we didn't have it, we didn't have any fruit. And I knew that rain was good. It's been interesting is I've noticed this spring, after having gone through a kind of a sunny drought, I don't know if you noticed it last fall the reservoir was down many, I mean there were some parts dry. And we were curtained for water. And praise God the reservoir is filled up now. Why? Because God sent rain. And so when it rains, you see, people say, rejoice that it's raining. I don't think, oh come on, you're just trying to be polyannish. You're saying, oh yes, but you know, all kinds of weather are good and it rains this and that, you know. You're just trying to make something sound good out of something that's really yuppie. I say nothing. I feel rejoice when it rains, even if I just washed the car Bombs. Because right now we need that rain. And because my perspective has now changed on it, I can rejoice in what God's doing. I can get his perspective on what is needed in my life. All kinds of trials, all kinds of weather. If that's not enough, brothers and sisters, look at the second reason. The second reason is not only what God does in me It's what he's doing for you. In verses nine to twelve, he has a crown for you. There are two things that he discusses in verses 9 to 12. The high position that you have in general, and then more specifically in verse 12, the crown of life. He's continuing, you notice now, the subject of trials. This is not a new subject. You'll see that in a minute. First thing he says, verse 9. The brother in humble circumstances ought to take pride in his high position. Low is high, he says. Now, you know, James likes to sort of jar us with his surprises. So this is the second surprise. You know, the first three. Have it all joy when you're going through rotten times, you know. And now he says, now if you're poor and you don't have anything, rejoice in the fact that you're so exalted. And that's wisdom, you see. It's giving you a different perspective. Well what it is that uh is life the way God sees it. They see the first reason focused on this life, what God is doing in you now and will be completed in the next life The second reason focuses on the next life, but begins in this life. You see that? The two sides of that? This life versus next? This is talking about what you have in the next life. But you also have the downpayment of it in this life. Now remember, James is writing to the whole church, but he's writing from Judea. And his immediate contact with Christians are those that are very poor working as serfs on the land of the large, oppressive landowners of Judea at that time. and have very little. These people are curtain. And that's the people that he's acquainted with mostly in the church. So you notice that in verse nine, he says the brother in humble circumstances. But then when he talks about the rich guy, he doesn't call him a brother. Now does that mean because there's no rich Christians? No, what it means, and you'll see that that's not true later, but what it means What that means of course is that in general the Christians were the ones being oppressed, and those who were trusting in their riches were not brothers That's just a general principle that he's talking about. But notice his his warning there or his admonition. He's saying now if you are in a difficult situation, whether it's a trial that's just putting you in a humble circumstance that don't have much. That's the nature of the difficulty that you're experiencing. He says, rejoice because of your high position. He picks up on that in chapter 2. Look at verse 5, where he gets more specific about that. He says, listen, my dear brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world, the eyes of this world? Those who don't fit at all the image of the TV commercials, those who don't have it, have not, to be rich in faith, and to inherit the kingdom that he's promised to those who love it. These people are people who are truly rich because they have God kingdom. And when you are in the wilderness there, east of Jordan, and you look with your tongue hanging out at the crust uh from the mountains into the land there where you could see grapes as big as cantaloupes and you could see all the things that God had across there. And your mouth watered and you said, That's the kingdom. That's a man, that's just a tiny picture of the kingdom that I have for you You're in the wilderness here now and you're looking across to the very inheritance of Jesus Christ himself. Romans chapter 8 Verses 15, 16, and 17 tells us the Spirit testifies with our spirit that we're God's children. Now, if we're his children, what are we then? Well that makes us heirs, he says Heirs of God and co-heirs with Jesus Christ. If indeed we share his sufferings, his triumphs. difficulties, in order that we may also share his glory. You see that? Yeah, I think one of the biggest problems we have as Christians in going through trials We don't dream about the kingdom of Christ. We don't dream about the kingdom. I mean, what are your images of the kingdom? If you ask that of most Christians, it's very vague. I don't know, yeah, these guys up there playing harps on clouds or something, you know, you know, an eternal hymn saying, you know, I you know, we don't have a very vivid image of the kingdom But I would suggest to you that you think this week about verse 9, take pride in your high position. What high position is that? What does it mean to be a co-heir with the creator of the universe? What does it mean that you shall rule the twelve tribes of Israel? That angels will envy your position. What does that mean? Begin to think about that, dream about that, meditate on what that means. And change that when you do that, all of a sudden, whatever you're lacking here now Will be far exceeded by the eternal weight of glory to come. In fact, he says, that's so true that he says, look at the other side of it. He says, look at the guy who's got everything 10 and 11 verse there. The one is rich, he said, he should take pride in love position. He should take pride in being humbled so that he will realize that those riches are just but a moment in the light of eternity. Because this is going to pass away like a wildlife. You see the summertime in Maryland and the scorching heat that comes and withers things He says this blossom is going to fall, his beauty is going to be destroyed, the rich is going to fade away even while he goes about his business. The prognosis of cancer, a heart attack or whatever it is, and it's going to change his whole life, even while he's going about his business. Jesus, get perspective on the duration of this life and where it matters to have your high position. And they brings it all to a conclusion in verse 12. The crown of life. Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial. Because when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life. That God has promised to those who love Him. Now, here, I think if you look at that verse closely, you'll see why I claim that this is all one thought, a loop, from verses 3, from verse 2 to verse 12. This is a compact thought, which in Eastern wisdom James will now begin to string out other thoughts from in the rest of the book. But notice in verse 3 And you see it even on your bulletin outline there, sort of diagram, to help you to see that. Verse 3, he said, the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Verse 12, if you persevere. Then you are blessed because you stood the test. What test? The testing of your faith, of course, that he talked about in verse 3 So he's now bringing this whole thing right around into a loop. You if you the testing of your faith develops perseverance, blessed are you who persevered because you stood the test Verse 3 talks about perseverance leading to character, God's work in you. Verse 12 talks about perseverance leading to the crown, God's gift over you. So notice that's a promise, verse 12. That's a promise to you and to me. What is this crown of life that he's promised? Well back in 1 Corinthians in chapter 9, verse 25, Paula said, Everyone who competes in the games goes into strict training. Now they do it to get a crown, Saint Word. A crown. The crown in Greek culture was the prize, the trophy. It was an orbit that symbolized victory. And the reward for all of the race that had been won. And he said, these people beat themselves and they strain for months and for years to get a crown that will not last. Many of you saw uh this past week uh cover of Sports Illustrated. There's Jack Nicholas, uh Time magazine, you know, here the guys trained for years and years And uh all the masters tournaments that he's won. Here he is, an old man, he keeps emphasizing, an old man, age forty-six, listen. Ah, an intern, and one of the guys, not an intern, one of the guys is uh candidating for associate uh pastor here. And you know these guys sometime, you know, will walk along and they they forget themselves and he says, Well, one of the things I appreciate about the session you have in that church is the variation, you know. He says you got young men, you got old men You know, I know we were all thinking about the old men. That's how we were talking about. He wasn't just talking about George. He said old men like what George and Albuquerque. I said that by the way, how joker than I am. He said, Oh well, you says, uh shooting yourself in the foot there, uh But Jack Nicholas is little older than me, you know? And a big deal this guy has gotten the crown. He's gotten the master's tournament. He's won, and his his face is on Sports Illustrated in Time and all the magazines of the news now say, This guy is on top. But What glory Tell me, many three people who got gold medals in the Olympics of 1984. Can you even remember them less than two years later? Paul says they do it to get a crown that will not last. But he says, we to get a crown that will last forever. First Peter chapter five calls a crown that will never fade That crown which consists not of jewels and gold, but of life itself. That's the crown. Do you see that? Verse 1? He said, explain it. We can't explain it. That's it. It's a crown which is life. You're going to come before God one day, and you're going to stand there, and God is going to say, Here's the people who come before my throne for judgment And you're going to stand there, and God is going to look at you, and He is going to give you a crown, and He's going to present that crown, and in some glittering fashion, God is going to place upon your head life itself. Paul says in 2 Timothy chapter 4, in verses 7 and 8, he says, I'm like a drink offering, ready to be poured out. I've run the race, I've endured the course. And henceforth the Lord has laid up for me a crown of righteousness. You see, there needs to be righteousness to get life. He said that which the Lord has given me is the faithful judge on that day. why you and I had that crown of life that's given. Not because we persevered. You and I had that crown of life. Because we look over at our elder brother and we remember that he wore a crown of thorns. He who was life itself came and put aside that glory and walked in humiliation and obedience. So that men put upon his head the crown of thorns. Thorns is in the scripture always the symbol of cursing. Do you remember? In Genesis 3, when God cursed the earth, the symbol of that was thorns and thistles. And so Jesus Christ had the crown of cursing. And thorns placed upon his head, humiliated, and he was killed. He was executed. He who was life tasted death So that you and I could have a credit of life and not death. And the evidence of that The evidence that God has given to us that life is that we persevere. That when God puts us through difficulties Then we say, Lord, I can endure this, I can walk through this because I love you. You see that, verse 12? Who does he give it to? The crown of life. That he gives his promise to those who love him. Ultimately, the only reason why you will endure the trials that God puts you through. It's because of your love for Jesus. It's not just because you want to go through those things to develop character It's because it's the character of Jesus that you want. You love him. And so you want to be like him. And you're ready to receive from him the Lord whatever he gives you from his hand. And because you want to take that crown that He's going to give you. And with the elders of Revelation 4, you want to take that crown and you want to place it at the throne of his feet. If you want to worship him, because the crown of life is the crown given by grace. And he who is giving you such a crown, how can you not receive from him all things? Let's pray.