While we were praying and saying he was uh leading us with those questions, the more searching they became, the more I was wondering if I'd be able to stand up and preach. You know, I felt like the uh preacher. That I heard looked at his note halfway through the message and said, This message is so convicting, I don't think I can finish it. Um, that uh when you think of the kinds of questions that Panny asks you And some of them you sort of feel like, Well I can slide through that one, that one hasn't really hit me but then another one comes along and it's it's like a punch in the stomach and you realize, boy, man, that one really gets me. And you feel a tremendous sense of guilt and adequacy and and helplessness before the Lord. And yet at the same time, they have a tremendous, I'd say even infinite capacity for self perception. There's a little bit of the Two gun curly in each of it. Did you ever hear Tugon Curley? He was a notorious criminal running by the FBI in the uh early years of this century. He was called Tugon Curley because he always carried two guns in his vest. pockets. And he was absolutely heartless and cold blooded. One day a policeman stopped him in his car and asked to see his license and uh for the trouble, two gun colour he put out one of his two guns and shot the policeman dead on the spot. An intensive manhunt was finally called out to this fellow, and he was finally surrounded and apprehended in his girlfriend's apartment And uh after they caught him, they saw this little note and insightful note about what two letters really thought about himself. So this was the note that he had written to his girlfriend. This was just a brief uh sentence from that note that was bloodstained because of the shootout. Underneath this coat beats a warm heart, a kind one, who would do nobody any harm. Well finally, after they took him up to Sensing for execution, he left behind these words. This is what I get for defending myself. There is a guy who has cold-bloodedly shot and killed innumerable people who viewed himself as a warm-hearted, helpless individual, a victim of circumstances. So there's something about that in us, isn't there? The ability to on the one hand feel guilty of our things. But on the other hand, to somehow feel that we're the victims of circumstances. And this is exactly what James wants to call to our attention in chapter one, in verses thirteen through sixteen. So after he has talked about this problem of trials, he's talked about the difficulties, these irritations, or these hopeless situations in which we find ourselves. He comes to the point after verse two saying, Count it pure joy, my brothers, when we face trials of all different kinds. To then picking that same old trial Trial up after he has shown us that God has a purpose in these trials. The purpose in verses three to eight of forming character in us, and the purpose in verse nine to twelve of producing a crown for us. Again in verse twelve. Coming back to that same word, blessed is the man who perseveres under trial. That same word is verse 2. Outward afflictions Because when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of light that God has promised to those who love him. Very good for a warning. And it's that word that we want to focus on today. We see it there in verses 13 to 16. This is God's word, let's pay attention to it. He says, when tempted No one should say, God is tempting me. For God cannot be tempted by evil Nor does he tempt anyone. But each one is tempted, when by his own evil desire he is dragged away. and entire. And then after desire has proceeded, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is full blown, gives birth. to death. Don't be deceived, my dear brothers. Now if you have an NIV translation, you'll notice that the don't be deceived is in the beginning of the paragraph from verses 16 to 18. But I believe that it had better be placed with a prober paragrapher, included with verses 13 to 15. Because I believe that that whole section there, that thought, is about this matter of self-deception. James wants to de-deceive us about sin. He wants to de-delude us. He wants to help us to see something if we often miss. You see, the verse uh there, verse two, when he talks about trials, verse 12, trial, and then in verse 13 he says, when tempted Please understand that that word tempted in verse thirteen is exactly the same word in the Greek as the word trial in verse two and twelve. It's the same word. And there's something that we need to understand about that, and that is that every outward affliction that God intends for our spiritual progress, you see there verses three and four, where it says that this is for uh producing perseverance to produce maturity and completeness in which we lack milk and all of those outward afflictions also have a little story to them. They all carry within an animal Temptation. Every outward affliction that God intends for your good, Satan wants to use that exact same circumstance for an inward temptation to pull you from Christ. God wants to use it as a trial to draw you to Christ, that you may want to cleave more closely to it. Satan wants to use that same thing in order to drive us from Christ, to discourage us, to bring us to a place where we feel like we can't go on any longer trusting the Lord. And so He wants to warn us about how to look at those things. And he says in those three verses that there are three ways that you and I tend to deceive ourselves, verse 16. To deceive ourselves, to delude ourselves. ourselves to fool ourselves about sin. Three ways will we do that. And we're going to look at the first two this morning and the third next week. And so you're gonna have to guess what the third one is because it's not very important. You see, you think maybe maybe he hasn't made it up yet, you know, you've got to still think about it, but come back next week and find out what the third saying is. The first two weeks are verses thirteen and fourteen. How is it then that we deceive ourselves about sin? How do we delude ourselves about sin? The first way, verse 13, is to say that it's really God's fault. There's a something you gotta put in there. You know, it keeps you looking, you know, it keeps you making sure you don't slip and uh let your mind uh wander sometime, you know, you just miss the whole outline if you don't pay attention. It's really God's fault. That's the first way that we threw ourselves. Now, during my years of counseling, I must say that I have never talked to somebody who was tempted and who was struggling with problems who actually said, you know, this is really all God's fault. But how is it that we say that it's God's fault? When tempted, no one should say God is tempting me. How do we say that? Well, we say it a little bit more subtly. Let me give you three examples of ways in which we say that it's God's fault. Number one is to blow my God-given background. Today, my dog didn't back rest. You know, the kind of attitude that says, you know, we really kind of have a dirty joke to give my parents gifts. I mean, even a dog in our family develops a complex, you know. In fact, our father would love to kick the dog. but the dog would have bit him back and so he kicked those kids around. And how can you expect me to be loving and sensitive and guideless to the kind of background that I have? How can I show love when I never had a model for love in my own family? When you talk to this kind of a person, and you find that whenever you begin to talk about what it means for you to love someone, what it means for you in a trial, in a difficult circumstance, to respond in a godly way. It's always but the way I was brought up, but my background, but my parents, that I was never loved, but I and on and on and on. And so you're really saying, you know God is your fault because you put me in that family. And who could expect anybody to turn out right living in a family like I did? You say, so we really blame not. We feel guilty about the questions that say the asked, but all we console ourselves with, then who could expect to do any better? with a background like mine. And so I thought a strange kind of development where a person, when they're first Christians out of that background, had a tremendous sense of gratitude that God has delivered me from such a terrible background. A background of which I may have been abused in one way or another. Which I have delivered from this, and I had no claim to this deliverance. Isn't it great how kind the Lord has been? Because you can long along as a Christian. But up to suddenly that gratitude turns to a discontentment. To where you say, well, why did God let me grow up in that background? Why was God so mean as to give me that kind of a start in life? With a rather than gratitude for deliverance. We begin to grumble for the fact that God is expecting us to live in a godly way when he's tempted me By the weakness of my background and my starting. Whenever I think of that, I have to remind myself. of the power of the gospel. By You know, that's really denying what God can do. God can paint some of the most terrible background and produce some of the most horrible people you can imagine. They're just two examples. uh just rereading the life uh of John Newton. Now, you know, you couldn't ask for uh a more terrible start in life. Uh the guy was an orphan. He was raised uh by being put onto a slave ship And worked and uh learned and trade, finally grew to be a captain of a slave ship, used to delight in torturing people and raping the slaves and doing all kinds of things. And and this was his background. But when he came to Jesus Christ and then involved in 48 years of tremendously effective gospel ministry, writing among other hymns amazing grace, how sweet the sound that says a wretch like me said. It'd say somebody like me who came from such a terrible background that and God had sense enough to realize that he had to do something special to overcome my circumstances. Luton says I was the wretch. It was my sin. It is me who is the slave trader. And owning that sin and facing that and not knowing God He was able to turn to Jesus Christ and find sufficiency in him to overcome the sins. A man that God raised up to use as certainly one of the most prominent and influential Christian leaders of the 20th century You look at Schaefer's background and there is nothing to explain it. He was raised in a non-Christian home that wasn't particularly religious, wasn't particularly interested in the arts or any kind of intellectual pursuits. He was an only child. The family was rather cold and wasn't particularly hospitable. It was nothing, Michael agreed. There was not that many people that he had contact with as a kid. Not very much that was stimulating to him. And yet from that background, there's a shape for didn't come to Jesus Christ and say, well, you know, I'll never really amount to very much because look at the start that I had in life But rather, he took the opportunities that God gave. And he didn't blame God for the temptations. He said, Lord, I look to you. And as he trusted Christ, God changed it. And God did what we need things that were amazing, his quite almost but imagine, and the world is yet to see. What God will do to a person who is entirely committed to Jesus Christ. But we don't take to that place if every time we come along with a temptation, we say, It's just because of my background that I can't overcome this. So it's something to gain insight, to understand what the battles are. And I have no problem with that. In looking at our background and understanding that. The problem is when we excuse our sin because of our background. Because I believe that is exactly a violation of verse 13. When tempted, no one should say, God is tempting me. God's tempting me by the background that he gave a second example of the way we do this. is by blaming God in my God-given desires. Blaming my God-given desires. How can I resist this temptation, God, when you have given me these powerful desires in my life? It's really your fault for giving me You see, the word there that use desire in verse 14 really doesn't mean evil desire. The word is a mutual word. It simply means desires. It's we who twist those desires to become evil desires. But we have desires And desires can be used in appropriate ways or inappropriate ways. And so a person comes along and they have trouble with alcohol and drugs and they say, God gave me an addictive personality. So it is beyond my control. I had nothing to do with it. It's simply a sickness. That's the Zemaya of verse 13. When tempted, no one should say, God has given me an uncontrollable desire. Or a person is a homosexual, practicing homosexual, and within a homosexual community. And they say, it's not my fault that I have these desires. I'm simply acting out the desires that God has given me. God's design is at fault because I'm a homosexual. practicing homosexual. There's choices that are made. And there's choices get us into that lifestyle. We're all sinners and we all have our weaknesses. And I'm not picking on particular weaknesses as if we are exempt from those because I know as a congregation we're not. But we need to recognize the responsibility Probably the most common of the desires, however, is to say that I have certain social sexual needs that God has given me, and they must be met. They said they must be met. And if they're not met in one way, then they'll be mad in another way. If they're not going to be met within marriage Over there my marriage, then I will have to seek somewhere else because God has given me these needs. And they must be met, you see. I'm tempted, and I think God is tempted. He's put me in an overwhelming situation Why is it that you see people who remain lifelong faithful within extremely difficult marriages? Don't look at other people who are in much less difficult marriages, who are unfaithful again and again. I think a lot of it is because of the product of this verse, these two verses. First of all, say when I'm tempted between God who's tempted me. God has given me these overwhelming social sexual needs that must be met. When I think of a woman who I'll call Mary. Mary was in a marriage that wasn't such a bad marriage, but it had one fatal flaw, and that was that her husband was always on the road. He traveled too much Mary was noble. She had one small child and she had raised by herself. And so there was a fellow in her church, Ralph, who she got to know And as she got to know Ralph better, she began to develop more of a liking for him and there was a mutual attraction. I found out that after a while uh he was picking her up and bringing her to church. Uh by the way, this is not in our congregation, so no but he has to begin to speculate. But uh he began to pick her up and began to spend a lot of time with her, time with her child And gradually it dawned on Mary that her attraction to Ralph was an unhealthy attraction for her marriage. And it hit her one day with sudden force, I'm really being tempted to adultery. I'm really being tempted to unfaithfulness. I would like to be unfaithful to my husband. And she had to come before Jesus Christ that day in an agony of soul. But she had to space the question, who is really responsible for this? Do I have certain needs that God has given me that must be met? Or is God not tempting me to do it? But rather, verse 14, it's my own evil desires And so Mary cried out to Jesus Christ. He said, Mary, this temptation is too much for me. You take it I don't want to be unfaithful, but you know the conflict, Lord, that I'm having that she cried out, Lord, you take me. You take me. I want to follow you. I'm not going to blame you for this. It's my fault, Lord. Take me and show me your power and sufficiency. The very next night, Ralph came over the evening for the first time when her child was in bed, and she knew that this was the final test. She stood at the door. But he came right on in. She stood there in the light, and he began to make some small talk, and as she talked with him, she knew that this was the forefront, the very battle, the battleground of an intense temptation that was going on as a strike. But she had settled with God where the responsibility lay and where the strength was to overcome it through Jesus Christ. And so uh it was kind of apparent that she wasn't being very responsive to it, and that she was remaining right there in the light and did not move And finally he said, Could he go see your little girl who was back in the bedroom? And she said, Okay, but she stayed right there. He went back and she said it seemed like an eternity before he finally came back. When he came back and Finally, reluctantly, he left. Why was she able to withstand the temptation? But so many people would say was overwhelming because of the desires. Because she didn't blame God. He said, Lord, you're the only one that can help me. But I've got to look to you to help me. The third way, so that that's just a a question that you and I need to ask, are there are the desires that you and I are misusing because we're excusing? how we're twisting the desires. The third example of this is for us to blame our God given people. To blame my God given people. The people that God has placed in my life life is the same. Well, you know, when I'm tempted, God is tempting me because He's put these people in my life and they're too much. This husband of mine, I mean, yeah, sure I'm a mag at times. But who wouldn't be if you had a living? this guy. You know, I mean if you don't have a look with my husband, let me see how gracious and kind and sweet you'd be. It's easy for you to talk, you know. I know what your husband's like, I know what my husband's like, you know. And so this person, you know, they They are putting me into a situation which I can't handle. It's his fault. How many times sitting down and counseling with people, you sit down and talk to them, you know, and they come and they come presenting the guilt that they're feeling for the problems that they're No way head, the deeper you go into it, the more you really find out there's like, but it really is this person's fault, it's really that person's fault. And I just can't handle this person in the way they treat me Hey, you know that goes right back to the Gorgas. When Adam sinned, who did he blame? This woman that you gave me. Verse 13, when tempted no one should say, God has saved me. That's exactly what happened here. God, you're the one who really tempting me because you gave me this woman And she's the minimum of my temptation and downfall. You can do it toward your spiritual leaders. Israel. Blame Moses for their problems. If you remember when the spies came back, Caleb and Joshua, and they reported what it was like to go into the land and they said, let's go in and take it. And Israel grumbled and they complained. There was a lack of faith. They wouldn't follow God, but who did they Not themselves. They called out to God and they say, It's the leaders you gave us, God. And so numbers tells us how they wanted to store Moses and get another leader to go back to Egypt. You know I know that these two families who've left our church over the years, and I all I can do is tell you this is based value. Obviously there's always fault. We are not perfect leaders, as always we are sinners. We come far short of having anything of the compassion and shepherd's heart of Jesus Christ. But I know of two families that are not going to church anywhere, who are not carrying out any open profession of Jesus Christ in their lives right now. And you know who spawn it is? the elders of his church, because we didn't treat them well. Now they didn't go to another body and say, but I can find help here We might encourage them if we saw that as a good situation. But to go on it to say, I can't go to any church now Because you guys are so rotten. Is verse 13. I'm tempted to give up. And I say, God's the one who put somebody in my life that I couldn't withstand. When you're no longer around it too. Sometimes the leaders can blame the pizza. They had this situation with Saul. And you remember in 1 Samuel 15, God says, go up against the Another, destroy them, and despair absolutely nothing. God's command to the leader was absolutely clear. But Saul was a compromiser. And so Saul let the people keep the best of the cattle and the livestock and the goods. Destroyed all the stuff that was, you know, kind of trashy, you know, the stuff that was with the goodwill and the you know the things he wanted to give to the salvation. Army, pull all that stuff out. But the really good stuff he said, I'm gonna keep that. But then when Samuel came to confront him, whose fault was it? 1 Samuel 15, Saul says, It's the people who kept it. You know, uh hey, I wanted to do it, I know I wanted to follow you. But you know, those people, they're really hard, you know, Lord. And and they tempted me. Those people that you called me to lead. They don't follow her. And so they are the ones who compromise. But God was absolutely clear. Saul, it is your fault. You're the one who compromised. It says that there is a principle in Scripture that is so free that it is that you are never responsible for what someone else does If you say, yeah, but you know, if I do this, my husband will do that, or my wife will do this, you know, if I really follow the Lord, you say, hey, you don't have to worry about that. You follow the Lord. They're responsible for what they do But the problem is, you are responsible for what you do. And you can never say when you are tempted. God's tempting me. God's place something in my life that I can't withstand. Because verse 13 says It just doesn't watch. And the correction to that is found in that same verse. The correction is Because when you think those things, you need to realize God cannot be tempted with evil. And therefore he cannot test anyone. You see, for you to think that God has placed into your life something that is making it impossible for you to follow and to obey and to trust Jesus Christ is to really say that God is evil Because only someone who is evil will ever tempt someone else to evil. So verse 13 says you need to understand and get a new vision of the holiness and the goodness of God. You need to understand that he is so whole and so pure that evil can never make a dent in his person. He can never tempt him. God is untemptible. And because he's untempsable, he could never have caused his mind to tempt you. Because only an evil person tempts another person to evil. Only someone who's wicked wants to see someone else fall God only intends your good in Jesus Christ. Verse 17 says that every good and perfect gift comes from above from the Father of heavenly lights. He does not change like any shifting shadows. He's constant. And his purpose, verse 18, was to give us new birth through the word of truth. And through that new birth to make you like Jesus Christ. So God's whole purpose is only ever for you to make you like Jesus. To put those difficult things in your life, but to use them to draw you to himself. And so whenever you're tempted to think, I'm in a situation, there is a rather situation and God's letting this happen. He's tempting me. Realize with every thought. comes from the pit of hell where it's a disgrace and a mockery upon the character of God. He's gone. He's not tempted with evil. He cannot tempt you ever to be evil. And so that leads to the second point, just very briefly. The second way we fool ourselves is to say, I'm really not so bad. You see. Either God's tempting me Or maybe Satan's tempting me. You see, when tempted, don't say God is tempting me, for God can't be tempted by evil. Nor does he ever tempt anyone But each one, you say well, each one's tempted by the evil one. Now that's not what it says. Now in chapter four, James does talk about resisting the devil and his temptation. But it's interesting that when he comes to the ultimate responsibility for sin, he doesn't even blame Satan. Satan is not even mentioned in these three verses. Who is responsible? Verse thirteen. Each one is tempted when by his own evil desires. He's dragged away and enticed. The picture that you have there is of a fish being lured by bait. That's the way that word is used, to be enticed. It's to use a bait on a lure. in order to draw fish to the hook. The word that would be used if you place a trap for an animal, a bait, and a hungry animal comes and is attracted by that bait, to be dragged away, to be enticed because of his own internal desire. For the baby of the Lord. That's the word that's used. His own evil desire. Brother and sister in Christ, let me tell you this. The beginning to victory in sins in your life and in my life is to own our sins. And to call it what it is. That's the kind of a person I am. Not my parents' fault. It's not the desires that you've given me. It's not the people that are in my life. Let it my bloom. Evil desire. And then you and I can come to Jesus Christ, honestly. And we can call our sin what it is, not a weakness, not a fault as a result of our background. But evil desire, sin, then Jesus Christ is more than willing to take, to transform, to meet us, and to show us a sufficiency just as he did Mary. Just as he did John Leafon, just as he did Francis Schaeffer, just as he does to everyone who comes to him honestly and says, Lord, I need you. To take away these evil desires. They're only you because the temptation is appealing to my own sinful nature. And you know what you come to him? He'll meet you, and he'll take that sin, and he'll transform that desire, and he'll show you his power. Are you willing to come? Let's pray. Lord, it's really true that just as we are, we come to you. The birth just as we are, we realize, is full of evil desires The Lord we know that our hearts are so deceitful and we want to fool ourselves so subtly that we would like to blame those evil desires. or you. We'd like to say that you're tempting us. We'd like to say that we have desires that Satan has gotten a hold of and we really aren't responsible. Now everything in our culture tells us we're not responsible. We're simply dickens. of heredity and environment. The learning word gives an entirely different picture, and by that picture it gives hope. We are not trapped. But we can come and decide to seek the sufficiency of Jesus Christ to deliver us from those temptations. For no temptation has taken us but such as is common to man. But you are eight and doing. We can make a way of escape from those temptations. And Lord, we come to you this morning when we pray. Show us, Lord, the hope and the sufficiency of Jesus for our own situations we pray. There will be brilliant C and L in this moment of silence. Hallelujah Lord, we think of what you will do. We people who have just now said, Lord, I really want to do business with you. I want to stop getting around and making excuses. And I want for you to take these sins. I want for you to use these outward afflictions and deliver me from the evil temptations that are pulling me away from Jesus. Lord, we know we've heard testimony after testimony, and we look forward to what we will continue to hear in our congregation as you show your power. In Dilophens. For those that honestly see through. Amen.