You can see a little better. Turn to James Four. Recently a man by the name of Charles Caron was having dinner with his wife at this seaside restaurant. Let me tell you I did not choose to begin with this example because I'm fantasizing about vacation this week, but it fits. All of a sudden there was a tremendous commotion outside. There was a man who was in the water and getting swept out to sea by the riptide. He was fighting for his life. Another man dove into the water with a life preserver, but the waves were so high that he couldn't see him. This fellow Charles Caron ran to the cashier and asked her to call the rescue squad, and then he immediately went to the men's room. Now, why did he do that? Because he was all of a sudden burdened with a tremendous sense of need to pray for this man who was fighting for his life. And so he got in one of the stalls of the men's room and was uninterrupted for ten minutes and interceded with great power for this man that his life would be saved. Tremendous sense of burden for this man He went out about ten minutes later, just as the man was being brought to shore, and the man died. He drowned. It was too late Now you probably expected that that story was going to end by his being miraculously saved, but isn't it in fact the case that so often in our own lives prayers are unanswered, like that one? In a way that we can't explain, in a way that may be profoundly disappointing to us, somehow God doesn't seem to come through the way we would expect that he would come through if prayer is supposed to have access to a father. who has omnipotent compassion for us. And yet we can really identify, can't we, with what James says in chapter four, the beginning of verse three. When you ask, you do not receive. That's the problem that I want for us to deal with this morning. Asking and not receiving. How do you expect me to continue to pray with expectation and faith When it seems like sometimes I wonder if my prayers make any difference. Did you ever pray and pray for something and then uh it doesn't work out the way that you had thought and prayed And then something else comes along, you forget totally to pray about it, and works out great. You say, what difference does it make whether I pray or not? Sometimes it seems to work out better when I don't. Well, I would like to share with you, as I've thought about this and meditated on this verse for some time Seven reasons why the scripture gives us that prayers are not answered. You could categorize these in a number of ways, but you know, seven seemed like a good number, and so I think it sort of hits the basic reasons that the scripture gives to us. And I believe there's a common thread in these seven reasons, which when we look at it we'll see is a basic point that James is trying to communicate to us. So let's look at that now. Seven reasons why the scripture speaks to us about why prayers are unanswered, and I mean by unanswered, that they're not answered in the way that we prayed or hoped. The first that you had to fill in there reason is an unconverted heart. Now that should be heart. These are all heart problems. And my AE apparently looked like a U, and so it's not an unconverted hurt, it's an unconverted heart. Alright? Verse six, James says, God opposes the proud, but he gives grace To the humble. And it's only the person who realizes that prayer must be in Jesus' name. I can never approach God on the basis of my own merits. I never can bargain with God. God, I've done this for you. I've tried to serve you. Therefore, you owe me one. Therefore, God, I have a right to ask for you to at least do this little thing for me. You know, and some of us have that kind of idea. But you know, the scripture speaks to us of the fact that there is only one thing that we can plead when we come to God, and it is the name of Jesus Christ. And I have given to you just so you can see there. I usually don't include all the scriptures from a study that I do, but I wanted to list those there under point one, just so that you could see God's attitude toward a person who has never bowed. But a person who says that I can live my life who b without Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of my life, and still I can come to God to ask Him to answer my prayers. And there's a whole list of scriptures that speak to us of God's attitude. For instance, in Zechariah In chapter 7, verse 13, God says, When I called, they did not listen, so when they called, I would not listen. Well you know God's saying that doesn't sound very merciful does it? God says listen I called you, I put out my hands to you, I would take you to myself as a shepherd would take his sheep, as a hen would take her chicks, and you would none of me Now you're in trouble, you're gonna call on me. But I called and you didn't listen. Now you're gonna call and I'm not gonna listen. And I wonder if there's anybody here this morning who's wrestling with prayers that have not been answered in your life. And the very basic reason for that is that you've never come in Jesus' name. God opposes the proud, he says in verse 6. That means he stands arrayed against you. His face is not toward you, but he opposes you. And the only way to come, to have him receive you, to welcome you, is to humble yourself, to admit your sin, to admit your need of a savior. And to turn to Jesus Christ. So that Jesus Christ in his sacrifice would be your only hope of coming to God. And that you'd realize the only person that can pray in Jesus' name is a person who belongs to Jesus. As one who is has him as their Savior and Lord. Until if there's anybody here this morning who has never turned to trust Jesus as your own personal savior and Lord And you know, I think if you've been around us for some time, or you've been around Christians, what is meant by that. That's where you must begin. We're gonna blow up No, we'll find out. The second reason for prayers not being answered is what I call a stubborn heart. Point two, a stubborn heart A stubborn heart, here I refer to praying for things that God has expressly forbidden. For example, you remember in Deuteronomy 3, God talks about the fact that He had expressly forbidden Moses to go into the land of Canaan because of his sin against Israel, in his uh arrogance, striking the rock twice. And Moses was like our our children many times here. You know, God says, you will not go into the land. Moses says, oh, come on, please. God says, no. You will not go into the land. Please, come on, God. Please. If I pray enough, if I continue to plead with you, and I own and I won't give you any rest, and God says no. And in Deuteronomy 3. 26, God says something very interesting. He says, Moses Don't even speak to me about this matter. Don't even bring it up again. Now, you know, I may sound harsh to you, but I'll tell you that sounds awfully tender to me. Can you imagine the God of heaven condescending to come to a human being and say, now look Moses, don't bring this up to me again. You can wipe him out, you know? But he says, Don't bring this up to me again That which God has expressly forbidden in His Word, it is presumptuous to pray. Israel went up to Kadesh Barnea, and God said, Go into the land and take it, I've given it to you. And you remember they say, Oh no, we're like grasshoppers in their sight, and we can't go in and take that land and God says, Okay, you're not gonna take the land. You're gonna wander around here for forty years. It's okay, let's take the land. And so they go up and they pray and they go up to this little kill and they try to take it and they're defeated and they're slaughtered and they're driven back. Why? God had expressly forbidden them to do it And then they thought it would be an act of faith to claim it anyway, and they went up presumptuously. Jeremiah prayed for Israel's salvation. God said, Don't pray about this. I am not going to do it. There's something that God has expressly forbidden in his word that you're praying about anyway. God, help things to work out with my non-Christian boyfriend. Help things to work out with my non-Christian girlfriend that maybe we could get together. Lord, I'm praying about some s some kind of a sexual behavior that I'm not really sure if this is right. And God says, hey, most of my will is expressed here in my word. And if there's something here that I have forbidden, don't waste your breath to pray for it. Some prayers are not answered simply because God has told us that that's not his will. And so we have a stubborn heart to pray for it. The third reason why our prayers are not answered sometimes is because of cherishing sin in our heart. You have four of them there, you see. Cherishing sin in our heart. This is the idea of verse 4 in James chapter 4. Remember where he says there, you adulterous people. Don't you know that friendship with the world is hatred toward God? Flirting with the world, that taking upon yourself, taking those things which are not pleasing to God and holding them to yourself, cherishing them for your own pleasures. In Psalm sixty six, the psalmist talks about a tremendous prayer that he had answered. He doesn't say exactly what it was, but he says, Come and listen, all you who fear God, and let me tell you what he's done for me. Then verse eighteen he says, If I had cherished sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened. Very explicit, you see. If I had cherished sin in my heart, God would not have listened to my prayer. Now is that talking about, you know, uh, hey, I snapped at my wife last week and so I now I can't pray. No, it's not talking about anything that we sin and we are sorry for or we're struggling against or all the rest. It's cherishing, do you see? It's that sin in my heart that I have that I am holding to myself and desiring and it's keeping me from the Lord. Do you remember after Israel took the mighty city of Jericho? God had said there is a ban on that and everything in that city is to be destroyed. And then after that they went up to this little dinky town of Ai. And after having taken Jericho without loss of one life, they go up to Ai, and again they're driven back, and they're defeated. And they say, God, what is the matter? And the Lord says there's sin in the camp. There's somebody cherishing sin in their heart. I said to destroy everything. It's all polluted. You know, but uh somebody said, I just couldn't bring myself to destroy that Toyota Supra. You know, I just had to take I mean just a shame, you know. And so uh Achan is called out, and God points the finger and he says, You cherished sin in your heart. Heart and you expect me to ignore that. And God pointed it up, and Achan and his whole family were destroyed because they were a block to God answering the prayers of his people. Are you praying that God will answer prayers in your life and you're keeping porno books in your closet? You're watching videos and you're addicted to videos that aren't helping you to love Jesus Christ. And you're cherishing those sins in your heart. And you're saying, God, I you know, when I talk to you, Lord, I I'd really rather you don't bring up that stuff, because it just sort of gets in the way of our conversation, yeah. And when the Holy Spirit, whenever you pray something, he reminds you of something in your life. That's a clue to the fact that perhaps that is some sin that you're cherishing in your heart that the Lord wants to deal with you about. And he wants for that matter to be rooted out so that you can come before him, not as one who is sinless and pure and say, I don't have any sin, now I can ask you for things. As sinners polluted, coming in Jesus' name. But not cherishing some sin in our heart that the Holy Spirit wants to deal with before He is able to take us on. And as a father to a son to give us our requests. Well, that's the third. The fourth reason, I believe, is what I call a fickle heart A fickle heart. Here I'm talking about the prayers that are not answered simply because we don't set our heart on them. I believe that that's true. I believe that sometimes God doesn't give us a prayer because we just don't set our heart on it. We're sort of fooling around. Yeah, we sort of want it, but we're sort of not sure James gives us an example of this. You remember in chapter 1, in verses 6 to 8, he talks there about the person who in a difficult situation in their life wants God's wisdom on that situation. But they're not really sure they want God's wisdom. Maybe they'd rather just get out of the situation. They're not really sure they want God to accomplish his purpose through it. And James describes that person by saying in verse chapter one verse six when he asks, he must believe and not doubt, because he who doubts is like a wave of the sea blown and tossed back and forth by the wind. That man should not think that he will receive. Anything from the Lord, you see? Answered prayer again. You're wavering back and forth. Don't think then that you can presume that you can be assured that you will receive your prayer from the Lord. Because he says he's double-minded, two-souled, unstable in all his ways, he's fickle in his heart. A person by the name of Mary Welsh has put it this way. She says, when you pray, make up your heart what you truly want. What she means by that is that sometimes we think we have our mind made up, but our heart's not really made up. You know, we we know that we ought to pray. But we don't really want it. Have you ever had that situation? I know this is when I ought to pray. But if I get it or I don't get it, doesn't really matter a whole lot to me. I think a good example of that was as a congregation, we set our heart on the Lewis property. And when we saw that there was a very great unlikelihood of our being able to make that second payment, we called a week of prayer. And we set our heart on it. And God answered, because our hearts were set on this. We said, Lord, this is something that we really want, and we plead in Jesus' name that you'll give it. Sometimes to help me in my prayers, I will imagine God coming to me, you know, and I don't visualize him physically, but I picture God coming to me and saying, Alan, what would you like me to do in this situation? Hey, you know, what's the big deal? You can think about that. I think about it and I say, well, I don't know, what do I really want you to do? And that's different from just coming with a list and saying, well now here's what I ought to pray about and here's what I ought to pray about. What do I want you to do, Lord? in this situation, set my heart on it. Fifth reason why prayers are not answered is what I call a faint heart. A faint heart. Here I'm talking about a heart that's lacking in earnest persistence. We lack in earnest persistence for what we're praying James refers to this problem also in chapter 5, in verse 17. Remember he says there that Elijah was a man just like us. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three and a half years. And again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops. Now if you look back in 1 Kings 17 and 18, you find that after he had prayed and it didn't rain, that he didn't just pray, and like that it rained again. The Bible tells us that he prayed and nothing happened And then he set his heart on it, and he prayed again, and he persisted a second time, and nothing happened. And then he prayed a third time. And after the third time, the Bible says it was like a little fist in the sky of a cloud. And then Elijah said, That's all I needed for hope. God has answered. You see, he persisted in his praying. Jesus remember when he said, Ask and you shall receive, the word in the Greek means a continuous asking. Keep on asking and you will receive. Keep on seeking and you will find. Keep on knocking. It'll be open to you. And remember, he gives that example of the fellow that badgers his friend at midnight for bread He talks about the persistent widow badgering the judge for getting justice. And he says, that's the way your praying ought to be. Not that you need to badger the Father. He makes that very clear, but he says you need to persist. And I think a lot of times our prayers are not answered simply because we give up. God wants to teach us to trust him. I mean, you know, when you think about it, praying is not needed to inform God what we need so that he can do it Hey, I was sort of overlooked that. I'm glad you reminded me we need to get that person into the kingdom, or you need a little money, or you know, you know. It's not for that. It's to develop the relationship. Of a child trusting the Father. And so God wants to teach us through the process of praying. And if we give up, we may lose the prayer and the blessing. Sixth reason. is a selfish heart. A selfish heart. And by this I mean what James is talking about there in verse 2 and 3. Remember where he says, you don't have because you don't ask God. And when you ask, you don't receive. Why? Because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend what you get on your own pleasures. It's a spend it on my pleasure. Gimme, kind of praying. And James says that kind of praying is a praying which may totally miss God's purpose. And he's not going to change his purpose to suit your whim. Because his purposes he knows are better than your purposes. He wants to bring your praying into conformity with his purpose as you persist. And as God then helps you to see what in fact it is that He's in desiring for you to pray about more. Somebody asked me after the last service last week, they said that well then uh is it okay for me to pray for a red Ferrari? And I said, well, go ahead. Pray for a red Ferrari. Pray for a red Ferrari for all your worth. But in praying for that red Ferrari, persist and be willing to have God change your desire. I'd say anything that we desire. Pray for it. But persist, and as you persist, get into Scripture so that the Scriptures begin to mold and form what it is that you can pray in Jesus' name and see what God does. He'll change your desire or he'll give you what he has promised to you. But don't give up. And don't hold on to your selfishness saying, I will set the agenda. Finally, the last reason. Why I believe that our prayers are not answered, is what I call a restless heart. And a restless heart is the best way I can express What I mean when I'm talking about the fact that we have to face it, some nose we will never understand in this life. There are some things that God is not going to answer, not because they're in any violation of any promise he's given in his word. But simply for his own infinite and inscrutable wisdom, for his reasons, he's not going to answer that. He is not going to give us our heart's desire in that matter. And in that matter, he is testing our hearts to see whether we are restless or whether we are like the psalmist in Psalm 131 who says, Lord, I I don't ask questions which are beyond me. But he says I'm like a little child on its mother's breast. And he's saying there, you see, the question is not why or how Which gives me my confidence, but it's the who. I may not know how it's going to work out or what God's doing or why he's doing it, but I know who it is that I'm talking to and that I can trust him. I can see as we talked about last week that Jesus went to Gethsemane. And that Jesus, out of his great and infinite love for me Because of his own limited understanding at that point, cried out to his father, Father, I don't understand Why will you not take this cup and cause it to pass from me? Lord, if there's any way to do it, do it. But then he says, nevertheless, even though I don't understand it fully He says, not my will, but yours be done. And he went to the cross out of that love for you and for me. And how then could I doubt his love? If God has not spared his own son, but cursed him on a cross, how will he not then freely with him give us all things for our good? And when I question the power, I think Jesus rose from the dead. He's conquered death. What else is there that he can't do? And so it's not a matter of what, it's a matter of who. I know who I've believed. And I know that I can trust him, that when I lay my request before him, he's able to do all things. He loves me infinitely, and so I don't question his motives for me. But I simply rest with him, I'm not restless, I rest with him, what he intends to do in this matter. I believe that in these seven reasons we see a common thread that James wants us to understand. And it's that thread of submission. He gets to that, and we'll get to that in the fall, in verse 7. You see? Submit yourself to God. And I think the real question that's asked when we learn to pray Is who is the center of my praying? Is it myself or is it Jesus Christ? In terms of trusting, who's the center of my praying? Am I trusting myself ultimately or Jesus Christ? That is, I'm asking God to do something, but you know, I got a backup I mean you know in case God doesn't do it, I got my insurance policy or I got something else, you know, that's there as my final trust and resort. I'm not about to put myself out on a limb where if God doesn't come through Then I'm in real trouble. I sort of hedge my bet. Who is the real center of my trust in praying? Am I willing to step out on faith and trust God in a situation where He really is my only hope? T And who's the center of my will? Is it my agenda, my purpose, my will? Or is it Jesus Christ? Is it what He tells me are the things that I should be desiring and praying for? You see, I believe that praying can never be separated from Scripture. I hear people who will say, when I talk about quiet times, they'll say, well, you know. I don't get to read scripture very much. You know, maybe I'll read a verse or two or something from Daily Bread or something like that, but I sure pray a lot. You know, I pray as I'm driving, I pray as I'm washing dishes, as I'm cleaning up, as I'm doing this. I'm praying quite a bit. And I always wonder when the person says that, what's forming your prayers? It's the scripture that needs to form our agenda, our desires. James says if you separate it from that, you're praying to spend it on your own pleasures. Because he's saying you're not having the love of Christ forming your prayers, your love for Christ, rather than the spending it on your own pleasures, to see that he spent himself for your pleasure. And therefore you want to spend yourself for his pleasure. And so the best way to learn to pray is to pray scripture. Pray a psalm. You ever done that? Take a psalm. Don't just read it. Personalize it. Pray that psalm. Enter into the thoughts and the emotions of the psalmist as you pray that psalm. Or pray one of Paul's prayers. You know, Mark priest on that last summer, uh praying Paul's prayers and looking at his prayers. Pray Paul's prayers to teach you to pray. But the very best example that I can think of is to pray the Lord's Prayer. Because you see, ultimately learning to pray is learning to submit yourself to Jesus. And there's no better example of that than the Lord's Prayer itself. Think of what that prayer says. It begins, our Father. Now, when you begin that, think of what you're saying. God is my Father. I was meditating on that this week, and what occurred to me was I was thinking, here's God in all his splendor and all of his majesty, and one of the most radiant angels with one of the greatest reputations in all the celestial universe, comes to God and he says to him, get out that guy Alan Harris God stops what he's doing. And he turns and he smiles. And there's a little twinkle in his eye, and he says, Of course I know Alan Harris. He's one of my children. He's a precious son of mine. I love him. Do you ever imagine God saying that about you? That when you say our Father, that that means all the universe knows that God is your Father. He's proud of you. He loves you as one of His children. How could I feel like an orphan that needs to scrap and struggle to get what I want, to spend it on my own pleasures? When God Himself is my father. And he has a twinkle in his eye when he thinks of me. And so I can come with that sense of precious intimacy and I can then say, holy be your name. Intimate and yet with awe. God's name is holy and lifted up, and my pleasure is to see His name exalted And so after I think about that, Father, your name be exalted. Then how is that to be done? Well, you're a kingdom May it come, and may your will, which is exercised perfectly in your kingdom, be done here on earth, as it's begun in that kingdom which is here and now established, just as it is in heaven. And that's submission, he said. That's verse 7. Submit yourself to the Lord. That's learning to pray. Lord, may your will be done in me and through me. Because I'm not an orphan. I don't need to fight for my rights. I can rest with you. And my concern, my pleasure can be to see your will, your perfect, wonderful will accomplished through me. And then moving on to very three practical concerns. My daily needs. Give us, Lord, our daily bread. You know, not necessarily the red Ferrari. Is that a daily need? Well, you know, it takes a little while praying maybe to examine whether that's a real need or whether it's not But Jesus says you can pray for your daily bread. I guarantee you that. And the Father will hear you. Here's my daily needs, Lord. Here they are. Here's what's concerning me. Remember we talked about the parking space. Yeah, maybe it's a parking space I need right now. Whatever it is, Lord. Here in, I'm dependent on you. My daily relationships. Forgive us our debts as we forgive those who've committed offenses against us. And so, Lord, I pray for my relationships this day that they will not be characterized by self-centered bitterness, but by that spirit of grace, I will treat others by the principle of grace and not law. Because you're my father. Jesus has died for me. What do I need to fight for? And then there's my daily victory. Lord, deliver me from temptation. Lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from evil. And so I present before God my spiritual struggles, those things which are tempting me, the spiritual battle that I'm in. And as I do that, as I form my praying around that model You know what's going to happen? If you could track it, you will see a greater and greater proportion of your prayers being answered. And I'm going to tell you, that's a thrill. Can you imagine if by September you said, you know, I'm beginning, I'm just beginning to learn what it is to pray. And I'm seeing God answer like I've never seen Him answer before. What we're talking about is summed up in the hymn we're going to sing now. And so we're going to join in this message now. I'm not going to close us in prayer. We're going to close together in prayer as a body by singing the song which sums up the lesson of prayer, Trust and Obey. And then together. We're going to pray the Lord's Prayers.