We come to the end of James One and I um promised you that I would finish this before I went on vacation and so there was a real incentive to make sure that if I was going to go to vacation this year that I had to get to the end of this chapter. And so we're here. As we look at God's word, now let me pick up from verse 22. This morning we're considering particularly verses 26 and 27. James chapter 1, let's hear God's word. Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says. it says, is like a man who looks at his face in a mirror, and after looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like. But the man who looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom And continues to do this, not forgetting what he has heard, but giving it, he will be blessed in what he does. If anyone considers himself religious and yet does not keep a tight reign on His tone. He deceives himself, and this religion is worthless. Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is this. To look at Orphans and widows in their distress, and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. Look again at verses 26 and 27. If anyone considers himself religious and yet does not keep a tight rein on his tongue, he deceives himself, and his religion is worthless. Religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is this. We should stop right there. Because you see, a very useful exercise when you're reading scripture. is whenever you see a definitive statement, a very crisp statement to characterize something, you should stop and ask yourself how you finished that statement. What is that not? Yeah, first is Romans eight, twenty eight. or you know all things work together for good to those that are called according to God's purpose. And then it does only verse coming out of the state's purpose. His purpose is that he's the destinated us to be. You know, and stop and say, no, how would I finish that? How would I finish that verse? What is God's purpose? You know, and then you see it's uh to be conformed to the image of Christ. That tells you something. Then you look at uh Jeremiah chapter 9, and Jeremiah says, You want to boast, you want to talk about your success? Jeremiah says, let it tell you what you should boast about. You say, okay, well what is it that I should boast about in life? But the spirit of statement. When it goes on, it says, boast that you know me, the God of who uh delights in kindness, righteousness. And justice. Then you take a look at Romans chapter 14, verse 17, Paul says, the kingdom of God doesn't consist in what you eat and drink, but the kingdom of God consists of what is it? What does the kingdom consist of? How would you finish that? Then Pablo Tony says kingdom consists in power and in joy. In power and peace and in joy of the Holy Spirit. Well, you take a look at 1 John, and John says, one simple statement, in one word, he defines sin. Sin is, how did you finish that sentence? John says sin is lawlessness. Well, Hebrews 11, chapter 1. The author of Hebrews defines faith in one verse. Faith is. How did you finish that statement? Hebrews says faith is being sure of the things that we can't see. certain of the things excuse me, being sure of the things that we hope for and being certain of the things that we can't see. And here you have another one of those golden definitive statements in the Bible in James 127. True religion. is. What is the kind of religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless? Now that's a very important statement. People are always talking about how do you tell true religion from false religion? How can you see the difference between whether a person really has true religion and a person who simply claims to have it? And this verse, James Havana, tell in one verse. We tell it really in two verses, negatively first, and then secondly. positively how you can tell through religion. So I'll tell you from my background, if I were to finish that verse, from my kind of American fundamentals background, if you had asked me some years ago, now how would you I probably would have said something like, to have the right answers to the four spiritual laws, to carry a scope of your Bible, and to have a daily quiet on it. That is a mark of true religion. See, from my background, that was it. You had a new list. Maybe signed a card, gone forward, lifted your hand in a meeting, done something like that, to show that you knew that you were trusting in Jesus. And then you had a carry a scope of your Bible, you see. background if they didn't true so well we used to do what was called the scope of shuffle from the from the future with three you know there was the scope of reference file and they all had the same page numbers. You know they might be big ones they might be minimal but they were all the same size. They just expanded it, reduced it. So whatever he would preach, if you were a true Christian, you didn't have to give you a reference. He'd say page one thousand twenty-two and everybody turned a page and they all had the same Bible. If you were a true Christian, he said. So whatever he'd read, and he would turn the page, everybody's pages would turn it to the same link too. That was called the social chuckle. And you could check up on each other's quiet time. Because you knew that this was This is the mark of somebody really knew the movie. Interesting, that's not what James says. In fact, you know, it's very interesting that usually when you finish those definitive statements on your own kind of predisposition about Most of the time I'd be way off the mark. I will not finish them the way the Bible is. What does the Bible say in James here? Is the mark of true religion. Religion that God our Father accepts in pure and followed as this, he says. And to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. And on the other hand, negatively, it's that it's not to run on at the mouth, you know, not to have an uncontrolled hope. So James has given us your the real. Our math, our mercy, and our morals. Now I hope you appreciate that. Because remember that along the way. Our mouth, our mercy, and our morals are the three morals that James. talks about. Alright? Now, very important that these three things are. In fact, they are so important to James that he takes these three things and he develops them at length further onto his book and what he hit that. eventually when we get to it. For instance, from the matter of the mouth, you see it right there in the bulletin outline, he takes that up in the first twelve verses of chapter three. The question of m showing mercy really is not that's a that's a typo there. But that that is all of chapter two. It should say from verses one to twenty-six. All of chapter two views with this question, you'll see, um, pretty directly with the whole matter of mercy, brings other things in two. And all he deals with in the first part of chapter 4 and also part of chapter 5. Now, James is saying here that it's easy to be deceived. Now we've seen this before. See in verse 26. Don't keep a tight rein on your tongue, you'll be deceived. This is the third time we've come across that word in the first chapter. And it's interesting that every town uses that word. In the English we have the same word, but in the Greek Israel is a different word, which indicates the manifold diversity of deception. It's never quite the same. It comes in all kinds of different ways. And the words all have different kinds of pictures to them. We won't go into that now. But you see there in verse uh in verse eight in verse sixteen he'd said, Don't be deceived, talking about the way we deceive ourselves concerning the nature of man, the nature of sin, the nature of God. In verse 22, it said, Don't be deceived, don't you deceive yourself in the wrong deal with the Word of God. You think it is something to admire, to to sort of agree with some all respect that he says it's not to admire so much as to use. The true nature of the Bible is a tool to use in knowing God and knowing how to live. And then this is the third thing he says in this one chapter that you tend to deceive yourself with. And that is what it means to be a Christian. The true nature of the new birth. Because there's a real danger in deceiving yourself about this. Negatively, the first thing he says is Verse 46. If anyone considers himself to be religious, and yet he does not keep a tight reign on his tongue, he deceives himself, and his religion, he says, is worthless. Absolutely worthless. The word thing that comes short of enough of accomplishing what it should. It's worthless. It's useless. This is the negative evidence that he gives. They say that word religious. Some people stumble on that because they say, well, you know, the Bible doesn't talk about religion. Religion. But this is the only time that it does concerning a Christian in the New Testament. That word religious there refers to some area of religious services, refers to a person who gives scrupulous attention to the Details of formal worship. They make sure that they're there and they make sure that it's done right. They make sure that the way they worship is correct. We go by the Bible in how we worship God. All of our forms and our duties and our elements. Are correct in how they approach God. And James was saying the way you worship may be absolutely perfectly correct. The elements, the doctrine, the understanding of it may be absolutely correct, and he says that's totally insufficient. 'Cause he says if you don't control your tongue, the way you worship is worthless. I don't know about you, but that gives me some thoughts, you know. So and and some people say, well wait a minute here now. Is James teaching works? I mean, you s you're telling me that the Bible saying that true Christianity is to you know not uh mouth off, to uh take care of widows and orphans, and to keep yourself unpolluted? Hey, that doesn't say anything about Jesus. And so there's something wrong here. How do you how do you make that to uh be consistent with what Paul says in other parts of the New Testament? Part of the problem I think is the whole question chapter divisions because you know chapter divisions aren't in the original. And James understands perfectly about trust in Jesus. Because you see the very next verse, which was in the original, not chapter 2, verse 1, but the very next line right after what he said, There about keeping yourself from being polluted by the world, he says, My brothers as believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. So James is talking about those who claim to believe in Jesus Christ. That's what he's addressing. What he's saying is, let me help you to see what it means to simply say that you believe in Jesus and what it means to have saving faith in Jesus. But he says, of all those that say they believe in Jesus. Then he gives you three marks to tell about a person who really believes in Jesus. And he says the first thing to look for is a person who's all concerned about their forms of worship. But they've got a sharp and critical tongue. Now that's a real insight. That's a real insight. Because you know I think what James is saying here is that one of the ways that you tell hypocrites is by critical tongues. A person who has religion yet has Jesus is almost always a critical person. A person who trusts in self-righteousness, in their approach to Jesus Christ. My denomination, my church, the way we do it, all Our ways is a person who is generally a narrow and critical person. They may have a Bible in every room of their house, but gossip proliferates more than the Bible. Um we are the chosen few. All others will be banned. There's there's no place in heaven for you. You can't have heaven crammed. You know, our way, our approach to God, that's the only way to go. And has a sharp, critical spirit, a hypocritical spirit against others. And James said, one of the ways you can tell whether a person has just gone through the nations or whether they have really come to know Jesus is whether they have a sharp critical song, or whether they put a ring on that, whether they control that. James says that's a sign of grace, sign of the supernatural. And then it goes on to the well that um before we mention that He uh he takes this this idea of our being uh having a a ring on our tongue, all three of these marks are connected to what he has said that God is like earlier. You see in verse 18 James has said, the nature of God is that he chose to give us birth through the word of truth. That we might be a kind of first fruits of all he created. And you see in that one verse, the root of the three marks you see in verses twenty-six and twenty-seven. Because God is a God of His word of truth, your word should be a Word of Truth. Because you're His children. Therefore you reflect Him. And in reflecting Him, your words. Should be true. John tells us in John 1:17 that Jesus was full of grace and truth. That Jesus, as a person, was the incarnation of the word of truth. He was the word of truth. And so you see, Jesus. Jesus was the perfect example of someone who had a rail on his tongue. Do you remember back in Easter time we looked at uh Luke? And we saw there some examples of the gentleness and of the patience of Jesus under incredible stress. during the time of his trial and his death, of his execution. Do you remember how we saw, for instance, that when they sat down to the Lord's Supper that last evening, but after he had told them that he was going to die for them, they began to argue about who's the first in the kingdom. Who's going to be the big shot and had the top seat in the kingdom? If there's ever an example of reigning his tongue, I think that is one of the most brilliant and classic examples you see there. Luke chapter 23, I think it is, where um Luke tells us that Jesus, after hearing this argument, says, Wait a minute, that's the way the Gentiles are. That's not to be so among you. Do you remember how he saw at that time that not only Did he teach them the humility of true leadership, but then he encourages them. He says, You stood by me during my trials, and this reserved for all of you the kingdom which my father's promised. Well, I don't know. like to deliver those gossip. Well you better heard some real language from a preacher at that time. It comes with such insensitivity, but Jesus is in perfect control of his tongue through his love for them. And then Peter mounts up and says, Oh Lord, the nice Jesus wars him about what he's trying to do. and denying and Peter says, Oh Lord, they'll all go away, but I'll die with you. Jesus, gently, raining his tongue, says, Peter, if you're the cock close twice, you're going to deny me three times. What a rain. On his tongue. And then you remember in destiny, and he's going to pray for the Father, for the strength to endure the trial. And the disciples fall asleep. He longs for their companionship and their support. But when he comes to Does he lash them with his vote? Does he tell them how how insensitive they are in this time of need? No, he challenges them, why are you why are you sleeping? Pray so that you will get an inner. to temptation. And so James is saying, that's the Jesus you know. Because Jesus says it's going to affect the control of your own tongue. It's an issue the kind of the application test question. And James says In fact, does your mouth run loose? Or is it more spirit controlled than it was a year ago? I hope you can say it, but spirit controlled in the absolute hey that convicts us all. Convicts me. You know my mouth runs loose as many times I think, Oh no, how could I do that? It's so stupid. I mean I know but I just lost my temper in that. You know, somebody could say, Yeah, I'd like to see that, you know Like kids are always you know, every thing that the kids, you know, pray for me and my sins, they always want to know which one, you know. I'm really convicted in this. But the point is, are we seeing progress? Do we see that God is reigning our tongue more this year than his true last year? Do we see that as we look at Jesus and we see in him the perfection of one who speaks grace and truth, that we reflect more of his character as we get to know him. The second thing, the positive thing that James talks about here, It's the question of mercy. It talks about mercy, my mercy being expressed. No, I need to go back again. Just one other thing I wanted to say about that thing of the tongue. No, I I see in our church that God is really gracious. To us as a congregation. I see that in CPC there is a remarkable lack of gossip. And I think that God has used that to hold us together during the last eight years. I think that's a mark of the spirit, it workens. We're not entirely free of gossip, are we? We're not entirely free of sharing that concern for that brother or sister that turns into uh giving a a little more detail than we need to, a little more of a uh concern that comes comes across as a self-righteous comparison of myself compared to them. You know, I believe that like the North Sea seeks to find a crack in the dike to enter in. So Satan would like to look for loose tones in our Congregation in order to divide us. I start to believe that our congregation is ready to burst forth in power that we had never seen in the eight years before for evangelism and outreach and disciple making. I really believe that I don't have time to guide. what the signs are that I see of that, but I do believe there are some signs and we'll go into that more in September when we'll get back. But I believe that God has us on the brink of something that we could really see his power. And I believe that one of the ways that Satan would most work To keep that from happening is through unguarded tongues, tongues that are not reined in, so that you might get a foothold. I don't see signs of that. But I know that we're not immune from that. But the second thing belongs to it is the mercy. Positively now he says the the second sign is my mercy expressed. That's a positive evidence. You see there, an interesting contrast beginning of verse 27. Father accepts, Nathan, here is a positive use of the word religion. Ceremonial worship. Ceremonial religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless. Did he give another sort of contrast in that? Probably didn't. I didn't notice it. Until I checked that word religion. The Bible, the root of that word means to tremble or to be afraid. And the use of that root then came to be applied to the dread of the ancient gods in Greece. That dread of the ancient gods was then applied to the use of the use of that word was then employed to uh refer to rituals that would appeal at the appease the wrath of those gods. More broadly it came to be applied to any kind of a ceremonial service of any religion. But you see its roots are in fear and dread in religion, whereby you perform a ceremony in order to be able to come close to the God. James say he says, religion that food. Our fathers accepts. And in that James is emphasizing that he understands the very heart of Christianity. James is saying, religion Is not a matter of religious ritual. Christianity is a matter of a relationship with a person, Jesus Christ, coming to know God not as judge, but as Father. And so James is talking now about a person who stands before God as their heavenly father. Not in fear or dread. Not in the the kind of uh uh antipathy the the sense of having to be alienated from this God of majesty that we just worship. But being able to draw in holy intimacy to that God of infinite majesty as our Father. And James said now, what is the characteristic of a person who's able to call God Father. He says two things. He says first of all, he looks after orphans and widows in their distress. Well, that's kind of biblical shorthand. You see, it refers to real orphans and real widows. He's talking about real kids who have lost their parents, and he's talking about real wives who have lost their husbands. But beyond that, orphans and widows was kind of a technical shorthand in the Bible for all All those who were disenfranchised and who were liable to be mistreated unjustly and to not receive mercy because they had nothing to offer. And if you look in the Old Testament, you'll see that phrase, orphans and did this, orphans and did this, orphans and did this. Again and again and again, doubles of signs. It's in the law, it's in the writings, it's in the prophets. And in each case what God is talking about there is the need to be merciful because you have received mercy. Deuteronomy chapter twenty four, for example. God says, be merciful to the orphans and to the widows, remembering that God, that you, he says, were slaves in Egypt. You were helpless. You had no way of rescuing yourself. You needed mercy. If you were helpless. And slaves without it, no power to buy your way out, no ability to free yourself. Deuteronomy 24 says, remember that God stretched forth his arm on your behalf out of pure mercy. Therefore he says, remember to be merciful to those that need it. You see in the writings again and again in the Psalms that God calls himself a defender of the orphans and the widows. He refers to the fact that he is the orphans. Father. But he personally takes care of them. So he says it behooves you to reflect my character and taking care of them too, because you've received my mercy. And I've become your father who didn't deserve it. Malachi and the prophet. Compare those who do not show mercy to the orphans and to the widows, to adulterers and sorcerers. Well, we say, hey, that's way down on the list, you know, those that aren't merciful to orphans and widows. And Malachi says, yeah, it's like a gun attack as a Witchcraft and an adultery. But Malachi says that it cuts against the very heart of what the gospel is about. Mercy to those in distress. So when Jesus comes, comes in his mercy. ministry teaching about the kingdom and what happens. He comes up to a a town of Maine. And Luke tells us he came into Maine and who did he look for? The big shots in the synagogue there? No, he found a widow who had a son who had just died. And so the son is a semi-orphan. The father's dying. This widow is a lady in the stress, and she needs her heart out because all that she has left of the world is gone. But Jesus goes up to the coffin, and he goes up and he prays and he touches. just that little boy. He comes back to life. And Jesus says there's nothing he can get back from this widow and this little boy that's going to advance his cost. He does it out of pure mercy. The king of kings, stupid. To show mercy to not to someone who could never return a favor to him. And what's the response? Luke tells us that the people glorify God and they say, God has visited us. You see, they understand. That's the nature of God. That He cares for orphans and widows, that He shows mercy to those in distress. And so James is saying, brothers and sisters, if you have understood the mercy of God. Jesus Christ for you. If you've understood the distress that you're in, if you've understood that you're not only helpless, but you are guilty in your helplessness. You not only got yourself in a hopeless situation, but it was entirely your fault that you're there. That's the hardest person to help, isn't it? I mean it's every day. There you need to see somebody who needs help. I like to help my friends. You know, anybody likes to return a favor. Anybody says, Well do this because you can help me someday. What's harder is to say I'll help this person who's never going to be able in any perceivable way to help me out. What's even harder is to help a person who you see is not only in trouble, but it is through their own stupidity. Who they have to reward them. But they're in that trouble. And then to go out of your way and help them back out anyway. James says, that's the mercy of God. That's what his mercy was like toward you. And so if you look at that. working in that witness you say, Lord Jesus, thanks for the opportunity to show gratitude for what you've done to me. Because this person is never going to be able to return the favor in any way I see. They're helpless. They're disenfranchised. And then thank you that this is a way that I can minister to you. Yeah, I I'm really convinced that the only people who will really minister like this are people who understand that by doing so they really minister. To Jesus. If all I see I'm doing is I'm helping this person kind of as an example, that'll motivate me. But if I see that this person who I may know very little about, I can help, and by doing that, I'm serving Jesus. I'm showing Jesus my love for him because he's given mercy to me. And so I asked the question that you see down there at the bottom. Do you and I ever show mercy to those who cannot return the faith? And you do not deserve it. Just because you receive mercy from Jesus. Just because you want to show your gratitude to him. It's interesting to me that The Bible always presents this showing of mercy, not in some abstract social concern, but a real concern for real people. That's the heart of it. Now, that real concern for real people may lead me to some uh political I may try to change some laws, I may try to right some injustices, because of my concern for those people. But it never starts with the abstract. It always starts with a real concern for real people. James says, start with that. You've shown the mercy of God. You show the reality of His work in your life. And then the final thing is the question of my morals understanding. True religion. Religion that God God, our Father accepts as pure and faultless as good to look after orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. Not just a matter of what you do in mercy to others. It also refers to the character of your own life. This is another positive evidence that James points to. To keep yourself polluted, unpolluted, unspotted. The word's the same word that's used of Jesus in 1 Peter 1 and verse 2. Verse 19, where we read that he was a spotless man. He was without defect, without any blemish. He was spotless. And so we, 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 13, tells us we should. like him be unspotted. We should be unblemished, unpolluted by the moral sin of the world. Why is it? Well just reference