Going to be talking about the sorrow and suffering this morning, but unless uh you're here for the first time or have only come a couple of times before, you think that's the main theme of our congregation, just come on tonight When we'll have uh a time of fun and fellowship and uh we'll have some time of laughing and rejoicing together because we're people who, whatever our circumstances, are able to do that. We're looking at the book of James in this series, and I preached on uh one verse last week, and after one verse I was already found to be an error. Uh I remember told you that uh James is the only of the four brothers of Jesus that we know came to believe in Jesus, but uh And we don't know anything about the others. And after the service, uh two people came up to me and they said, uh, have you ever read Acts 114 out? You know, so I went back and I looked at Acts 114 And I had always thought it just referred to the brothers' meeting in prayer. It's talking about that prayer meeting just before Pentecost, but it says in that verse that in that prayer meeting was Mary, the mother of Jesus, and his brothers And uh so I come back to you humbly saying that uh there's still a lot of things I need to learn about scripture, but that does seem pretty clear. was referring to Jesus' brothers, all four of them who were in that prayer meeting and probably all four then came to trust him and might also in the Jewish way of designating families include his sisters So that's even a further word of encouragement from last week when we talk about God's work in us and our families and in hope here's Uh all four of these who had mocked and scorned him, and apparently the Holy Spirit got a hold of every one of them and brought them to Jesus When I was 40, we're going to go on to verses 2 to 8. I'll see if I can be a little more careful in my explaining accurately what God's word means. But uh let's look at God's word first to hear his holy word as he infallibly speaks it to us, reading from James chapter 1, verses 1 to 8. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes scattered among the nations. Greetings. Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. If any of you lacks wisdom, he should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to him. But what he asks, he must believe and not doubt. Because he who doubts is like a wave of the sea blown and tossed by the wind. That man should not think that he will receive anything from the Lord. He's a double-minded man, unstable in all that he does. Now as you look at God's word there in verses 2 to 8, I would suggest that you can break that down into two parts. You see, first of all, a command in verse 2 And then you see the reason for the command in verses 3 to 8. A command, and then it's reason. I love uh the beginning of this book. Uh you know if you just pick it up for the first time and look at it, you know it Doesn't it sort of strike me the way he begins, you know, James the servant of Jesus greeting? Now, count on all joy when you fall into any kinds of trials. You know, whatever's falling apart in your life, I just want you to know you should count on all joy I mean, you know, there's a greeting designed to knock your socks off, you know. In fact, if you understand something of the circumstance, it's even more forceful Because as I told you last week, he's probably writing to the world church, scattered around. But James' own particular circumstances help us to understand at least those whom he knew about that he was writing to. Because he's writing to Jerusalem. And he's writing to the saints, particularly in his own ministry, that are around Judea. And in the 40s and the 50s, the saints in Judea were going through some pretty rough times. I mean not just in terms of the persecution, but there was also the fact that in the economic system of that time, uh most of these people would have been peasants with very small plots of land And it's known that the large Palestinian landowners of that time were deeply oppressing the people who were under their charge. And so these people were just about scraping by. That's why you'll see so much emphasis on poor and rich in this book. He's writing to some people are having some pretty tough times making it And he's writing to these people who are just having a a tough time, and then that's even emphasized, it's exacerbated, it's uh more and more intensified by the fact that as Jews who have given their lives to Jesus, they're not exactly in the good graces of the synagogues or the temple. And so these people are having a tough time. And what's James saying? Well, count of all joy! Yeah, and and that's kind of a surprise way to begin, isn't it? I mean, in fact, it could make you a little bit angry, sort of irritate you a little bit, couldn't it? Uh at least it should make you curious. I mean, why is he saying this? Now think in your own life this morning. You know, what is it? That's a trial and a difficulty in your own life I've learned that uh, you know how we all sit here and we're all able to sing and praise God and to smile and to laugh. And I get to talk to people and the further we get into our lives and to find out what God's doing and what's happening, the more I find that each of us have our own stories, which if we were to really unfold them from the point of view of simply the problems that I see in my life, they become absolutely overwhelming. And people come to this worship and I hear it time after time people saying, you know, other people don't have problems like I have. I mean they've got it together in their life, but mine's falling apart. And not only do I feel the sadness of my life falling apart But I feel an intense loneliness because I feel like mine is the only life falling apart. Maybe some particularly difficult temptational That's threatening to overwhelm you, and you just don't see how you're going to be able to overcome that. Perhaps in your case it's some unjust, unfair criticism that you've received And you just don't know how to respond to it. It's discouraged you beyond belief. Maybe it's financial difficulties. You know, tax season's just gone by and you couldn't even pay your taxes, and you're struggling with that. Or maybe your marriage is falling apart. Maybe your spouse wants to leave and wishes they could or are taking steps to alienate themselves more and more from. Maybe it's a physical problem. Your health is going downhill, and you've just found out some news that really discouraged you, and you don't know how you're going to cope with that. All of us have trials. And James is saying, count it all joy. When you look at that. Now when he's doing this, he's saying, you know, just smile and You know, put on a grin and say, Hallelujah, turn the thumbscrew a little tighter, you know, feels good, you know, praise Jesus. I love to go through the suffering. That's not what he's saying at all Why is it then he says, counted all join? Interesting how he refers in that command. Three things to notice that he says there. Counted all pure joy or in the Greek all joy. I mean he emphasized it because this is pure joy if you realize what's going on now How can he say that? How dare he say that, if he were to really understand what you're going through Notice also that he says that this is a trial that you fall into. Where it says there, consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds. Verse 2. The word there face, literally in the Greek, is the word fall into. It pictures you walking along somewhere, and all of a sudden it's like there's a trap. It's like uh, you know, there's uh one of those traps to catch lions and tigers, you know, you just sort of there this all leaves and branches, you know, and all of a sudden you slip right through and you fall into a trial. Something comes upon you unaware It's an accident or some bad news or something that hits you like a blow right in the face. You fall into that trial. This is not something that's gradually unfolded necessarily from your own doing. It's something that seems to be totally apart from your control. Why is this happening to me? What did I do to deserve this? Why am I suffering this now? Something you fall into. And you notice what he says there, it's trials of many kinds. Literally, the Greek there for many kinds means many colored. Whether referring to the red-hot affliction of persecution or the icy cold blue of despair. All kinds of colors of trials that are in our lives. And James says, as you think of these things, I want you to rejoice. Now, while that may seem almost insensitive, it teaches us the very first principle of counseling from the book of James, which is absolutely vital. And that is, when I'm going through a problem, I don't really ultimately need somebody to sympathize with me. I need a different perspective. And that's exactly what James gives us. James, with a profound pastoral heart, says, I want to give you a different perspective on what you're going through. And so he does that by making us curious. Now consider it pure joy when you go through these many colored trials that you've fallen into apparently through no fault of your own. Jesus I want to give you a different perspective on this that will enable you to rejoice. What's he going to be able to say that will give us that kind of perspective? Well, he's going to take us beyond our own perspective. He's going to take us beyond our own small world and our own hurts. And he wants to open up to us what God is doing in this situation. That's what I need. Not all of it is simply a supportive word for well-wishing I need some concrete realities. I need somebody that's going to say this is in fact what's happening And I can realize that that's not just the power of positive thinking. It's not just looking at the silver lining on the cloud. It's saying, here's something that I hadn't seen And it's true, it's real. And the reality of that gives me a whole different perspective on what I'm going through. Notice the word that he uses there Trial. Consider it pure joy, my brothers, when you face trials of many times. The word there trial is a word which is the same word temptation. And that's the beginning of the new perspective he wants to give us. The word that he uses can equally be translated trial or temptation. And which way you translate it simply depends on your perspective. From God's point of view, the difficulties of suffering and sorrow that Tom read to us about Are simply God's way of strengthening our faith. Satan wants to take precisely the same circumstances and experiences as temptations to weaken our faith. Same circumstance, same experience, from one perspective God's, it's a trial to strengthen. From Satan's perspective, he uses it as a temptation to weaken. Abraham is given the promise of God that he'll have a seed. And he waits year after year after year, and the promise doesn't come to pass. And he gets more and more discouraged. And Satan wants to use that testing as a temptation to have him give up on God's promise and to try his own way with Hagar or other circumstances. God wants to use it to strengthen Abraham's faith so that he becomes, in the annals of the church, the man of faith who trusted God through years of unfulfillment. Or you take Joseph. Joseph is thrown into a pit by his brothers, and Saul was a slave into Egypt. And Satan wants to use that circumstance as a temptation to disparage Joel so that his life will be worthless in the kingdom. God uses the same circumstance to strengthen Joseph's faith, to fit him, to become a man who God will use to save all of Egypt and God's own covenant people as well in times of famine ahead. Well, you take Caleb. And Caleb goes through the wilderness, and with Joshua, Caleb comes back and he says to God's people, let's go up into the land and let's take it. But the people rebel And if the people are judged with forty years of cursing in the wilderness, so is Caleb. And Caleb could say, Why am I having to put up with this? Has God forgotten me? And Satan wants to use that to tempt Caleb. So that he'll give up on God and say, see, it doesn't really matter. It doesn't it's not worth it to trust in God. Just suffer along with the unbelievers anyway But God wants to use that to form and tale of the character of a man who in his old age is still conquering mountains and is able to pass on an inheritance of faith to his children. Or you take David. And God calls him out of the sheepfolds and he says, I've anointed you to be king over my people. And then for fifteen to twenty years he's chased and hoarded through the wilderness by the king who refuses to give up his throne, the throne that God himself has abandoned. And Satan wants to use that to discourage and tempt David, that he'll give up on God's faithfulness. And you see the struggles of it again and again and again in the psalms of those youth. Psalms which are to this day among the richest heritage for us when we go through struggles in our own lives. But God wants to use that not only to give us that heritage. But to form in David the character of a shepherd of his own people, one who trusts God and who is after God's own heart It says the same circumstance can be used either for temptation to weaken our faith or as a trial to strengthen it. And James said, I want to give you a perspective that will help you to see this from God's point of view, not simply to see it from God from your point of view tempted to see it as something which is in fact very miserable and very difficult to endure. And so here's saying this, giving us the command, he goes on to the reasons And the reason that you can rejoice is basically when you sum this up, when you see God's purpose, when you see God's work in you through it. Now we're going to look at the reason that he gives in verses 3 to 8 this morning, and then we're going to expand that on to verse 12 next week, and then we're going to back up and pick up a couple of particular things. The reason, basically, that you and I can rejoice in the difficult things that we go through is when we see what God is doing in all of that. When we realize that our trials are not arbitrary. When you realize that they're not something that comes upon you just by chance That you know, don't see any difference, don't see any why or reason, don't see any sense to this. But you start off realizing that God is doing something in you And that's what he says in verse 3. You see, verse 3 begins because. And James is saying here, I want to give you some inside kingdom information now. This is information that he says is not for public dissemination, you see. It's not something that the world can understand. In fact, they have no claim to it. But James says, I want to give you some inside information on what God's doing in your life. You can rejoice and count it all joy in whatever you're going through because you know. That the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Now, we don't prize perseverance in our day very much, do we? It's a day in which we encounter quick changes, quick solutions, whether by medication, whether by instant answers, self-help books TV shows, we are attuned to the immediate. And because of that, we're a people who find it hard to persevere in something And God says, I need to train you to persevere in your faith. Because the Lord says, I know that every time life knocks you down, you got a choice. You can pick yourself up and you can say, that's it, I've had it. Enough of this business of Christianity and following Jesus for the joy and the peace of those. It doesn't work. You know, it's I've been sold a bill of goods that is a deception. And my life is laid better than my neighbors, and he lives just the way he wants to live He lives totally autonomously. And forget it, I'm abandoning the way of Jesus. Or he can say, despite how I feel, like much afraid. Story that Tom just read is. And you can say, Lord Jesus, I choose through my tears to believe that your promises are still true. And when I choose to believe you, regardless of my feelings and my strength has just become stronger, just like when you break a bone and it heals, the place where it heals has a stronger joint, has more potential, is stronger than before it was broken. Because now your faith is resting less on experience and more on Jesus Christ. And so God says he wants to teach us perseverance. But that perseverance isn't an end in itself. He doesn't want it just to teach us to hang on for the sake of hanging on. But look at verse 4. Perseverance, basically, is saying here now has a purpose. It must finish its work. So that, what is that work? You might be mature and complete. Not lacking anything. But you might be mature and complete The word is the word which speaks of mature fruit. It speaks of something which is ripe. It speaks of a finished product. Where everything has been done to it, and it's perfect. There it is. It sits before you the finished vase or the finished fruit, and it's ready now for its use. It lacks nothing. That's what he said. The problem is that you and I lack a few things, don't we? We look at maturity, we look at Christ-likeness, we look at the full image of what it means to be like Jesus Christ, and we say There's a few things lacking in my life. And what James is saying to you is that God loves you so much that like a tender father, he wants to go to a lot of work and a lot of effort to get rid of those lacks. He wants to move those lacks out of your life, to make you a finished product, to make you mature and complete so that you lack nothing. And in these verses, he gives us two clues to what God's agenda is. First of all, he says that our trials reveal our lack of wisdom. Notice, I think oftentimes we hear people quote verse 5 and abuse it. I don't think that we totally abuse it. But I do think we misuse verse five. How many of you have heard people you know they'll say, well, you know, I gotta decide whether I should take a a job in Detroit or whether I should take a job in Philadelphia and you know I got uh these different options and God says if we like wisdom we should ask of him and he'll give it to us. And so if I want guidance, I will pray that God will give me guidance because James 1. 5 promises it I think that that is included, but I think that's a very superficial understanding of verse 5. Look at the context and the link with verse 4. Verse 4 he finishes saying to be mature and complete, not lacking anything. Verse 5, give any of you what? Lax. Wisdom. Same word, you see. Lax. James is saying, look, your life's moving along. You don't have a whole lot of regard for wisdom. You know, you just want to enjoy things. But then all of a sudden, God does something. And it brings you up short. And all of a sudden, you realize that you're lacking something that you didn't even realize you were lacking before. You realize that you're lacking wisdom. God's perspective on life. This isn't just a verse to talk about guidance and which among alternatives to choose The wisdom James is talking about here is God's whole perspective on life that has only attained to a certain amount of trial and suffering. You see, wisdom, you mark this down now, keep this in mind through the series, wisdom is the key word in the book of James. What's the key word for Paul? Faith. What's the key word for Peter? Hope. What's the key word for John? Love What's the key word for James? Wisdom. And James is saying, we don't value wisdom like we need to value it. We don't value wisdom because we're like people, who J. I. Packer says in Knowing God, who are walking along a path on a bright sunny day. And someone offers to give us their hand to guide us. And impatiently we shake off that hand because I can see where I'm going. I don't need any direction, thank you And so that brings darkness and he brings storm. In order to remind us that we really don't know where we're going And then we grasp for that friendly hand. And we say, I need that guidance. I need that wisdom. I need that perspective. I can't just move along for my own understanding of what's going to make me happy. Now I need a new perspective. And so I eagerly reach for that hand. Spiritual truths, I think, are like stars. You can't see them when it's bright and sunny. There must be a certain amount of darkness in order to see them shine out. And the darker it gets, the more you can see. We look up into the sky and we may see a few thousand on a good night in Columbia. Get out into a desert where it's really garden And you'll see up to 10,000 stars with the naked eye. But it must be dark to notice them. They're there. You just don't notice them because of the light. You need darkness to see certain things. And God says that he uses his trials like a sheepdog to bring us back to the home. And so these trials make us aware of our need for wisdom. They reveal that we lack wisdom. I didn't know that I lacked wisdom until all of a sudden God brought this trial into my life. I was reading just this week of a man who was the head of the boat industry, a large uh company, and he was doing very well. And if you'd asked him uh about his quiet times, he'd say, I don't have very much time for quiet times. Ten minutes a day is all that I can squeeze in. And then he went backwards He filed chapter 11 and everything was taken away. And he said, all of a sudden, my quiet time zoomed up to an hour a day without any problem whatsoever. And he began to seek God for wisdom. All of a sudden his perspectives and his priorities changed, and he sought God and he pleaded to him. And God rescued him. He's back in business and he praises God for what he has done. But he learned wisdom through the experience. Sometimes the Lord needs to do the same thing with us. There's a second thing that he says the trials reveal a lack of in our life. That's told to us in verses 6 to 8. A lack of single-minded faith. James says the trial reveals to you that you lack wisdom. And so you go to God. We're going to talk about that more in another week, going to God for wisdom. But he says, you go to God and you seek him for wisdom, and I promise that he'll give it to you. But, verse 6, when he asks, he who doubts When he asked, he must believe and not doubt. Because he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind. That man should not think that he'll receive anything from the Lord. He's a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. And so as I go to God for my wisdom, all of a sudden I realize I can't even really believe God Because I'm so used to mixing those sources that I go to. A little bit of the Word of God, plus a little bit of materialism, and a little bit of glamour, and a little bit of self-help, and a little bit of the world's philosophy here, and I've become eclectic. In where I go for my security, where I go for my wisdom. And so when I come to God seeking that wisdom I find that I'm confused and I do sort of want it, but I'm not sure I really want it because maybe I won't work what he gives me. Maybe I won't work what he reveals to me. Maybe I'm not willing to change joy and peace for sorrow and suffering. Maybe I'm not willing to go all that way. And so Dave Joe James, who's talking here? James says, in that situation You've got to realize that you're unstable. And trials have an interesting way of revealing that. More people come to me in their life who are unstable, and it was evident before, but God brings them to a point where they come to the end of themselves And all of a sudden the instability begins to come into line. And all of a sudden, through the hurt, their lives begin to stabilize Because the Lord has revealed that the places that you went for your security were not simply to God. And so you're double-minded, two souls. Again, we'll look at that later. But God has removed that because of the trials. Trials are designed to reveal your instability and to purge away the false securities. As David said in Psalm 119, verse 67, before I was afflicted, I went astray. See here's a path, and he says, I followed that path somewhat, but I was going always astray from that path, always moving away from it. But he says, now I obey your word. Since I was afflicted, now I walk straight down the path. Verse 71: It was good for me to be afflicted, so that I might learn your decrees. Why do we rejoice in difficulties? Because trials give us a new perspective on life. And how do you get that? By seeing Jesus. Why is it that you either come to value completeness or maturity and don't want to last? There's only one reason, brother and sister. It's because you've come to look at Jesus. And if you spend time with Jesus, you see how wonderful His character is. You see how wonderful His wisdom is, His love, His patience, His tenderness. And as you come to worship and adore him the way he is, you see him as perfect and complete, mature, lacking nothing. And you say, oh, if I could be like you, Lord, how it would please you. Oh, Lord, how I love you and how I want to be like you. You're so attractive to me. If you come to the place where you say, Lord, I want to be like you, and he says, How much do you want to be like me? And you say, Lord, at any cost, I want to be like you. And then all of a sudden you realize that the way of Charlotte suffered was precisely the way that Jesus himself was made mature. He said, wait a minute. He was always mature and complete. Oh yes? Turn to Hebrews chapter 5. In Hebrews chapter 5, verses 8 and 9 We see something very interesting in the light of James 1 and verse 4. In Hebrews chapter 5, verse 8 We read that although he, Jesus, although he was a son, he learned obedience from what? From what he suffered. Jesus learned obedience, and he learned it through suffering. And then notice verse 9, and once made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation for all who obeyed him. You see that word that the two words, one, made, perfect. Those words are the exact same Greek word as in James 1. 4, mature. It's the same word, the same thing that God is doing in you and me. He did in Jesus. Jesus was made complete. As he grew, Luke tells us, he grew in wisdom. Not that he was sinful, but he grew in wisdom and learning obedience till he was complete. And because he was complete, he was eligible. To die on the cross as a substitute for your sin and for my sin, so that he would become the author of eternal salvation. Hebrews 5:9 says, for us who obey him. And so your sin is forgiven. But that eternal salvation that you and I have is a salvation in which there is no more trial. Because Jesus was made complete. He was eligible by his death to give us a salvation where we will never again, once we go to be with him, have any more trial, sorrow, or suffering. Where we will be perfect in our wisdom, and where we will be totally single-minded in our devotion to Him And so the final completion of what James is talking about here is when we go to be with Jesus. But because we have that guarantee We're also guaranteed to be on the way now. For them to begin to do that work in this life I would encourage you to take the back of the bulletin. And if you want to apply this to your life, to take and go through That exercise to gain some inside information on God's ways in your life. Number one, make a list of some ways that you are lacking in Christ's likeness. Number of ways? Can you think of any? All hands, you know? Couple, two, three, four, ten, twelve, you know, any. Just jot down a few of the most obvious ones that occur to you Do that alone at home. Then secondly, underline two or three that you think are the most important to God. I really hope you do this. And I this occurred to me at a quiet time that I was having on this, and it really helped me. And so don't just sort of file this away, you know. This is an exercise to do, not just to hear about. Underline a couple. That you think by God's word are his priorities. Then number three, take. What kinds of trials might produce these positive qualities that you lack? In other words, if you were a loving Father God, what might you do? to mature somebody like you. Reverse the roles. Put yourself the best you can for a moment in God's position by His word. What would you do to you? Now having done that for a little bit, a little creative thinking, then number four, do you happen to see any relationship between your answer to number three And the trials that you are actually experiencing now? Number five, if you do, give thanks. That's verse 2. Why? You see, because you've just gained some more insight into God's purpose for those trials in your life Rejoice then, and cooperate with his purpose. And begin by paraphrasing verses 2 to 5 for your own specific situation. Writing out how you can rejoice and cooperate with God's purpose in your life. A man who understood these principles was John Newton, and I thank Tom for calling this poem to my attention in Packer's book, Knowing God. And he sums up what we're talking about here in this little poem that he wrote. I asked the Lord that I might grow in faith and love and every grace. Might more of his salvation know, and seek more earnestly his faith I hoped that in some favored hour at once he'd answer my request, and by his love's constraining power subdue my sins and give me rest. Instead of this, he made me feel the hidden evils of my heart, and let the angry powers of hell assault my soul in every part Yea, more with his own hand he seemed intent to aggravate my woe, cross all the fair designs I schemed, blasted my gourds, and laid me low. Lord, why is this? I trembling cry. Wilt thou pursue thy world to death? 'Tis in this way, the Lord replied. I answered prayer for grace and faith. These inward trials I employ from self and pride to set thee free and break thy schemes of earthly joy. That thou mayest seek thy awe in thee. Thank you.