Last summer when my family and I were at Cape Cod, I was uh reading my Bible and meditating one day near the sea, when all of a sudden God hit me with an rather unpleasant revelation. That was when I had a problem with Ivan. That wasn't exactly the kind of thing I was looking for on my vacation, you know. I was looking for some uplifting thought that would make me feel good. But unfortunately what I was eating that day Different in between the eyes was the fact that I had a problem with anything. Uh just the day before Dean had kicked over my ice cream. Uh a rather brave offense with the cost of lemons on the gate. and all the rest and uh looking to that I can't and let's just say that I was disturbed at the incident. Uh do you still bear the stars, but you know, it was the kind of thing that reminded me again of other times. But I've lost my temper when my kids haven't met my standards. They haven't done what I thought they should do. Um maybe uh they're journey on me. For those of you who are the uninitiated, that means uh making fun. And uh I don't appreciate, you know, some of the things that go on a give and take, or maybe I share some brave suggestion for a family activity and somehow it's not appreciated with the degree that I think it ought to be. And all these things began to come back to me. And things that I show later. I get kicked off. And see that's the same thing about this always, that I don't look at myself as a person that gets kicked off very easily. I mean, everybody gets mad, right? There's reasons to get mad. And the reasons I get mad are good reasons. But to see, they are good engaged that day, but they aren't all quite as good as I thought that they were. As a matter of fact, I began to see that there are times that I get irritated and it really isn't excusable. I began to see that there are ways that I showed temper, particularly with my family, that were ways that were simply unexcusable. And I was rationalizing this sin. This was something I didn't think that I had a problem with. Yeah, I thought this was something other people had a problem. But that my anger was generally justified. But James changed that. You see, James has told us that God's doing work in us. to make us like Jesus. Remember? Verse 4. He's producing a maturing, a completeness in us. And he uses all kinds of things to do that. And he's shown us that God has revealed to us that our own hearts are evil. But then he says that God has done an amazing thing. Out of his goodness, the Lord has changed our hearts. Verse 17 and 18. He's given us a new heart. And that new heart produces change. Change. That's what the main theme of the book of James is, the behavior of belief, the change brought by the new birth. And the first example that James gets is the change of a new heart. It's the problem of a tempest, the problem of anger. So let's look at his words in James chapter 1, verses 19 to 21. Remember, this is God's word. Not simply James's advice, but God's own infallible words to us. Because, my dear brothers, take note of this. Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to Speech and slow to become angry. For man's anger does not bring about the righteous light that God desires. Therefore, get rid of all moral filth. the evil that is so prevalent, and humbly accept the word in fancy means which configured. Now this text very easily and obviously breaks down into three simple things. One-point perverse. Verse 19, a threefold command. Verse 20, the reason for the commands. And verse 21, the solution to the problem. And so if you're uh wanting to anticipate and go on your little breath is the threefold command, the reason and then the solution. But first of all the threefold command. You see it there in verse 92. Now this remedy says take note of this. Everyone can be first quick to listen, secondly slow to speak, and thirdly slow to become angry. They'll notice a couple of things about this. Firstly I'll notice the tone that he gives. This is very important because you see this throughout the age. as a counselor and it's important to notice his healing if he counsels us. Don't say you write with grief. Why isn't it if you get kicked off so easily? But whatever it comes to us realizing that we all have this problem. And so it comes to us as a brother. But he says, My dear brothers, take note of this. Jake doesn't get alongside of us and help us with this problem. That's very important because we we get rather defensive, don't we, when people talk to us about how we react. And so then he begins to give this command and notice words too. He says, everyone. Now what is everyone I think is significant because I find people who say, Well, you know, it's a matter of temperament. Yeah, I mean some people get angry and some don't, you know, every happen to be the kind of person to type with, you know. I mean that's my nature, it's my personality. And so I'm excused from the injunctions of scripture about quick temper or anger because that's the kind of person I am. little fella once who said that. He said that's just the way I am now. This guy was known for his bad temper. Well his worst is this guy was a salesman. He madness salesman or a Latin temperature. They just got to walk out of meetings, he'd insult customers. I had a real problem with it. But when he talked about that, he said, Well, I said, that's just the way I am and I've learned a little bit. Because he said, Fine, I'm a quick in my Bible, in James 1 nineteen, everyone after it except Henry should be quick. Listen slow to speak and slow to become angry. But that's what he was saying. I'm an exception. So less anyone that's going to crawl out from under this by saying, but that's what's heavily. He says, first of all, yeah, I was thinking uh of another example of this. Somebody here just recently mentioned that they had a friend to uh the same kind of thing, because you know, this is just my problem. And uh recently he was visited by his priests. And the priest called something in life. So he goes to priest God. Because God is all the time to learn like this. Yeah, he can go to a white, this guy's had a history of this again again and again. You know, getting in trouble because of a fifth The joke has to help us on this. The word how you built up to it. The first thing he said is be quick to listen. Be quick to listen. The word there means to be eager to listen. Meet someone, you're eager to hear them. You want to find out about them. You want more to hear about them than to impress them with you. You're eager, you're quick to listen to them. When you meet your friend and you haven't seen them for another few days. week, month. You want to find out how your friend is doing. You're more eager to listen to your friend, to find out his concerns, his interests, her desires, than you are to find to just tell them what's new in your life. You know, that's so rare. Yeah, I I could tell you I I I won't move you because there are people in this congregation and it's so rare to find somebody who's quick to listen and slow to speak. But there are some of you who in this congregation go to real mom And I won't read it because that would really embarrass you and the rest of you think, what about me? You know, and all that kind of stuff. The very few of you do are noteworthy examples to me of being quick to listen. But you know, it's so rare to find someone who's quick to listen. and so to speak, but often I feel like I take advantage of them, you know. Because you just sort of, you know, you go to that person and hear somebody who will listen and we just always want to talk. But you take advantage and you talk because it's so refreshing. to somebody to find somebody who's really a good listener. And what I have thought about preparing for this is those of you who I have thought about, who I see as really good listeners, quick to listen and slow to speak, to the underline correspondence with wisdom. You are also among the wisest people that I know. And I need to learn that in my own own life. To be quick to listen and slow to speak is one of the best ways to grow in Islam. We can learn diversity. Quick to listen, be slow to speak. That's the other side of it. Yeah, but for most of us, the universal if quick to speak, they're slow to listen. And here's somebody talking. And I'm just thinking if they talk about something, but what it reminds me that I can say to talk about myself. Yeah? Yeah. Doesn't identify like that? Good, let him know alone. Amen, you know, so people know that yeah, yeah, I'm not worried about it those days, you know. When you hear somebody talking things, yeah, very nice, I'll have my day talking about myself. I love to talk about myself. Well it's one of the days of my dog that I get to talk to you about the heck oh you gotta listen to the teacher. I get to talk. We love to talk, we love to talk about ourselves. But we're so reluctant to listen. We make such a difference in our relations. It's such an indication of my self-centeredness. But I am quick to speak and so to listen. And voice as the mark of a person who's been filled with the spirit is that he's quick to listen, so to speak. I love this guy. This guy would not be described as thick to listen, slow to speech. He would rather pick the speech and rather slow to listen. Dear Caliber friend, and I remember one time that we were talking on the phone, he called me, that's very important. understanding this. He called me and we talked one day. He was going on and I was talking about some things and um you know after about a half hour I said, uh, hey I gotta go. You know, my mom wants to use the phone. He said, Yeah, yeah, and he went on to another story on and on and on for another five, ten minutes, you know, and after all, I said, Hey really gotta go. My m my mother's getting kinda mad, she wants to go on the formula. I don't know if you kids ever had that with your parents, but you know I've really gotta go, yeah, yeah, tell another story, another five, ten minutes, you know. What is one person by? This doesn't just say person, one person. I just wanted to see how long it's been break the record, but he's all on and long and started to hate my mom basically gonna put us it, they gotta hang up. So I just did what I never done before, I just host the phone. Didn't have all. I walked it out and I hang some clothes out in the backyard, so I walked out in the backyard say, Hey mom, So she finished hanging up the clothes and she went inside, picked up the phone, she said, What's this? Yeah. To this day he doesn't know. And I don't know when he caught him for two fifteen minutes. What about my thoughts? How many times have I paused just for the sake of talking? So quick to speak and so slow to listen. The children's then takes it and he gives it to the climax and people thirdly, so they're quick to listen and slow to speak and slow to anger. There's a relationship. There is quick law. Express myself. Belling. Jesus, be quick to must be slow to speak. And then and that he can do it, yeah, slow to Adam. Be slow to Aiden. Well, notice that he does not say, don't ever be angry. He does not say, don't get angry. He doesn't say anger is a sin. No, that is not what he says. He says, be slow to become angry. Anger. Let your anger be controlled, anger. Soon this quick anger. Why? And that is us believe. That leads us to the reason. Verse 20. Verse 20 tells us why it is wrong to be put to anger. The reason is very simple, because four, verse twenty, man's anger does not bring about the righteous life that God desires. But some people misunderstand this verse and they again use that to say The anger is wrong because it doesn't bring about the righteous life that God desires. To help you understand it, we don't want to undermine the word man. That's the emphasis. Man's anger. Uncertified anger. My own reaction, man's anger, does not say about the righteous life that God possessed. In other words, just as the book of Proverbs says again and again and again, and then some of you, there's many other verses that talk about this, but the foolishness of a hate. Hasty, quick response. Don't say, you can just put it down as an axiom. Don't trust your initial reactions. Somebody gets you angry, don't trust your initial reaction to that situation. Because man's anger does not accomplish the righteous life that God desires. There's two reasons for that, because there's two kinds of wrong anger. The two kinds of wrong anger are two characteristics of sinful anger are first of all a wrong cause. Cause for anger. Wrong cause for anger. Selfishness. You see, oftentimes I'm just defending my rights. I just built my own way. And my pride was attacked or whatever else. My reputation or whatever. And so I need time to pray through and examine my motives for why I'm angry. Because at least he response is simply man's anger, it would be my anger, and that does not accomplish the righteous life that God deserves. I need to back off, I need to examine my motives for being angry. Because a selfish response is the role of cause, and that royal cause is sin. But that is not only the role of cause, there's also a role expression which could be sin. I might need and have a right reason, but if I express my anger in a wrong way, that's still simple. The two kinds of simple responses are to either blow up or to clam up. To uh just simply We act out of control, uh unhawfully, unhelpfully, truthfully, that does not accomplish the righteous life that God desires. Blow it up. A couple weeks ago uh in our house uh there was a little called. on the configurator door. It was an excellent little cartoon and uh that you'll get to see it in the August newsletter but uh won't involve that any further now. The only problem was that uh my wife ripped that cartoon out of one of my books. Now uh I saw that, I laughed at the cartoon, and then it dawned on me how that cartoon got there. And when that happened, then even though my anger might have been righteous because of the cause, I did not expect it very helpful. was and it was on a Sunday morning as I was heading over to the street, you know, uh and I well I'll tell you I was not very helpful in the way I expressed my anger at that preach because it was out of the book that I had to get read. Now of course my wife will say it was just a journal and she checked the other side and all that kind of thing. But no, we can debate that sometimes. Fact is, I did not express my auditory talk to him, right? You know that there's federal cards here again this week, so just I can share this My point on that is it did not help Catherine. You see, it the way I expressed that did not help her to see the gravity of picking up her husband's book. What it did was it simply produced tension in a relationship. You know, here's an error, we got a little boy, you know, and so there was kind of a reaction set in. And so but he was really trying to love her and help her. What would I reacted in that kind of way? You know, so obviously then I had to come back and speaking for forgiveness. But what we do I didn't get much of a chance to do that before I preached, which is always kind of a bad thing. But it was that kind of It is unhelpful. James says, you can put it down as axiomatic. And it does not help us to write this place inside the slaves. Just reacting, drawing up, or climbing up. Same kind of thing. Some people look like they're making all blow up clamor. But the clamoring up produces a resentment that seeks to punish the person in other ways. A sarcastic remark, a put down here. You're just punishing the person by withdrawing your spirit. Well there there's other ways that we can react unhealthy in our anger. And it will never produce righteousness in that other person. Well if there's righteousness it comes in in spite of our actions. And so it becomes a And problem is of course we're more interested in defending our rights than we are in helping the other person. And so what a contrast is this our anger hasty quick to what God's anger is like. Yeah, I hope you're going to hear it what Ken is reading in those verses. You see God's anger. He's characterized by being slow and steady. God's anger is that he's reluctant to be angry. God's never gets ticked off. Whatever responds with instant rage is a slow, darling, holy, perfect angle directed precisely at sin. It is an arrow of Perfect and perfectly controlled. Psalm seven speaks of God's anger being fixed against those who do wickedness. Uh, you see again and again it's telling where the slowness of his anger. Jesus Well we look uh in his article often we use the example of his uh looking the money changers, but then are those other examples. The first looking at the home when Jesus was killing the fellow who was laying and and the fabric and the Pharisees were all also watching. around and catch them and breaking the Sabbath so that they can indict him, you know. And before Jesus healed, we read in Mark three, that he looked at them with anger. He wasn't irritated. He wasn't ticked off at what they were doing. It was a soul of rage at their lack of compassion, at their legalistic nitpicking. It said it was a fixed point of anger, that was controlled. And what Jesus saying is be like your heavenly father. He's slow to anger. And his anger is controlled. And his anger is to accomplish righteousness. Because our own quick anger never does that. So how do we deal with it? That leads us to verse 1. twenty one, the solution. Verse twenty one is a rather surprising solution of fine. It's not the kind of thing that I would think the change would say. And if I were waiting this just from all I know, I think I would possibly say, you know, man's data does not think about the righteous life that God desires. So hold your anger. Well can it's hand, you know, something that'll help you to deal with that anger. See that verse 21 doesn't say anger. But it's safe. Other correction, verse 12 says, Therefore, get rid of all moral will and the evil which is so credible and humbly accept the word planted which can save you. And I think that instant save you there refers not to salvation, but it refers rather to which is able to save and preserve you in those instances when you're tempted to anger. It's the word planted in you. But there's two things that he says: one's negative and one's positive. Two commands. The negative command is basically saying, turn consuming your life. Beginning of the verse. Therefore, get rid of all moral guilt and the evil which is so heavily. The first word, moral guilt, is a word which means shabbiness. Get rid of the shabbiness in your life. The moral thorth, the primary for moral rate, that small little, Billy Graham said, the smallest man I ever saw was a man all wrapped up in the world. himself. And so get rid of that smallness of your thinking, that defending of my rights, my desires, my ways. The root, interestingly, of that word in the Greek means waxing. And so if there's that shabbiness, you see, that that kind of moral feel, then it's it's the kind of thing that blocks you from hearing. You're not receptive. You're not lacking your hearing. You can't hear the other person's needs. you gotta get all those those uh seal that that basic shabbiness of the moral filth of a of a uh soft-centeredness and what did he say to do with it? Provert it. Solarity uses it. Solarbit means to put off your clothes. It's the kind of idea that you see in Hebrews twelve and verse one where Hebrews says, Let's run off everything that hinders him, but sin that's so easily entangled, so we can run the race unhindered. So it's a word which really emphasizes the will. That's why I'm at how you feel about it. Put it off. Put off that sin. But what's he what what the supposed man is here, he doesn't say he was angered. He says You would with the prominent sins in your life. That's the second part of it. And the prevalent sin. And that uh sin, that evil which is so prevalent. Or another way I would speak this is life-dominating sins. You know that thing is has a hold of your life. Now if you think about that thing, it's kind of an interesting count to look at me. You go to James and you say, hey James, I've got a problem with temper. And I I realized James that I'm getting ticked off too easily with my family. I I got this problem where I reacted and I realized that it's simple. What should I do to overcome this anger? James says, Well what's the most dominating sin in your life? What is it that's really got a hold of you, that's keeping you? From following Jesus as your Lord. Well hey James, what that got to do. Jesus, no, I don't know what I mean. Just tell me what is it? We find out what is it that you know about holidays. James says now he did it. You'll find a new candle that will come into your life. If you let go of that thing that you're grasping, that light that you're protecting, that idol that you're hanging on to, if you deal with that, So new required and new gentleness will come into your life. Because that will put you in a position of being able to humbly receive the word of Sand of Amen. And that's part of yourself. That's the second plan of the verse. Humbly receive. Humbly act. accept the word that's just planted in you. But it encourages just in that the fact that the word has been planted in you, you see? He said you've got a new birth. Now I now I liked him to no life to to the birth implanted into us. It's implanted in your life. It's part of you. It's able to preserve you. But therefore what you need to do is that you need to repent of that sin which is dominating your values and and producing those reactions. And James says as you begin to then be honest before the Lord to lay before him those things that are dominating your own agenda for how you want to live, what you want to protect. James says you will be able to receive that word. You will be able to receive it. And what will it do? You see the word will control what you get angry at. You begin to let this word, as you study it each day, as you meditate on it, as it's valid. So you begin to meditate on this word so that it becomes incarnate in your thinking, transforming your values. But you will find that this word controls what you get angry at. Because you'll begin to take on God's values. It will not only control what you get angry at, it will control the rate at which you get angry. Because you will begin to take on something of the character of Christ as he begins to work in you. And he will take it with control also how you express that anger. And so you look at this word, and in this word you see Jesus. And if you see Jesus, you receive him. And maybe you've never received him. But for the first thing for you is to receive the word. incarnate before you receive this word written. This word penalty points you to Jesus, who is re-worded, who's come to save you, to take your sin, to pay that penalty so you can have new life. And if you look at that Jesus And if you receive him, you say, But Lord, this person's violating my rights. And Jesus says, What rights could I have that weren't violated? And you chase him. Would you fall more in love with him? And you say, But Lord, does this person really expect me just to forgive them? Not after what they've done? How could they be like that? The Lord Jesus says, Is there anything that I haven't forgiven you of? Think of what you've done against me. Think of how you've violated my word and disappointed and grieved me time after time and all your own way. And I died. And I've heard none of that against you. I've given you freely my forgiveness. Every single sin. The person's just so stupid. It is really irritating. But nobody can just not respond to that kind of aggravation. Jesus says, when did you ever see me irritated at my display? See they wanted the stiffest lunch in the world, you know. But only do you ever see Jesus irritated? Angry? Yes. Because there is a difference between irritation and anger. A fixed focus. the anger is controlled against evil. Irritation is my response because I am bothered. The anger is fixed based on righteousness. Irritation is based on my And so as I receive the word and planted in me and see Jesus, I begin to understand that Jesus is not only my mom, he's my neighbor. He comes into my life, implanted in my life by the Holy Spirit, to enable me to control, to control me, so that my reactions are not the hasty reactions of sinful anger. But I have no reputation to defend, no possessions to protect, no rights to maintain, I have no reason to be quick on the draw. My anger can be controlled. None of us will attend to that perfectly in this life. But the Lord says that as you deal with the sins that dominate your life, and you bring them before the Lord Jesus and you confess them, then you humbly It's not as if you've learned it all and you've arrived, but humbly receive, accept that word which reveals Jesus to you. Charles Spurgeon. And Charles Spurgeon testified that through his life that the things that often produced the greatest godliness in him And his greatest food, where his enemies, where they criticize him, maybe even unfairly. So often he said God would use that to produce in him greater godliness and to learn his sins. was a fellow who was a neighbor of his. He was a Reverend Wells. Reverend Wells is a kind of a fellow who apparently was rather jealous of Spurgeon's reputation. Wells apparently was a Bible believing pastor, but he wrote publicly in a magazine at one point that he questioned whether Spurgeon was even a Christian. Kind of funny for us to read in this day, Spurgeon who brought thousands to Christ, of a fellow who kind of a competitor down the street, you know, with a large congregation who questioned whether Surphan was even a Christian. Hopefully the two of them met on the street. Whoever was had a large building with Sony Tabernacle. But yet Spurgeon, have you ever seen the inside of Sarah Cabinet? And Spurgeon humbly simply said, No, I haven't, but I'd be glad for you to show me around. And Ralph's response was, Maybe if you come around some Monday, I'll show you through and there'll be enough time to revelated before the Sunday services. How did you respond to that kind of a put down? I'm glad he didn't say it today, I'll say it. I hate to think of what I'm going to say, but Spurgeon was a man who was controlled by the word. Even he doesn't know it. And I always remember his response as I read. Spirit has said, Have you ever seen the inside of Metropolitan Tabernacle? Metropolitan Tabernacle is a large, grandiose place that has been built by his congregation to accommodate five. thousand people that came to hear of every Sunday. The other one said, yes, as a matter of fact, I did stop in there on a Saturday, a few weeks ago, and he named to me. The servant said, Ah, that accounts for the sweet fragrance that we enjoyed the next Saturday. that they want to worship. Yes. Following all of us defend ourselves and justify Our anger which is so hurtful. It so often does nothing else but give us a momentary sense of relief and gratification. We put that person in their place, we punished them. We vindicated ourselves. But Lord, that's not your way. How glad we are that that's not your way. For as Martin Luther said that he was God and the world had treated him the way it treated you, he had kicked the wretched thing to pieces. Lord, if your anger was like our anger, we have long ago kicked us to pieces. But your anger is controlled. Not only is it controlled, but Lord, your anger for us has been overcome. By your grace and your love in Jesus Christ. We pray that each one of us here might know that grace, that love, that delight is available in you. We pray, Father, for those of us who have a problem of being irritated. and responding, reacting with quick temper, particularly when we justify it, rationalize it. It should help those, we should pause Lord in a way that I can never do those words of genes to burn into our lives. But they need to be helped. We would see, Lord, the way out of that. So put your finger on that dominating sin in us which is causing us to want to protect ourselves. Those sins which cause us to react the way we do. That if we repent of those, Lord, that you would give us grace to humbly receive and accept your word that shows us Jesus. As we see Jesus, Lord, that I become more like Jesus. That I give up our rights and those things which we protect. We might love those people that you cause inner accident so much. But we want to help them rather than punish them. But we remember that our anger never produces the righteous life which you desire. Lord, we know that only your Holy Spirit can change us to do this. Be submitted and seek for His control through Jesus Christ.