Thanksgiving is a time when you think of going home, isn't it? Some of you can go home and some of you can't go home. But at least all of us can go over the Potuxent River and down 29 to our grandmother congregation on Thursday morning, the 10 o'clock uh Thanksgiving service And I hope that uh we'll take advantage of that. One of the highlights I find of that service is when people from all generations stand up And they will talk about the blessings of God and the things that they are thankful for over the past year And yet, in that kind of a testimony service, which I enjoy deeply every Thanksgiving, and others that we hear at Thanksgiving time, I'm reminded that when somebody asks me What is it that you're thankful for? The thing that most immediately occurs to me are things that immediately occur to me are in the areas of prayers that were answered this past year. Or material blessings, or things that made me happy over the past year. And as we get older, appreciating our health But rarely is the first thing that comes to my mind the spiritual blessings that I have in Jesus Christ. Those are the things that we add on after we've thought of the first things that immediately come to mind and say, Oh yes, and you know I'm really thankful for all that I have in Christ. And so the problem with that kind of thanksgiving is what if you're a little thin on circumstantial blessings this year? I think of a column that was in Ann Landers column when she had it. Uh it was a you know a number of times she would reprint things that had meant a lot to people. And this was a little item on Thanksgiving. And it points out I think the problem that I'm getting at. Now you see I appreciate as I get old my health, but I also have to use glasses to read these little columns anymore, so bear with me Today on a bus I saw a lovely girl with golden hair. I envied her. She seemed so young. I wished I were half as fair. When suddenly she rose to leave, I saw her hobble down the aisle. She had one leg and used a crutch. As she passed, she flashed a smile Oh God, forgive me when I whine. I have two legs. The world is mine. And when I stopped to buy some sweets, the lad who sold them had such charm. I talked with him. He seemed so glad. If I were late, it would do no harm. And as I left he said to me, I thank you. You've been so kind. You see, he added, I am blind. Oh God, forgive me when I whine. I have two eyes, the world is mine, with legs to take me where I want to go, with eyes to see the sunset glow. O God, forgive me when I whine. I'm blessed indeed. The world is mine. I don't know about you, but the question of immediately occurs to me when I read that is, what if you lost your eyes? What if you lost the leg? Would that then mean you don't have anything to give thanks for? Is your thanksgiving dependent on the fact that you've got two eyes and somebody else is blind? You've got more than they've got. That you can compare yourself in your circumstances and come out better. I think of the song by the British rock group Depeche Mud in which they make fun of a girl who came to know Jesus Christ and then was in in an accident and ended up on a life support machine And they mock God. In fact the song's called Blasphemous Rumors, in which they mock God and say that I think that God's got a sick sense of humor. And when I die I expect to find him laughing Is that the kind of God that we thank and give praise to? And so we have to make excuses when our circumstances don't wind up uh in the way that will give us a lot to be thankful for. What's the bottom line of our Thanksgiving? Even as Christians, I think When we look around the world and we look at the things that we have been thankful for, we can get increasingly nervous about how stable those things are. We look at the economy, and we're thankful for our material blessings. look a little nervously at the stock market and wonder how long that will continue. For we say as Christians, I'm thankful that I, because of the lifestyle as a Christian that I lead, I will not be very likely to to get cancer because of smoking or other things, you know, and then you read reports that say, ah, but you don't know, radon gas may be leaking into your basement right now, equivalent to two packs a day, and you may die of cancer anyway. He'd say, Well, at least I won't get AIDS because I don't live that kind of lifestyle and we say, Uh, we don't know all the ways that you can get AIDS and in the years to come it may be that we'll find more Christians dying of AIDS through some one of kind of contact. And of course there's the nuclear threat that hangs over all of us. And so as we give thanks, what's the bottom line of our thanksgiving? Now I'm not trying to discourage your weak, you see, and say, Hey, I came in here kinda up and now, you know, I feel like crawling out on my hands and knees, you know. But what I want to do is I want to help us to see in the bottom line of Thanksgiving A deeper reason for us to be thankful that transcends our circumstances. And I think one of the best examples of that is found in Colossians chapter 1. Where Paul gives to us his reason for being thankful and commends that to us. Now in Colossians one, I you know I don't want to shake your categories too much. You know, James every week I you know the context, and so you sort of just move on to the next verse. Well We haven't been doing much in Colossians lately, and so I need to remind you that the context of this in chapter one is that Paul has been urging on these Christians, beginning in verse nine uh the kind of knowledge of God that leads to a fruitfulness of life. And then he goes right on from that in the same sentence to talk about in verse eleven The kind of powerful endurance that comes from that sort of life, that is able to live above circumstances. Then after those three verses, he spends the next three verses, 12 to 14, talking about thanksgiving. And here his focus is on what God has done for us. And so after three verses talking about the Christian life, he climaxes that with three whole verses talking about what we can do That sentence, I will remind you, is two hundred and eighteen words long in the Greek. I'm not even going to preach the sentence. I'm only going to preach one tiny portion of the sentence. verses twelve to fourteen. But so we can just get even this portion of the sentence in mind. Let's begin at verse nine and notice how he leads up to Thanksgiving and then we'll focus on verses twelve to fourteen. Colossians chapter 1, beginning with verse 9. Paul says, For this reason, since the day that we heard about you, we have not stopped praying for you. And asking God to fill you with the knowledge of His will through all spiritual wisdom and understanding. And we pray this in order that you may live a life worthy of the Lord. It may please him in every way, bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might, so that you may have great endurance and patience. And joyfully giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of light. For he has rescued us from the domain of darkness, and has brought us into the kingdom of the Son He loves, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. And we see in these three verses I suggest that the bottom line of our thanksgiving is a gratitude not for our present circumstances but rather for a new citizenship, a new status, and a new relationship. Now, this is a pauline sentence to end all Pauline sentences as I've said, and even these three verses are complex enough. So I pondered for a long time. How can I in a half hour try to help to simplify the thoughts in these three verses verses so that they'll be meaningful to you if they're new to you or if you haven't looked at them for a while. And I thought probably the best way to try to do that For us to notice that there are three kinds of language that Paul uses here, three images that he uses to communicate the reason for our thanksgiving to God. And those three kinds of languages are the three points. And so you notice the first is kingdom language. First of all, Paul uses kingdom language. Fill that in on your little outline there. Kingdom language in verses twelve and thirteen. He talks about the kingdom of life. You notice in verse twelve. He says, We give thanks to the Father who's qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of life. light. Literally, in the Greek it's saying that you will share in the uh that you share in the inheritance of the saints in light. But the word kingdom is implied in that Because it's in contrast to the kingdom of darkness in verse thirteen. And then of course when you think of inheritance that he talks about there in verse twelve Well, to a Jew Old Testament background, the inheritance of God was always primarily focused on the land or the kingdom of God And so there's good reason for the NIV translators to insert the word kingdom there. It's the kingdom of light that he's talking about. But now why light? Why the kingdom of light? What is that meant to communicate to you and to me so that we can We can give thanks. Think about it for a minute and see that this kingdom is described in its essence by light. For instance, in this kingdom, the radiance of the one who is light Transfuses and uh envelops all those who walk in this kingdom We are constantly being in this kingdom suffused by the radiance of the one who is light. And it's a sparkling, brilliant light that makes all that we see to glow in its beauty. It's a scintillating radiance of His Majesty. Light is also used in the Bible to refer to knowledge. And so in this kingdom, there is perfect knowledge. Your curiosity will be fully satisfied in this kingdom. There will never be any debates among Christians saying, is it this theory or is it that theory? Which hypothesis is correct? Because our knowledge will be full and yet growing. Our curiosity will be fully satisfied about the world that we live in, about the nature That God has given to us and about God Himself as much as creatures can understand. And so it's a it's a kingdom of perfect knowledge. It's a kingdom also in which the brilliance of the divine image becomes perfectly reflected in every stainless heart in that kingdom. There is a purity in the light that reflects the purity of our consciences. Do you realize that in heaven we will never again confess our sins? Sins, but there will be no more sin. There will be only the purity of every deed and thought and word, like a pure light, like a laser beam in its purity. There will be nothing dark, nothing to pollute it. It's a kingdom of absolute purity in its light. And this is in contrast, Paul says, to the domain of darkness. You see there in verse thirteen. He says, He's qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in this kingdom of darkness. Light, for he's rescued us, you see there, verse thirteen, from the kingdom or the domain, or literally in the Greek, the authority of darkness. Now, what is this authority of darkness? You see the contrast that he's using there, light versus darkness. And the darkness speaks of life, the kingdom in which a person lives before they came to Christ or without Christ. It's the kingdom of Satan. It's a kingdom that you and I were in. And it's a kingdom that I'm sad to say that in a gathering of this size that some of you are still in. If you have not given your life to Jesus Christ. Christ. You're in that authority of darkness. Now, why does Paul describe life without Christ as a domain or authority of darkness? Because I think he wants us to understand that that kingdom is a kingdom best described by being a kingdom of everlasting light and utter aloneness. There's nothing like darkness to make you feel alone, is there? To feel isolated It's a kingdom of desperate isolation. It's a kingdom in which there is no sense of fellowship In which there is no sense of camaraderie with anyone else. How utterly foolish are those people that say Well I don't mind going to hell, all the rest of my friends are there. Thomas Merton said that those in hell cast each other away from them in their utter darkness, because each other only reminds them of their own repulsive. And so it's a kingdom of utter isolation. Darkness also brings terror. You ever been as a little kid? Out in the dark? Maybe even in your own backyard, let alone the woods and everything seems to be menacing. You're afraid of the unseen enemy and terror. can strike your heart. One of our kids said that after reading The Hobbit and visiting grandma's house, she would be sleeping in the bed upstairs and she'd be assured that one of the trolls was about to creep out from behind the door and get her. And that's the nature of darkness, isn't it? There's always the fear of an unseen enemy lurking about It can be the terror that drives people mad. Some people can be simply put into darkness, and that in itself is enough to reduce them to utter madness. And darkness brings terror upon us. The darkness is a darkness of ignorance. It's a darkness which uh disorients us And so Paul's speaking about this darkness of despair and disorientation, uh a darkness that's so dismal that you want to die, but you can't You ever uh experienced what's called cabin fever, especially up in Syracuse we would experience this kind of thing in the north and you might go for a week or ten days when There's nothing but clouds and rain or snow and you can't get out and then all of a sudden there's a clear sunny day And everybody, even if they weren't talking before, they can't even stay enemies. You know, they gotta talk, they gotta share in the tremendous euphoria of seeing light after darkness. That kind of cabin fever is nothing. Paul says, compared to the kingdom of darkness, in contrast to the kingdom of light. And so he's saying, Be thankful, because Jesus Christ is rescued, Father here through Christ. has rescued you from that kingdom of darkness and he's brought you into a kingdom of light. But it's not only a kingdom of light, but the third image in that light there is that it's the kingdom of his son. excuse me, that the third image of the uh kingdom is the is the kingdom of his son. And that's the one time he explicitly uses the word kingdom. You see there in verse thirteen, he's brought us out of this authority of darkness into the kingdom of his own son. whom he loves. You see, it's not just a kingdom of light, but it's a kingdom of love. You and I were like orphans that were standing outside of a house on a cold dark night. And we look into that house and we see a family there gathered around the fireplace. And that family seems to to us epitomize everything that we don't have. There's love, there's sharing, there's a clear sense of belonging, though they seem to be having such fun together. And we're left out. Paul's saying here, you who are left out in the darkness. He's brought in. See that image? He's brought you in, it says, to the kingdom of the Son, literally of his love. NIV says the son whom he loves. Literally in the Greek it's the kingdom of the Son of his love. What a beautiful picture you see Through Jesus Christ you are brought inside to the family, and the family not only of light, but the family in which there is that closest possible relationship with the Father, who's brought you into the kingdom of the Son. So he uses kingdom language in order to communicate to you and to me the utter uh radical transformation of our existence and of our thinking from one kingdom to another kingdom And Paul says that is so marvelous that regardless of your circumstances, no matter how rich or poor, or the state of your health, or whatever is straining your life Whatever fears that you have now, Paul says, you look at that reality and you joyfully give thanks. That's truth. That is reality. And because of that reality, you have reason for joyful thanksgiving. But there's more. For Paul also uses here redemption language. That's the second point. Redemption language. He speaks here of the fact that we are redeemed. You notice in verse 13 he says we give thanks because he has rescued us. From the dominion of darkness. And then in verse 14, he says, How has he rescued us? In whom we have, you see, for us this kingdom of the Son whom he loves, in whom we have redemption. And then he adds on to that the forgiveness of sins. And so the rescuing that Paul's referring to there is a rescuing by redemption. We have been rescued by redemption. Now that's a word that's familiar to us within the Christian community. Redemption, redeemed. I'm so glad that I've been redeemed. You know, we hear that word redeemed again and again. And yet I think it's one of the more unfamiliar terms to it. What does it mean to be redeemed? Literally, redemption. And I uh I did some checking back into this to see how the word had been used in the Old Testament. And the word redemption was used primarily of a voluntary act of a near relative. generally involving a payment to rescue someone who they love from the bondage of debt or to a hostile power. Redemption generally refers to the voluntary act of a close loving relative made generally involving in payment For the one that they loved, who was in bondage of debt or to some hostile power. Now, what's Paul doing with that image? It's a there's a lot of kind of uh redemption going on in the Old Testament. There's a lot of pictures of it, but it generally involves what I've described, and I don't have time to check out some of the particular instances, use a conclusion For yourself to do that. But Paul here you see is saying, you've been rescued. You've been rescued from this domain of utter darkness. And you've been rescued by redemption. Now, what does this rescue refer to? Well, it's the same idea that you have back in Exodus 6. You remember when Israel was in bondage to Egypt? In that bondage, God, when he came down to Moses, said in Exodus chapter six, God said, I have heard the groaning of my people, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I have remembered my covenant. Therefore, God says, say to the Israelites, I am Jehovah, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with a mighty act of judgment. I will take you as my own people, and I will be your God. Did you pick it up there? God says the nature of what I'm going to do and bring you bringing you out can be described Now why is the Exodus called redemption. Why is it throughout the Old Testament considered to be the arch picture of redemption But think how the Exodus was accomplished. All those acts of judgment did not in fact release the Israelites until the angel of death passed over all of Egypt. And slew the firstborn of Egypt. But why were God's people's firstborn not slain? Because of the Passover lamb. And because of the Passover Lamb, the blood of the Israelites was not shed, because the blood of the Passover Lamb was shed. And God makes very clear that that blood of that Lamb redeemed Israel. It freed them from their bondage and it purchased their life so that the angel of death passed over them. And it's because of that Passover lamb that Israel was redeemed out of their bondage. And so when they're brought out, and God gives them the law, he spells out the nature of that Passover lamb through a number of Levitical sections. sacrifices in which you have a picture of the blood purchasing a clear conscience and freedom. And so that is redemption. That's why Paul says here, you see, he's rescued you. He's brought you out from the bondage of Egypt. He's brought you out from your slavery He's brought you out from that authority of darkness, and he's brought you into the kingdom. He's brought you into Canaan. He's brought you into the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption. Why Because Jesus is the Passover Lamb. He's the one whose blood is of infinite value and is able to redeem us. Because you see, he's the one who purchases the forgiveness of our sin. And that's why he says, In whom you have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Why does he add that on? What's this picture How does rescuing and redemption and forgiveness tie together? Well, because you see, redemption is out of a hostile power, the domain of darkness, under one in whom you are in debt and can't pay your way out. And the word forgiveness there refers to the paying of a debt. And so you and I, as we've looked at James's accusations of us, have looked at our sins and we've seen, as I see my sin, that it's higher than the national debt. There's no way that I can pay off that debt to God. God says, I've sent my son, Jesus. And the blood of Jesus, which is of infinite value Has been the redemption payment made for you and for me if you claim that payment for your own And that becomes for you and for me a sufficient payment to cancel the debt of our sins. And so you and I go free this morning. You and I, because we have the very righteousness of Jesus, have a redemption in which there is full forgiveness of our sins. And God Himself holds nothing against you. Whatever you've done this week, whatever you've done in the past month, whatever you've done in all of your life, if you bring it to Jesus Christ, he will take the blood of Jesus Jesus Christ and he will apply it to that debt and it will redeem you. It will purchase your freedom. It will cancel the debt and all of its obligations. Do you see why Paul says here, that you and I joyfully give thanks. Thanks to the Barthes, whatever your circumstance, whatever strains and worries that you've got, Paul says you can joyfully give thanks to small Because your debt's been canceled. You've been redeemed and you've been purchased from that kingdom and brought into the kingdom of his son. Then he finally says, there's even more For he uses finally here adoption language. Adoption language, you see on the back. Adoption language. Because he says in verse 12, that you and I joyfully give thanks to The Father who's done this. The Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the same And then in verse 13, this is the Father brings you into the kingdom of the Son whom he loves. Again, the father-son relationship, and you and I share in that sonship. with him. And so you and I have not only been redeemed, brought out of debt and bondage, and brought into freedom But like Mel like Mephibosheth, you and I have been invited to sit forever at the king's table as his own sons. And so we call him Father. Paul says here, when you give thanks this week, don't forget who you're thanking. You aren't like the world that in some vague, impersonal way says we need to be grateful because it's good for us. Rather you joyfully thank your Father, who has qualified you to share in this inheritance. Now what does he mean by that? Roman law talked about adoption as involving two processes. There was a negative process and a positive process. Both were needed to qualify you to be adopted and to share in the inheritance. The negative process was the destruction of the paternal relationship of the former father. And through a ceremony, that relationship would be destroyed once and for all. It would destroy that former father's claims upon you. You would no longer be responsible for any debts or obligations of that family and that father. You are now freed from being under his authority And you no longer owed any obedience to him. That was the negative side of adoption. And so you see clearly what Paul's implying by that. You've been delivered, rescued. From the authority of darkness. But there was a positive side to that too. And the positive side was to establish the paternal relationship of the new father with you. And by doing this, through this ceremony, all of his inheritance, all of the assets of his estate now were co-owned by you and him jointly. All of those assets were at your disposal under his authority. That was Roman law. And that's what Paul's appealing to here. He's saying he has qualified you that you will share in the inheritance of all the saints in this kingdom of life You notice he's done it. There's nothing that you do. Nothing that you contribute. Nothing you've got to work up. Nothing that you've got to examine this week and say, have I earned being in God's favor this week? Have I earned his smile so that I can be in fellowship with him? Paul doesn't bring any of that in You see, the first three verses are talking about growing as Christian. But then in verses 12 to 14, it's all referring to what he has done. He has qualified you. He's conducted the ceremony that destroyed the former paternal relationship. He's brought you into the sonship of his own family and given to you his estate. He's qualified you. He's rescued you. He's brought you. Do you see that? You see why we can rejoice. Look how you're rejoicing a whole lot out there, you know? Can we see how we can rejoice in that? Amen. Amen. He's qualified us. I mean that's something to get excited about. We don't have to do it. It's a present reality. Do you see that? It's something that you and I have. He has qualified us. He has rescued us. He has brought us. We have this in our present possession. All that's left is to wait the full experiential delivery of that estate. So Paul says, if you understand If you understand that he has brought you in to the kingdom of the Son of His own love. And if you understand that when He brought you into that kingdom, it wasn't to give you a second hand love For again, as I've reminded you before, one of my favorite verses in all of the Bible is John 17, 23. A verse that I've always got to look at. I had to look it up again this week just to make sure it really said what I thought it said, because it's so amazing. That I never can believe it really is saying that. For it's that place that Jesus says, Father, I pray that the world will know that you love them Talking about us, his people, even as you love me. Jesus is saying there that God who has brought you into the Son of His life in the kingdom of the Son of His life. Loves you as much as he loves the eternal Son of Jesus. I can never speak that without feeling shivers and realizing the truth. Such a statement. He's brought you into the kingdom of the Son of Israel. And the love that he has for you is as great as the love that he has for his own son. Sinners like you and like me. A couple of weeks ago one of you made a very insightful comment going out of uh the auditorium here. And you said at the end that after I had preached a couple of weeks on James and had talked about our dirty hands and divided heart and our weeping and mourning and wailing over our sins But you really identify that. But then when I talked about Jesus lifting us up, said that was a little harder for you to experience and to enter into. And I said Yeah, that's absolutely true, because we know from our own experience how rotten we are. But we take by faith our inheritance in Christ We have to take by faith that He could really love us that much, that He's really transferred us into that kingdom, that He has really given to us that full and free redemption. From the bondage of our death and the freedom from that hostile kingdom of Satan, and that he's brought us into the kingdom of the Son of His own love, and his love for us is as great as his love for Jesus Himself. See, this is not inspiring religious language. I'm afraid that so often we can hear these kinds of truths and put them in that car category. But brothers and sisters in Christ, this is hard This is what we actually have. It is more enduring and it is more real than the cars we drive and the houses that we live in. You and I will still be beginning to experience the depth of the riches of what we have in Jesus. Let's Oh Lord our God. Lord forbid it that there could be anyone here who would hear these words and know something of that tremendous love and grace. And mercy that you offer. Say, I don't need that. I'd rather stand on my own. I'd rather not have to be thankful to someone else But I want to earn my own way. Lord, we pray that you would awaken such a person from the authority of darkness. That you would show them the desperate isolation, that you would show them the terrors of hell that are encompassed in such a choice. And Lord, we pray that every one of us here might have that hope of the kingdom and the redemption and the adoption. That is ours through Jesus. And that the reality of that, not just inspiring language, but that the hard-headed reality of that Would so grip us that as we joyfully give thanks to you this week, that the first thing that would leap to our minds Is the riches that you have qualified for us to share in. The rescuing that you have done. And the bringing us into the kingdom of the Son of your love. That you have given to us freely in Jesus. Give us eyes to see it, Lord. I can't do it. Lord, you give us eyes to see it See that in Jesus' name. Amen.