Jake, remember, is a very practical book. We saw that in chapter one. You saw how he speaks with about topics such as discouragement, temptation, and um about uh temper, things that we need to come at risk with in our own lives. And he continues that practical vein right through the book. And as he begins chapter two, the subject of the first half of that chapter, verses one to thirteen is the subject of favoritism, partiality. The uh matter of running after the guy who's got the new Mercedes with the little windshield right with on the headlights, you know. And uh we ignoring the guy who comes in to worship who has a beat up old pinto. Uh sorry Glenn, no uh something personal there. Uh in fact we have uh thought about there's a number of people with beat up beat up pintos around here but uh But it's that idea of going after somebody who looks like they have something to offer to us or that we want to be seen associating with. And James, in dealing with this subject, begins He gives five reasons in these thirteen verses why that's wrong. And over those five reasons next week. But he begins this subject by saying that it is totally inconsistent with the glory of God. Jesus. Now you see how he says that if you look at James chapter 2 in verse 1. It's easy to miss it. But notice what he says. My brothers, as believers, there are glorious Lord Jesus Christ, don't show favoritism. Or literally, you could translate that if you were to follow closer to the order and words of the Greek. favoritism as you hold faith in our Lord Jesus Christ who is the glory. Or our Lord Jesus Christ of the glory. NID says, of our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. But the emphasis there in the word order is an unusual word order. In fact, commentators debate why in the world James use this word order. But literally it's of the Lord Jesus Christ, of the glory. The Lord Jesus Christ. Christ who is the glory. And so the emphasis on this verse is on the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's showing how inconsistent it is to hold a faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Who is the glory and yet practice favoritism? And why is that? Well, I believe that it's especially appropriate for us to be able to look at that this morning because it focuses us the beginning of of our fall time, right after vacation, our first time back with you, you are beholding together the glory of the Lord Jesus. And so let's look at that. What does it mean? What does it mean to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. What does it mean when we talk about the glory of the Lord? We talk about that so much. We get don't we have a kind of a vague, gazy notion of what glory is? What does it mean? And talking a little bit about that this morning. The glory of God is really God as He's revealed to us. The glory of God is God as He's revealed to us. There is no Glory without a perceiver. It's kind of an amazing thing to think, but you know, God would not have glory if there were not creatures to perceive that glory. Because the word glory has to do with one's reputation and appeal. appearance among others. And so God would have all of his perfection, but there has to be something to perceive that perfection, to perceive his reputation, his appearance, his revelation in order to to give glory, because to give glory means to acknowledge a person's reputation. We agree. So glory is how God shows Himself to us. When we glorify God then, we are acknowledging Three things about him. The three things we're acknowledging are the three things that that word pictures. Remember, we've told you many times that the Hebrew language is a picture language, it's a language that takes abstract context. And it puts them in concrete pictures. God's very gracious to us that way. So that children can get a handle on the deep truths of what God is and what He's done for us. And so this word glory really speaks. speaks to us about three pictures. And each of those pictures give us a concept of what glory is. The first picture, you've got to fill them in just to make sure you're listening there. The first picture that you can fill in on that first line is Glory means weight. That's W-A-E-I-G-H-T. Glory means weight. The Hebrew word literally means heavy, something which is heavy. And it has, therefore, the idea. Of honor, somewhere that you don't take lightly, a heavily. Psalm 96 says, declare his glory among the nations. And then the next verse says, He's to be feared above all gods. So you declare his gl In fact, verses seven and eight then go on to say, to ascribe to him glory. Says it twice, and then verse nine says, Tremble before him, all the earth. So this God is a God who is a heavy weight. He is a God who has honor, who must be recognized for his honor and not taken lightly. The second picture that is involved here is that of light. Growing means also light. Now that's light as opposed to darkness, not as opposed to heaven, obviously. It speaks of that which you think of when you uh have ever seen the rays of the sun As they come through the clouds after the rain, have you ever seen that, you know, when the clouds just begin to park and perhaps it's coming on towards sunset, and all of a sudden you see these majestic rays of the sun coming through those clouds. And all you think of is majesty. But that's the picture of glory that's communicated in this. It's a light that's unapproachable. Well uh doctors say that if you look directly at the sun for seven seconds or more, it'll begin to burn the retinas of your eyeball. And my wife claims that she can look at the sun for 20 seconds and not burn her eyeballs, but I still say that I'm not going to risk it. You look at the sun, it begins to burn through you. But the kind of glory, uncreated glory like the Scripture speaks out here, is a light that would consume us while we could be in its presence for an instant, unshielded. As creatures we would be consumed by this glory, by this light. Isaiah chapter sixty speaks of The nature of this light of God's glory. It says there, Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord rises upon you. Speaking of the glory of the Lord like a sunrise. See darkness covers the earth. Thick darkness is open. peoples. But the Lord Himself rises upon you, and his glory appears over you, so that the nations come to your light and to the brightness of your dawn. So glory is like a sunrise. It's an utter approachable light. Then the third picture that the scripture gives us of glory is that of a cloud. Of a cloud. Now not a gloomy polluting cloud, but a radiant cloud. The idea here is that as you look at a cloud, you see something. But even though you see something, what you see is intangible. You can never get your hands on a cloud, you know, you try to hug a cloud, you don't have much there. an alkaline that looks very substantial but you can't really get your hands on. And so the cloud was the single God used of his presence among his people. Because at the one and the same time he could see that cloud, but the cloud also hid what God was like. So it communicated both these ideas of revelation and hiddenness. You can see. There's God. You can see the cloud. But what's God like? Well it can't see because the cloud hides his Majesty, it hides his glory. And so there's that sense pictured in the cloud of his presence with his people, which that reveals and yet. In Exodus chapter 24, we have a picture of what this kind of uh Revelation means. In Exodus chapter 24, when Moses goes up to Mount Sinai to speak to the Lord. We read there in verse 15, and when Moses went up on the mountain, the cloud covered it. And the glory of the Lord settled on Mount Sinai. That's the glory revealed in the cloud. For six days the cloud covered the mountain. And on the seventh day the Lord called to Moses from within the cloud. To the Israelites, the glory of the Lord looked like a consumer. fire on top of the mountain. See there's the idea of cloud and light communicated in his glory. And then Moses entered the cloud and he went to as he went to the mountain and he stood on the mountain thirty days and forty nights. presency and glory to this people. And so what I want to do now is to briefly take you through scriptures for us to get a feel for glory. They see there's a lot of scriptures there and people that have looked at this outline in advance and sort of wondered how they're ever going to through this thing this morning. And I don't want you to be intimidated by all those scripture references. They'll think this is going to be a lecture on glory. What those are four is so that you could on your own, perhaps this week or sometime, maybe choose to do your own quiet time, your own studies on the subject of glory. I'm just going to touch upon some of these themes and I don't expect you to look these things up now. We're just going to get a feel for glory. I want you to get a drift of the progression of what glory is. So that when we look at James two one and then review that next week, that you'll have some feel what James means, why he says, You can't hold the faith in the Lord of glory and practice favoritism. You just can't do it. Those two things are utterly incompatible. We need to get a feel for that. And that's what I want to do is give you a feel for that as we go through scripture this morning. Now I could have started back at the beginning, but for our purposes to start at Exodus is good enough. Let's start with Exodus. And see the development of the glory of the Lord in his word. But in Exodus, you have, of course, God redeeming himself by redeeming his people. And so his honor, his majesty, and his presence. are revealed through redeeming, through calling his people out from bondage to himself. And in Exodus chapter 14, God specifically left this with his glory. And he says there, I'm going to give glory to myself from Pharaoh. When I judge Egypt. And all the nations are going to see essentially what that passage is saying is that you can't take me lightly. I said, Let my people go. Pharaoh says, Who are you? Who's Jehovah? Blah blah. I'm not going to listen. All of a sudden there's clouds all over the place and lights and darkness and every cows are dying and everything's going on you know wrong and finally the first bird of every family is killed and all of their army is drowned in the sea. And it's the lesson. Fair says me. You don't take that God lightly. Yeah, when you speak, you better lesson. The God surpassed my glory so that the nations will see that when I speak, I'm to be taken seriously. I'm to be given honor and recognition. But then on the other side of that, God blows his people out and with them, he revealed himself to a cloud. A cloud of presence. God claimed you remember it was a a cloud, a radiant cloud in the daytime that went before them, and then at night. At nighttime, it was a pillar of fire. And Numbers 9:15 tells us that was the one and the same cloud. Numbers 9:15 simply tells us that that cloud in the daytime appeared radiant, and at nighttime the same cloud appeared as fire. God is showing his presence to his people. He's saying, I am calling you to myself. I'm going to divide a land for you, and I myself will dwell with you. But so they don't think that they can just close up to this God, who's like some other of the gods or Of Egypt and the other nations that they can sort of cuddle and put in their pockets, God holds himself from them in a cloud. In fact, then he then commands for the tabernacle to be built, and that's the second stage you see here in your bulletin outline. Then he commands the tabernacle And then the temple, you see that cloud become an unapproachable cloud. Do you remember that in Ezekiel in Exodus chapter 40, when the temple of the tabernacle there is uh completed Read in verse 34 that the cloud covered the tent of meeting. It's called the tent of meeting because God meets with his people, and his presence is evidenced by that cloud. The cloud covered the tent of meeting. That's the same cloud that went before them, leading them. out of Egypt. Now it is positioned in a particular place where the Ark of God is, symbolizing a covenant with his people. That cloud now comes down upon the temple that upon the tabernacle, and the glory of the Lord builds the tabernacle. Moses couldn't enter the Ted of Meeting because the cloud had settled upon it and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. This God is unapproachable in his holiness and in his majesty. You're consumed if you go to the And so this God is showing that while I come in nearness and in graciousness to my people, don't take for granted my newness. And that's a glorious nearness, and it's an unapproachable cloud. And then I went The temple is built. You had that statement of the unapproachable cloud, the Shekinah glory that comes upon us. In fact, when the first author's were made, you have a record of this in Leviticus chapter 9, the glory appeared. God would show in a once more, unique way that I accept these offerings. And what happened to the offering? Leviticus nine tells us the glory of the Lord came and a fire went out and consumed the offerings directly. Hey, imagine being there. You know, you offer this meat and you spit on the altar and all of a sudden this fire comes from heaven and consumes the whole thing. Well you see God there is saying again, I accept your offering, but I'm not a God to close you up to, to take for granted, to take lightly. You must recognize my majesty and my holiness and my honor in my presence. But Israel didn't do that, did they? Until the generations, Israel broke the covenant, and again and again they gribly presumed upon the presence of the Lord. God. They were superstitious about his presence and they thought the carrying the ark would help them to win battles. And they thought that they could have a pocket-sized God that they could use in emergencies. And many of us speak literally about having Jesus in our lives, you know. I talked to a fellow once about his relationship with Jesus and he said in a kind of a cheap way, it's nice to have Jesus, you know, because it's so helpful when you're in trouble. But it kind of a prophesy of God that we keep for emergencies. And God was saying to Israel, that's not who I am. Because I'm the God of glory. I'm the God that you don't take lightly. I'm the God of majesty. And my presence is a presence which is both revealed and hidden. It's so majestic. And so again and again God will His people through his prophets. Don't take my presence lightly. It's a glorious presence. Don't presume upon me in the way you live. Because I am holy. You must be holy. It is revealed in And Israel presumed upon God. And so you finally come to that place in the Old Testament, the third stage, where his glory is removed. A terrible end. Pictured by Ezekiel. It's one of the major themes. Of the book of Ezekiel. In read that first chapter of Ezekiel sometime, you're going to get one of the most vivid pictures of glory that there is in all of the Bible. In Ezekiel chapter one, he speaks of creatures that he sees. And in Ezekiel Describes these creatures. And he says, after he goes through some descriptions of their glory, he begins to say, though above these glory, awesome creatures, there was a radiance. And that radiance, as Ezekiel says, is like when you look on a snowfield in the winter. a bright sunny day. Have you ever done that? You can't even look, can you? You look and you have to sweep because the radiance is so great that it looks like a thousand diamonds. And the teeth feel sprouting is like sparkling ice above these creatures. the radiance of their glory. There is a throne. And that throne looks like sparkling sapphire, radiant in its pure blueness, radiating majesty. Above that throne, so that you're clean, you look naked and you're looking way up beyond all the glory. Jesus says, I see beyond that a figure. And he says that figure was the figure of glory. Yet it's the failure. He says in verse 23. I saw for what appeared to be from his brainstorm what looked like glowing metal, as if full of fire. And from these down he looked like fire, and brilliant light surrounded him. The appearance of a rainbow in the clouds on a rainy day, so does the radiance about him. And this does the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. Struck. I was terrified. My mouth was stopped. I didn't glibly run up to that God and say, Jesus is there today. He said I was stunstruck before that God. And Ezekiel then takes. ten chapters to describe what it means to take that God lightly. Until it comes to chapter 10 and he says, And I saw the glory of the Lord depart from the temple. The Shekinah glory, the cloud simply removed itself from the temple that was no longer with his people in utter judgment. Then chapter 43 he says that there's hope. Because he says, God has promised the glory will return. prophet that picks up that theme. And Hebrew says, there's going to be a new temple. And in that new temple God says, I will be honored. And it's the same word in Hebrew for the word glory. And Hebeh says that the glory comes on that temple. Then the glory comes upon that which will symbolize God's very presence. As the eyes says, the very nations will be shaken with his glory. That's what you remember in the Haza in the uh Messiah Course. I will shake all nations with my glory. Haggai says when that glory comes, it will be so utterly overwhelming that the nations will shake in its presence. Then Jesus is born 400 years later. A son of the idiot. Son of a carpenter, born in an angel. And this one, he looks like anything but dog. He looks like no one which he would take very heavily. Uh, what happens when he's born? the angels come. So with the shepherds. From the shepherds, nobody did the alien at all. But the Bible tells us that upon his birth, what happened? The angels see this light, a glorious light. And it says that the glory of the light shown around the mouth. And what's their Him? Glory to God in the highest. Why? Because the one who is the fullness of His glory. The one who is not above all people to be taken lightly. The one who is in the express fullness of His personality. That's what Hebrews 1:3 says. Specifically, it says, He was the fullness of the radiance of his glory. John 1. 14 says that the word became flesh, and he fell among us, and we beheld his glory. glory as of the will only of God. This one is the very fullness of glory. And so when Jesus, among his disciples, wants them to get a glimpse of that, you remember what he does, he takes them up on the masses. And Jesus talks with Moses and Elijah And where does he speak to them? It's within a cloud. And that cloud is a radiant cloud. Do you remember that? And God says, This is my beloved son. Listen to him. Don't take him lightly. If you see a bad. That majesty, the fullness of glory, depicted as creatures can see it. And so Jesus is the fullness of glory. God says, You want to see my glory? Look at Jesus. For there you see glory. But then we come to the next stage, and a stage which is so amazing that I feel that I have to pause and speak of it in hushed tones. For it's so amazing that it doesn't make any sense. Because when Jesus, censing the hostility of the of the religious leaders of that day, mounting against him, begins to say again and again and again, John 12, John 13, John 17, F. He approaches his suffering, as he approaches his trial, as he approaches his crucifixion, he speaks of it as what? The hour of his glory. But you see, it doesn't make any sense. Because if you observe it and you look at the nature of that trial, you see that everything that glory is is utterly contradicted by Jesus' death. What is glory? growing his weight, symbolizing honor. And no one was more despised than Jesus and his death. They spit at him. And blindfolded they tell him, tell him, do this. Speeching, prophesy Christ. And he's despised. And they scourge him. And they take a crowd of thorns and they place it on him. And they give him a mocking purple road and they say, Hail, King of the Jews. Honor? No one is more despised. And glory means light. Glory is light symbolizing majesty. And what happens when Jesus is hung on the cross? He hands on the cross. Creation itself covers itself in darkness. And the sun is blotted out. This day becomes darkness rather than even. normal light. In so instead of light, there is utter darkness. And glory is a cloud symbolizing the presence of God. And what happened when Jesus died? But he died, he cried out on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Jesus is now abandoned. He who was in the very presence of God from all eternity. No comes from the praise where he who is the fullness of God becomes separated from the very presence of God. And so Jesus Himself is abandoned and forsaken and damned. God's presence. is utterly removed from it. That's glory. That is the hour of his glory. And we can't make any sense of that. The very read that Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 7 of 8 and 8. So this was a secret he was hidden from all the ages. A secret that nobody could understand. And as they crucified the Lord of glory It was so that you and God would receive glory. Can you imagine that? When Jesus came to deny and to say all of his glory, It was done so that you and I would receive glory. It was done so that this would be the ultimate revelation of the glory of God. For when he died, He was so that you and I could be glorified. Glory means great, symbolizing honor. But because Jesus has taken the curse that you and I have deserved, you and I become honored. as sons of God. Drawing means light, symbolizing Majesty. And because Jesus had died and risen in a resurrected body to promise that she and I have is We one day will be glorified and given glorified bodies to dwell eternally in light where there is no darkness. Because light, glory, symbolizes the cloud, which is the very presence of God. God, because Jesus died and rose. You and I will be glorified, and we will dwell in the very presence of God, with nothing in between, no clouds to hide in his famous, able to look upon his very glory and not be consumed. Because Jesus has fitted us, has fit us. That is the glory of God. The glory of God is so full that every creature ever made who is able to perceive self-consciously what is the nature of God will bow before Him, prostrating themselves. And say, Glory, glory, glory to this God. And what will that be? Peter tells us, 1 Peter 1:7, that that glory is going to be revealed when Jesus is revealed as he comes. again. He remembered that Jesus, when he told his disciples, and they asked, Well, when will these things be? He said, there's going to come a day when the Son of Man will come, and how is it going to come? In the clouds of heaven. The clouds symbolizing the very presence and radiance and glory of God. And he never put it before Pilate. The thing that he said that finally condemned him was that you will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds. And so when Jesus was risen and he went up from the disciples, how did he go up? Up in a cloud. And so we wait to see him come again. And we read Cremoration 1:7, the beginning of the service. And what does that say? The promise is about to be fulfilled. Jesus is coming in his glory with a cloud. He's coming. And so when he comes, all will sta will prostrate themselves before every creature in heaven and earth, below the earth, beyond the sea, all will come before his throne. And what will we say? Glory and honor and power be unto you. The recognition of his reputation, one of his majesties. The Revelation tells us in chapter fifteen that there are signs upon that glory which will come as a consuming fire upon his enemies, upon all that took him lightly. Upon all that says, I can take him or I can lead him. He's a nice option for those that choose to be religious. And God says, My glory will be revealed. Revelation chapter fifteen, and that glory will be out in the place that consume the earth. Not now simply drowning Pharaoh's army in the sea, but danging to hell those that take the God of creation lightly. But you and I can escape from that. Escape, because Jesus was sook as glory. Because Jesus gave that up. He gave it up to be despised, to come into darkness and to be damned. So that through him in acknowledging our need for him, he has The hope of glory. And that hope, the Revelation pictures in the last chapter, the Revelation chapter 21 and then 22, where we read of the New Jerusalem. And I'll I can't take the time to go through it now, but with that understanding of glory, take a look at the Lord. Look at it. And see that you see there a brilliance and a radiance. It's so brilliant, so radiant, you don't even need a sun. Now the light of God and his glory is all the radiance and the glory that's needed in the New Jerusalem. And it speaks of its brilliant In its radiance, and it says the glory of the nations will be brought in. For the nations will come and they will give all recognition to this God of glory. And so glorifying him needs to recognize His presence in honor and majesty. It is to give him his right place and praise. To say to glorify God means to you this week, to say in the bullet command, the final statement. It means for you, and it means for me to this week glorify him by giving him his proper weight in your life. What is the proper weight of Jesus in your life? What weight do you give to him if you make decisions? What weight do you give to Jesus' rule? What weight do you give to Jesus control and lordship of you if you think of the decisions, the values? the way you use your time, and the decisions that you'll make this week. What does it mean to live in the light of His presence? What does it mean to live in the sheer joy of the hope of your me being given glory. Glory in terms of God that is serves. Glory of those being given bodies that live in eternal life. Glory of the hope of the immediate presence of Jesus. Jesus Christ and all that needs. Remember that hope. The very final way, to link us the next week, if you think of glory, think how utterly inconderous it is to hold the Of the glorious Lord Jesus, and then to go one after the world's glory. How shabby to practice favoritism from the light of that glory. But when we see the glory of Jesus through It frees us from superficial judgments, from running after as fools those that have the glory and the riches in this world, and ignore those who are precious to God. May the Lord give us eyes. to see his glory this week. Lord, open our eyes. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. Lord I I I feel so low and in any ability to take passages that that need to be meditated upon. Passages that need for us to be quiet before you and just to think about you as we stay upon the words and Think of the tremendous glory that is given to us there. A glory given, glory renewed, and then by sheer sovereign grace, a glory given to us who didn't deserve it. Jesus besook that glory. Oh Lord, help us to see the glory that is yours now. So that as people who are hypnotized by that glory, who are held in trance, gazing upon him, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finish of our being, that we may be freed, again mesmerized to the glory of this world. Oh Lord, help us to see. The Lord of Lory. The Lord that there's any like you still taking me lightly, but taking them puriagogically taking or left at will with no consciousness. consequences. Renew the glory of the Lord, the avoiding. The avoiding of what that glory will be when it's revealed in the last day. But may we all here have that hope. The hope of your presence. Live in glorified bodies to be able to live in the light of that presence, to be free, to be able to sustain the presence of glory. To give you your right, honor, and majesty throughout all the ages. World without end. Amen.