Now we come to another landmark in the life of our church. The last message on the book of James Yeah. Now this is that's a mixed response if I ever heard it. Somebody up there clapping and somebody down here, aww How many messages do you think I have given on the book of James in the last uh however many months? How many would think more than twenty messages on James? Oh my uh how many think more than thirty messages on the book of James? Uh-huh. How many think more than forty messages on the book of James? I'm losing a few. How many think more than 50 messages on the book of James? Ah, down to a third or fourth. How many think more than 60 messages on the book of James? How many think more than seventy messages on the book of the How many think more than a hundred messages? Yeah, it's just keep doing it. They think that it's being dismissed or something. Well, uh this is actually the sixty first message. 61 messages in all on the book of James. And I'm not going to hast how many have been to all 61 messages, but you can get them on tape if you missed them. 61 messages, and we come to the last two verses of James Counsel to us this morning. In the context of what we've been considering the last couple of weeks, let me begin at the end of verse 16. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. Elijah was a man just like us. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain. And it did not rain on the land for three and a half years. And again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops. My brothers, if one of you should wander from the truth And someone should bring him back. Remember this whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way will save him from death and cover over a multitude of sins. I feel a need to pray as we begin this message. Let's pause for just a moment. Lord our God, I know that as I have thought about this and prepared this. It has occurred to me again and again that uh few things that James says run counter To the kind of thinking of our culture and of modern-day Christians, as these two verses. They will challenge some of us and they will cut right across the grain of our thinking. Holy Spirit, only you can make us teachable and open to you and to know the joy of going in the way that you would direct us. Help us to see that you are a good God who leads us in green pastures, and that your desire is to lead us in good ways of peace and joy. And to trust you, to follow your word. Speak to us this morning, we pray, whatever our need, in Jesus' name. Amen. I believe that in these last two verses we have the purpose of James' letter. Perhaps concealed, but I think apparent as we look at them closely. And I believe, as I just prayed, that there are a few more challenging things that James has said to us. Than what he says to us in these closing two verses. My brothers, he says, if one of you should wander from the truth and someone should bring him back, remember this. Whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way will save him from death and cover over a multitude of sins. And I want to consider three points from that. First of all, three questions. What is the problem that James is addressing here? Secondly, who cares about it? And then thirdly, what are the results? First of all, then what is the problem? That should not be point A there, but rather simply a self-deceived professing Christian in the body. The problem is a self-deceived professing Christian in the body of Christ. This is absolutely clear because James says in verse 19, My brothers, he's addressing Christians. If one of you. So he's talking about somebody who's in Columbia Presbyterian Church Somebody who's come before the elders, who's made profession of faith, who's part of our body. He's saying, one of you is whom I'm addressing now. And what's this person doing? Well, he says they have wandered from the truth. Probably without realizing it, or at least realizing the extent of it. Probably what he has in mind is that they are separating their faith from their works. He is separating his faith from his works. Case you're not noticing the bulletin, that's the next two blanks to fill in there. He's separating his faith from his works. He sees this is a person who, though he is wandering away from Christ, still sees himself as a Christian. And I've seen this uh again and again through the years. This person goes away from the fellowship, uh, and yet if you were to ask that person, though they have no part of the Christian community any anymore Are you still a Christian? They say, Oh yes, I'm a Christian. I have eternal life in Jesus. I just don't have anything to do with church anymore. And so this is a person who is separating his faith from his works, and James would say that he is self-deceived. You remember, James has used that phrase a number of times, and this is why I say that this speaks about the purpose of James' letter. Because I believe that that you could, in one way of looking at it, state the purpose of James' letter as to de-deceive us. Do you remember that's what we've talked about from time to time through the years here? It's to de-deceive us. It's to give us wisdom. And God's wisdom is his perspective on reality as opposed to our misperception about reality. And James has used that phrase a number of times. Don't be deceived. You remember back in chapter one. In verse 16, he was talking about how God does not tempt us. And he said, Don't be deceived, my dear brothers. God gives only perfect and good gifts. Do you remember down in 122 he said, don't merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. In 126 he had said That the person uh exc excuse me there, if anyone considers himself religious and doesn't keep a tight rein on his tongue, he deceives himself and his religion is worthless James gives a number of examples through his book of the possibility of deceiving ourselves concerning what it means to walk with Christ. And I've jotted down a couple of examples here from each chapter just to give you a kind of a sprinkling of samples. The first two I've just mentioned about deceiving ourselves concerning the application of Scripture, thinking We can grow in sanctification in our walk with Christ by simply knowing more rather than applying it. Or in thinking that an uncontrolled tongue is going to be a person who has a credible profession of faith. Or in chapter two. Do you remember he told us in verse fourteen, what good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith and has no deeds, can that faith save him? If he has no deeds, he's deceiving himself. That's what he says. Verse 26, remember. As the body without the spirit's dead, so faith without works is dead. He thinks he has a living faith. But he's deceiving himself. It's a dead faith Chapter 3, remember, he talks about deceiving ourselves and praising God and then cursing people who are made in God's image. And he says, You're deceiving yourself if you think that you can do that and that those two things are compatible. Goes right on after that and he says, if you uh say that you're wise, you say that you have a life that's following Jesus Christ. But in fact, you're filled with selfish ambition. He says you're deceiving yourself and you're denying the truth. Chapter 4, he talks about the person that's deceiving himself and his motives when he's praying. He thinks that he's praying for something God will give, but he says, You really don't know. Your motives are impure. You're deceiving yourself in that prayer And so he calls on us later on. He says, So wash your hands, you sinners. Purify your minds, you double-minded. You're deceiving yourself. Your mind's going one hand in this direction, another hand on that direction. And you're thinking that you're consistent, but you're deceiving yourself. Chapter 5, he said, those of you who are rich, living for yourselves and ignoring those who have needs around you, he says, you're deceiving yourself concerning the value of those riches. In fact, there will come a judgment upon you that will be intolerable for you to bear. And then he finishes up here, verse 19, My brothers, if one of you should wander from the truth And someone should bring him back. Remember, whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way. And do you notice those two ideas that are linked together? Wandering from the truth and the error of his way. And it's very significant that James has put those two ideas together Because you notice in that first blank there, way, the idea of way here does not refer to some abstract theological convictions But he's talking about practical doctrine in daily living. Some people think that doctrine is something that a person believes to be in good standing. But it doesn't really relate to how we live. You know, you take seminars and read how-to books to understand how to live. And in their minds, as Christians, doctrine and life are entirely separate. There's no relevance to the idea of the Trinity, of predestination, of sanctification and justification, and these concepts on how I live in my daily walk. And nothing could be further from the truth in Scripture, because James here links these two things together. He says the person who is wandering from the truth is in the error of his way. And that idea of way, in fact, the two ideas there are linked together in Jude chapter 11, or Jude verse 11. It's just a few pages, Irv. You might want to turn to that because very interesting. Jude says the same kind of thing, only it helps us to understand what's meant. In Jude 11, Jude's talking about people who are arrogant within the body of Christ. And he's talking about these people as utterly lost. And he describes them as people who are wandering from the truth and in the error of their way. But the way he says it, a little more specific. Jude says, verse 11 Woe to them, they have taken the way of Cain, same word as James, and they have rushed for profit into Balaam's error. Same word again that James uses. They have been destroyed in chorus rebellion. Now what's he talking about here? Well, you see, what binds Cain and Balaam together is that they were both characters who professed To be followers of the true God. And in both cases, they because of their greed denied what they knew to do. They knew better than they were doing. But because of greed and selfishness, they departed from the truth of God. And they walked in their own way. The idea of way in the scripture has to do with lifestyle, the way that you're living. And so Judas saying they were destroyed. King in terms of his worship because he was selfish in his worship and Balaam in terms of his service with God because of greed, being uh willing to curse want to curse God's people for pure money rather than to serve and to bless them. And so James is saying the same kind of thing here. He's saying, here's a person who's wandered from the way that they should be living, and that way has to do with what they believe and how it works out practically in their daily walk. And that leads to the second word there. You notice the word wander. I think that's very significant too in instructive force because the word wander teaches us in this that it's not something which is a sudden and that shouldn't be refection but rejection. Not a sudden rejection, but it's referring to a slow, subtle drifting. Little choices and little compromises. James says, my brother, if one of you should wander from the truth. You notice the way he puts that? Talking about wandering. Just little tiny choices. And in all these initial choices, what's interesting to me with these kinds of people who are part of the body is that you can never quote a verse that somehow says that you ought to do it this way rather than that way. Say here today that uh you know we're going to begin laugh groups again and we're going to get back into our learning and fellowship groups the second hour after our refreshments And we're inviting and encouraging you all to be part of a subcongregation where you can get to know people a little bit more and get some more Bible teaching and be able to grow in Christ in that way. And you say, well I want to get home. I don't think I want to hang around. And if, you know, scripture doesn't say anywhere that I should stay around for the second part of the Sunday morning activity And so uh there's nothing wrong with going home. I'll just go home and maybe I'll watch the Olympics or you know, read uh paper or something like this. Nothing wrong with that, is there? He'd say, well, you know, uh there's small groups too. Uh can't give you a verse, you know, that says that you have to come to a laugh group. We think it's consistent with the use of the Lord's day, but Um, you know, what can I do? You say, Well, you know, you have these small groups, they say, How about you get involved with a group of Christians that are studying and ministering to one another? praying for one another. Wanna get involved in that and grow with the Lord and he says, Well I I really don't have time for a small group right now. Kind of busy in my job and I'm doing some extra stuff and I have to take some continuing ed courses and the boss has asked me to work overtime and Well, this is just going to be a really busy fall. I don't think I can do it this time. And so little choices. After a while you notice that the TV programs you're watching Well, you know, it's you're not really pornography, but uh a little bit questionable. Certainly don't help you in your walk with the Lord and So you say, well, yeah, but you know, that's all that's on, and I'm just tired, want to watch something, and then you begin to notice that the videos you're renting even more questionable. And you're letting down your standards. And in each case, nobody can quote you a verse and say that that is absolutely wrong. You have violated following Jesus as Lord, but you're wandering. Just that wandering from the way. You begin to find that you're losing your appetite for spiritual things. Find that you're less regular to church. Find that more and more other activities, other interests are demanding your attention. You begin to find it You're indulging in little compromises at work. Little things you wouldn't have done before in your walk with Christ. Now you're overlooking or you're rationalizing and you're saying, Well, everybody does it this way, and you just have to do it You find if you have kids that your kids are getting unruly. And you're not as concerned to to raise them up to follow and trust Jesus. Family devotions have become a joke. You begin to wonder gradually what difference there is between you and your unbelieving neighbors. If anybody looked at the two of you, what difference would they see in terms of values, lifestyle, and convictions, except that occasionally you go to church? And I think that's exactly what James is talking about. You see? He's saying if somebody here is a brother. It's one of you, James says. And he says you've wandered bit by bit, inch by inch, choice by choice. Little compromise after little compromise, you've wandered from the way. You've wandered from the truth until you're in the error of your way. And that exactly, I think, is what James is talking about, and we see it all the time. There are some of you who are here right now this morning who may think that your love for Jesus Christ could never change. But unless you are involved and close to the body, you can so easily wander, choice by choice, out of that fellowship and that walk and that hunger for Jesus Christ. But then secondly, who cares? Who cares, James says. And this is what's so precious in these verses. Look what he says. My brothers, he says, if one of you is deceiving yourself and you're wandering choice by choice from the truth. You're in the error of your way, he says, and someone should bring him back. Remember this, James says, whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way. will save him from death and cover over a multitude of sins. You notice what he says? Someone. Who is it that brings him back? Someone should bring him back. Anyone, whoever, he says, turns a sinner. You see, he's not just saying that's the elders' job. Now, it is the elders' job to be concerned about this as pastors of this congregation. But we're aware of that, and we have to keep reminding ourselves of that, to not simply give our attention to those who clamor for attention or to those that are responding quite avidly for ministry. But to those who are slowly wandering. But yet James is saying here that that is the responsibility of every one of us within the body. He says that if someone, if anyone, whoever, and in doing that, James is hitting right head on the plague of American individualism. American individualism has two sides to its terrible menace. On the one hand, there is, as uh I call there, number one, the need For the body to care for one another, especially for the wanderers. We have to be careful that we don't succumb To the idea of our culture that says that we live and we let live and everybody is responsible for their own life. I find that Kind of philosophy growing. You hear more and more. Everyone's got to make their own choices. Everyone's responsible for what they do. I'm not responsible for you, nor you for me. And that's growing in its popularity. You know, uh we see our houses uh don't have uh any porches, uh and so Uh on the front door there's a bolt and there's a burglar alarm. And the motto of Columbia is don't knock and don't intrude. No solicitation, you know, and the whole idea is to isolate ourselves within our homes. I was reading recently of a fellow who delivered phone books up and down the street and he said he never learned more about American culture and was awakened than he did in that week trying to deliver phone books. Uh mothers would grab their kids out of the way as he walked down the street and put 'em into the backyard. They'd let the dogs out and snarling and snapping at them, you know, and the doors would go shut and He was uh stopped by the police uh asked what he was doing. Somebody called up to find out what he's doing, walking down the down the street during the daylight, you know, and and and there's this mentality that we have that says that we're going to isolate ourselves completely within our homes. And so we begin to think that way in terms of our own lives. And everybody is accountable to themselves and no one else. And so we're like uh Chuck Swindle says, we're like porcupines on a frigid wintry night. You know, as Christians, uh we're apart, but we we need to get warm. And so we get a little closer in order to try and draw some warmth of fellowship from our brothers and sisters, but as we do we find the quills begin to jab and prick, you know, and so then we get a little further apart, you know, then we get cold again and so we get a little back closer to c the fellowship again and then we get jabbed again and so there's a kind of a ritual dance, he says, of going apart and coming together of the Christian community, because we're afraid to get too close, and yet we know that we can't stay apart. It's sort of like that uh little uh couplet rhyme that says, uh to live above with saints we love, oh that will be grace and glory. But to live below with saints we know well that's a different story. That's the way we live. It reminds me of a uh story that James Dobson told. He was speaking a at a seminary one time He was talking about the caring for one another and part of the group in this seminary were five fellows that lived together in a house. One of those fellows was desperately hurting, wandering from the truth and in the error of his way, desperately lonely. fellow who was going away from the Lord. He became so desperate that finally one day he hanged himself in the basement. Do you know it was five days before they found his body? Because that's how long it took them to miss him? You talk about closeness of fellowship, and these are guys preparing for ministry, occupational pastoral ministry. How much caring and closeness do we have as a body at Columbia Presbyterian? Could someone wander right away from the Lord within our midst? We wouldn't even notice it. We just sort of let them go because that's, you know, don't want to intrude. That's their responsibility. But there's another side to this deadly plague of American individualism And it's the other side that I have in number two, the need for us to become involved in the body for our own protection. We all have this need, you see. uh to be involved so that there's somebody who knows that we're involved and therefore can care and notice when we begin to wander. Americans want to have their individualism so desperately that we do it even at the risk of our own spiritual protection. I would rather not be accountable to anyone else and risk the fact that I may wander from Jesus Christ with no one to care for me than to give up a little bit of that independence in order to be protected within the body. Chuck Coulson this summer in his uh prayer letter for prison fellowship reported this. He said, according to sociologist Robert Bella Eighty-one percent of Americans believe that an individual should arrive at his or her own religious belief independent of any church or synagogue. Over four out of five believe that whatever religious beliefs you arrive at should be independent from any church or synagogue teaching. Perhaps the key to the paradox is that those who claim to be Christians are arriving at faith on their own terms, terms that make no demands on behavior. When the not-so still or small voice of the self becomes the highest authority, religious belief undergoes a change so dramatic that it no longer involves commitment to any authority beyond one's self. The church is no longer regarded as a repository of truth, nor a source of moral authority, but merely a place to go for spiritual strokes. And so Colson talks about the radical individualism that is producing a new brand of Christianity in America And so James is saying you're deceiving yourself. If you think that you can live apart from the body, so that you can wander from the truth and not have anyone who's going to notice or care for you You and I need to put ourselves in that kind of a situation to be cared for. In Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17, we're commanded to submit to the elders. So that they can care for us because Hebrews tells us that it is their responsibility. He says, therefore Excuse me, Hebrews 13. It says the obey your leaders and submit to their authority because they keep watch over you as men who must give account. We try to take that seriously, a Columbia Presbyterian. We certainly don't do a perfect job, not nearly. But at least we know that verse is in the scripture. And we know that we have a responsibility to watch if someone's wandering, one is going away from Jesus, separating their faith from their works and deceiving themselves But you see, Hebrews goes beyond that because he says in chapter 10 that that's something for all of us to do. James says, someone, whoever. Hebrews chapter 10, verses 24 and 25 says, Let us now all consider how we may spur one another on toward love and good deeds. And let us all not give up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing. But let us encourage one another, and all the more as you see the day approaching. Not checking up on one another, not feeling like we've got to follow each other's little subcultural values. Attend all the meetings that each of us thinks are important. But to encourage one another in our walk with Jesus Christ. That's what James is talking about. Someone brings him back. The active, aggressive, going after and caring. He brings him back. And so he turns him from the error of his way. An aggressive caring and pursuit. of the person who's going away from Jesus. You know, the ironic thing is that within the Christian community, the person who goes away from Jesus Christ is precisely the kind of person we avoid. Because we think they're unspiritual. And we're spiritual. And if they're not going to bother anymore, well, too bad. They've gone away from the Lord. And so we tend to isolate ourselves from them and to ignore them. And that is precisely a violation in flat contradiction of what James is calling us to do. He says you see that person that turns you off because they're no longer committed. You say, hey, they're no longer pulling their weight. They're no longer part of us. They just go off and do other things. They're no longer part of the body. James says you don't ignore them. He says you go after them. Someone goes to bring them back. Someone goes to turn them. You're concerned for that person because they're part of the body. We need to get to know each other to do that. Having gotten to know each other, we dare never let that person wander away, even though it's very uncomfortable. Without trying to sound that note of warning to bring them back. And finally, then what are the results? He says in verse 20, that whenever this person then turns a sinner from the error of his way, he will save him from death. And cover a multitude of sins. Two ways he says it there. He says he will save him from death. Now, what kind of death does he have in view here? Well, you could be referring to physical death. Certainly the scripture teaches that that Ananias and Sapphire were judged with physical death for their disobedience turning from the Lord. Those that uh treated lightly and despised the Lord's Supper in 1 Corinthians were warned that they could be judged with physical death. But I think that it's clear that what James has in mind here in his emphasis is spiritual death. He's talking about spiritual death because a number of times that's what he's referred to in his book, about God's judgment, standing before God as judge. Particularly notice, for instance, in chapter one in verse fifteen, where James said, When desire our lusts have conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin when it's full grown gives birth to death. Death he's talking about there, of course, that wandering, that slow progression, is a spiritual death that is a separation from God and a standing under his judgment, an eternal separation from him. So James is saying here that if you're part of Columbia Presbyterian, then you begin to wander away and you say, I'm becoming disaffected from the body here. I don't get fed there anymore. I I don't really feel like I'm welcomed or accepted in that pe in among those people. I don't feel like I'm part of them. I don't really feel like I fit is what I often hear within the body. These people all seem like they have it together and they don't know how I don't. And of course none of these people that say that know how none of the rest of us have it together either. We just all look like we do a little better than some others. But they you know, you for various reasons you say, Well, I just don't fit there, but I'm still a Christian, I'm still following Christ. James says, Don't deceive yourself He says the person that brings you back has not saved you just from a lack of a little fellowship. He has saved you from death. The issue, brothers and sisters, is heaven and hell. It is the question of life and death, whether you continue within the body of Christ or not. Now, I am not saying that somebody cannot go outside of the body of Columbia Presbyterian Church and not be a Christian. Don't misunderstand me But I think we overreact as Americans in sort of choosing like a sociological choice which body we happen to affiliate with for the moment of convenience and think that if we are in fact disaffiliated from that, it doesn't matter spiritually. James says it matters terribly much. A person who's wandered away from the body and wandered away from the way of Christ. Wandered away from that distinctive radical lifestyle of the disciple of Jesus. He says, when that person restores him, you haven't just helped him out, you've saved him from death. The possibility of eternal separation from Jesus Christ. That's talking to some of you. Because, you know, through the ten years that we have been meeting here, There are some who were sitting, you know, now we don't sit the same places, you know, every couple years we change, you know, but for those that were sitting within the congregation, comparably to the way you're sitting right now, five, seven, ten years ago. There are numbers that I can name. Who sang the hymns along with us just like you do, came to the classes just like you come, appeared before the session and confessed Jesus as Savior and Lord Were baptized here, stood up, and said that Jesus is the one who I'm walking with, who no longer walk with Jesus Christ, who no longer are a part of any body of believers And yet some of them still call themselves Christians. Talk to them. Don't see any evidence of following Jesus Christ. But they're saying the televangelist says, if I believe John 3. 16, then I've got it, no matter what I do. And they're saying that there's a lot of reason for me to believe that I can be totally independent and still believe that I'm going to heaven with no authority over me. James says, I don't know anything about that kind of Christianity. You wander from the body and from the truth and the error, and you're in the error of your way, so somebody's got to bring you back, because the issue is life and death. And I plead with you, for some of you, the issue may be that you need to get closer to the body. You need to know that Jesus, in fact, comes and offers you this morning. That he wants to save you from death. That Jesus Christ died. He gave his life. So that you would be able to come under his blood. And that you would be able to know the forgiveness that he offers. That leads to the second part of that. You see, it's not only save you from death, it's cover a multitude of sins. To cover a multitude of sins, speaking about the forgiveness that's offered in Jesus Christ. There's two ideas in that notion of cover. It speaks of the covering, which makes our sins to be invisible to God, hiding our sins under the blood of Jesus Christ, the blood of the atonement. It hides them from the all-seeing eye of God so that God Himself cannot see your sins and your record is clean because of Jesus shed blood. The idea of covering also has with it the notion of paying the debt, to cover a debt, so that the debt is paid and there is nothing that you owe to God. Jesus has paid it all. If there's anything that the book of James should have been doing to us in these past two and a half years, we've been looking at it, is to drive us to Jesus Christ. is to show us that we are not able to keep these commands. In our own strength, all of us will wander. You know the fellow that wrote the hymn, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love Later became an alcoholic and left the body of Christ and died a reprobate, alienated from Jesus Christ. Do you know that all of us are prone to wander? But Jesus can keep us. Jesus can hold you. Jesus can keep you to himself. And because of Jesus, you'll have the multitude of your sins covered. And none of them will be seen by God Himself. Let me ask you those three questions and answer them as honestly as you can today. Could it be possible that you are a church member who is outside of Jesus Christ? That you are one who is still trusting in religion and playing the religious games. But you don't know that peace, that forgiveness, that your sins have been covered, and that you have a hunger for the things of Christ. That you love him and you want to walk with him and know more about him? Is it possible that you've been deceiving yourself for months or for years? Come to Jesus. He wants to save you from death. And he wants to cover the multitude of your sins with his own blood. Or secondly, could it be possible that you're a person who's remaining purposely on the periphery of our fellowship? You never joined, you've never become really involved because you want to hold on to that independence and you don't want to give up. And that degree of independence that says that uh, you know, if I'm become part of the body, then there's certain things will be expected of me But you know, it's for your protection that you become part of the body. It's for your protection that you get into a small group. It's for your own protection that you become involved in the body of believers. So that when you're prone to wander, as we all are, there's somebody that's going to care. There's somebody that's going to bring you back. There's somebody that's going to remind you of that I urge you, don't stay on the periphery of the body of Christ. And finally, the last thing Is as comfortable as it may be, is there somebody that you perhaps need to warn? You've seen them wandering from the truth and then they're in the error of their way. And you're uncomfortable, but you've been telling yourself, well, that's okay, even if they leave the body, I know they're still a Christian, because they still say that they trust Jesus as Savior. Don't believe it James says, the issue is death. You see that person wandering away. James says, by all means, go. Bring them back. Turn them from the error of their way. Go raise the questions about their walk with Jesus Christ and the way that they're going. That's very uncomfortable None of us like to be rebuked and to feel rejected by somebody that we're saying these things to and they say, Mind your own business and we feel cast off. It's not very much fun, is it? I felt it myself and one of the hardest things that any of us have to do. But James says when you do that, when God uses you, he says that in fact what will happen is that you will be an instrument of the Holy Spirit to turn a person from death. And to have to see the multitude of their sins covered. Albert Barnes said, When I look at the end of my life The greatest joys that I contemplate were the people that I returned from their wandering more than all the riches and all the stature that I ever attained. James finishes with a covering of the multitude of our sins. Let's pray. Oh Lord. Help us each to examine what you're saying to us through these two verses is so cut across the grain of our thinking. Lord forbid that there would be anyone in this room that would hear these words and even say that they love Jesus, and yet eventually would wander away from the truth. Deceive themselves, that their faith is still alive, without works, and then face you and hear you say, Depart from me, I never knew you. Oh Lord, be merciful to us. We pray that you admit us together as a body of believers who care deeply for one another and are watching for one another with love. Not checking up that you might use us to help each other to walk close to Jesus. Thank you for James and for his counsel to us and for how he drives us to Christ as we see that you alone, Lord Jesus, cover the multitude of our sins. Hear us in Jesus Name. Amen