Last week from James 5, verse 13, we saw James counsel us: Is any of you in trouble? You should pray. Is anyone happy? Let him sing songs of praise. No problems with that. Very simple, very straightforward. You can understand it. The matter is simply how to practice it This morning we come to chapter 5, verses 14 and 15, where he goes on to the third condition. Is anyone sick? He should call the elders of the church to pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. The Lord will raise him up. If he has sinned, he will be forgiven. Excuse me, if he has sinned, he will be forgiven. That's the end of verse 15. Now, in this situation we come, of course, to quite a number of problems. In fact, some people think that Presbyterians have erased those verses from their Bibles, especially Orthodox Presbyterians. That somehow those verses embarrass us, we don't know what to do with them. that I probably plan to preach on this in the middle of July when everybody was on vacation, hoping that as few people would be here as possible to have to deal with what this says Uh but we need to understand what James is saying to us here in these difficult verses, 14 and 15. We need to understand them and we need to know how to practice what is quite literally here, faith, healing. You see verse 15, the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. That's faith healing. Let me be first of all absolutely clear about these two verses. We at Columbia Presbyterian Church do believe that they are in our Bibles and that they're in the Bible for today. In fact, over the past ten years of our existence as a church, I can think of at least seven people that our elders have anointed with oil in the name of the Lord and prayed for healing concerning them. Of those seven people, all of them had rather poor medical prognoses in the situation that they were suffering from, and all were uh in uh the situation as they saw it, a significant uh serious kind of malady, illness. And of the seven I know that at least four have experienced complete healing, in some cases somewhat to our surprise. I mean in the sense that humanly speaking, you wouldn't have expected that. One case was definitely not healed. Another case, surgery was still needed, and we are continuing to look for the further effects of healing in that. And in the with the one last case, Deanna, we're still waiting on God and praying for God to in fact provide that healing that we've been praying for. Now there's much that we have to learn as a church in this area. I'll be the first one to admit that. I don't understand all that's going on here and all that God has for us in these verses. But we're wanting to learn it, and we definitely believe that these verses are to be practiced. But it's important for us to understand what the teaching is for us here, how we're to understand it, and what we're to do with it. This is very, very practical counsel from James. And it applies to every one of us here, whether you are sick or whether you are perfectly well. There's some practical words for you here to encourage you this morning. I'd like to consider what James says here under three points, and the first one is we need to understand the conditions to be met. First of all, the conditions to be met There are three conditions, I believe, that James lays out for us here. And uh, you know, these verses are so complex that I I hope you follow along closely. I've tried to outline things as carefully as possible so that we can understand this and be able to practice it faithfully. The first condition, I believe, that needs to be met is that it needs to be a serious illness. A serious illness. I believe that there are two errors in practicing these verses. The one error is churches that ignore the verses and never practice them. churches that would simply look at these verses as if they are not for today or not for us now. And so um you just uh would never know that those verses existed or were for the church to claim The other error, I believe, is for these verses to be practiced too frequently every time a person has a virus or a toothache like I have this morning or if something else that's going wrong in them that they say, well, you know, these verses are for your healing. I'll go to the elders and have them anoint me and pray over me. I think that what James is saying here is that this practice is reserved for serious illness, and there's a number of reasons for that. Notice first of all that the elders go to the person. The person doesn't go to the elders, indicating he needs the elders to come to him in order to get together. Notice also that the elders do all the praying. It is their prayer that heals him. Doesn't say anything about his prayer in contrast to verse 13, where James says, if you're suffering something, pray. Now he's talking about something where you can't even do that. And he's saying you need to call the elders and let them pray. You notice also that it's their faith that is exercised. The sick person doesn't even it's not even indicated that he his faith is being exercised in this healing. He's relatively passive in the whole matter Notice also that in verse 15, you notice it says, and the prayer of offered in faith will make the sick person well. The word in the original for sick person there is a word which means the weary, worn-out one. And so this is a person that's really worn out with his illness, his sickness. And then finally, you notice that they pray over him and that the Lord raises him up I think indicating that this person is an invalid. This person is on their sick bed. They are not able to get up. They are laying flat out. perhaps even close to death. So there's a number of indications, I think, in this passage that we're talking here about a very serious kind of illness for which this prayer is reserved. Now what does that mean if you have less than a serious illness? Nobody prays for you? I don't think it means that at all. I think it's right for us to pray for all kinds of illnesses. But not in this way. And I'll have more to say about that next week when I talk about God's three appointed means for healing today. But what I'm talking about this morning is this kind of practice that James gives to us here for serious illness. Now notice though that there is that one thing that the person does do, and that's the second condition. The sick person calls for the elders. He calls for his elders. Look at verse 14. Is there is any one of you sick? He should call the elders of the church to pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. I think there's a couple of things that are implied in this and taught to us by these phrases. And again, this passage is so rich you need to try and glean from meditating on it a number of things that may not be obvious at first. First of all, I think that it's significant that it doesn't say that the sick person seeks some special person with a gift of healing. Rather than seek a faith healer or somebody who's got some particular ministry of healing, James's advice is call the elders of your church. Now that is rather scary to me, you see, because it says I am on duty at any point to be, along with the rest of the elders here, on call, to be a faith healer. Now why is that? Because I think in that way Jesus Christ is particularly glorified. You see, in the context of the normal, regular ministry in which you look at us as elders and you say, hey, these guys are just like me. I mean Nothing special about them or their prayers. I know them too well. When God comes and we come to pray and God heals, then you say, hey, it had to be God. It's not those guys And you know that we're there's nothing special about us in some charisma that we have. And so I think that it's significant that James says, any elder is one that God can use in in concert with his other colleagues as elders for God to do a supernatural work. And that's an amazing thing. You notice also, I think, this is implying that, of course, that it's not for just the age of the apostles or the age of miracles. The office of elder, of course, continues to today. It's a normative office in the New Testament. And there is no indication anywhere in Scripture that this ministry is to cease And therefore, this is a ministry that is for today just as much as it was for the New Testament time. On the other hand, the positive things that I think we can glean from this are first of all, you notice it is his initiative. He calls for the elders to come. It's the one thing that the sick person does ex besides getting sick. And so you'll notice at Columbia Presbyterian, we generally do not uh advise you to do this. We don't suggest that you do this. We wait for you to have the desire, the need to do it. We let the initiative be on the sick person's behalf, for them to come and Then as they talk to an elder, perhaps for us to decide, is this really something that fits within James or should we pray for this in a more normal kind of context, uh gathering friends together, just your elder praying with you or any other thing I mean just lots of ways we can pray for one another. But if we're to practice this, you need to call us and we need to say, yes, this seems to fit the kind of conditions of James chapter 5, verse 14 and 15. You notice also that it implies, I believe, that this person therefore is a part of his local church. I think that that's something that we can't afford to miss, particularly in our own day of the electronic church and of a great deal of independence. among Christians. He calls the elders of the church, and I think that's implying, of course, he's calling the elders of his church to come and to do this ministry for him. Some of you aren't members of any church. And uh, you know, you may think that it's fine to be independent and visit different churches, and you know, it's nice to get a little bit of this one and a little bit of that when you gain a little bit of the good of all kinds, you know, sample them and No church is perfect, so why not just sort of get little bits and pieces? But that consumer kind of mentality runs against the notion of the New Testament, which is that you don't go to the church, you are part of the church And when everything seems to be going well, that may not seem like too great a matter to you. But you see in a case like this where James says This is part of the fruits and the benefits of being part of a local body, then it really comes to your mind how important it is to be part of that body. Pat Robertson is not going to come and anoint you with oil and lay hands on you when you're sick. It's just the old uh anonymous elders of Columbia Presbyterian, you see who are going to care for you under the oversight of Jesus Christ as his under shepherds, who are to conduct that ministry. And so let this be a call for those of anyone who is here or people uh who tend to that you know uh say that hey I don't see any reason why I should have to become part of a local church I'm part of the universal church and that's enough. James is talking here about a ministry of the local church, of which a person needs to be a part of that church in order to benefit from that ministry. There has to be responsibility along with the privilege. And then the third thing that I think is implied by this is that you see that he says he calls the elders plural And again, that runs counter to the notion of a lot of people in today's Christianity that say, well, if I'm sick, I call the visiting pastor, or I call the professional minister, I call the guy who's paid to come and do this kind of thing. But you see, that's not part of the New Testament way. And so you see, contrary to saying that Presbyterians would erase this verse from their Bibles, this is a particularly Presbyterian verse. Because it's saying that the elders as a body have a spiritual authority and ministry that they corporately share in. It is not a notion of one minister who comes and does his thing and says, oh, that guy is so great. Boy, he is tremendous what he did for me when he came to visit me. You see, it's not that kind of context. It's the elders who come together. And that that man glorification is diffused to a glorification of Jesus Christ because these sinners all come together to minister. And as they minister together, we see the genius of the New Testament in that spiritual authority corporately exercised by those who altogether have the same degree of authority, any elder in our church the same degree as me. Just because I'm paid to do this full-time does not give me any more spiritual stature or authority in it. These things I think come out of this verse. Now, there's a third condition that I believe James also has for us here. Again, the first condition, that it'd be a serious illness, the second condition that at the initiative of the person, he calls the elders of his local church to come do this. And then the third condition, that he is willing to consider his sin. He's willing to consider the matter of sin. You notice at the end of verse 15, it says, if he has sinned, he will be forgiven. Clearly then, whatever that means, it says that the question of sin is directly related to this practice. It must be brought up. And I warn you that in the ten years we've been doing this, in any case where we come to anoint a person with oil in the name of the Lord and pray over them, we always feel that we must at least ask the question about whether the person is aware of of a sin that could be in connection with this illness. I'll deal with that a little bit more under the third point here, so I'll go on from that right now. But the only point I want to make now is that the person must be willing to consider that because what is at issue here is total healing Not simply that he be made physically better, but that he be totally healed in Jesus Christ. Those are the conditions. Now on to the second point, what are the commands to be followed? What are the commands to be followed? Well, again, I believe that there are four commands that are stated or implied in this. The first one implied simply that the elders go. He calls for the elders to come and to pray over him. And of course they do that, and so it's implied that the elders go to that person. That's part of being an elder. That we are to show in every way that we are servants of the congregation. You don't say, well, you know, you come around at 7 o'clock, I'll see if I can fit you in. But part of our being elders is when a person has a need that we come together and we say, we'll set aside things in our schedule. We go to that person. The second thing that is commanded in this, of course, is that they anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. Look at verse 14 again. Is any of you sick, he should call the elders of the church to pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. Now what does that mean? Many of you are from Roman Catholic backgrounds and are aware that the Roman Catholic Church uses verse 14 as the basis for extreme unction. the anointing of a person with oil in for the forgiveness of their sin in anticipation of imminent death. But of course, this verse has nothing to do with that. In fact, it's speaking of just the opposite situation For you notice that in this case the anointing with oil is with the expectation of healing being the result of it, not death. And so this is speaking about something quite different and unrelated to the idea of extreme unction. which comes from a non-biblical source. Here the expectation is of healing. The very meaning of the oil is to symbolize health and wellness. What then is that oil for? Well, I would suggest that the oil was associated with medical treatment in that time. Uh you for instance, you remember the uh story of the Good Samaritan when he sees the fellow who had been beaten up and left by the side of the road. When he comes to heal that fellow Uh he uh puts oil on his wounds in order for him to be soothed, and that's part of the medical treatment that he applied to him at that time In Mark chapter 6 and verse 13, when Jesus sent out the disciples, you remember he sent them out to heal and to anoint with oil as part of their ministry of healing, which was also a faith healing. But it was a ministry that inclo included the medical treatment, which in that time was seen as oil. Oil was a very prominent part of medical treatments. I mean it wasn't you couldn't administer antibiotics and drugs and all the rest of that, so all you could do is try to make the person uh feel as good and be as comfortable as they could and hope that the oil would help in some way. It's interesting that the word that James uses here, anoint him with oil, the word anoint means to rub And so it uh could be translated, give them a rub down with oil. And so if uh the next uh of you who asks for the elders of Columbia Presbyterian to come and anoint you with oil and pray over you finds that we come and We lay you out and we give you a rub down with oil, then uh you can't protest we're simply following scripture because that's what it says that you're to do And you say I think the idea in that is that James is emphasizing he's talking about the medical use of oil. He's not talking about in some spooky, superstitious, sacramental sense. He's saying, look, I'm using this for what purpose? I think the purpose is as a visual aid to increase the elders' faith As they get that oil and they put that oil on the person, they are reminded because of their context of the use of oil being for medical treatments, they see that oil and that oil is to them a picture of healing. And it increases their faith as they pray to the Lord for Him to provide that healing. I think it's something like the Lord's Supper elements, you see. In which we take those elements and those elements as we hold them and look at them increases our faith in Jesus to look to Him. And so God uses the oil to help to increase our faith. It's like fasting. The very act of physically fasting focuses our attention in prayer It's something unusual, it's something dramatic, and the act of doing that helps us in our praying to focus our minds on what's at hand And I believe that that is the reason that James gives to us this combination of prayer and the anointing of oil in the name of the Lord. Yeah, we can discuss that afterwards and go on and on to that, but let's uh go on to the third command, which is a lot clearer. They're to pray for him. Literally they're to pray over him. The prayer, of course, is specifically for healing. Whatever else it's for, it is for healing. Total, spiritual, and physical healing. Specific prayer for healing, directed specifically to the malady. And I'll say more about that on the third point. Fourthly, they are to raise the question of sin. As I said before, the sin, there may be sin associated with this, we don't know, but at least the question must be raised. And so, along with their going, anointing with oil, praying over him, there must be that question raised about are you aware of some sin in your life that perhaps could be connected to why God has set you aside and laid you aside in this. And often we'll have people that will respond to that by saying, well, it could be this or it could be that. And and as uh spiritual counselors then we seek to decide, well, that doesn't sound like something God would use in this case. It doesn't seem like uh there's something here that uh in the way you're looking at it that's directly related to this, but in other cases there may be. Again, I'll say a little bit more about that in point three. Since I'm putting everything off to point three, why don't we get to point three? Point three, then, the last thing, is the promise to be claimed. What is the promise to be claimed? The promise to be claimed is the one there in verse 15. The prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. The Lord will raise him up. If he has sinned, he will be forgiven. Three wills, two promises. And I suggest to you that those are amazing promises. Look what that's saying. The prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. God, the Lord will raise him up. And if he has sinned, he will be forgiven Now, nobody can look at that promise without sitting back and saying, that is an amazing promise that God has given to us there. What does that mean? Let's take a look at the two parts of it. The physical healing and the spiritual healing. First of all, he says the prayer of faith will make him well. Now I've put that will in there, not because it's some obscure word that I wanted to make sure that you caught, but I want you to write the word will in so that that emphasizes in your own mind it is will that he says, not may. There is the balancing here, I believe, of two things to understand this. This is very, very difficult to understand. And I'll tell you I've read a lot of commentators on this, fifteen of them as a matter of fact. And I have uh pondered this and thought a lot about it, and it is a difficult verse to understand what James means by this. But let me offer to you the tentative conclusions at this point in my life that I've come to in what James is intending for us here. I think he is balancing two things here about this prayer. Number one, that it's prayer in his name. You notice again verse 14. They're to pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. So that composite act of prayer and anointing with oil is in the name of the Lord. Now, whenever you see that phrase used in Scripture, in the name of the Lord, John uses it a number of times in other places, it always involves the idea that it's according to his will. It's something done in submission to the name, and all that will glorify that name. It is that which is done recognizing his sovereign control over the situation. This person is prayed in the name of the Lord. And so the Lord is the one who disposes of this matter finally and ultimately. And it's something that we need to be very clear on when we come to pray over that person. We are not in control now to push a few buttons in which God will automatically respond to our wishes and desires. If that were true, of course, then nobody would ever die. So long as you could get to them quick enough to get a little oil on them and pray for them, no one would ever die. The only people would die was those that were in accidents or didn't get the oil quick enough And so clearly this is not what James has in mind. There is that submission to the Lord and his name. Clearly, Jesus did not heal all the people he could heal. When he finished his three-year ministry, many people were still left in Palestine sick. The Gospels record to us about 82 occurrences of healings. And so there is a lot of people, a number of people, who were not healed, even during Jesus' ministry. You remember, of course, that Paul suffered from the thorn in the flesh, and although he prayed that God would heal him, God did not choose to heal him. The Lord Jesus has been mightily glorified in the life of a person like Johnny in her wheelchair through the years that she has said that his grace has been sufficient for her. He has chosen not to heal her. He could have healed her. He could still heal her. He has chosen so far not to. And one of the things that comes out of such a decision of the Lord is not only the supernatural grace of Christ in such a situation of suffering But for the person as well as those of us who are gathered with that person and care for them, it deepens our longing for heaven, which will be the ultimate healing, doesn't it? You're with such a person and you long for Jesus to come more quickly. You long for him to come and provide that wholeness and that healing that will be there when we will be made like him. And so in this there must always be the submission that says, Lord, we are doing this according to your name. And we submit ourselves to your control and to your will. But balanced with that is also the fact that it is a prayer of faith. It's a prayer of faith The word that he uses here for prayer is not the usual word in the New Testament for prayer. In verse 14, where he says, call to pray over him, and then verse 15, the prayer offered in faith. That word is a word that is normally used of vows or wishes in the New Testament. For instance, you remember when Paul uh talked about his vow temporarily to not cut his hair The word that he used concerning that vowel was the same word that we have here in James 5, 15. Well you remember when Paul a little later on stood before Agrippa and he had shared the gospel with Agrippa and then he said And I wish that all people here could be just as I am except for these chains a little sarcasm thrown there in the end He says, I wish that all of you could be just as I am, you see, in Christ. Now the word that he uses there, wish, is the same word that Paul uses here in James 5. 15, the prayer of faith. The word, when it's used in conjunction with prayer, means to offer a wish before the Lord or a vow before the Lord, offered up to him in faith that he will take it and that he will do with it as he pleases. It's offered to him in faith that he is able to heal. So it's an offer of a wish, of a desire, an intense longing of the heart, believing with firm conviction. Jesus Christ is able to heal this person. He is able to do the supernatural and bring this person to raise this person up. I'm not sure what he wants to do in this situation, but I am sure he is able to heal. And sometimes I believe that as we pray that The Holy Spirit may choose to give us an assurance that He is in fact willing to heal in this particular case. And at that point, this takes on a more definitive notion of being the prayer of faith. It is a prayer offered with a particular faith that God is going to provide healing, perhaps in this situation. Now, why is it then, if this prayer offered in faith is in submission to him, why does James say the prayer of faith will uh heal this person or will uh cause the person to be well rather than may heal the person. Why does he use the word will rather than may? Wouldn't may be more accurate He's not promising it every case. Why does he say will rather than may? I believe that there's two reasons for that. And the two reasons are as follows. I believe number one, because the word will is used because it is intended to increase our faith in the power of Jesus Christ. To illustrate that, suppose he had said the prayer of faith may Make the sick person well. What would be the effect of that on you? That wouldn't generate a whole lot of faith, would it? Well, you may, may not, you know. Prayer of faith may heal him. Well I'm sure. He may get well if I don't pray too. I mean that doesn't really say a whole lot But I believe that the scriptures are always given to us in order to encourage more faith in the sovereign Christ. Scripture is given not only to tell us about God, but to generate faith in us towards God. And I believe by this strong statement that God is saying here the prayer of faith will heal. God is intending to build our faith in his ability in every case to heal and in his desire in some cases to in fact heal. that this is in fact not only uh given to us in general for that, but I believe as I'll go into next week, that normally we would expect that God's purpose is to heal, except in cases of advanced age where the body is just wearing out. But I believe more usually than we are tend to think in our day God's intention is to heal, and often we lack that because of our lack of faith. And so God's trying to build our faith in this. I believe the second reason that he says will rather than nay is to encourage us to seek the assurance of his willingness in this particular situation. That is to seek to pray that prayer offered in faith that will raise up the sick. That particular assurance that God intends to do that in this situation. Now, I believe that God certainly can heal without that assurance. Many cases I've prayed for a person and I haven't felt one way or the other. I haven't been sure what God wanted to do. And God has healed I think there are other cases where a person will say, I know that God intends to heal in this situation and God won't heal. Mark Pett, for instance, claimed that he was uh assured that God was going to heal him of that cancer. And God took him. So I believe that it could go either way. We are not in any way close to infallible in our understanding of the discernment of the mind of the spirit. But I believe in this verse that there is the encouragement to become more sensitive to the mind of the Spirit by our seeking a confident assurance, not only that God can heal, But to seek as we continue to pray and as we build one another's faith, that as we seek God, uh s understanding what is going to glorify Jesus Christ, that there will be those times, I believe, that God will give to us a particular assurance. A prayer of faith that will in fact be the means of raising up the sick person to wellness. Now finally, after opening that can of worms, let me finish With the last point, and that is that he says uh the the last promise is that his sins will be forgiven His sins will be forgiven. Note again that sin is not necessarily a factor. You see there again at the beginning of verse 15, he says Uh me, the end of verse fifteen, if he has sinned, it doesn't say and his sins will be forgiven. It says if he has sinned. Classic case, of course, is Job, where he was in great deal of trouble, but sin was not the factor in that, had nothing to do with that. And so we have to always be very, very tentative, and we should never be so arrogant as brothers and sisters as to suggest to someone that if they got their life together, then God would heal them. If he has sinned, it says But on the other hand, it does indicate that sin may be a factor. And I think again, we have to be careful that we don't go to the other extreme and just leave that out. Sin may be a factor. And if it is, and if it is confessed, the promise here is that God will provide Total healing. But along with the physical healing, there will be that spiritual healing of the Son restored to the Father in a close communion. There will be that healing of a clear conscience. Much illness is the result of sin, directly or indirectly. Sexually transmitted diseases. Most of AIDS victims, not all, but certainly most. in our day. Much of tension, much of uh the illnesses that people suffer for anxiety, stress, and all the rest of these kind of things. Many of those things are related to uh sinful conditions. I believe, by the way, that in the years to come with the whole question of the AIDS epidemic, that these verses may become very precious and very meaningful to the churches, becoming a much more significant part of its ministry. And can you imagine if you were a person who had gotten AIDS through sinful behavior, had come to Jesus Christ through that To then be as you lay on your sickbed, able to say, These verses were written for me, the elders can come, they can anoint me with oil. And with that promise of the possibility under the sovereign God of my being physically healed from this, there is the assurance that my sins of this are forgiven. And that is directed to the person, you see, who is questioning whether they could ever be totally healed in Jesus Christ. That's a precious promise. So you see, the summary of this whole thing is that the promise is for total healing in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ has come to give to us a total healing. In Isaiah 53 in verses 4 and 5 we read that He has carried our sorrows and borne our sicknesses. With his stripes we are healed. And it's interesting to me that in Matthew chapter 8, the first part of that promise is applied in Jesus' ministry of physical healing. He carried our sorrows and bore our infirmities. Matthew says that that was fulfilled in Jesus' physical healing. Then the very next verse that talks about with his stripes we are healed, Peter takes that in 1 Peter 2 24 and he applies that to our salvation and our spiritual healing. And I believe that the New Testament, through and through, as I've studied this more and thought about it, is implying, is and again I'll go into this a lot more next week. That you cannot separate physical from spiritual healing in the total salvation work of Jesus Christ. Those two things are bound together. And so the last thing that I leave you with this morning is, is this consistent with your view of God? Is the God that you worship? The God of this kind of compassion and kindness and concern for every one of your illnesses and diseases and mine. And is this God a God who is able in your view To, in response to prayer, raise up sick people who are beyond medical help as far as we can see. Is this the God that you worship? Let's pray. Lord our God, how we thank you that this is the nature of the true God. That you are our God who has provided for us total healing in Jesus Christ, the promise of sins forgiven. And the promise of wholeness in our bodies and in our spirits. Lord, we thank you that you are concerned for that and that you have given these specific promises. Which for many of us this morning may in their immediate direct application be of rather academic interest. But oh Lord, when we're hurting. And when we as frail and uh weak creatures are aware that uh we desperately need your healing, how good it is to know that you are concerned to provide that for us. Lord, help us that we as a church would be faithful in practicing this. We might not miss your blessings. We would not presume in our own going ahead of you, but we might not lag behind either. Help us, Lord, to come to you, in whatever our situation today, for a total healing in Jesus Christ. For we pray in his name. Amen