Sometimes we can get so wrapped up. with our problems, so we can miss the obvious. So sometimes we can become so disoriented with our introspection about our problems that we can the most basic landmarks and these are buried. I read this week about a speed boat driver who was uh at near top speed out on the water when his boat hit a wave or rather large waves at just slightly the wrong angles. And the boat took off into the air and started spinning crazily, and the driver was thrown from the boat with such force that he plunged into the water so deeply He didn't even know which way was to surface. And he was uh had to overcome at that moment of going down so deep into the water the panic that would cause him to fly around. And in overcoming that panic, he allowed himself to come to a um come into a kind of a a halt, and then the brilliancy of his life sense began to draw him up toward the surface. And then he could then see which direction the surface was. or feel it at least, he could swim and cooperate back where the lightness, and he got to the surface and he survived the accident. Verses 13 to 15 of James chapter 1 are disorienting thoughts that can plunge us so deeply into our problems in the midst of our problems that we lose a sense of which way it's back to the surface. Because uh James you remember in chapter one is talking about trials, struggles, difficulties, And he's saying here that in death in the midst of that, the danger is that when you're tempted, verse thirteen says, uh that no one should say, God is tempting me. For God cannot be tempted. By evil. Nor does he tempt anyone. But each one is tempted then by his own evil desire. He is dragged away and enticed. And then after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is still grown, gives birth to death. James says, don't be deceived. God is tempting you, you say. Just job is intolerable. It's insufferable. It's torture to get up and go to work. And you know the worst thing about it is that I pay for this job. Where asked I could direct me about the decision that I took this job. And now I can't stand against it and and I had all these tensions and these conflicts and I've been praying now for months for God to either change the situation or take me out of his job. And it seems like after months of praying God doesn't even care. He's abandoned me. He's tempted me putting me in this intolerable situation for the consequences of sin. I I'm tempted to say, you know, really the consequences of sin don't seem so bad. I mean I'd rather enjoy doing an out and out material. In fact, you know, the only problem, the only thing that keeps me from enjoying my starburn materialism is the Christians that keep learning to Google on me about how I ought not to wrap up my life in all these things. Other than that, it really doesn't seem to be That's terrible. And so, in terms of the source of sin, in terms of the consequences of sin, he becomes disoriented. In verses 17 and 18 are we now In contrast to the deception for verses 13 to 15. Verses 17 and 18 are simple reality to guide us back to the surface. but stop about the buoyancy of those verses lift us up. So now what are those words that are going to be so helpful? Let's look at them. God's Word. James chapter 1, verses 16 to 18. Jesus said, now looking these two thoughts don't be deceived my dear brothers don't be deceived about sin every good and perfect gift is from above Coming down from the Father of the heavenly light, who does not change like shifting shadows. He chose to give us birth to the word of truth, that we might be accounted. the first fruits of all that he created. There is so much there, you know, it's hard to absorb it. Let's break it down. First of all, notice that there are two main thoughts that James wants us to get from this. Verse 17 said all good comes from him. And in verse 18, the fine acts of that, the greatest good comes from him. First of all, there's a general principle of verse 17 that all good comes from God. Every good and perfect gift, he says, comes from above, coming down from the Father of the Heavenly Light, who does not change like shifting shadows. That I can fill in the blank and underline two words. in that verse. And whether it has an MRB or anywhere in Spanish, the same words. Check it out. Once you got, you know, some uh you know New World Translation or something like that. Alright. The first word is the word above. Every good and perfect is from above. And that tells us that all good is from him, from above. What does that mean? None of it's from Satan. You understand? That's even one of Satan's greatest lies. He can make us think that he's the fun-loving guy. That Satan is really the guy that's out for the good time. And that God is the serious religious fanatic who wants to spoil everything. And let's face it, if you're really honest with yourself at some points, and you say identify a plan, who would you think the kind of a popular conception of the way we look at Satan and I is the one we want to invite for the plane? See, things are scared to say, hey man, you have me and we'll have some laugh and we'll have a good time. Hey, you'll thank God. You know, he's going to disapprove of everything from the orbit's right on down, you know? Because all God does is disapprove. And so we have this idea that seduces us away from the Father. That God really doesn't enjoy fun. God doesn't really like to enjoy things. Satan Just the fellow with whom he can have fun. God just makes you feel guilty for it. And yet, this verse tells us that God invented every genuine delight that you and I has ever experienced. Every food that you tasted, no matter what the calories, come on me help you, God has embedded that to you. Your friends and the whole idea of friendship and compassion It's God's idea. Nature and the enjoyment of the beauty of it. It's God's idea. Technology, the root of the things and the laws that form the ability to produce high-tech matters that we enjoy. It all comes from God in the ordering of His universe in the producing of the materials. Every sensuous delight, and yes, even sex. See, dare I say. See, one of Satan's greatest plays is to think that He's the one that invented sex. Or at least it's neutral, and somehow God got the controlling rights of it, and ever since then he's been regulating it to make people don't all feel guilty about it. But somehow sex is apart from God. But this verse tells us that every Every good and perfect gift comes from above. Every sensuous delight, every delight of the eyes, of the taste, of the hands, of our body, everything that we enjoy spiritually, psychically. Psychologically, emotionally, physically, it's come at all. God is the one who has given us all these good things. And the second word that I want you to underline there is the word every, the first word of the verse. Every. You see, not only is there no good from any other source but God, but the other thing is that all that God gives is good. Every gift that He gives is good. You see, you have to read the whole verse on the Because it says every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down to the Father of the Heavenly Light, who does not change like shifting shadows. Who doesn't give good gifts one day and then bad gifts the next day. Now again James full of pictures, you know, like we saw last week. Okay, let's look at the picture that he's getting here. Notice what does he say? He says he's it comes down from the Father of the Heavenly. lights. Why does he say that? Because he doesn't want to say he does not change, not shifting shadows. The picture there you see is between the uncreated, unchanging, pure, radiant light of the Father. That light which is pure and unchanging contrasted with created lights that shift and flip and change. The sun is here now, it will be gone tonight. Sometimes there's more light. shadow. Other times there's more shadow than light. Hurry home before dark we say, then you lose your way because the sun is going down. Stand there before a sun bow, and if you stand there for a few minutes you can actually see On a clear day, the shadow moving. Created lights never stay the same. Created lights are always shifting and moving. There's never the stability in a created light. And yet This says that the father of the heavenly life, the one who has built them, the one who has made them, is contrasted by them because he never changes. He never changes. God is always there. He's always willing to have those five turns that we can come to him knowing he's willing to give generously without finding fault. He's always able. He's always available. God is always there for our needs. And yet we look at Him as unreliable, don't we? We see the things that change in our lives, the ups and the downs, and we wonder if we can really trust Him. God gives to Abraham the promise of a son. And April said, Hallelujah, Lord, that's what I've been looking for. So may I have a son? And then five, ten, fifteen. Twenty years goes by and there's no son. Abraham can say, Hey, there's an idea that we're the perfect gift. Hey, just playing with me, God, you promise something and you don't deliver. But then after twenty-five years when God is that Son. He's full to name Abraham a vacillating, doubting, compromiser who's ready to sell his life in order to sell his wife in order to save his own life. To become a man, was such a man Say, the James in chapter 2, verse 23, says that he became God's own personal friend. Yes, Abraham, with that word that Abraham many times over, God was slow. And yet Moses. a shepherd in Libyan. And Moses is confided by God. And God says, Moses, I want you to leave this peaceful territory, and I want you to go back to Egypt. Moses says anywhere that Egypt will know. They got my my face still on the posters in the post office down there, you know. Uh anywhere but Egypt. And God says, Moses, I want you to go back to Egypt because I have a job for you to do I want you to bring my people out from bondage. And Moses cries out, Lord not me, I I'm sufficient just no I can do it. You've got the wrong guy for the job. But God calls him. And the result is that God uses Moses to bring his people out from slavery to the promised land. And the result of Moses' life is unique. A man who knew God face to face. For knowing if it was worth all that, to know God face to face, and say, no question about it. And he built the shepherd boy, peaceful and deathless. Just killing a few bears and lions, you know. And God says, David, I want you to be king of my people. Because instead of taking the throne, he's changed. and hunted by stall for twenty years in caves and wilderness. What a fugitive, not able to even go back home and see his parents. So he won't point just long just to have a drink of water from his own well. But after 20 years, he's finally put onto the throne. What's God been doing with all that? Given with all good and perfectness, the result is that in contrast to Saul, God's been creating a man after his own heart. He's producing qualities of kingship in David so that he's able to serve faithfully. But here's Hannah. And she says, Lord, why do you have me living with this Taluna? All she does is brag. about her kids and holds up to me and blows performing the fact that she's a mother and I haven't any children. And we're aware of those good and perfect gifts that you give. Don't you care about my misery? And her cries out to God. God hears your prayer. And he gives you a son, Samuel, the prophet of God, who leads God's people in a tremendous revival back to himself. And who among us convey any word of Camila's children? But who knows or cares anything about them, but every one of us know about Samuel and how God answered Hannah's prayers when he had brought Hannah with a heart to seek himself. But Jeremiah says, Lord, you've seduced me in the calling you've given me. That's the word he uses. When he seduced me into a bitter ministry, I wish that I could give it up, but I'm driven to the defeatist pope on the bottom of the well of Jeremiah's exploration. It's Jeremiah who writes, it's a The Lord's eye, but we're not consumed. His compassions are unfair great is his faithfulness. And then we come to Jesus. And Jesus when he's baptized by John and the Jordan River. Here's a voice from heaven that says, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. And what good and perfect gifts does Jesus give me? Immediately the Bible tells us he was. Into the wilderness to suffer temptation, fasting, and to be assaulted by Satan himself. And then he begins his ministry. But in this ministry, what does he get for his troubles and his love and his compassion and his career? The church leaders of that day turn against him and they hate him. They become his bitter as enemies. His own family misunderstands him and they call him crazy. And his own best friend is to save him. Finally in the hour of his deepest need, abandoned him. And this is God's idea of good and perfectness. Before Jesus is the way of the cross. To be tried and scored and mocked, to be tortured, to be hung upon a cross with nails given in his hand. You have his Jesus reconciled man. You have an insight into his mind. in Hebrews chapter 12, which is just a couple of pages back. In Hebrews chapter 12, we're told that we should fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and the perspective of our faith. So in Hebrews 12 2. Who? That was set before him due with the cross, scoring its shame, so that he could be set down at the right hand of the throne of God. And all his people in his training, having accomplished that through his death on the cross, Jesus saw beyond the cross in order to see God's good and perfect purpose in his gifts. I'll tell you something, brothers and sisters, from personal experience as well as from God's Word, there are times when you will never understand the good and the perfect gifts of the Father of heavenly lights, with whom there is no variable The shadow turning until you've understood that goodness of the cross. There are times when God wants through the difficulties of our life to bring us to the cross so that we look at it a little longer. That we gaze upon it a bit more meaningfully, that we ponder its meaning a bit longer, and we understand there something of God's goodness. And that's the second point. But the greatest of all good comes from him. 17 is the general principle. But remember, James is really concerned with the problem of our discouragement in trials and temptations. And so in verses 13 and 15, he wanted us to realize that the problem is really not something outside of us, the problem is inside of us. We have evil, perverted desires. And what James wants us to see is that God has recognized and met it at our very deepest need. Because the deepest need is to be forgiven of those consequences and to have our natures changed. To be given a new life, a new heart, or if he puts it A new birth. Verse 18. He chose to give us birth. For the word of truth, to be likely a kind of first fruits of all that he created. He has given us new birth. That's the first point, A. New birth toward us. A new birth for us. You see, we are dead in our trespasses and so we are in bondage. to our evil desires. Our sin was ripening to produce death. We were already dead. Well the death of our sin was to produce is what the Bible calls the second death, the eternal judgment. And Jesus took that judgment. Jesus took that anger, that wrath of God on your behalf and my behalf, if we trust him, if we give that anger to him. Jesus has come and he's taken Do you see the contrast between verses 15 and 18? Verse 15 tells us that sin, when it's full-blown, gives birth to death. Verse 18 says, the Father of heaven and light is birth. Birth to life. Sin gives birth to life to death, but the father gives birth to life. Then he answers a searching question. Of all the millions and the billions of the people who live and who have ever lived by us. Why have he given you and me in Jesus Christ if you have trusted him? Why have he given Why has he given you birth? Why did he give me birth in Jesus Christ? And the answer is right there, the reason for it. It's his choice. You see that? Verse 18? He chose to give us birth. He chose it. The Greek means having decided upon it, he gave us new birth. You see the picture here again. is like that of a child. How much of a child did you have to do with being born? He didn't say one day, Hey mom and Dad, you know, I'd like you to get together and uh, you know, sort of like back to the future idea, you know, the kid's gotta make sure his parents get together. So that will come into existence, you know. And uh it's not like that. You don't go back and you don't control it. There's nothing to do to bring it about. Nothing. The parents choose. Verse 18 says the father. Father of heavenly lights chose to bring you into spiritual rebirth. He chose to give you spiritual life. If you say, That's a wait a minute, I decided to trust Jesus. I decided to put my faith in him. But the Bible says that even that faith that you placed in Jesus Christ is only the result of His laying His hand upon you. Because as a corpse you couldn't believe anything. You had to be made alive to believe in Jesus. And what they think that he chose to give you life. But the result of that was that you trusted Jesus. I can't explain that. Nobody can explain that. But Jesus' point here is not to explain it. His point is To help you to see God's goodness. You say, but wait a minute, why am I suffering all this? I don't know God's care, and how do I recognize and say wait a minute? Who was it that chose to give you spiritual life in the first place? Who was it to whom you owe the fact that you owe you to the spirit of the spirit of the spirit of the spirit of the spirit of the spirit of are alive and forgiven with a new heart in Jesus Christ, Jesus resonating that you're not those spiritual new maintenance that have rejected the gospel. Is there something in you that more inclined to Jesus than those other members of your family? for him to be weak because they want nothing to do with Jesus? James says the Father chose to give you birth. And then notice how he chose. He draws out God's goodness further and further. He chose how? Women's own. Word of truth. See? He chose to give us birth through the Word. The word of truth is there for the gospel as it's contained in the scriptures. Did you ever stop to think what a gift of goodness is the Bible? We take this book out of your life. Imagine it as totally gone, so as Tom Burr's dream was a few weeks ago. Or imagine it instead of it being taken away, but you've never had it. God never gave us this revelation. What difference would that make you? You wouldn't know who created everything. You wouldn't know why you're here. You wouldn't know in all of your turmoil what is the root. Problem in your life. Why you're not able to do the things you want to do, and the things you don't want to do that you do. You wouldn't know God's provision that He has made in order to rescue out of that pit. You wouldn't know what it means. To believe in Jesus Christ and how to have life through them. You wouldn't know any of these things. You wouldn't know how to follow Jesus Christ. None of these things would be known to you without the Bible. James says, who was it that gave you this revelation? It's the Father who in his goodness gave you this good and perfect gift. And not only has it been given, but how did you get it? Do you ever think of that? Wait, how did you have a Bible? How did you get the message? Have you ever thought of the tenuous threads of circumstance by which he might not have ever heard the gospel? Or how close he ever came? to hearing it and not hearing it? Was it through your parents? Or was it through your friends, perhaps at college or after college? Did introduce you in a Bible study to Jesus Christ? What government has brought the Bible into your life? You know, I thought about that this week in my own life. My parents were not evangelical believers. And my parents planned to buy a house. house in a particular place in Upper Derby, Pennsylvania. They had their hearts set on that house. They wanted with everything in them to get that house. But they they missed getting that house by that much. That house great and they buy a house, you lose it all I can you know, you some of your things. They bought that house that close. And he took their second choice, the house that my mother's family rented us death. So the result of having that house, they wanted me to go up to Sunday school to a little Presbyterian church. Well, I would have probably never heard the gospel. But because of the house before God, just so happy that ten minutes' walk from that house was an evangelical, independent, Bible-believing church. Once or twice, made before to Sunday school. And I can still remember to this day, Mrs. Pyle. Mrs. Pyle was a jolly woman and she loved kids. So when I think of Mrs. Pyle and I think this weekend but I think of you Sunday school teachers. And how hard the faith you've got to have to see some little kid, you know, whose face is messy and you know he's just blabbing around and fooling around in class and all that to see. If you're a God worked in me children so much to Mrs. Child that my parents never, after those first few weeks, ever took me or sent me to Sunday school. But for twelve years I went. I got up every morning. Every Sunday morning, and I would walk. Because Mrs. Pyle loved it. But there was something there that God would do to attract me to his word. And then sometime in the years of high school, I gave the heart to Jesus Christ. But it started. And just a parenthesis here, if you are finding that uh you're discouraged evangelism, you notice how James says that he gave his birth. To whom? The word. Want to be more effective in your evangelism, expose people to the word of truth. God says he brings this new life not just to his spirit, but And so much the benefit of evangelism, I think, is because we just quote the word, even if we've memorized it. We may somehow use it uh indirectly or uh even uh hardly use it. God says it's through the word of truth. Stick people in the scripture when you begin to see the spirit work. But then having done that, what was his purpose? And that's the last thing. His purpose is data at the end of verse 18. That there might be a kind of first fruits of all that decrees. A kind of first fruits. Now why does he say first fruits? But we are kind of first how are we a kind of first fruits of all God created? I think there's two ways you see listen to this. Number one, because you remember a few weeks ago we saw the fact that first fruits are a reminder that God in his goodness keeps his promise. Remember when we took a look at look at Deuteronomy 26, the first ten verses, we talked about giving to God directly. As we saw that we saw that when we give the first fruits of our offense to God, what could that person in Israel say? do when he gave that. Do you remember how many of those verses were a recitation of God's goodness, his faithfulness to his promise? That's what we do. The first we remind us God is faithful to his promise. He's provided. And so You see what James is saying here is, of all creation, you and I are the first fruits. God has been faithful to his promises in Jesus Christ, and he's brought us to himself. As living the sacrifices. And you and I, if our lives are a declaration, God is faithful to his promise. God will not cast out anyone who calls upon Jesus. And here I am, a first fruit of all creation, to declare God. faithfulness to it from. But the second thing is even more exciting. Because you see, the second thing is the first proof for the most special part of the heart. The first proof that Lord Congress has to be the best. You can't give anything special spotted, you know, you can't give the grungy piece of the crop, you know, you can't give the wilted lettuce, you know, you can't give the rotten tomatoes. It's gotta be the best stuff. The finest of the wheat. It's the best that could make for the first fruits. And that president has been All the rest of the harvest is for you. But the first fruits are specially mine. That's what God says about human beings. He says of all creation. He says, I'm going to take that creation, I'm going to release it. Don't worry about a whole new creation one day. But you know what's so special mine of this creation? My people. My people that I have chosen to give birth to through the cost of the life of the blood of my own son. And you and my brothers. and sisters say. Does God really care? Does he really hear my prayer? James says, dearly beloved, go be deceived. Every good and perfect gift is from the Father. You need to see it through the cross. But it's there. And he says, It's the Father who chose at the cost of the life of his own Son to give you spiritual life, a new heart. And it's the Father who is loved you to be specially precious to himself. You his own first fruit, his own precious possession. How could he ever forget you? Much further realize seems inconsistent with that. Remind yourself of verse 17 and 18. What temptation of whisper to you that God's days aren't really the best? We see back verses 17 and 18. And the blue That's right. Larry at some time we just can't see into our own problem. Or our introspections, we lose sight of where the surface is. Such basic, simple things as your general goodness or your redemptive goodness. become lost to us. Lord, we pray in Jesus' name for any here this morning for me desperately to be reminded of these things. If your spirit would take these words, Lord, I can't open people's minds of Lord, my my powers are so weak to get across, but I think of the power of the truth here. To really be able to open that up to your people, Lord, we pray. As a you by yourself. spirit that meet those needs at the deepest level. Lord, if there's somebody here who doesn't know that goodness, to whom you are obskew, far away, who they see that Jesus Christ not only commands them to repent. But he did and calls them by his glory and love to come and to know his redemptive goodness, the forgiveness of sins, the changed heart, that only weakened it. hell we pray that we might be a people who are a cheerful people, a joyful people, because we see the goodness of our God. In Jesus' name.