Ah yes. Another banner. What's the significance of that banner? What's on that? What is that? Or what? Yeah, it's our bulletin cover. Thanks a lot. That's our purpose as a church. And uh what's the passage? Everybody look at your bulletin. From Ephesians 1. I'm really grateful to those that put that together so that occasionally, as that banner particularly is on the wall, we're reminded of why we're here. Our purpose for being here is to know Jesus, to know him better, to know our hope, to know the inheritance that we have in Christ. and to know his power as it's realized in our lives. And may that be a reminder to us. The fact that it is on a kind of a royal purple should uh indicate to us the symbolism of the fact that This is the purpose of the king, and the cross there showing that it's the king who has died, that that purpose would be accomplished in it. So I'm really grateful for those of you who worked on that as a labor of love. So that the rest of us might be ministered to Sunday by Sunday as we see that up there. Thank you very, very much. Well, finally, we're back to James. Finally, after a three month break, we have to get to that chapter that we've all been dreading. We can't put it off any longer. I was thinking maybe we could have a post missions conference. Uh maybe we could do a few inspirational thoughts on the Psalms until Easter, you know, but no We have got to face it, we have got to get to the teaching on the tongue. Sooner or later, we've got to come to it. And so we begin this morning from James chapter 3, just the first two verses. Let me read those verses to you now as you follow along in your Bibles. James chapter 3, verses 1 and 2. Not many of you should presume to be teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. We all stumble in many ways. If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he is a perfect man. Able to keep his whole body in check. Well now, we finished chapter two so long ago just before Thanksgiving, actually, that it may be difficult for you to see the connection between chapter two and chapter three. And that would be very unfortunate because I believe there is a very close connection between what James tells us in chapter 2 and what he says in chapter 3. Again, remember there were no chapter divisions when James wrote the letter. In fact, I would like for us to begin this by seeing chapter 3 in the larger context of all of James's train of thought. And so you remember back months ago when we looked at chapter 1, we saw what I believe are really the key verses of the book of James, chapter 1, verses 22 to 25. I think if if you wanted to zero in on James's theme. And said, what expresses it most concisely, it would be James 122, or a little more broadly, James 122-25. And you remember, that's where he said Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like a man who looks at his face in a mirror and after looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like. But the man who looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues to do this, not forgetting what he has heard, but doing it. He will be blessed in what he does. You see the emphasis on doing does the behavior of belief Well, that's his basic theme in a nutshell. But then you remember in chapter 2, he developed this into a whole section. Chapter 2 verses 14 to 26, the very heart of his epistle, where he talks about the fact that faith without works is dead. And that is a statement that is so misunderstood today. A statement that really needs so much to be preached today because I believe that there are literally millions of people who are deceived at precisely that point. Almost every week our EE teams have contact With people who can articulate the gospel at least enough to say that my trust is in Jesus and his death for me. But they're not involved in any church, no fellowship, they're not lifting their finger for the kingdom. In fact, if you were to look at their lives, you'd see no observable difference between them Who say that Jesus has died for their sins and their neighbors who don't care a whit about Jesus Christ. And James is saying here that there's going to be a lot of surprises in that day when we come before the throne of Jesus Christ. Because he says that faith that is our faith, he says, is a saving uh excuse me. We are saved by faith alone. But a faith which is alone is not a saving faith. We are transformed by a saving faith. And that's the main section of the letter. And you remember we spent some weeks on that back in October and November. Now, just as after the first section, verses chapter 1, verses 22 to 25, he then gave an application. A practical specific example in verse 26, and what was it? He says, if anyone considers himself to be religious and does not keep a tight rein on his tongue, he deceives himself. And his religion is worthless. There it is in a nutshell. And then you see he had opened up that whole idea of faith without works as dead. You must do what you say you believe. And if you don't, he says it's just vain. It's worthless. Now, you see, when he comes to chapter 3. He develops that same application into a fuller section of 12 verses, chapter 3, verses 1 to 12. And so as soon as he's finished with this heart of the book in chapter 2, his main section application after that is this whole matter of the tongue. Now, you need therefore to see that connection, but also notice how he introduces the subject See, James really was quite a stylist. I mean, again, the problem with the Bible is when you get very familiar with it, you sometimes miss Some of the ways things would have hit you if you had never seen them before. You know, like when he started his book with verse two and said, Rejoice when you're having real problems. You know, I mean that wouldn't exactly be what you'd expect them to start off to say. You know, and in verse nine he says, Now if you don't have anything, rejoice that you're so exalted. You know. What church do you know of that has too many teachers in it? I mean, have you ever heard of a church where they said, hey, look, you know, we got to run these Sunday school teachers through on a quicker schedule because we got this line of people that want to teach, you know. And so you're only going to be allowed to teach here for one year. Because after that, you know, we gotta get these other people to give them a chance because they all want to be able to teach And you know, when we talk about uh some high commitment uh discipling in small groups, uh you know, we just got this list of small group leaders waiting, they're just saying, Come on, give me a small group, let me add 'em. I want to be able to teach and I want to build up the body, you know. And when we talk about a Bible institute, you know, we we You know we interview them, you know, we haven't come out and we screen them. They have to apply, you know. And then we come and we say, Okay, now, you know, how much how much have you done in this area? Let me see your deeds done, you know, because Yeah, we got about fifteen people pouring for this, you know, and and and so we're not sure we're gonna let you be a teacher. Anybody been in a church like that? I've never seen that You know, the church is always looking for teachers. And teachers have a certain status. And so people seek for that Therefore, you need to appreciate that, that that was true just as much in James Day as it is today. When you read the beginning of verse chapter 3, and he says, now he says, I don't want a lot of you guys being teachers around here, okay? That's what he's saying. So now I don't want too many of you being teachers, because you better realize that if you want to be a teacher, you're more accountable. He had a real recruiter, wasn't he? What a Sunday school superintendent he would have made. But that's exactly how he starts. And why does he start with that? He wants to get our attention Concerning the connection between our words and our life. And he does this by in these two verses sharing two profound insights and giving two warnings which I believe are generally totally overlooked. by the evangelical church today. Churches that believe the Bible is the word of God and would say that we believe every verse and everything that God has given to us. I think generally we have totally ignored the warnings that James has given in these two verses. The insights you see there at the beginning just say seen together. Insight number one, holiness is the key to godly teaching. Last month we had a conference, Gordon MacDonald was here, and He was uh and uh you know the Rendles will appreciate that, my old friend yeah. There was a guy back here, he's back you know about the sixth row back there. I won't point him out or anything. That guy was on Intervarsity Staff before I came on Intervarsity Staff. Can you believe that? I mean that's before C Stacey Woods, isn't it? No, not quite. But this fellow is a friend of mine, came on staff with me, and uh Gordon McDonald now is the president of Intervarsity. By the way, welcome guys. Good to have you here. But uh Gordon McDonald was is president of Intervarcy. He left his church in Grace Church in uh Massachusetts, just outside of Boston. He was there many, many years. And he said to us last month when he was down here, he said, you know, he said, after all the years that we invested in Grace Church, he said, when we left that, the people said, the thing that you have done most for us The most significant thing about your ministry was not just what you taught. It was the fact that we saw a sincere desire in your family life to live it. That's what James is saying. Holiness is the key to godly teaching. I'm just giving you the insights now. We'll develop them in the verse in a couple minutes. Second insight: the tongue is the key to holy living. That's his argument in verses 1 and 2. Holiness is the key to godly teaching. Secondly, the tongue is the key to holy living. What are the warnings then? The warnings are number one, do not seek to instruct others without examining your own life. Warning two, do not seek holiness without making tongue control your number one priority. I put those insights and warnings in the two points. Did you see in the bulletin outline? So they're listed together. Warning and insight one, therefore, do not seek to instruct others without examining your own life. Holiness is the key to godly teaching. What does he mean by teaching? Teaching is his way of getting at the activity of the tongue. Because teaching is what is done by the tongue. You see, people sometimes call me a minister, and I don't really appreciate that a whole lot. I never did care a whole lot for ministers and that was one of my I'm not kidding, that was one of my hardest struggles in going into pastoral ministry was to be considered as a minister. I'd much rather be considered a teaching elder because all of you are ministers. We are all ministers together. The only thing that marks me off distinctly is that I am one of the elders, and in particular I am a teaching elder. And so I get my pay, my job, God has sent me aside to use my mouth, to teach, to instruct. And you see, James says you don't do that very lightly. Because teaching influences other people, and teaching says that you know more about the subject than the people that you're talking to. And that's a very sobering thing. But he's not only talking about public teaching here. He's not only talking about people that stand up here at the pulpit. People that teach in the laugh communities, people that teach in the Sunday school classes, people that teach in our Bible Institute, Vacation Bible School, or any other public forum, he's also talking about private teaching. He's talking about instructing one another. The word is also used in that sense. Whenever you try to straighten someone else out, you're teaching them. Whenever you offer c godly advice or counsel to a brother or sister, you are a teacher. Now there's nothing wrong with that. I'm not saying we ought to cool it on doing that You see, Hebrews 5. 12 says that we are expected to be teachers. Hebrews 5. 12, the author there says, now whereas you all ought to be teachers by this point You're not, because you're still having to be fed by the basic milk of the word. We ought to all be aspiring to be able to teach, to instruct, to correct, to rebuke, to train in righteousness But there is a warning here because there's a certain status to teaching, isn't there? And the problem is I like the status without the responsibility. I like to be seen as someone who knows more about the Christian life or how to live or come across more together without in fact having to demonstrate that in the consistency of my living. Unlike the teachers in 1 Timothy 1 and verse 7, where Paul said that these teachers in Ephesus want to be teachers of the law, but they don't know what they're talking about. Which or what they so confidently affirm. Because they have forgotten, he says in verse 5, that the goal of our instruction is love out of a pure conscience and sincere faith. It's not simply head knowledge. It's that which transforms the life. Back to chapter 2, you see. And so James says, now be careful before you go around instructing, either publicly or privately. To make sure that in doing that, by your implying that you know more about godly living That you look at your own life because by doing that you are more accountable for what you're saying. You see, there is a principle behind that warning that you need to see. James doesn't state it explicitly. All he says is, don't let many of you presume to be teachers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. I think another way of translating that would be held more accountable. By God as well as by other people. You see, the principle is that when you teach on something, you set yourself up as having superior knowledge, and James says as soon as you do that There is required of you superior obedience. Runs well through his book, chapter 1, verse 22 that we just talked about. Do not merely listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves, but do what it says. Chapter 2, verse 26, As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds, demonstrating it, is dead. After he finishes the section on the tongue. How does he begin on right at the end of that? In chapter 3, verse 12. Who is wise and understanding among you, he says? Who is this one who sets himself up as a teacher? Let him show it by his good life and by deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. Chapter 4, the last verse there, 17. Anyone then who knows the good that he ought to do and doesn't do it, sins. So you see, every time you say, let me instruct or help you to understand this a little more You're holding yourself more accountable for the knowledge that you're seeking to impart. We ought to seek for it. Don't get me wrong. A false humility abacks off and says, therefore I'm not going to try and help anybody, you know, and you see somebody in sin, and you may talk about them, but you don't seek to help them directly because you say, Well, who am I to instruct them? Well then you've just violated just what James has talked about in the use of the tongue. The fact is when you and I see something and we need to minister to it, we do it. But he says, you do it. with a certain humility, and you do it carefully, because you realize how evil the tongue can be. And so he says in verse 2, the problem is, you see, we all stumble. We all stumble in so many ways, don't we? You know, John Blanchard, an author of Once Calculated, he said, just imagine that if you were to just sin once a day, After one year, you would have sinned 365 times. If you lived simply 50 years, you would have sinned 18,250 times. But he said, who would presume to sin once a day? Don't we sin at least once an hour? And if you sin once an hour, then you've sinned twenty-four times a day, eight thousand seven hundred and thirty-six times a year. And in a mere fifty years, 436,800 times. But he says, who would presume to say that they only sin once an hour? And don't we sin every minute? And if you stumble every minute, then you have sinned sixty times an hour, fourteen hundred and forty times a day. 524,160 times a year, and over a 50-year period, 26,208,000 times. But who would say that they only sin once a minute? You get my point? We all stumble in so many ways James says, understand your own weakness before you presume to straighten out other people. Before you use your tongue too glibly to say, hey, let me show you how it ought to be done. Let me show you what I've done in this area of my life, believing what I have done to be maybe a little better. than it actually was. We think even of our tongues and the sins of our tongues. We stumble in so many ways, don't we? Taking God's name in vain. The blasphemy implied or a careless use of the Lord's name. Dirty talk, jokes that we fall into because let's face it, they are funny, but they don't help. The ways we use our tongues and sharp words to cut someone down when we're irritated, to wound their spirits. The boasting that we do that seeks to put ourselves in a better light and build our self-esteem by showing what we've accomplished for after all we are only what we have accomplished, aren't we? And so we seek to impress other people. And by doing that, we exaggerate. And we give glory to ourselves instead of to the Lord. And so we exaggerate with the truth and we twist and we bend it. We criticize, we gossip, we slander, we suggest prayer requests to one another to enlighten each other about how we can pray for the person who is in need. and the juicy tidbits, proverbs say, fall deeply into our souls. On all these ways, the outright lying, the gossip, the slander, we all stumble, don't we? I do. All of us, when we consider our tongues, we stumble in so many ways. A number of you who are particularly aware of this who have been in the Walgrove and Sharp Laugh community studying tongue in check. And you're saying, Oh man, you know, I've been surviving that course for the past few weeks. Now you're gonna hit me with this. I mean that's gonna finish me off. And I thought we were coming to the end of that, you know Well, but we also desperately need to be reminded, don't we? Because we love to rationalize our tongues. And James says, let's be honest. I think it's significant that he says, my brothers, and uses the we here. He's not exempting himself. He says, we all stumble so many ways in this, don't we? And yet, there's a hope implied, I believe, in this. The hope implied in it is what he says there in the last part of that verse. He says, if anyone is never at fault in what he says, He's a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in control or in check. Now, speaking of you and me, that's a hypothetical. He's not saying the people who do this are able to keep their whole bodies in check. He said if anyone were able to do this Then he would in fact be able to keep his whole body in check. But you know, there was one who did teach a perfect standard. And was judged by that standard and kept his whole body in check. You look at Jesus' teaching in the Sermon on the Mount. Whoever taught a more exalted standard than what Jesus taught. He said, you've heard that you shouldn't kill people. He said, hey, I'm telling you, not only if you think malicious thoughts, But if you cut somebody down in a malicious, cutting word and call them a fool, or use some dirty term, or some uh blasphemous term, or damn them to hell. He says in that you've killed them. It's just bad. In terms of just before God's righteous standard, sinning. And he held up a standard of perfection before us in how we should live. He said that we should love our enemies. Not just those that we're friends to, that we shouldn't worry about tomorrow, but should be able to seek first the kingdom and its righteousness and walk consistently without compromise. And then he was watched. He better believe he was watched. Who would stand up and tell hundreds and thousands of people that kind of message? So that you and I are cut to our hearts with conviction, and then say, But it doesn't really matter to me very much if he lives that. Oh, you better believe Jesus was watched. He was watched scrupulously, not only by those who were convicted who were his friends, but by his enemies. And he was judged by the standard that he taught. Who more than Jesus would have to be careful for being a teacher, knowing that he would be judged more strictly? And yet Jesus was judged by the standard that he taught, and he was acquitted. No one Could point up sin in his life. He was acquitted by his perfect standard, where you and I are condemned by our own deficient and imperfect standards. And yet, because of his love for you and for me, Jesus took that standard. And he went before God's bar, his justice court. As if he had your mouth and my mouth. As if all the gossip and the criticism and the blasphemy and the slander and the cutting words and all those things had gone forth from his mouth. And he was judged by God's perfect standard and condemned on the cross. So that you and I would be acquitted by that perfect standard. So that when you and I read verse 2, we all stumble in so many ways. You can say, but Lord, you don't hold any of those ways against me. Because Jesus has given me his righteousness. And I'm acquitted. And because God has given to me his grace and his favor, how can I go around criticizing and gossiping and cutting other people down? Lord, put a song in my heart of one that's acquitted by the perfect standard. May you and I have that sense of freedom that gives to us the contentment that Donna spoke about earlier. The contentment of tongue. But not only is there a warning here, you see, about using your tongue in instructing. There's a second warning, and that warning is do not seek holiness without making tongue control your number one priority. There's a real insight here, you see, that the tongue is the key to holy living. James says, if anyone is never at fault in what he says, Then he is a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. The tongue is the hardest part of the body to control James says, you control the tongue, man, you've got the rest of it made. There's nothing else that's harder to control than that. I have wondered sometimes if there isn't an insight here to chemical addiction. I have never heard of a program that's made tongue control an integral part of the priority of chemical addiction. But if James is saying something here that is a general spiritual principle Then he's saying, learn to control your tongue, and you've got the key to the control of your body. Sounds simple, doesn't it? But try doing it. The tongue is the key to holy living. And so the first part is the tongue is the hardest thing to control. But the second point is that the tongue, then I believe he's saying, is also the key to self-control. Now think about that for a moment. That's not the way United States, is it? Just put the blank there and pretend you hadn't seen that. And it's a quiz. And somebody says to you, fill in the blank. If anyone is never at fault in blank, then he is a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. What would we tend to fill in? If anyone is never at fault in missing his quiet times, He is a perfect man able to keep his whole body in check. If anyone is never at fault in his scripture memory program, Absorbing and internalizing God's Word, He is a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. If anyone is never at fault in seizing every training opportunity Taking advantage of every one-to-one discipling relationship, he is a perfect man, able to keep the whole body in check. And we put that down and we say, hey, I think that's got to be getting at the heart of it. And then James stands up, you know, what do you think it is, James? James says, if you control your mouth. You're a perfect man. Able to keep your whole body in check. Hey James, sit down. We don't want to hear that, you know. I'd rather practice on my quiet times than control my mouth But you see what James is saying? He says, listen, you want the key to holy living? Learn to control your mouth. Learn to control your mouth. You know, a friend of mine, Jack Miller, is pastor at New Life Church in Philadelphia. I would say that it's probably safe to say that over the last ten years, New Life Church has been probably the fastest growing church in our entire denomination. It started about 1973. It's got several hundred In its congregation now, it started one daughter church, which has a couple hundred in it now, and it's starting its second daughter church. It has sent missionaries to Uganda, missionaries to Ireland. It has so many missionaries have gone forth from its congregation it started its own mission board It starts its it started its own missions training program. Evangelistic teams. I would say that the missions training program that they have is probably about the most effective missions training program that I have ever seen. Interesting to see what is entail in their missions training program. I just happen to have it here. He delineates this in his book, Outgrowing the Ingrown Church. Six parts to their training program. He says, number one is the understanding of justification by faith and our adoption and using this assurance of God's love. In other words, first thing is understand justification, understand your assurance and adoption of God's love for you. Then, on the basis of that, two, regular morning devotions, three, tongue control. 4. Skills in Journal Keeping, Discipling and Witnessing. 5. Gift ICO. 6. Capacity to work within a team in small groups. They say if we take six things we want to give people to train them to be missionaries, the first is grace, the second is time in the word. And the third thing most important to us is tongue control. Now, where did Miller get that? He got it from reading James 3, that's for sure. But he wasn't the first one to do this. John Wesley, in his classes, back in the eighteenth century. had three core elements to his training of disciples that revolutionized England and brought revival to that part of the continent and influenced also the United States. The first element was spiritual healing and release. Wesley saturated the class meeting with songs and worship, teaching, testimonies, and exhortation related to justification by faith. He wanted to foster in each believer a strong assurance of God's love, a consciousness of sins forgiven, and the freedom that follows for work and for witness. In this faith-building setting, he required that all members confess their sins weekly and practice tongue control, expressing itself in praise and strict avoidance of gossip. That was basic to his discipleship program. Miller and others took that model and they adopted it for New Life Church. And so their thought, and I'll quote this because I think he states it so well, he says, the basic thought is that God, through the gospel, no longer condemns us. And therefore we are no longer to condemn others, either with suspicious judging attitudes or by slanderous gossiping tongues. Instead, we commit ourselves to strive together to shift from slander and backbiting to praising God, affirming one another, and witnessing to non-Christians about Christ. In small groups, we have the opportunity to help people at close range to stop wounding their consciences by complaining about and sniping at others. In the small groups of New Life Church in late 1974 and 1975, Elder Dan Heron and Deacon James Trott organized the first small group and placed their major stress on tongue control. He who is never at fault in what he says, the same as a perfect man able to keep the whole body in check. That was their major stress in their discipleship Dan taught that each believer was expected never again to say something negative or hurtful about another person, but rather if there were conflicts, The offended person was to go directly to the offender and follow the pattern of discipline described in Matthew eighteen verses fifteen to seventeen. I am convinced, he says, looking back a little over ten years later I am convinced that these beginning efforts toward godly obedience were pleasing to God and unleashed the Holy Spirit on the church in a new way. The result was that the quality of our discipleship greatly improved, and within one year, about 100 new people were added to the church, mostly through conversions. James says, you're stuck in your Christian life. You're having trouble, you know, you've sort of plateaued. J. Sidlow Baxter once said that when a person is truly filled with the Holy Spirit, The first thing that he does is not to speak in tongues, but rather to control the one tongue that he already has. If you feel like at this point you're sort of stuck in your spiritual life, I want to offer you a very practical suggestion and conclusion. It's right there on the bulletin outline. I would like to suggest that you start right here and say, Lord, I want to see in the next three months an observable difference in my Christian life. In my walk with Jesus Christ and in my conscience. I want to see you work in my life in a new way that I haven't seen before. I would suggest, a very practical thing to you, you start here with an honest appraisal today with the misuse of your mouth. Take inventory. Don't look at any other area of your life. Yes, but I'm not doing this and I'm not forgetting. Only look at your mouth. What are the sins of your mouth right at this point in your life? Pray for an increasing sensitivity to its misuse over the next two weeks, because in two weeks from now I'm going to pick up at verse 3. And we're going to look for three weeks. On the matter of the tongue. That you pray that God will show you with a new sensitivity and insight over those three weeks How you can have a tongue that is more controlled and pleasing to him and focus on that one area of your life. And then as you make applications of that, pray that over the next two months after that, three months total, so that in March, April, and May God will show you by the end of May a new discipline, a new control of your tongue, and see what happens to the rest of your life. Just watch. That's my challenge. Let's pray. Lord, we really want to take your word seriously here, and you tell us We better not go around instructing others without looking at our own lives. And Lord, that really examines me. I think of that, Lord, Sunday mornings as I see people gathering here for worship, and I think, who am I? To bring God's word. Lord, help each of us. Help me. To be more honest in the appraisal of my mouth. In the use of it, which I can so easily justify in seeking to lead and to help and to evaluate. Help us, Lord. That you would help each of us in our body to make the next three months an experiment. That we're going to praise our tongues more honestly That we would set for ourselves very concrete applications, that we would make that the number one priority of our discipleship in our next three months, and see what you do. Lord, we pray that if there's anyone here who doesn't know the grace of the Lord Jesus, you'd bring that person to see their need. And to see that they can be acquitted because you were condemned in their place. Meet each of us, Lord, at the point of our need right now, in Jesus' name. Amen.