Amen. All the kids gone. Here's your last chance, kids. As you turn to James, once again, let me uh just say that we're especially glad to have Two old-timer newcomers here. Denny Williams back from Michigan after some time. Sure good to see you back, Danny. And Jerry Boss back from Germany. And where'd you settle down, Jerry? Back over there. Okay. Glad to have you two guys back for a Sunday. Denny not planning to return. Jerry and his family planning to come back in August. Well, this is our last week on James three, thirteen to eighteen, where James has been contrasting Counterfeit wisdom with true godly wisdom. And I call it counterfeit wisdom rather than just false wisdom because it's wisdom that looks Like it's true. It has the appearance of real wisdom. It makes common sense and it appeals to the spirit of our age And therefore, James needs to unmask the nature of this wisdom so that we can see that in fact it is selfish That his origin is in selfish ambition and not from above, but rather that it's a wisdom from below. And so James has been contrast contrasting for us the origin of it the characteristics of it, and now this morning he finishes up with a so what of it. What practical difference does it make? Which wisdom you're following What difference does it make? And he contrasts these two things in verses 16 and 18. Verse 16, the results of counterfeit wisdom For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. Contrasted with verse 18, where he says, the results of true wisdom from above, peacemakers who sow in peace raise a harvest of righteousness. Now, just so we have this thing in context, let's take a look at God's word now once again, God's own revelation, verses 13 to 18 to see the flow of his thought. Let's hear God's word. Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life, by deeds done in humility that comes from wisdom. But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth. Such wisdom does not come down from heaven, but is earthly, unspiritual, of the devil. For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. But wisdom that comes from above or from heaven is first of all pure, then peace-loving, considerate, submissive Full of mercy and good fruit, impartial or double-minded, and sincere. Peacemakers who sow in peace raise a harvest of righteousness. Now, in order to appreciate what James is getting at here, I think you need to realize, remember, something that I said when we began this series just over a year ago, and that is that James is a counselor. The counseling profession has exploded in the last years. Just since we have begun as a church, three counseling centers, Christian counseling centers, have begun their ministries in this area. And many of us have gone to counselors. The counseling profession is multiplying many times over. And it is really in to consider going to a counselor. And many people are going into that profession. It's growing leaps and bounds. Now, excuse me. When you go to look for a counselor, one of the most important things that you look for Is a man or a woman who is a good diagnostician. That is to say, a good counselor is somebody who can watch you fight with your wife or your husband You know, watch the interaction that's going on, or listen to you recount your problems and describe what's wrong in your life. And then that person doesn't immediately respond to that. But rather skillfully they trace by questions those different what are sometimes called presentation problems down to some basic root problems And then attacking the root problem in God's way, if the person's a Christian counselor, of course, then they're going to give you the real freedom that comes from understanding now you've gotten to the root problem. You've repented of that, you've been able to see the grace of God to transform you and heal you in that, and there's new freedom. That's a tremendous feeling. For any of us who have had that, to realize that someone has helped us to see all the different symptoms and trace it to a root problem and that get God's direction on that in a new freedom. Now, what I want you to see is that James is an extremely skillful, a brilliant, in fact, I would say infallible diagnostician. And one of the things that James does through his book again and again is to take our problems, the presentation problems we have, the felt needs that we see, and he traces it to the root problem and then gives us freedom. Remember in chapter 1, he did this. He said in chapter 1, in verses 6 to 8, there, remember he said, here's a guy that's unstable, everything that he does. Yeah, just an unstable character. James says, what's the problem? And he traces it back to the root. He says that this is a person who has never been able to unreservedly commit himself to something. And in particular, in terms of wisdom, to commit himself to Jesus Christ. He's always got reservations. He's double-minded. And therefore, he's going to be unstable in everything that he does. You remember in uh later on in chapter 1, in verse 13 and 14, he says, now here's a person that comes to me, and he says, I'm caught in temptation. This thing's simply beyond me and I can't escape it. I'm helpless under the power of this sin in my life. James says, hey You're rationalizing. The root problem is that you fed that monster when it was a baby and now it's grown up. You see, he says you took that sin, that evil desire And when it seemed so harmless and helpless, you fed it then. And James said that little monster's grown up and now it's controlling you. But James says the problem was you rationalized your control of that. And so again and again he traces root problems. Chapter 2. Remember, he said, here's a problem of favoritism. People that play up to others because of their power or their influence in order to get from them rather than to give to them. And James says the problem, the root problem of this man or woman is that they have forgotten what I have called the five G's. They've not understood what true glory is In terms of earthly tawdry glory. They haven't understood, secondly, God's nature, that God is totally oblivious to the kinds of distinctions that we make. They've not understood, thirdly, that um What was the third way? Oh yes, the gratitude that comes from not under uh from the fact that it's the rich who have, James says, not really given you much of anything, and yet you're playing up to them as if they're your best friends. Fourthly, he says you have forgotten the whole idea of guilt because God Himself forbids such favoritism. And then fifthly he says you have forgotten grace because you have forgotten the fact that when you've really understood grace and mercy, you want to give to those that can't return. Not just give to those that will be able to pay you back. And so he's traced again a root problem. Chapter three, remember he talks about the problem of the uncontrolled tongue. He says, here's a person that just you know shoots off at the mouth and and they say, Oh well I just can't help it. And James says the root problem is twofold, remember, we saw there. They're minimizing the evil and they're minimizing the power He says you're minimizing the evil of it. You really don't think it's all that bad. And secondly, he says you've minimized the e the power of it. You think that a half-hearted effort in your own strength is sufficient to control your tongue And you have forgotten that it's something absolutely beyond your power. It's a supernatural matter to control the tongue. And now he comes to the end of chapter three, and again he's He's as a counselor being a brilliant diagnostician for us because now he's saying, okay, he says I see a trail of chaos and relationships that are an upheaval And he said, now, what's the root problem here? And James says the root problem is selfish ambition The root problem, James says, when you see a person who just everywhere they go, they're like sparks setting off forest fires. And James says you you look at this and there's problems in the family and there's problems in the church and there's problems where they work and you trace it all through. And James says, he says, I'll warrant that you'll probably find there a bitter person. Who has selfish ambition that's being frustrated? And likely they're appearing to be wise in what they're doing. James says that's the problem. Now it's interesting he does not say that every time you see chaos and disorder, there you'll find a bitter person. But what he does say is every time you find a bitter, envious Person full of selfish ambition, there you will always find as a consequence chaos, disorder, and every worthless practice. And then he contrasts that with the alternative. Every time you find a person who in Jesus Christ is sowing peace in their relationships, you will find a harvest of righteousness. It's taking the effect and tracing it back to the root. And that's what James wants to do. So he contrasts these two things Two elements in verse 16 with two elements in verse 18. Take a look at those. Disorder and chaos. Versus peace in the first place. Do you see that? Where you find this envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder, verses 18, peacemakers who sow in peace. Chaos versus peace are the two elements that are contrasted. The word disorder here, translated disorder by the NIV, is the same word that you have in verse 8 of chapter 1. You remember where James talks about the double-minded man who's unstable, we just reminded you of unstable and all his way. It's the same word for unstable. So there you find instability, a kind of a chaotic disorder. It's the same word that's used in chapter 3, verse 8, where James talks about the tongue is a restless evil It's sort of like a caged animal always looking for a chance to break out. And James says that restlessness is the same kind of disorder, you see. So it's this word is used three times It's a kind of a restless disorder, a chaotic upheaval that James is describing. It reminds me of a story I heard once of a Finnish farmer. That because he hated Jesus Christ so much, in his will he left his farm to the devil And uh when that will was read, of course, there were some eyebrows raised and they didn't quite know how to dispose of the property. And so it went through the courts and the courts decided the only thing they could do with it is to forbid anyone from touching that and let the devil take care of his property. But of course what happened was in the following years, weeds, thorns, brambles grew up, the house and the other buildings on the farm began to crumble, they went into disarray. And so in 10, 15 years, things were utterly chaotic and in disorder and had disintegrated. That's the nature of the fruit of the devil's work. Disorder. Chaos. This same kind of thing is seen often in church families, where you find that spirit of selfish ambition that's rationalized by doctrinal purity. And in that you find disorder and chaos. I think it was interesting that George Berwer, who travels all over the world, wrote not long ago in one of his newsletters these words. He said, 2 Corinthians 2. 11 tells us not to be ignorant of Satan's devices. How many of us take this seriously? We certainly need to. During the first two months of 1986, as I preached in many places around the United States, I was reminded that Satan is attempting to bring chaos, disorder, same kind of thing, into every, in italics, local congregation. He tries daily to bring division, immorality, extremes, broken relationships into every church. Christians quickly fall into this trap of blaming one another instead of standing together in love and faith against the evil one. Oh, what heartbreaking situations we so often see. And this in turn slows down the work of world missions directly. And indirectly. Selfish ambition subtly masked under the cloak of wisdom that produces disorder in every worthless practice Disorder rather than peace. But you remember, James, the c the concept of wisdom for James Is the same as what concept for Paul? What was it? James wisdom for James equals Holy Spirit. Hey, you're with me. Great. The Holy Spirit for Paul. So it's interesting that just as James here talks about the fruit of wisdom in verse 17, and then he goes on to talk about peacemakers who sow in peace. First of all, the fruit is that they love peace, then they make peace, then they sow in peace. So back in Galatians chapter 5, do you remember, Paul talked about the fruit of the Spirit. And turn to that for just a moment. Remember in Galatians 5 he talked about the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. And then in chapter 6, just a few verses later. Beginning in verse 7, Galatians 6, beginning in verse 7, Paul says, Do not be deceived. God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows The one who sows to please his sinful nature, selfish ambition, you see. From that nature will reap destruction, disorder, chaos. The one who sows to please the Spirit. You see the parallel? The one who sows peace, the peacemaker, who sows peace to wisdom. Paul says, Whosows to please the Spirit, the power of the Spirit here is involved. From the Spirit will reap eternal life. And so what James is saying, in Paul's terms, is that the one who sows in the Spirit, spiritual peace. Will produce a harvest of righteousness. You see this contrast all around us. I mean, this counsel is so immediately relevant, it's scary. You think, for instance, of the examples we see of selfish ambition in our own day producing disorder and chaos Perhaps you saw recently the second showing of the miniseries, The Thornbirds. And I think that's a particularly good example. I happened to read the book a few years ago and was struck in that example of the unraveling of those lives. With the fact that Father Ralph de Bricasa, now I'm not going to ask for hands, how many saw that, but you know, if you did, you're going to recognize the principle that James is talking about here. Father de Bricasa appears to be a very wise, godly priest, but clearly in that his selfish ambition to become bishop and to gain power within the church produces disorder and chaos in all the relationships around him, particularly destroying Meg Cleary. The woman that he loves, but refuses to admit it because of his selfish ambition, and that cloak on what appears to be godliness, and yet there is a mixture of it A desire for God with a selfish ambition. But you see, that's exactly what James is talking about. You're not talking here about somebody who's an utter reprobate who's obviously off the wall. He's talking about the person who appears to be wise. But you see in the trail of their life chaos and disorder. James says you look deeper beyond that wisdom and you'll find it's not godly wisdom. There's selfish ambition that's mixed in a good bit with that. Where you see again and again in examples today of kids that grow up and as teenagers perhaps they begin to read glamour or GQ Gentleman Quarterly, you know, and they reviews and other upscale kinds of magazines and begin to imbibe the kind of value that says make it for yourself. Get that BMW, that Mercedes or now Jaguars are getting more popular, you know, and get this And this is where you're going to be able to find status and self-esteem if you are able to accomplish, become a winner and not a loser. And so there's this kind of myth that's perpetuated that this is where the happiness is. And these people grow in basically nice people oftentimes, but they get married without any sense of ultimate commitment or sacrifice. And pressures begin to mount in order to achieve within the competitive marketplace. And they're like leaves that get carried down by the Current of a stream, and you see it bobbing off of a rock and a stick, because there's nothing that's anchoring it. And because nothing anchors it, it's swept along by the tide of the immediate values And so the relationships within the family begin to disintegrate. But there's disorder in their lives. The kind of thing that Gordon MacDonald talked about, the lack of order in the private world. And then there's separation and divorce and a stream of broken relationships one after the other because what appears to be wisdom is in fact selfish ambition And the fruit is disorder and chaos. And sometimes we'll see this kind of thing writ large in the lives of celebrities that are notable. What better example of this principle than the recent scandals of the TV evangelists? Men who had wisdom. But mixed with a selfish ambition that becomes seduced by power, money, sex, or other things, things that all of us Are very vulnerable before. But in the case of the immense power, you see even more dramatically portrayed the chaos And the disorder that it produces. And what dies by the roadside in that? Peace and the harvest of righteousness, for which the very ministries were created And these things then go by the board. Or you see it in the case most recently of one like Gary Hart Now I don't usually mention things in the news of immediate connections to my messages, and yet I thought that this was so closely allied to the principle that James is describing here that I couldn't resist. You see in Gary Hart a person who seemed to have a good deal of wisdom. Certainly there was the ambition. But what is the source of the wisdom That will cause a 50-year-old man to fly the opposite direction from his wife for a weekend and take a cruise with a 29-year-old model actress And then sometime later invite her back overnight to his townhouse. And we see dramatically portrayed there the selfish ambition that produces disorder and chaos within 100 hours. The man who was the number one contender for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States had folded his campaign. It was irreparable. It was in utter chaos and disorder. And it was a total lost cause. And all he could say at the end of that, by way of admission of guilt, was quote, I have made some mistakes, maybe, maybe big mistakes. But not bad mistakes. Now I have read fifteen pages of reporting and editorializing on this incident because I thought I was going to use it and I wanted to be sure of what I was saying. What intrigued me, I was looking for something in those 15 pages. I was looking for somebody to put their finger what, on my poor judgment at least, is the real issue And in 15 pages of editorializing and reporting, I never saw one person who raised what to me is the clear, simple, basic issue of the whole thing. They talk about morality, they talk about sex, they talk about honesty and whether he admitted what he did and this and that and all the rest of that. I don't think any of that's the real issue. The real issue Is that 28 years ago Gary Hart stood before a woman, Lee, and he made a vow to her. And he said, I will be faithful to you to the rest of my days. Now if that man could break a vow to a woman who was the closest person in his life to him, why should I, as a voter, believe a campaign promise that he'll make to me over the television among hundreds and thousands and millions of other people and believe that he is going to have the integrity to keep that vow and that promise or any others that he makes. But not one person of all the pages that I read, raised the question of the marriage vow and the commitment to it. And so you see, this is the nature of selfish ambition. It says, I will do what is necessary to get what I want. And the result, James says, is always chaos and disorder. And it's every worthless practice. That's the other thing that he talks about here, you see. It's that worthless practice. Now, the worthless practice is contrasted with the harvest of righteousness. New International says every evil practice, but the word evil there is a word which basically means something that's simply worthless. It's like chaff and weeds in a garden. And you see how that is contrasted then with a harvest of righteousness, a harvest that is valuable. It's the kind of idea that you have in Psalm 1. Now those who are fools who are like calf which the wind drives away, compared to the righteous or blessed man, who is like a tree that produces fruit and stands, stands in the judgment Because he is solid. There's something of worth there. And so James is here picking up this kind of contrast. Every worthless practice With a harvest of righteousness. And again, you see the same parallel in Paul. Look back again to Galatians chapter 6, where Paul had just talked about sowing to the Spirit. You remember he said in verse 8, From the Spirit will reap eternal life. Then verse 9, let us not become weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest. If we do not give up. Therefore, now Paul spells out the sowing in peace and righteousness. Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good To all people, especially to those who belong to the family of believers. And so James is saying the same thing right here. And I believe that one of the reasons that pastors, for instance, have such short stays within the American church, you know how long the average pastor stays in his pastor in the American church? The average pastor. Stays 18 months. Now why is that? That's across all denominations. I believe it's because a man comes in with a certain idealism Certain things that he thinks that the people need, and this is his agenda. And this agenda is aggressively with some charisma put forth in many cases, but there's not the sewing of peace And why isn't there the sowing of peace? Because there's not the long-range vision of a harvest of righteousness. Why is it? That peace and consensus within Columbia Presbyterian Church is so important to me. Some people say, well, you've got to always harvest peace and consensus and doing things. Because I have a vision of a harvest of righteousness in you people. You see, if all I wanted to do was to see Columbia Presbyterian grow, there's a lot of things that we could push through. But without that peace, in the long run, there's not going to be a harvest of righteousness. And so we as a session, because we're committed to a harvest of righteousness, will take the time, not always perfectly, many times missing it, but at least attempt to make a priority out of sowing in peace. Why is it that in marriages, after a while you say, it's just not worth it? It's not worth what I'm putting into this marriage for what I'm getting out of it. It's not worth the effort anymore Because one or two of those partners does not have the vision of a harvest of righteousness in the other person's life. You see, it's a it's a selfish ambition that says, what can I get from this? But the person who has a goal of a harvest of righteousness in the other person's life will make a priority out of sowing in peace. The idea of sowing in the Bible is the idea of the fact that what you do in living is always germinating little seeds, it's spreading little seeds, and those seeds James and Paul are saying, grow up. And they produce fruit. They produce some sort of a harvest. But the only kind of harvest of righteousness is going to produce is from a life that is sown in peace. That makes a priority out of loving peace. That makes a priority out of that because it realizes that Jesus Christ is the Prince of Peace And it realizes that the Bible gives us a trail of broken relationships, of every worthless practice from those who did not value that. Cain. Brought disorder to the very first family by killing his brother Abel. And why was it? Because of envy, because of selfish ambition against his brother Or Miriam and Aaron, that we talked about some weeks ago, you remember, were jealous of Moses. And they brought chaos and disorder within Israel. Israel had to stop their journeys for seven days while Miriam recovered from a case of leprosy. Given to her by God because of her selfish ambition. Or you look at Absalom, David's son, Absalom brings disorder and chaos, every worthless practice within the whole nation of Israel, because of fomenting civil war, trying to take over the throne for himself, so that David himself has to flee from the capital city as a refuge And why is it? Because of Absalom's selfish ambition, chaos, and every worthless practice. Where you trace it back to the very root, Satan himself brought disorder and chaos and every chaos. that we see within the human condition ultimately trace to Satan's selfish ambition when he said, I will be like God. Or in his emissaries, the Jewish leaders, two thousand years ago, a group of men who see one coming as the Prince of Peace into Jerusalem, and all the crowds are hailing him As the Messiah, the king of the Jews. And five days later, they're in chaos and disorder, crying out, Crucify Him. Why? Because of the selfish ambition of the religious leaders of that day. Because they saw that Jesus was exposing them for what they were, and they didn't want to have their power taken from them. Selfish ambition, producing disorder, and the most worthless practice that ever existed in all of human history: the crucifixion of a sinless man. But praise God. God used that very act to produce the greatest harvest of righteousness. That there has ever been. A new people, a new harvest, a new harvest that he speaks of as beginning in the first fruits of Pentecost. In which all the nations are being brought into this harvest of righteousness because Jesus sowed peace at the cross. And there again you see the parallel in Paul. For Paul picks up the same theme that's in James when in Ephesians chapter 2, Paul says, Jesus, he himself, is our peace. Look at it later. It's Ephesians 2 verse 14, all the way to the end of that chapter. And it is a brilliant commentary on this one verse, James 3. 18. Jesus is our peace. And Paul goes on to say, he brought together peace. From the two into one. What are the two he's talking about? The Jew and the Gentile. There was never such animosity between two groups as there was between the Jew and the Gentile at that time. I've told you before that if you had a cask of wine and you were a Jew and a Gentile stuck his nose in and sniffed your wine, you had to throw away the whole cask of wine. You can imagine how much the Jews love to throw away a whole cask of wine. But you had to throw away the whole cask of wine because it was polluted by the nose of that Gentile. The Gentiles in turn were not to be outdone, and they wrote plays in which they ridiculed publicly. the Jews in which they brought disgrace upon them and used every opportunity of the Roman government to oppress them and to humiliate them. There was such animosity between the two And Paul says, Jesus brought peace between those two. And then he says in verse 16, how did he do it? At the cross. He brought the peace. He sowed the peace. He made the peace at the cross. And if you and I are ever going to sow peace in a situation in which we find tension In which we find that we're tempted to fight for our rights. We're tempted to fight to get even, to win, to win on principle's sake. It's always for principle's sake, you know. To win for principle's sake. Then it's only going to be by going to the cross that we'll make peace. We go to the cross and we see that Jesus gave up all ambition. That at the cross Jesus Christ laid aside all of his rights. That for Jesus Christ bringing peace between you and me and the Father who was alienated from us. By our sin and our wicked disobedience, Jesus was determined to make peace. And to do that, he gave up everything that he had. And I venture to say that when you and I are tempted to fight, you go to the cross, and you see what Jesus paid there to sow peace so that you and I could be reconciled to the Father. And then therefore to one another, that it's that important to him. And you have a vision of a harvest of righteousness that you want to see in that other person's life You will make peace. It may cost you. You may have to admit that you are wrong. You may have to swallow some pride, and you may have to go back in a disrupted relationship. And you may have to humbly seek for forgiveness. But there's only one thing that will motivate sinners like you and me to humble ourselves like that. And it's the cross of Jesus Christ. Let's go there now. Let's pray. Lord, for some of us we look in our lives and we see too much chaos. We have to be honest before you, Lord, and admit there's some worthless practices. Some things that we're ashamed of, that we have done, and we've rationalized it on the basis of principle. Who are they to treat us like that? We've got to stand for our rights at some point, you know. And Lord, on and on we have excused and we have justified standing our ground But Lord, your word, through your infinitely wise counselor, no Lord, a sinful counselor, but given infinite wisdom by your Spirit, has opened our hearts. And you've laid us bare before you, Lord. You've laid bare our selfish ambition and our envy. And we've seen what it's worth. And we hate it Lord, we're sinful people, and oh God, we want for you to take that away. We want to be a people who sow in peace. We want to be a people who love peace. We want to be a people who have that supernatural wisdom that is the balance of being peace-loving and single-minded for the truth. And oh Lord, we pray that you would open our hearts, that we might be able to confess that before you openly. And that in confessing it, we will see that you desire that we have your peace. And we'll see that that peace is available at the cross of the Lord Jesus. And that finding our reconciliation with you there There will be nothing in us, Lord, that wants to defend our rights, will be willing to give them up because of the harvest of righteousness that we desire. Lord, do that work in us. Give us that freedom, that joy of seeing the harvest of righteousness in our families, our wives, our husbands, our kids. The harvest of righteousness in our small groups, in our laugh groups, in our body here, in relationships at work, in our neighborhood, because we love you. Lord Jesus, thank you for your peace. Amen