Now uh I must uh mention, turning your Bibles to the book of James, that I did not wear this tie to keep you awake. Uh We've had a number of comments on this. It's nice to know that uh things that you wear are noticed, especially when they're picked out by your daughter. Uh how do you know that uh Julie who's in the nursery, she's not here, gave this to me as a Christmas, uh birthday present. present. Not a Christmas present thinking I just had finally the guts to wear it, but no it was a birthday present just a couple of weeks ago. And uh I had all kinds of comments about Rocket keeping on his sunglasses and everybody uh being able to shield their eyes But uh I want you to be able to uh admire her taste as you hear the message, and uh when you see her after the nursery, tell her that you noticed. Well, back to James, and it's been a long time, it's sort of like having a good Good friend back to address us again. I you know, I'm wondering how many of you began Columbia Presbyterian since we began the series of James in April nineteen eighty six? Let's just see hands of those have been since began. beginning since April 86. And a whole a number of you, not all of you are admitting it, I think, but uh uh that's a a good number. I would just want you to know for those uh who have been here and not heard anything before James, we took this last two months Months, just so you'd know that we do believe that there are other parts of Scripture worth looking at at Columbia Presbyterian besides the book of James. But since it's been over two months now, since before Thanksgiving, since we have left James at church. Chapter 4, verse 10, I want to give you, by way of that outline, just a bit of review. Because you see, even though chapter 4, verse 11 picks up a new section. It's really a section that's very closely related to the section before it. In fact, the more I study James, the more I realize that James is a very tightly packed unit of thought. It really is very closely intertwined. Fine. But particularly the section from chapter two, verse fourteen, up through chapter five, verse six, is one unit of thought. And so you see that there on your bulletin outline. that you can uh see the relation. And I just want to uh help you to see the context of what we're going to be looking at now. In chapter two, verses fourteen to twenty six, James had made his basic thesis statement. And that is that faith, without an observable life change, is not really saving faith. It's a faith that's deceiving itself. And he gives two examples of that. Two Practical examples. One is the matter of tongue control. You remember he hit that in chapter 3, the first 12 verses. Then the second illustration is the one he's been following from the end of chapter 3, verse 13, all the way through chapter. Chapter 4 and up to chapter 5, verse 6. And that's what I call selfish ambition control. Now, the way he unfolds this, you see, is important for us to notice so that you can see the connections between the point of he's trying to make. First of all, you remember in chapter four he contrasted selfish ambition and wisdom. That was the end of chapter three. Then in chapter four, he said selfish ambition, which is uncontrolled, disrupts our relationships First of all, with other people, and then he talked about disrupting our relationship with God in prayer. You remember he talked about how that was serious, it was spiritual adultery, it was actual enity against God. And then he said, There's hope, though. As serious as this This is, there's hope. Because while God resists the proud, he gives grace to the humble. Infinite grace. Always more grace. Do you remember? Chapter 4, verse 6. And so because that's for the humble, James then has given us five steps. To genuine humility in chapter 4, verses 7 to 10. Now, what's he going to do? In chapter 4, verse 11, what he's doing, on through chapter 5, verse 6, is he's now going to show us three. Very practical applications and tests of a humble heart. He's saying chapter 4, verse 7 to 10: here's how to gain that humble heart which finds grace with God. It's a humble heart which itself is an evidence of the grace. grace of God. But here's how that humble heart comes before God to seek more grace in the situation that you need it. But then he's saying, now you think you have that, huh? And so in chapter 4, verse 11 and 12, he gives one test, then the rest of chapter 4 He gives a second test, an application, and then in chapter 5, verses 1 to 6, a third test. And what we're doing this morning, then, you see, is looking at this first application or first test of a truly humble heart. James is Saying, if in fact you have humbled yourself by the grace of Jesus Christ before him and have been lifted up by him, that will be evidenced in three things you will not presume to do. First thing he says that you will not presume to do is to judge other people's lives. Or to put it more simply, you won't go around talking critically about other people. James says that is the first test of a humble heart. of a person who has really found their rightful place before Jesus Christ. Now it's interesting to me that in anticipation of preaching this message this morning on gossip and criticism and negative talking that the Navigator High School Ministry planned their weekend away this weekend. The singles planned their ski trip to go away this weekend, and half of the rest of the congregation that decided to visit their relatives. But I don't take that personally. I'll get you all back. later you see. Let me therefore read about this negative attitude and uh read to you from James chapter four. Let's pick it up at verse six, right on down to verse twelve, focusing This morning in verses 11 and 12. James says he gives us more grace. That's why the scripture says God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves then to God. Resist the devil. And he will flee from you. Come near to God, and he will come near to you. Wash your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded. Grieve, mourn, wail. Change your silly laughter into mourning, and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and He will lift you up. Brothers, do not slander one another. Anyone who speaks against his brother or judges him speaks against the law and judges it. When you judge the law, you are not keeping it, but you are sitting in judgment on it. There is only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and destroy. But you, who are you to judge your neighbor? Two things I want to say. us to notice about God's word, these two verses, verse eleven and twelve. First of all to consider the commandment that's urged, and secondly to consider the considerations, the commandment urged and then the considerations that are used to show us the importance and to motivate us in this. First of all then, notice the commandment that's urged. He says, brothers, do not slander one another. Literally the word means to not speak against someone. It's used of negative critical attitude. It doesn't so much refer to whether something is true or false as the motive and the attitude with which it was spoken. It's speaking about a negative critical attitude. critical attitude. There's lots of ways that we see this, isn't there? I mean it's easy to talk about it in the abstract, but we think of the many, many examples we see every day of this. Now you kids find that one of the best ways to feel like you belong and are in with someone else is whoever's not there to criticize them. And you know how it is, you get two kids together, everything's fine. You get three together, one's left out and the other two joined together. And there's something in us that wants to belong by criticizing the other person and leaving them out. Or you hear teenagers talking on the phone. Boy, do you hear them talking on the phone. And so much of so many teenage conversations. conversations on the phone is gossip. There's that strong temptation, isn't there, when you're on the phone talking about your friends, to be cutting down on your friends and therefore including you with that other person whose judgment like yours is superior to the creed that you're talking about. When you get into office and you think of your work situation, whatever it was, whether office or some other situation in this past week, what was the nature of of the conversation. Wasn't so much of it when you look back on it. Criticizing the people who were not present. Talking about the inside dirt about those who aren't there. Last Sunday's comic strip by Sally Ford. I don't know how many of you follow her, some insights on contemporary culture, but it was about this exact thing, the stabbing of the back in office gossip, which the fellow who was doing all the slandering called simply office politics. And you see this again and again and again in so many situations, a negative, dirty feeling about the conversation because it's so critical and so negative. Even Christians in churches we see this, mature Christians, leadership Journal a couple issues ago had a study of one family that had split church after church because this family that had the parents had both graduated from a Bible college were known as mature Christians. Nevertheless, we're splitting churches. Why? Because there was a root of bitterness in their lives. They were refusing to forgive people. They had their own agenda that everybody had to follow. They had a certain way that things had to be done. And that there was that bitterness, that desire for power that refused to make peace. And so there was always the pious spiritual talk that masked really a bitter spirit. James says, do not slander one another. You want to know if you have true wisdom? If you want to know if you have true humility, James says, you're not going to go around talking critically and negatively in subtle spiritual ways to try and produce. Pretend that you're concerned for someone, but really you're simply venting a negative critical attitude about them. A number of times in my own life I must confess that I've been disillusioned as I've gotten to spend time with Christian leaders. Men who perhaps I had respected from afar. And when I got the opportunity to spend some up close time with them, perhaps at a dinner or something like this, I found that in many cases, certainly not all cases, there are many Christian leaders who are far above this. But there have been those who you'd recognize, uh the names and people that were well known, who I found that when we were together there was this Christian in talk that was basically just gossiping about all the other Christian leaders and downing them and talking Talking about how they didn't understand this or that, and it was just plain gossip, a negative, critical attitude that I was ashamed to be associated with. And I'm certainly not saying that I've been immune to it. I've found it so many times in my own life. It sneaks in, it creeps in because we're not on guard and we don't take seriously what James says here. I get a magazine unsolicited, comes to my house, and that entire magazine is nothing but negative critical reporting of things going on in the church. You look page after page to find something to rejoice in. You feel like after you read the magazine you've got to take a bath. All it is is talking about how things are going the pot in this person's Apostate and that person's off the wall and this thing's wrong and that thing's wrong. And it's negative, critical talk. It's amazing to me how you will find Christians who have been in the church for years. By the way, this is more More of a sin, I find, among those who have walked with Christ for years than it is among brand new Christians, who are so full of the joy of Jesus Christ that they don't think about this so much. But we become sophisticated as we grow in the Lord, don't we? Fine-tuned in our theological criticisms, in our spiritual maturity. And I have found Christians who would be absolutely clear on their view of politics or on their view of soteriology from numerous scriptures that They deduced inferentially their position, who would say that these verses are an absolute mystery to them. You know, I can be I can split fellowship over my view of politics with my brother, because that's clear in scripture. But I don't understand what James means when he says, do not slander one another. I mean that's just beyond me, you know. Uh and so they do this, they they violate this. And it just seems like you don't see that? That's a basic thing that James is saying is true in the Christian life. You who James says if you in fact speak against your brother, you're speaking against the law. And you are judging the law. Now, it's interesting to note that this, of course, is not the only time This concern is given in the scripture. This concern is given a number of times in the New Testament. Many times this appears. And it's interesting the way that it appears. It is never considered to be a small matter. In Romans 1, where Paul uses this same word, do not speak, uses this word slander or speaking against. In Romans chapter 1, he puts it in the context of homosexuality and murder. And he puts them right side by side, associating them together. He doesn't say this is just a little sin that you know mature Christians indulge in, but some of these other things are very offensive. But he puts it right alongside of murder and homosexuality. Or in 2 Corinthians, in chapter uh twelve, Paul talks about uh the Corinthians uh slandering, and he says that he fears that. He says it's something that uh that causes him to cringe when he thinks thinks about what that's going to do to the church and to the ministry. In Peter, 1 Peter in chapter 2, Peter says, by all means get rid of this. In your life. Again and again, the Bible voices this as a concern, a basic concern of the Christian life. Now that's all the more amazing when you contrast it with the culture at the That time. Because what I hadn't realized until I began to study this was how infrequently this was mentioned in the culture at that time. If you study Greek philosophy and read the contemporary literature at the time of the The New Testament, this word is almost never used. It is almost never any kind of ethical injunction of the philosophies and the religions of that time. It was a fact of life. No one else really concerned themselves all that much with this. It was a distinctive mark of the Christian church that speaking against one another was a sin. That's interesting, isn't it? Almost never followed This is in secular Greek. It was a distinctive mark of the New Testament church. For the rest of the culture, it was simply a fact of life. It was expected. Peter, in 1 Peter, again, chapter 2, talks about this as a fact of life. He says, you will be spoken against. And then he tells the Christians how to deal with it. Make sure that what they're speaking against you about is in fact a false accusation, not a true accusation. But he assumes they're going to be spoken against, and that's helpful, isn't it, for you? To just set it down as a fact of life that people will speak against us. And therefore, don't be surprised when you find that people speak against you. Don't be surprised when you find yourself tempted to speak against others. It's an innocent. in a part of our being, our sinful natures. But it's also a distinctive of the Christian church that it is not characteristic. It was at that time, and I praise God that by and large I see that that's true of Columbia Presbyterian. I really rejoice. One of the things I'm most delighted about in the work of God in our church is that I hear of so little gossip or slandering. You know, in the ten years that we have been a church, there have been a couple of attempts to divide us as a congregation. Congregation by gossip and by slander. And it's gotten nowhere. It couldn't get off the ground. God had protected us from that. But you know that is not something for us to feel proud about. That's the point, you see. And James says If in fact you begin to feel proud about it, you're going to start gossiping. Because it's only the humble heart that doesn't. And so we need to, again and again, be humbling ourselves before the Lord to ask him that he will protect us as a church from this sin. Thank God he has done it. Pray that he'll continue to do it. That brings to the third point, and that is see there. You notice there is a frequent violation of this after the New Testament. It's interesting. Again, as I said, you look at it. It appears a number of times in the New Testament. If you look in the secular Greek, it almost the word almost never appears. But if you look at the Christian writings after the New Testament, in the second century, the word appears many more times than you see it in the New Testament. Now why is that? Scholars deduce from this that after the first century, when things had cooled a little bit and some of the church's first love for the Lord Jesus had grown cold, there were very Evangelistic zeal was not as hot. They began to develop what Frank Tillipal calls a rear echelon mentality. You know what that is? He uh describes it when he was in the army. If you're in the front line in the battle, Everybody was hanging together as they depended on each other, and there was a very strong sense of unity and camaraderie. Nobody was complaining about the food, the provisions, uh, those kind of things. They're trying to stay alive. But he said, You moved back a couple of miles into the supply base, you moved back into where the officers were, where things were being run, and they were out of the heat of the battle, and you said all you heard back there was the griping about the food, the griping about the sleeping provisions, the griping about the weather, the griping about this, that, and every other thing. And he said the sure cure for that was to bring those people up into the battle. That stopped the graving, because then you were dependent on survival for the other person that you had been griping against. And that's the way the church is. As soon as in the second century things had cooled spiritually, the church began to gripe. And that's instructive for you and for me because it means that as a church, as we grow older, We must continually renew in our own understanding our purpose of seeing God accomplish Ephesians 1:16 to 23 in our lives. Know Him. Know our inheritance. Know His power. Because if we ever Back off of that. I guarantee you, we will begin to see gossiping and slander at Columbia Presbyterian Church. As soon as we back off of our commitment to reach Columbia, Howard County, and the area around us for Jesus Christ. Christ aggressively, we will begin to see more speaking against one another within the body. I believe one of the things that has most protected us from this in the past ten years has been the fact that we have been aggressively trying to reach our Community for Christ. Because we have a front to the degree that we have that frontline mentality, God will protect us from the griping. Because we develop the frontline mentality rather than the rear echelon mentality. Now, having noticed that. About the command. Let's look very briefly at some of the considerations that James uses to urge this command on us. The considerations that are used. There are four considerations that James uses. First of all, our view of one another. That's the first line. Our view of one another. By that I mean that three times in the Greek here, James refers to us as brothers. One time it's neighbors. Now you don't see that in the NIV. It's brothers, do not slander one another. Anyone who speaks against his brother or judges his brother. And you see that repetition. Brothers. Anyone who speaks against his brother Brother, anyone who uh slanders his brother or judges his brother. And James is trying in that to conjure up that reminder of loyalty to one another. You and I are brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ. We're not only neighbors. But we're brothers. And he had said, remember in chapter three and verse nine, with a tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. And he says, This shouldn't be. That's inconsistent. How much more then to praise God? God and then to curse or to speak against or to speak demeaningly of or to cut down or to criticize one who shares not only creation but also is part of the family of Jesus Christ with us, who's a brother in the family. Faith. And so James is trying to help us to see how inconsistent criticism of one another is when we're brothers together in one family. We need to practice family loyalty. The second consideration that he uses. is our view of the law. Our view of the law in verse 11. Notice he says, brothers do not slander one another. Anyone who speaks against his brother or judges him speaks against the law and judges it. When you judge the law, you're not keeping it, but you're sitting in judgment on it. Now what in the world does that mean? I don't know about you, but it wasn't at all obvious to me how that followed. How criticizing my brother is necessarily criticizing the law. Hey man, when I criticize people, I think that I'm like to think I'm upholding the law. I'm practicing it, you know? I'm applying it to his life. But James says, wait a minute, he says, when you speak against your brother, you are in fact speaking against. Against the law. Now, why is that? I think there's three reasons for it. You see them there. Number one, when we do that, we're coming out from under the law in disobedience. Why? Well, the simple fact is that the law says don't go. Also, don't slander, don't speak against your brother. For instance, in Leviticus chapter nineteen and verse sixteen, the law says, Do not spread slander among the people. Very interesting the word that's used there, do not spread slander. It's a word used of the spice merchant. A spice merchant walks among the tents of Israel and he lets his spices be smelled so that everybody's attracted to them to buy them. And that idea of attracting by the smell. You see, is the idea here of slander. See, you're throwing out some juicy morsels. And uh the law says, Don't throw out those juicy morsels. Don't attract people by the smell of the things that you have to offer, because that is sin. It's in fact against God's nature. The Psalms again and again speak of the sin of slander and gossip. It's interesting that one of the chief characteristics of David's enemies is In the Psalms is that they are slanderers and gossipers. Again and again the Bible speaks against this. And so you see, when you and I gossip or slander or criticize, what we're doing is we're speaking against the law because we're saying the law really doesn't know. what's good. I'm rationalizing. I'm always minimizing God's law when I break it. I'm always saying that it really isn't wise. Otherwise I'd do it, wouldn't I? But what I'm really saying in my mind is not somebody's forcing me to criticize. I'm saying I know better than the law. The law says don't do it. My culture says get it out of your system. I say I'm going to opt for the culture rather than God's law. That's speaking against the law. That's saying I know Better than God when He tells me don't do this. But not only is it saying don't do it, it's He is speaking against it, He says it's judging it. So the second point is, and when we're doing this, we're also setting ourselves over the law. As more discerning. We're saying that I know right and wrong so perfectly I can judge people's hearts by it. Stop to think about it. That's a little arrogant, isn't it? She did that, and I know she did. She was wrong. I can't understand how she could do that. Well, I don't know, did you ever think that maybe you don't know why she did it or what her motives were? I know there is no way you can convince me that there was any excuse she had for doing it. I know why she did it. It was wrong. Huh? Well, what are you doing, you see? You're saying I'm not gonna wait till judgment day to see whether God said it was wrong or not. I know it was wrong. And I'll tell you in case you don't know, and I'll tell anybody who wants to listen because you all ought to know I I know better than the law. It's wrong. See? And God says so you're not only speaking, you have now become the judge. You've set yourself above the law. Not only that, but thirdly, you are judging it, you are speaking against it because there is uh what I call here uh under point three you say doing and judging are inversely proportional. There you go. Inversely proportional. What's that mean? Means that when one goes up, the other one goes down. The more you judge, the less you will obey. The more you obey, the less you'll judge. The more you judge people by your set of standards, pretending or acting as if you are the lawgiver, the less sensitive you will become to the promptings of the Spirit of God to obey his word. Because you're so concerned to be superior to the people you're criticizing, is what I find, and you're so concerned to rationalize your own life, you become blinded, desensitized to the promptings of the Spirit to obey what's the world. The scripture says. But the more I find I try to do to obey, then the less interested I am in criticizing. Because I become so aware of all the things in my life that I have not done that I begin to wonder: how in the world can I criticize? somebody else. Now I must confess that there's a lot of times when I'm more aware of how my judging decreases my obedience than the times when my obedience decreases my judging. But I have noticed in my life, and I know that you've found True in your life that those two things will always go the opposite direction. When one goes up, the other one goes down. That's the law. But James goes beyond that. He says not only is it a problem of the of your relationship to He says there's the problem of your relationship to God. And so C is our view of God. Verse twelve. He says there's only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and to destroy. And so he third. uses our consideration of God to help us to see the wrong of this. In other words, we must see that God alone is qualified to judge because he alone is the author and the source of the law. See verse 12? only one lawgiver and judge. You and I didn't write the law. The one that wrote the law had to be the one that knows human hearts completely. And so only he who wrote the law and who knows the human heart. can judge by it. But secondly, he says there, he's alone qualified to judge because he alone is able to enforce the sentence of the law. You see that? There's only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and destroy. He alone is able to carry out the sentence of the law. Can you enforce the law? You criticize people? Are you able to judge them? Are you able to carry out the sentence, you say, well, I can tell them to go to hell. I can damn them. But how feeble such puny wishes are compared to the one who actually enforces that. God actually damns. God actually can can send people to hell. You and I can't do that as much as we may wish it. And so when you look at this, you and I should look at that verse. The one who is able to save and destroy. He He alone is in the position to criticize. He alone is in the position to sentence. And when we see that, it should give us pause, shouldn't it? Because when you look at that, you realize here's the law. The law that stands. stands over me, and God is able to destroy me by that law. And so when I look at that law, I realize that I deserve to be destroyed by that law. For I've sinned. And again and again and again I have disobeyed that law. And this God is able to destroy me justly by the things that I have done in disobedience to them. And so you and I should pause. And whenever we look at the standards that we're so quick to apply to others, we should look at how they apply to ourselves. Now the uh training that's called life spring, I don't recommend that for anybody. It's it's uh values are set directly against Christianity at almost every point. But that training, which many people are taking, was written up in the Washington Post. They devoted a whole issue of their magazine to this thing. They thought it was so significant. That training has one part in it which intrigues me, a lot of parts intrigue me, but this one part intrigues me because of its truthfulness. There's one part in this seminar where everybody that's together, they get the the people all together and they say, now you've been together for four or five days, I want you to find the one person in the room that you have most grown to dislike over these past five days. I want you to pair up with that person, I want you to tell that person everything that you hate about them. Imagine doing that? Hey you gotta do it. You know, you paid all this money. They're locked into this room, you gotta do it. So everybody's gotta pair up, you know, you can imagine the shuffling, you know, well, you know, I'm I picked you. Great, thanks a lot, you know. You imagine a person that's picked by four or five people, you know, and they're all rushing lining up, wait a minute, I can only take one at a time, you know. So then they all get. And there you get and you tell this person, boy, I hate the way you do that, and you're crude and you're vulgar and you're the you know, and go on and on and on and on. And then the other guy gets a chance to go back to you, you know. Well, hey, you know, I have a few things to say too. Oh boy, you know, boom, back it goes, you know. And then after everybody's done this for about a half hour, the leader of the seminar stops them all and he says, Now, I want you to know that everything that you you just said to that other person is true of you. That's why you said it. Now everybody's knocked out of their seats, you know. Now, when you and I realize that, it's true, isn't it? The things We criticize of other people are things that generally we are sensitive to because they are true in our own lives. And God is the one who judges justly. James says he is able to destroy. And so when you look at that, you realize I deserve to be destroyed by those things that I am so sensitive to in the lives of others. But in fact, God sent Jesus and destroyed him in order to destroy the destroying. To save me. You see, he says he's able to save and destroy. But his saving is by mercy, not by justice. And so that gives us the final point, our view of ourselves. Verse 12. James says, But you, who are you to judge your neighbor? Who are you? You see, that brings us right back to verses seven to ten. Because in verses 7 and 10, he told us who we are. He said, You are a sinner in need of grace. And if you don't see that, you're arrogant. Only when you begin to see that you need to wash your hands and purify your double-minded. At heart. James says, can you begin to get a realistic view of who you are? And so as you do that, then you understand grace. Then you understand that as you confess that sin before Jesus, that He lifts you up, that he has taken that sin and died on the cross, the judgments due to you and to me, so that we would be forgiven and not destroyed. Stop to think that as a Christian, as one who has given your life to Jesus Christ, who has humbled yourself before him and he has lifted you up, that the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, as they communicate perfectly, moment by moment, day by day, Never criticize you. You think of those last 24 hours. How much could Jesus have criticized you about to the Father? Oh boy, there they go again. That promise. You know how many times it's come to me in Confess he's never gonna do that again. There he goes again, right again, you know, same thing. You know, and boy, there you go, you know, lazy. Man, so many times they said they know they ought to do this, but what do they do? They sit there and they put it off and they don't do it, you know, or look at them critical. Lazy, uh stupid, I mean you know, clumsy. Look how you know, you know, all the things I think that I've done just in the last day or two. That the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, hey, to have a field day criticizing me. Not once. In the last day. Day, the last week. Not once has the father criticized you to the Son. Not once has the Son criticized you to the Father, to the Spirit. But their whole conversation about you. Is full of love, concern, delight to you and I, who deserve to be destroyed. How then, when we realize the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ for us? And we want to criticize someone else. For a happy heart that's understood grace doesn't want to criticize. And neither does it want to listen to others criticize. For it knows that as soon as it does, It will lose its joy in Jesus and be drawn into the criticism. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we are A critical people. We confess to you that, Lord, even as much as within our community, I see such an absence of this, and I see such joy, I see such concern to guard our tongues. Yet, Lord, we know. No, I know that in my own life in the past week there have been numbers of times when I have unjustly, without warrant, because of my own sin, my own desire to appear superior, I have criticized, I've spoken. Against people. I have gossiped, I've slandered. Oh Lord, we confess to you. So much of our conversation is negative, complaining, griping. Lord, we have Spoken against one another. And we ask you to forgive us of that. Forgive us not because we deserve it, but forgive us because we now humble ourselves before you, that you might lift us up. Lord, It is difficult for us to imagine how we are constantly on your mind, how you are constantly communicating, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, with each other about us, and never once. Do you speak against us? Never once do you criticize us? Lord, your grace and your love for us are amazing. Fill our hearts with joy as we understand that love, that we would be delivered from critical spirits. In Jesus' name. Amen.