Now for the rest of you that have stayed, now that the kids have gone and all those working with them, turn our attention back to the book of James. We look for the couple of weeks in this last month at James's first example of biblical faith in contrast to the American popular Christianity, which for many people is not saving faith. The example was of Abraham's faith, you recall. versus the demon faith. James chapter two, verses eighteen to twenty-four. James' second example of biblical faith versus the flip kind of assurance of much of American fundamentalism. Is that of Rahab the prostitute? Now, James, I believe, purposely chose two very different examples of David. In order that every one of us here Will be able to identify with one or the other, or at least some parts of one and some parts of the other. One of the things that strikes me as a powerful evidence of the truth of Christianity is how it does not simply attract one kind of person. Now all kinds of people from all kinds of cultures and all kinds of backgrounds are attracted to Jesus Christ. Abraham, on the one hand, is a man, or Ahab is a woman. Obvious difference to begin with. Also, Abraham was a Jew. In fact, he was the head of the Jews. He was the father of the faith. Rahab, on the other hand, was a Gentile, a Canaanite, one who uh would not fit very well naturally speaking in religious circles. Abraham was a respectable person. He was rich. He was successful. He would have fit well in Columbia. Rahab was disrespectful. respectful. Rahab ran a whorehouse. She lived in the red light district. There are some parts of Colombia that Rahab wouldn't fit in well. The two of them covered the population of the people that we minister to. Abraham was a man whose faith was demonstrated in his behavior toward God. Rahab's faith was primarily demonstrated in her behavior. behavior toward people. And in these two examples, James has given to us a scope of the picture of biblical faith and the way it works out in all kinds of people. So that we can see what faith is and what faith isn't. Now Rahab, while Abraham is contrasted with Demon faith, Rahab is contrasted with the fellow that I called Mr. Rishwell in verses 14 to 17. And so let's look at God's word. And see this contrast now. And I'm going to read, just so the contrast stands out more sharply, simply James chapter two, verses fourteen to seventeen, and then we'll skip right over to Rahab, verses twenty-five and verse twenty-six. James says, What good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save him? Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food. If somebody says to him, No, I wish you well Keep warm and well fed, but does nothing about his physical needs, but gives in the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. In the same way now, like Abraham, was not even Rahab, the prostitute, considered righteous, but what she did when she gave lodging to the sponsor. And sent it off in a different direction. As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead. Do you see the contrast there between these two? Says, verse sixteen, you notice, he says to him, but then it goes on to say, but does nothing. So he says, but does nothing. Verse twenty five, Rahab the prostitute, was considered righteous. for what she did. And so you have say knows nothing and then contrast it with did. It's interesting that when you look at verse sixteen, it says what Mr. Rishuel says but does not do. And then Verse 17 says, in the same way. It's the same way. You see, he's comparing what he says and doesn't do to the person who says something about their faith but does nothing about their faith. So the comparison. is between words of bad faith and actual biblical active faith. And that's the contrast you have between these two. Mr. Rishuel's compassion cost him nothing. Compassion cost her everything. You remember the story. You heard it read just a few minutes ago as George read that passage from Joshua chapter two of Rahab's the the incident there that Rahab and the Spies. Israel is about to enter into the promised land after 30 years wandering in the wilderness. And Joshua decides to send in two spies in order to sort of scope out Jericho before they go into the area. to attack. It's interesting that Moses sent twelve spies in, do you remember? And of those twelve spies, ten of them gave an evil report and discouraged the rest of the nation. Only two gave a good report. And so sending in two spies reminds you of the two faithful spies. Big J Joshua would just say, Hey, let's just forget the ten, you know, we don't need them. Let's just send in two this time, then we'll get a better report. And so it sends him just two spies and those two spies how they're getting trembling difficult into this land that they've heard so much about. But if they go in, they haven't experienced the fact from having heard from their parents. That God had brought their parents out of Egypt with a mighty hand through plagues and through part of the Red Sea, how he had fed them in the wilderness, how he had brought them against all the Moabites and the Amorites, how he had delivered them against Sion. And Oz how God has taken care of them and welcome up into the land here now. And they go in to Jericho and they meet this Rahab. And Rahab has simply heard the message of what this God has done. And she believes just like David. She believes the same message. And so you see back in Joshua chapter two, turns of that in your Bibles or refer to a few verses there, in order to get a picture of what James is talking about here, you have Mahab's confession of faith. It's back there in chapter 2, in verses 8 to 11. She believes, and there's two things particularly to notice about what she believes. It's in verse 9. Notice she says, I know that the Lord has given this land to you. He's given this land to you. She believes that God is able to deliver his people, that God is a redeemer. He's going to bring his people into the promised land. That must have been a tremendous encouragement to those flies to hear that. I mean here, you know, people are debating back in the camp, you know, what's God gonna do and do really believe that God can bring stuff against these Canaanites? I mean, yes, we've had these two uh positive encounters with Sahan and Ar, but what about all these great Canaanite nations? And they're debating back and forth, trying to encourage each other. It says, you guys are gonna win. Yeah, sometimes uh I've gotten Psychology Today magazine ever since the thing came out back in the summer of nineteen sixty-seven. Charter subscriber. As I've heard that thing through the years, one of the things that's been kind of interesting to me is to see in the way they approach human nature, of course, from a totally non-Christian point of view, how occasionally they will have an article that will totally been Some biblical principle. They will talk about some of the negative effects of promiscuity. They'll admit some of the difficulties of voluntary divorce, the gay lifestyle, and some of these things. These things will creep in here and there. And it's always That's a particular encouragement because it comes from the M, you know. So if somebody has no interest in vindicating the gospel, that they admit that God is right in this area. And that's always more encouraging to us than some sort of a backhand. Can you imagine the spies they come into Jericho and they're coming in and having come out of this discussion back in the camp about the odds of winning it and what's God going to do and can we really trust and our lives are on And here's this came and a prostitute and said, You know, these guys are gonna win this. She believes this, what are we worrying about, you know? And so here's Rahab. And she not only says, You guys are going to take the She says in verse 11, Your God is the God of heaven above and the earth beneath. She's preaching the gospel to them. Halanized prostitute. God is the God of heaven above. believe. I believe that. I believe your God is the true God. But she doesn't just believe it intellectually. This is James Fourth. Notice in both verse nine and verse eleven what she connects with her confession of Faith. What is it? Dear. Most both cases. Our hearts melted when we realized that you guys are going to take the land. Because that means we are under judgment. Our hearts melted when we realized realize that your God is the God of heaven above and of the earth beneath. Because that means he is the judge of all and of everyone's heart. And our hearts know to realize this. And so James says her faith was not simply an intellectual faith. It led to action. And it led to a particular kind of action. What kind of action? Now put back to James. Keep your finger in Joshua. And put back to James chapter 2 in verse 25. What kind of action? Two actions James stipulates, one of those two. Notice what he says. In the same way, was not even Rahab the prostitute considered righteous for what she did. Now he said that about Abraham. What he did, and what did he do? He focused on his Sacrifice of Isaac. What did Rahab do that demonstrated her faith? Two things. She gave lodging to the spies, and she sent them off in a different direction. Now why does James focus on those two days as demonstrating her faith. Because it was the kind of costly compassion that separated her from the world. It was the kind of costly compassion that showed where her heart really wants. You see, she gave them the two things that they particularly needed as the people of God. The first thing that they needed was a base of operations in which to store the land. And she gave logic. Now we're not told how that came about. I've tried to imagine that and I haven't been able to come up with a picture that really settles in my mind about how it came about. I can't imagine they walk up and knock on the door and say, by the way, we're a couple of spies from Israel we'd like to Establish a base of operation here in your whorehouse, do you mind? Where did they pick her place? I don't think it had anything to do with sex. Some people might read into that again, these spies were a little tanky tanky here on the side and you know, and that just sort of messed out. I don't think it had anything to do with that. She looked at these men as men who represented the true gods. I think the simple reason was that where else could you better come and go anonymously than a whorehouse? And so these men go in there and somehow they've established a connection with her and they stay there because they figure that's the one place in town that people aren't going to check identities too carefully. And so they're able to move in and out anonymously in order to be able to scope the place. And somehow in the midst of this, she becomes friendly with them. Maybe the place is a little bigger than just her own little establishment, I don't know. But somehow in this, they begin to talk. And as they talk, talk, they share with her who they are. They begin to open up to her. She's brought into their confidence. And then one day he's detected. One day, he thought. Some little careless slip, somebody has overheard a conversation, something happened, and they've been exposed. That's what Joshua says. So can you picture? There they are in the house. And the Jericho National Guard soldiers from the king would come to our house and they say, You know, you got a couple Israelites in here that are spies. And their hearts Just like in the movies here they are, the guards right outside there, what are they going to do? And they probably turn to each other and say, uh, all all hope is wrong. How are we going to trust the Canaanite prostitute to save us? They hear the voice outside. If she's saying to the guards, You kiddle, do you know how many guys come here? How do I know who those guys were? You know, I think I know who you was talking about and um I don't know where they look from, but uh I'll tell you they they ran out. past the gate just about a dress before the gates were about to close it. I don't know which way they went, but they went down the road that way and if you go real quick I think you'd be able to catch them. Take off, go ahead, get those scoundrels. And um see what you can do with them. Hurry up though. A couple of soldiers perhaps don't believe in, so they check the house. And they don't find the Israelites. And off they go. Out the gate. They try and catch them. And then the camera sort of pans around the house, you know, and it moves up onto the roof. And you see these two stacks of flocks, of flax. And uh one of the sacks begins to move, and out from under it comes an Israelite. Mahab comes up onto the roof. They say, but we And that's where she makes her confession of faith. And I'll tell you why I did that. Because I believe that God is with me. I'm ready to separate from my people, and I'm ready to take my stand. With this God. I'm ready to separate from everything of my background and cut myself from our whole past and stand against all of my culture and my people and everything because I believe it's under judgment. And I want to take my stand with you and give your God. And so she says, I show mercy on you. Show mercy on me. And in that act of faith, Rahab has trusted herself to the compassion of the spies and of their God. And so Rahab, the prostitute. Sloy, fornicating Rahab, who sold her body so many times to men that she's known since it's lost count how many. Who's lost all feeling of tenderness associated with sex gives herself to the compassion of God. And she receives compassion to the full. The Baptist tells us later in Joshua chapter six. Joshua says to take Jericho and they marched around and they attacked the city. Joshua says, Deve everyone in the city to destruction. Everyone is to be laid to the sword. No one is to be spared. Then he said, with one exception, Rahab and her household. Rahab who held a scarlet cord down from her window. A cord that's been debated by commentators through the years as to what it means perhaps it refers as a sign to the blood of Christ, perhaps uh a reminiscence of the Passover blood that was sprinkled on the doorpost of the Israelites when the angel of death passed over them because they had the sign upon their house. of the blood. But if Ray had a scarlet cord marking her house as different from all the other houses in Jericho, perhaps there's some symbolism in that. I don't really know. But the fact is that that scarlet cord did mark As one who trusted God. She trusted him to find compassion, and her faith was active in that trust. He was active in sharing compassion on the spies because she Now identified with them rather than with her people. She gave her heart to them. She gave everything she had to them. When Jericho went down in flames and blood and destruction, one family escaped. It was Rahab who trusted God, a prostitute in her family. And God says that you and Lord stay in the place of Rahab. Because we stand in a city that is marked for destruction. We are a people of the planet earth that's been marked for destruction because of a righteous and holy God who looks upon the sin and the fault and the perversion. of our culture and our world, and it's marked for destruction so that he might establish a kingdom that is perfect with love and peace and joy. And we are a people who look not for what we have done. Did Rahab receive compassion because she gave compassion to the spies? Did she give him mercy because her good deeds outweighed her bad? Did she give him mercy because deep down inside, you know, Rahab is really a good Person. Know none of that. They have received mercy simply because God is a merciful God to those that look to him. Psalm 116 describes a person who is in a desperate situation. Under the sentence of death. The Psalm 116, the poet of that Psalm says, I cried out to the Lord, oh Lord, save me. He says, I despaired from health from any other person, and I looked only to God. And then he says, God is a God of righteousness and compassion. And he had mercy on me, the simple hearted, in my time of need. He delivered my soul from death, my eyes in tears, and my feet from the stomach. Our God is a compassionate God. And from his people, who have been delivered from the destruction that he must justly bring about Jericho and upon Plantur are people who are known by their compassion, because they are identified with the God of compassion. One of the things that I think of as I have thought of you as a congregation and preparing this is how very much I have learned about compassion from so many of you. I think I can truly say that as a congregation and as a people of God, I look at you as a very compassionate people. I heard from someone uh just a few months ago that the Evangelism Explosion team had visited and had begun to come to our church and had associated with our people. this two person to share the gospel with him and to follow up a little further in his life. This is what he said to me. He said, you know what? He says, I believe that the people of Columbia Presbyteria would do anything for me. He said, I'm really convinced of that. He says that's touch the because I know that I am such a selfish person. And I would so much like to be like that. But I can't. And he's right. Even I can this isn't a mark that you're you're a good people, you know. You're a people that are better than the other people in Columbia. It's a mark of the fact that Jesus Christ can change our wicked, selfish hearts and give us hearts of compassion. That's what James is saying. He's saying, if you want to see the evidence of biblical transforming faith, look to see whether the person is a compassionate person. Whether like Ahab, they're ready to give lodging to God's people. Whether they're ready to put themselves out, whether they're ready to take a stand against all others and identify with the people of God because Jesus has changed their hearts. I can't make you feel guilty and be compassionate. All I can do is show you the compassion of Jesus Christ. And God works in your hearts to be a compassionate people. How do we express this? God giving us a render of grace. What do we mean by this? You see some examples there on the back of your bulletin outline. Even to the very little fund. And this is a way that we demonstrate compassion with God's people. There's a need for money for people who have particular material needs. We'll have that opportunity again this evening to give to the Diagonal Fund after we receive the Lord's Supper, to express our mercy after we think of how Jesus has been merciful to us. That's the connection. So mercy assisting the deacons in their practice. Of the economy ministry. We don't have a couple of deacons, Craig and Jerry, that are our official mercy people in the congregation. They simply need us. And they need help. They need people that they can call on for particular kinds of ministry. And so as we make ourselves available to them and say, yes, but our Jesus has been so merciful to me, what can I do to show my mercy and thank him because of all he's done for me? They'll have some ideas for you. Yeah, just this uh week I received a a note from one of the Belmont's that we uh support in Italy. Uh there's an Ethiopian fellow that came to Italy, found Jesus Christ through their ministry. Uh this fellow can't go back to Ethiopia. As a Christian, he can't stay in Italy. He's seeking asylum and refuge in the United States, but he can't do it unless somebody is going to sponsor him. This is the kind of opportunity for somebody that's like, I don't want to do this because I feel guilty. But there's this Ethiopian fellow in Italy, and what am I going to do? I can't sleep because, you know, this guy's got some need. No. We don't do it from guilt. If somebody wants to respond to this, it's because Jesus has been compassionate to us. Jericho is under destruction. judgment. And God's seed they have in her family. Our society is under God's judgment. And Jesus died on the cross so that you and I would be saved and delivered from that destruction. Here's an opportunity to simply be able if God gives the particular need and the particular concern and speaks to your heart about the resources that you might have to sponsor a person out of love for Jesus Christ. person who likes the spawns is in trouble and needs refuge. But there's just specifically putting ourselves out for other people. Uh the going out of our way in daily situation There was a fellow, a Cornishman, Billy Gray, who God got a hold of a hundred and some years ago. Very simple fellow. Not educated. Didn't know a whole lot about the Bible. Was a joker. And God got a hold of him and changed his life. Billy Gray was known throughout the British Isles as a man of great faith. One day, one of his children became deathly ill. His wife spent it to the doctor, and he took all the money that he had to go to the doctor to purchase some medicine for their child. the doctor, he met a fellow on the road and this fellow had just lost his cow and was in a desperate situation. Not knowing Billy's situation, he asked Billy for the for if he could uh give or lend him some money to help him out. Billy gave him the last of money that he had. He prayed, he trusted that God to take care of his child and he gave him every bit of money that he had. Jump home and told his wife about it, took a little convincing of her to uh see that uh God had led him to this situation. Next day, the child was well. I'm not recommending that that's the course of action we all take in a similar situation. The point I'm making is that there was a man who was moved by the compassion of Jesus Christ and was moved in a particular situation to put himself out to show compassion. Joseph Scribbler, the author of the hymn, What a Friend We Have in Jesus, was a handyman for the poor. He used to uh help poor people out simply because uh they couldn't pay for the kinds of things he could do and they needed his services. At one point in his life his he uh decided to move to Canada and his mother gave him an expensive warm cook. able to survive the cold Canadian winter. On his way to Canada, he gave the coat away to someone else who needed it more than him. These are natural things, you know. This is supernatural. This isn't the kind of thing I do. By my own nature, I would never do something like this. This is the transforming work of Jesus Christ. James says, this is how you tell supernatural work. Anyone can be like Mr. Ishuel and talk about compassion. James says, when you see someone Acting like Rahab. You know that that's the work of the Holy Spirit in their lives. What acts of compassion can you and I look at in our lives and say, Holy God could have worked in me to do that? I don't even know why I did it. Have you ever had that kind of situation where you say five years ago I would have never done that? But Jesus has worked in my life. Jesus has made me a person that practices hospitality. I used to entertain. I used to have people in to the credit. that I would receive today. But Jesus has made me a hospitable person that has people in because they need a place of refuge. They need someone to listen to them. And I don't get the credit for that anymore. Jesus has taken me From a person that only thought of my own concerns and dwelled in self-pity, to open my eyes to very simple sacrificial acts of kindness. A word that's sensitively spoken because a person needs to hear it. Some time spent with someone, like those that helped move the Williamsons yesterday. Going out of your way simply because someone needs it and you're moved by Jesus Christ today. You can't do this from young. You do it because of the work of Jesus Christ in you. You do it because you seek him. And if you seek Jesus Christ, You come to know him until the Lord Jesus takes you and me. And after showing us something of his compassion and mercy to us, he begins to work in us to express that to someone else. And there's no limit to what God can do in your life as you seek Him for that. Rahab is proof of that. I wonder if there's somebody here this morning who's like Rahab. Rahab had made an entire mess of her life. Perhaps you look back on your life and you said, I've made such a mess of my life. I wonder how God could have anything to do with you. And Rahab was had made such a mess of her life that she didn't even live with her parents as a single woman would have in those times. But the spies said, if you're going to have your parents safe, you gotta go get them and bring them into your house. Maybe like Rahab, you're You feel like you've cut off so much of your past because of what you've done and things you've messed up. That you feel alone. But you trusted Jesus. By gray have you cast yourself on him and you're identified. with Jesus Christ in your life now, and he's begun to change your heart. He's begun to make you a compassionate person. He's begun to make you a person who wants to express mercy because you love Jesus. There's no limit. To what God can do for you in that. Because, like Paul Harvey wrote the rest of the story, there's a rest of a story to Rahab. If you trace her through the rest of Scripture, you find that. Joshua tells us that she lived the rest of her life with the Israelites. And not did she not only did she live with them, but she married an Israelite. Not only did she, a Canaanite prostitute, marry an Israelite, she married One of the princes of the tribe of Judah. Not only did she marry one of the princes of the tribe of Judah, who fell in love with this woman with a tender heart to her God, she married the prince Sarah. Solomon, who was the son of the chief prince of Judah at that time, nation. And Solomon and Rahab had a son. They had a son, Boaz. And their son married a woman, and they had a son, whose name was Obed. And Obed married, and they had a son, who is now Rahab's great-grandson. Jesse. And Jesse married and had a son who was Rahab's great great grandson. I had one more great man for the bowling outline. And his name was King David. And that meant that Rahab Rahab was the great great grandmother of the king of Israel. And that meant that God had brought Rahab into the line of redemption itself, so that her son further generations down the line was Jesus. Jesus Christ. And Matthew chapter 1, verse 5 points that out just to make sure we don't have to go back and check it because he wants us to see Moses. Matthew 1, 5, of the 13 people he includes in the genius. Of Jesus Christ, Rahab is one that he points out. Does it seem appropriate to you that Rahab is the ancestress of Jesus Christ? If it doesn't, you You haven't understood what the mercy of God is. Let's go. All of it are gone. Help us, as we see Rahab, to take part. There is none of us here who is beyond your mercy and compassion. But if you could reach out and touched the heart of a Canaanite prostitute who simply heard of the message uh second hand or third hand about what God had done in redeeming his people. Lord, how much more. You can work in through the lives of each person here. Lord, how we thank you. That your compassion and your mercy are so great to us. So great. You don't spurn Rahab. You haven't cast her aside on the ash sheet. You included her in the very heart of your work of redemption. You exalted her as a princess among your people. is just not like that. Our hearts are not like that. You think we ought to give people what they deserve, but you, the God of mercy, reach out and give to us, which simply demonstrates how great is your heart toward us. Oh Lord, move in our hearts. Move in our hearts. That even more and more we would be a people of compassion. A people who might rehear, demonstrate our faithfulness. review and how we treat one another. Lord, help us each to think as we review the different areas of life, what particular area you're calling us to express our love to you. It is this week. In Jesus' name.