Okay. Now that everyone's finished on that, okay, let's give our attention to God's Word. But remember this is God Himself speaking to us. From James chapter two, beginning with verse one, going through verse thirteen. My brothers, as believers, On our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. Don't show favoritism. Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold hair in fine clothes, and a poor man in shabby clothes also comes in. If he shows special attention to the man wearing fine clothes and say, here's a good seat for you. But say to the poor man, you stand there, or sit on the floor by my feet, have you not discriminated among yourselves and become judged With evil thoughts. Listen, my dear brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom that He promised those who are in the world. Is it not the rich who are enslaving you? Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court? Are they not the ones who are slandering the noble? name of him to whom you belong. If you wouldn't keep the royal law found in Scripture, love your neighbor as yourself, you're doing right. But if you show favoritism, you sin. Are convicted by the law as lawbreakers. For whoever keeps the whole law and gets stumbled at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. But he who said do not commit adultery also said do not murder. If he do not Commit adultery, but do commit murder, you've become a lawbreaker. Speak and act as though you are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom. Because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone. Who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment. That's a strange section, isn't it? Prompted by the problem of favoritism. Thirteen verses. But chapter one, I can understand. When James talks about rejoicing in trials, I can relate to the need for that wisdom. When James talks about the problem of temptation, I can relate to that. understand it. When James talks about the temper, I can understand it. When he talks about the problem of the tongue, I can understand that. When he talks about the need to apply scripture in my life and not just to hear, I can understand that. Then when he moves to chapter two, he takes thirteen verses, half the chapter, to talk about the problem of favoritism. That I don't understand. At least not until I look at it a little more closely, to find out why in the world James would Take half of a chapter of a five-chapter book to talk about a problem that I would tend to see as a rather minor problem in my life or in the problems of the life of the church. In order to understand why James is so exercised about this problem, let's Find out first of all what is favoritism. He defines it, or perhaps better, describes it in verses 2 to 4. Here's where he talks about what the problem is. He says, Now, suppose a man comes into your meeting and But he wears a gold ring in fine clothes, and a poor man in shabby clothes also comes in. This is the problem I described last week of the family that comes to visit with the Mercedes Benz with the little windshield bikers on the headlights, compared to the family. That comes in with a beat up old pinto, and immediately after the service, of course, I was assured by Bot Plants that they had sold their printo. So let's suppose we have a couple of such visitors, and they come in, and we notice that there's a different status to one contrasting to the other. James says the problem is you don't treat them the same. You tell the Lord in in these days, back in these times, that the synagogue had preferred seating, you know. There were the special sections. this in verse three, if you show special attention to the man wearing the fur clothes and he's and you say, Now here's a good seat for you. Come on right up the front. But you say that it's full of course today it's the opposite. Nobody wants to sit up in the front, you know, I mean preferred seating right here, you know? But this the other thing that is the good feeding, take a little bit up there in the front, things have changed. But now you say to this other guy, now the the poor fella, you say, now you stand over there or sit on the floor by my feet. James says, haven't you discriminated among yourselves and you become judges with evil thoughts? What is it? Well I tried to work on that to capture the essence of it. It's only a little bit of an outline. You see what I did get to the essence of the same reason. talking about. Favoritism I see as impressing someone having wealth or status with my kindness for what I will get out of it. You see the key there is what I will get out of it. Trying to be nice to someone, to impress them that I am a nice guy, so that I capture their attention. Because maybe down the road I will benefit from that. I'll get something out of it. Maybe I'll get prestige. Some of us like to associate with the biggies. We always look for somebody who's important to be able to drop their name as we're talking to our friends. We'll say that that person's a friend of mine, or I know that person, or I've talked to that person, or at least I met that person, or you know, I read something by Yeah, I get some lower and lower as you go. But the fact is we tend to feel important by thinking that we associate with important people. And it's simply for what I get out of it. I'm not concerned to minister to that important person. I'm concerned that My ego is ministered to. So in terms of money, we pay more, we trust you to provide the five hundred thousand dollars that we need in order to be able to get that property. And when we see somebody come in and we find out there's some evidence that this guy's got a lot of money. And maybe this person gives to Christian causes and he at least professes Jesus and so you know we sort of uh sidle up to them and we try to get their uh attention and try to impress them very especially favorably that they might want to come to our church. And what have we done? We said, by Lord, they really trust you, but hey, but it comes right down to it, we better hustle and get some of these people who have money. And maybe maybe then our cares will be taken care of. And our eyes are off of the Lord. James says you You've discriminated and become judges with evil thoughts. You're not trusting the Lord. And you're trying to look at what you will get out of people when they come in rather than what you can give to them. Now The point, of course, is that you're not loving that person. Because both the rich man and the poor man are equally created in the image of God. But our concern is what we get from. No matter what we profess. The funny thing about power isn't it? It disobediences. Maybe my wife's not in children's church now, so she won't hear this, but you know, very often I am very much rebuked by the integrity and the godliness of my wife. I really am. Remember back in 1976 we were at Gordon College, Training Weekend. In 1976, Gerald Ford was the president of the United States, and you remember that his son, Michael Ford, was just beginning a Gordon Cromwell Seminary at that time. So one day we were uh in the dorms and Cathy was alone in the lobby and who should walk into the lobby but Michael Ford, president, the uh son of the president at that time. And there were a couple bodyguards hanging outside, and so Michael Ford walked in. What do you do? And Michael Ford walks in and he's looking kind of confused and he doesn't know where to go. You know. I know what I would have done. I run up to him, Hey, Michael Ford, you look like an I'm Alan Harris, what can I do to help you? Not Cappy. She saw him, she thought, There's a guy. Yeah, he's a student, looks kinda confused. That's my thought, obviously. But page two says, You only go up to people like that because they're big shots. Let 'em find his own way around. You know? He's a student like anyone else. I'm not going to go up there and try to embarrass this guy just because he's Michael Ford. And so she didn't talk to him and he found his own way through the door button. But when I when she told me about that, I thought, yeah, how disoriented I would again by the fact that that simply was Michael Ford. He's a swimmer like any other sinners, saved by grace. But we don't see people like that, do we? We see people according to how their position is in this world. Power disorients us. Why is it then that favoritism Is so bad. Well, I believe that God did not allow me to minister to especially rich or important people until I would come to the place in my life where those things don't mean anything to me. Only when you're free from being disappointed. Hypnotized by status and wealth, are you able to minister to it? And as a congregation, I believe that that would be true too. Why is it that it's so low? Why does James take half of this chapter to speak about it? But he gives us five reasons in these thirteen verses why it's so wrong. And I want to take a look at this and just move quickly through them. But I want us to look at five reasons why favoritism is so wrong. I told Pat when I gave her this message to uh type this thing up. But you'll notice that in the there are five uh blanks for you to fill in. Each of those five blanks is the key word and they each begin with G. So I told Pat this was a especially heavy sermon in fact And she uh after she finished learning I told her at least somebody's got to say those kind of things to you so you remember Dan Iverson. So then as we go along, five G's as to why I think Is so wrong. The first one is because it violates the glory of the Lord Jesus. Verse 1. It violates the glory of the Lord Jesus. You see, he's talking about holding the faith of the glorious Lord Jesus. Jesus he says you can't do that. Don't don't do that with favoritism. Now of course we talked about that last week, so I want to just simply refer you to that message because I don't want to get wrapped up in that again because that's a major point that deserves a lot more attention. So simply refer to last week's message if you didn't hear it you can go listen to it sometime and look it up. But you remember the thing at least was that when you see the glory of the Lord Jesus. And glory, remember, refers to weight, refers to majesty, the picture of The picture of light referring to majesty, and the picture of the cloud referring to the presence. When you understand the majesty, the honor and the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ, they're all All earthly glory will look tawdry, will look cheap, they'll look shabby, and will be so fleeting. It's like a flashlight, you know if you're in a pitch dark room. If somebody takes a flashlight and they shine it right into your eyes, it disorients you and it hurts. But you take that flare of the same flashlight and take it out into the glory of full sunlight and shine that flashlight at you, you hardly even notice it. That's the way James says it is with the glory of the Lord Jesus in this world. What makes it blinding and brilliant to you in darkness. When you see it in the light of the glory of Jesus, will not at all turn your head. James says that's incompatible, the glory of the Lord Jesus, and playing favorites to people who are big shots in the world. The second reason What he gives is that it violates God's private priorities. It violates God's own heart and priorities in verses five and six. You see, God loves the poor. You see, in verses five and six, he says, What's the idea, brother? That's getting your attention there. See? Listen now, this is important. Has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom that he promised those who love him? But you have insulted the poor. See the contrast. Now I'll tell you frankly, but I disagree a great deal with an awful lot of what I read in the magazine Sojourns. I don't know if many of you know that but or are aware of it. But it's uh it's a mouthpiece for the Christian left and I disagree with a lot of theology and position. of Jim Wallace and of much of the Christian left. But there is one point that they make that I think cannot be gainsaced. And I think oftentimes we miss it. I think oftentimes we just simply discount it. And the point that they make, that I think is absolutely valid because we see it right here, is that God is quicker to identify with the poor than he is with the rich. Has not chosen those who are poor In the eyes of the world. Now he's talking about material prosperity, saying those who are materially poor. Talk about God's chosen them. Now, he's of course not saying that only poor people are Christians. He's not saying God doesn't love rich people, God doesn't ever save them. There's no rich Christians. He's not saying that. But what he is saying is that the emphasis is that God has chosen the poor. Throughout the sweep of history, there have been many more poor people who have responded to Jesus Christ's. than there have been rich people. Rich people tend to be self sufficient. They tend to be, as it goes on to say, arrogant. They tend to be full of their own pride and sufficiency. And so James is saying that's what God himself have a heart for the poor. God Himself has chosen them to give them the riches of his kingdom. God identifies with them. God is not ashamed of them. God prizes them. But He says, you've been solving. Let's change us. Think about that for a moment. But God Himself prizes, you have insolvent. And I think we need to realize that as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, we need to develop a heart like Lord's heart. To be quicker to identify with the poor than with the rich because of what's associated with that. Humility versus arrogance. It's not that poverty is in some way glorified. There's nothing great about poverty. There's nothing evil about riches. It's the attitudes that associate with us. And that's what James is here calling to our attention. God identifies with the poor. Thousand of them, many of them, to be rich in faith, to be heirs of the kingdom, and how twisted they are in what we see. We look at a guy who has a few toys for 30 or 40 years, and we say he's an important person. And wouldn't I be privileged to be his friend? And we look at the poorest third world beggar who is united to Jesus Christ by faith, and that person in the light of eternity. It's not going to be spiritually richer. Is this going to not really have anything, but spiritually, you know, I'll have a few goodies. No, actually richer than Aristotle Amasis, than the Kennedy's, then the President of Walmart. C. S. Lewis said if you were to see such a person in their glorified state, you'd be tempted to fall down and worship him. And yet, James says, you insult him. You look at him as a just a demand. A drag on your jack on fun. You kind of a demand on your time. And you tend to want to ignore them. God opened our eyes to reality, to see people as he sees them and not to insult. What he prizes. The third reason that James gives us why favoritism is wrong is because it violates common gratitude. It violates the common principles of gratitude in verses seven Look what he says. James uh he says uh James says that uh David's vision is senseless because in the first place it honors those who despise you. Verse 6. Is it not the rich who are exploiting you? Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court? Hey, you see, aim to say, uh, hey, the rich sure don't treat you with favor. What are you going around being so anxious to treat them with favor for? It's easy for us to forget that because you see it's hard for us to identify with it. Because evangelicals in the United States, and particularly in our kind of area, have so much riches and so much power that it's hard for us to look at being threatened by rich people. And you know, Washington Insight in its latest issue warns evangelicals against boasting of all their power politically. But we're a major force in the upcoming campaign. You know, we hold a lot of power Well and it's very easy for us to forget that that is very, very unusual in the flow of history. And it may be very, very temporary if we don't humble ourselves under the Spirit of God. It is a very unusual Thing for Christians to be in power. And if we are able to survive that in a godly manner, it'll be the first time that it's lasted for more than a couple of generations in all of human history. rich people to explain Christians. The norm, James says, is for you to see rich people in this world as those who you fear rather than those who you sort of call up to and associate with. And now there's another reminder I think in this too. I praise God that He has given in our congregation some people who are rather wealthy and very godly in their understanding of that and in their use of it. That's also unusual. Very often I hear of churches where the leaders will sort of uh puddle up to those who they see as having a lot of goods and are able to really help them make the budget and expand their projects. And by and large, I'd say nine times out of ten when I've heard of that, they're disappointed. Because rich people take their toys and go home when things don't suit them in the way they think that the policies of the church ought to go. And so James says, come on, just come as attitude says, you're not going to get much out of this. So why are you But then he goes on to the second part of that and he says that that's not bad enough, that they despise you. That they're really not looking at you as their friends like you like to think. James says even beyond that, the more important thing is they despise your Lord. 7. Are they not the ones who are slandering the noble name of him to whom you belong? James says that rich people tend to be arrogant. Not always. God humbles rich people. He's done that. in Columbia. He does it all the time. But James is talking about general principles here. And he says, isn't it generally true that rich people in their self-sufficiency and their arrogance despise and blaspheme Jesus Christ? As a crutch for poor people. Revelation 13 speaks of those who are in power, arrogantly blaspheming Jesus Christ. And you know, again, uh Bill, I disagree with many things in sojourners. Earlier this year. And they took Jerry Farwell to task because in two trips recently he had identified with and supported President Marcos in the Philippines when he was still President, and President uh uh Premier Berta. in South Africa. And they were saying, now, isn't it strange that these people who bring disgrace upon the name of Jesus Christ, not directly, but by their regimes and their policies, the Philippines is a A Roman Catholic country, and therefore very close association to the government in the Catholic Church. The Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa and that government a very close association of the name of Jesus Christ and their policies. And through this today, Of Jesus Christ is slandered. And Jesus, and yet you want to get next to these people and be identified with them. Jesus, isn't there something to rethink about what you're doing with that? And so we need to be careful that power doesn't disappear. disorientants, particularly those of us living close to Washington, DC, and involved in the power structures of government. Power disorients. And then the fourth reason that he gives. And now he's building his case, you see. James is coming to a climax here. And so he comes to the fourth reason, and he says, The fourth reason why babretism is wrong is simply because God says so. And so the fourth reason is guilt before the law. Dirt G, guilt before the law. You see, God's word specifically forbids favoritism and commands us to love our neighbors, whether rich or poor. He says, Now if you really keep the royal law found in Scripture, love your neighbour as yourself, you're doing right. But, contrast to that, if you show favoritism, you see, favoritism is not loving your neighbour as yourself. It's loving your neighbor for yourself, for what you might get out of them. James says, if you're doing that, you sin. That people ends it. I mean none other discussion is needed. God's word says it's sin. So he says you're convicted. by the law, as lawbreakers. Well he says, don't think that's some small thing. Hey, you know, it's no diggy, you know, at least it's not adultery, it's not murder. It's just a little thing. He says, well wait a minute. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet summons with just one point. He's guilty of breaking all of it. Well, he who said do not commit adultery also said do not murder. If you don't commit adultery, if you do murder, you become a lawbreaker. So God's word says again and again, in the Old Testament passage, so often quoted in the New Testament, you shall live. Leviticus 19, 18. 3 verses 4, he specifically said, whether it is your poor neighbor or your rich neighbor, make no distinction, no partiality. In Job in chapter 34, God describes himself. is one who does not make distinctions between the poor and the rich. Deuteronomy ten seventeen he says the same thing. He's a God who doesn't show partiality. God's word says it, it's enough. It's not a little thing not to worry about. And we're going to get into that more. next week. And so I want to leave it at that point. The whole matter of little sins and big sins, you know, and all this business. But now let's just leave it at that. God word says it, it's enough. But then he comes to the final point. And here's where he cats the whole thing off. He says, Favoritism is so Because it violates the essence of grace. It violates the very essence of grace. In verses twelve to thirteen. He says, speak it act of those who are going to be judged by the law. The law that gives freedom. Because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment. What's he saying then? Favoritism and mercy are incompatible because mercy is toward the weak. Mercy does not give to a person for what it can get out of it. Mercy, by its very nature, is called the helpless, toward the weak. Toward those that can't pay you back. Mercy looks at what it can give rather than what it can get. Jesus Christ is the Lord of riches. But Jesus Christ is the Lord of power and prestige. I mean you talk about power. Jesus Christ plays with the galaxies and superlovi as toys. You talk about prestige. Beings that would awestruck us so that we would feel that we should fall before them. Because of their great power and glory, themselves prostrate themselves day and night before Jesus Christ to give him honor and power and glory. And what happens? You and I come into the presence of Jesus. Jesus and they're dressed in the shabby clothes of our sin. And does Jesus despise us? Does Jesus look at us and say, hey, there's nothing I'm going to get out of you. I don't need you in my kingdom. But Jesus looked at you and he looked at me. And he gave up that glory. He not only noticed us, he set aside his glory. And as we saw last week, he set aside that glory so that he himself, rather than have it honored, could be dishonored. Rather than having light, went into darkness, and rather than having the presence of his father, was damned by his father and cast from his presence, so that he could call you and me. as forgiven by the penalty that he bore on our behalf to be in his kingdom. Jesus has favored us and shown mercy on us who had nothing to give him in return. Except our thanks. But you see, there is no way that you can take Jesus back. The only thing that you and I can do to show our gratitude for the great mercy that he's had to us is when we see someone that God brings into our midst who has nothing to offer us, who can't pay us back, say, Lord, this is an opportunity to thank you. This is an opportunity to serve you, to not ignore this person. Now, I I don't want you to misunderstand me and we all go around ignoring the rich people now, we all go around looking for people who have needs, you know, and to be ignoring the rest. The point is that you don't discriminate. James says, whoever God brings to us, that's the person that you thank Jesus for. And you say, Lord, I have the opportunity of thanking you for your mercy to me, because mercy has triumphed over. judgment. We'll look at that more in the future too. But the point that I just want you to see now is that when we look at what Jesus' mercy means toward us, that is the ultimate motive to show mercy toward the person who can't pass back. We read a lot today about the need for the church to have a social conscience, to be involved in the rights of the poor and the oppressed. But it could sit here all day and debate the merits of rich Christians in an age of hunger versus rich Christians in an age of get manipulation. We could argue the economics and the politics and the rights and the wrongs of the whole thing. But one thing that I want us to see from the Word of God that is absolutely crystal clear from James chapter 2 is that it would be wrong For Columbia Presbyterian Church to be exclusively a middle and upper middle class church. So whatever else we want to argue about, that's clear from Scripture. James says, who God has given you in the vineyard? those are the ones you minister to. And you don't discriminate and say, God has called me to those that live in Hawaii, you know? God has called me to those that have congos down in Ocean City. The special calling of the Lord. Because those that you're faced in the midst of, those you minister to, and it's by that that you reflect the mercy of Jesus. It's by that, it's by not discriminating when God brings people in from he ministries. Say whoever God brings in to those folks contacts, we welcome them. Whoever God brings in as contacts from Pioneer Girl parents and Christian Service Brigade parents, we welcome them. We want to minister to them. The youth group says take. Hey man, I love the social, but don't leave me to Laurian. Those people don't have anything to offer me. You say, God, I'll go to Laurian. I'll minister to those folks. Because it's a way of demonstrating the mercy of Jesus because they can't pay me back in any way that may be obvious. to me at first. So we come and we say, Lord, teach us. Favoritism is not something that you just eradicate overnight. The question for us as a congregation is, do we want to learn from the Spirit of God, not to discriminate with evil thoughts. Pee I close with an illustration. The church which I heard a pastor spoke of a girl who came into his congregation. She was It's a junior in high school. This girl, whose name is Ingrid, they called her Inky, had been on drugs for years by her junior year in high school. She claimed she had been on acid 500 times, taking 500 trips. by the time she was a junior in high school. He said that when she walked into that congregation, she smelled like a garbage pit. A friend brought her in. A friend didn't continue to come. But this drill was in her rumpled old fatigue, had come and she She had come to the services, hostile, arrogant, hatred in her eyes, bitterness, rebellion. And people in that congregation had learned something of James chapter 2. And they loved her. They simply accepted her and took her as she. She began to go up to the church office and she'd uh knock on the pastor's door and he'd uh have her come in and she'd never talked to him. She'd sit on the floor, he'd say, for ten or fifteen minutes, rather disorienting, say, Do you want to talk about something? She wouldn't answer. She'd just sit on the floor, ten, fifteen. minutes, watch him do what he's doing, and get up and walk out. You know, it was kind of disturbing. He didn't know how to minister this girl, what to do, but the people in the congregation just kept trying to accept her and love her and they preached the gospel and she just simply watched. Her friend wasn't even coming anymore. Then one day, after sitting on the floor 10, 15 minutes, she got up, she began to weep. She just broke down, wept, and wept. And said, Do you want to talk? She said, I need to receive Jesus. He prayed with her. He worked with her. It was a long haul after that. Her father was an alcoholic who beat her. Her mother had many, many problems. She had been kicked out of school. She had to re-enter school. She got off of the drugs. Back in the school she went, she graduated with a high grade point average. She went on to college. She became a counselor at the correctional institution in that area to try and reach drugs, kids that were on drugs and were in trouble. In the years after That to sum up the story, Inky trained a number of people in that church. And he says today now in Western Oregon, they have 40 to 50 people who are counseling in every correctional institution in Western Oregon, trained by Inky. Given her life, now married to a man, has a child of her own, and who is committed to Jesus Christ to reach kids on drugs. Why? Because the congregation did not practice favoritism, but they saw her as the Lord saw. Let's pray. Oh Lord, give us eyes to see. when I need people subconsciously to size up people in three categories. Is this ones who can someone who can benefit me? Is this someone where there can be mutual benefit? Or is this going to be a demand on my time and energies? Lord, forgive me for that. Forgive me for sizing up people by what I get or what I would have to sacrifice. Lord, help us rather to see people, each who you bring, as opportunities to serve you. And we would see the people that you bring into our midst, as people whom you have said. Lord we want to say to you with our whole heart. Hearts now. We believe that there is no understanding what you might do to a congregation in Colombia that would not practice favoritism, but would be open to all human stay. in need. Where if we want to be that congregation. We want to at least want to be that. We want to see you use us in that kind of a way. That's our heart story. May we see your mercy that we might reflect to those about us in such great need. We pray for Jesus' sake. Amen.