I apologize to Dick as I did before. A poor guy was sort of caught off this morning. Uh as you know, he had prepared for one worship and then wound up leading another one because of the switch last week and Then he didn't get the message that there was a baptism, so that sort of cut things down a little bit, so it's a little disconcerting leading that way Let me call attention to just a couple things in our family. You notice the rose up there. That's to welcome little Laura Heber into the world this week. We're sure glad to have her. Although I don't think she's with us right now, but we're glad to have her. And it's sure good to see the Dortz box back. Good to see Elmer and Marjorie. Where are you? I need to see you here. Uh there you are, right in the center. I I never look in the center, you know, you people in the center you figure, you know, that you don't have to look at them. You gotta catch the ones up in the end, you know, and around you. So uh good to see you back. It's sure good to have you with us again. One of my favorite quotes from John White is the simple statement: God's promise is his extended hand. Every promise that God offers to us is his hand extended to us that we might take that promise from him. And in James chapter 5, verse 16, God gives us a precious promise: the petition of any ordinary Christian justified by the finished work of Christ. When that petition is made effective by the Holy Spirit, it is very powerful. We've been looking at that promise. And we've been seeing that as something that applies to us. I believe the Holy Spirit wants for us this year To learn more about that promise as a church. That the Lord Jesus wants to show his power to us as a congregation, and that that particularly is his purpose for us this year. I'll be talking more about that uh in the next hour, so I hope that you'll all come back. to this room so that uh as we present uh as I go through a paper that you will get at that time and it will present our vision for this year That you will see and understand why I'm saying that I believe God wants to show His power to us in a very specific and perhaps unusual way for us as a congregation this year. And so this morning's message is designed to help us to step out on faith and to claim that promise and the vision that the Holy Spirit has for us this year corporately as well as individually. Now we've been talking about prayer for some time. James has been talking about prayer, you remember, since verse 13. And he's been talking about particularly Very hard to answer kinds of prayers, difficult prayers, prayers of physical healing, emotional healing, spiritual healing, relational healing. when there seems no human hope. And so as James holds this out to us, he then comes at the end of verse 16 to give us a word of encouragement. You remember that's where he says The petition of a righteous man made effective is very powerful. Not only does he state it, but then just so that we can be more encouraged, he illustrates it through the life of Elijah. And you remember that in verses 17 and 18, James says, Elijah was a man just like us. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three and a half years. And again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops. Now you remember that the outline I had on that was too long last week, and so I cut it in half, and so you got the same outline this week, and this time we're going to try and finish that thing up. Last week you remember that we looked at three things about Elijah from point one there. We looked at first of all what kind of a man he was. And what are those three words? What kind of a man was he? He was what? Good, you got it. Just like us. His nature was just like us. He was a sinner He was not somebody who is superhuman, not somebody who did not have the same kinds of temptations, doubts, and emotions that we do. He was a man just like us. We can relate to him when we see that God answered his prayers. It's not like he was a different kind of person. Who's just because God answered? Here's prayer, what that got to do with us, we're not like him. James says no, he was just like us. It's not like that woman I told you about in the Columbia Medical Plan that said, This is not the Bible, this is real life. But rather the Bible speaks about real life so that we can identify with that. And then we looked at uh the second point that uh what uh kind of prayer it was that Elijah learned to pray. He was just like us, but he was a man who had learned to pray. Through years of walking with God, he had learned a lot about praying. Kind of things we want to begin to learn this year. And what is it that uh Elijah learned as he prayed in uh James says literally there in verse 17 he prayed earnestly and the word he phrase he uses is in prayer he prayed. And so I said that communicates to us that he prayed. What were the two words? Earnestly and simply. Right, good. Hey, you're with me. Good. We're on a roll here. Let's see what we can do. Okay, he prayed earnestly and he prayed simply. Elijah had spent years of learning God's ways, learning what pleased the Lord. Uh he had uh walked with him and talked with him and so he was able To then, in a point of crisis, to focus a powerful petition that was in line with what God intended to do. He learned to submit his will and his mind To the ways of Jesus Christ. And so he had been able then to pray passionately, earnestly, simply. We'll see some examples of that this morning. Then thirdly, we looked at what kind of results he got. What were the results? Dramatic results. Good. Doing very well down here in the front. But uh a little bit up there in the balcony. We prayed and we got dramatic results And remember there's an exclamation mark there. God in unusual needs is willing to give dramatic answers And so uh Elijah saw God work in an unusual way. In 1 Kings chapters 17 to 19, which I hope some of you got to take a look at this week, will help you understand this morning. Describe to us the events that surrounded the great drought in Israel that James talks about. And in those chapters, we have recorded six instances of dramatic answers to prayer. I believe that James wants us, as I mentioned last week, to consider that whole series of events that surrounded the great drought, not just the prayer for the drought and the prayer for the end of the drought, but all those circumstances because I believe that they all illustrate the kinds of things James wants us to learn and to be encouraged about in our praying. And so there are six instances in Elijah whose very name means the Lord is my strength. uh saw dramatic answers in desperate needs in his life. That then encourage you. I hope you can look at those and see as we go through them. This is something that relates to a need in my life. If God did this in Elijah, he is just like me. God can also hear and answer my prayer. I can be encouraged and have my faith strengthened to claim his promise that the petition of a righteous person made righteous by Jesus, when it's made effective by the Spirit, is very, very powerful to accomplish what God intends. All right, we looked at the first two last week. You remember we looked at prayer Elijah's Prayer to humble a nation when it was in overwhelming spiritual darkness. We talked about how the people uh who had been called by God's name, by the name, the covenant name of Jehovah, and who still called themselves by that name, had gone away from him. Their hearts had gone away to the gods of the land, the gods of their culture And they had given themselves to the Baal, particularly Baal, the god of fertility and the rain clouds. And so as Elijah saw these people who should have been looking to God for their needs looking to and worshipping and serving Baal, looking to him for reign, Elijah got stirred up. And I can imagine that over the period of months and perhaps years as Elijah prayed and as he sought the face of his God, He got more and more upset about this until finally Elijah, in communion with the Lord, gained the conviction that it was right to pray. that God would show that he alone gave rain, and that he would do this by withholding the rain. And so you have Elijah coming to that place where in 1 Kings chapter 17 and verse 1 he goes to Ahab the king of Israel who had built the altar to Baal, and he says, as the Lord the God of Israel lives, God's very nature and his His living reality is at stake here, whom I serve or before whom I stand in prayer as well as service. There will be neither dew nor rain in the next few years except at my word. I don't think that Elijah knew that it was going to be three and a half years at that point. I believe all God said was that this was right to pray, I will answer, and so Elijah prayed that. And he knows it's going to be a long time. It's going to be as long as it takes to humble Israel. It's going to be as long as it takes to bring them to their senses. We had a drought this summer in the United States. Hey, a couple months. Everybody complained. It was hard to endure, very uh inconvenient. Uh it was certainly depressing in many ways. But it wasn't long enough, was it, to bring America to its knees? How long would it take? What would it take? To bring America to its knees in humility to recognize that there is a living God in heaven whom America has turned away from. And the searching question that I presented to us last week, you remember, was would you and I, recognizing that we like Elijah, would suffer along with the rest of the people of our country? In whatever God brought, economic collapse or whatever else it was, in order to bring this nation to spiritual sensibility, would we be willing, if we knew God would hear us? To pray that God would do that for as long as it takes for Him to bring revival to America. Real revival. Not some emotional clamoring that the media can pick up on and immediately dilute and neutralize, but something that would be genuine, a genuine work of the Spirit Elijah was willing to pray that. He let God set the agenda. He was more concerned for God's glory and purpose than any of his own convenience. And that's why Elijah was a man of power in prayer. Until you and I are willing to pray anything that we believe really will please Jesus Christ, we won't know that same degree of power that Elijah knew. But I sometimes am humbled to realize that there is probably no limit to what God would do through a people who are willing to join together in prayer. For whatever would please Jesus Christ in their community, no matter the cost. And that's what uh James is calling our attention to. He says, Elijah was that kind of a man. He was willing to place himself entirely at the disposal of his God in order for God to bring his nation out of spiritual darkness. And you and I live in no better times. Well, we saw that that was on a large scale. But then we saw that God is not only interested in bringing revival to nations, he's also interested in giving our daily bread. The second dramatic answer was how God met Elijah's personal needs and how he was able to, in an impossible situation, provide for Elijah, even if it meant feeding him by ravens. And if there's some time when you find that your paycheck is not stretching from one time to the next, and you think there's no way that God can meet your needs, remember he could feed you with ravens if he wanted to. He did with Elijah. God is not weakened in our day. He doesn't generally feed us with ravens or starlings. Heaven knows there's enough starlings around here to feed us all. But he is not generally choosing to do that. Nevertheless. All of us who have been in extreme circumstances financially and have looked to the Lord can testify to unusual things that God has done that may seem as dramatic as having a raven come down with lunch. In order to see that God takes care of his people, Jesus cares for your needs. No need is too small for him to care to meet it in answer to your prayers as you trust him Whether it's through a raven or whether it's through causing a jug of oil or a jug of flour with the widow of Zarephath to never be exhausted. For as long as it took, as long as the drought was going on, and Elijah didn't know how long it was going on. He just kept trusting day by day that the flour and the oil would continue and there'd be enough water to live Those are the first two. And then we see in the third instance of answered prayer something even more dramatic. Because now God shows that He is also the God who is able to answer even in life and death situations. You remember the situation? The widow's son had become ill, this one with whom Elijah was staying And in 1 Kings, in chapter 17, beginning at verse 17, we read Sometime later, the son of the woman who owned the house became ill. He grew worse and worse, and finally he stopped breathing. That's pretty extreme. And she said to Elijah, What do you have against me, man of God? Did you come to remind me of my sin and kill my son? She fears the power of God. And then how does Elijah answer? You notice, give me your son, Elijah replied. And he took him from her arms, and he carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and he laid him on his bed. And now notice this, again, an example of simple, passionate, pointed prayer. The specific petition of a righteous man made effective. Is very powerful. Elijah lays him out and he simply says, Oh Lord my God, have you brought tragedy also upon this widow that I am staying with by causing her son to die? Thinking of course of the drought that is devastating the land, he says, Lord, now this and then he stretched himself out on the boy three times and cried to the Lord Oh Lord my God, let this boy's life return to him. That's pretty specific. I mean he doesn't say, Lord, do something Lord, uh, you know, help him somehow. You know, he's the kid's dead. He's either dead or alive, and Lord, this is life and death. Lord, uh let his life return to him Now I'm not suggesting that you and I should be encouraged to pray for dead to return. This was a particular circumstance in the history of Israel in which God wanted to show his power in unusual ways, but James still refers to Elijah. to encourage us in life and death situations. And I think of a situation that I read about recently of a woman who was in her living room when a an intruder came through, she didn't know how he had gotten in But he immediately grabbed her from behind, put a knife in her stomach, and said, I am going to rape you. Only he didn't use those words. He was much more crude about it. He threw her down onto the couch, and immediately this woman said that she was struck with a supernatural sense of peace. Her mind turned to jelly, she said. But there was a sense of the peace and the presence of Jesus Christ with her. As she was laying there with this fellow intending to attack her, and uh in fact in laying her down he had hit her on the head with a gun. She began to say to him, I love you. You're a fine young man. I'll do anything I can to help you, but I can't be a part of this Well, these words didn't exactly uh encourage him to sit down and talk about the gospel. Uh he got very angry and uh he took the gun and he said, I'm gonna blow your head off. And she said, Please forgive me. I can't stop talking. She felt as as if there was something beyond her, and she began to continue to talk to this fella about how um the Lord would uh meet his need and she began to talk and then she began to pray out loud. And as she prayed, she said it was as if this fella hit a brick wall He stopped and he said, you stay here for ten minutes, I'm leaving. How do I get out of the house? She said, I was so confused and disoriented, I said, I'm sorry, but I can't tell you right now how to get out of the house. It was her house, you know. He found his way out. They later arrested him. The next day, she found out that twenty minutes before he had come into the room. Her Bible study leader had been struck with a powerful sense of a need to pray for her and had stopped what she had done was doing And had put everything aside and just began to pray for this woman, that God would guard her and protect her and meet whatever need that she had, that she sensed a particular urgency for this at that time. You believe that God can't answer in life and death situations? She said, I felt that I was going to have just a few seconds to live, but I still had the peace of Jesus in that situation. And God protected her. Think just last week of a fellow that I hadn't thought of for four years. Hadn't thought of I hadn't thought of this guy at all. I knew him, used to see him almost daily. uh and uh talked to him about the Lord, hadn't thought about him. All of a sudden, bingo, I got up one morning and his name came right to my mind, wondered how he was doing, if he was walking with the Lord, began to pray for him, had no idea where he was, had lost total contact with him. That afternoon, Ree gave me a note and she said, This woman has called and she says, It's urgent. Would you call back? It was his wife. He had had a heart attack, another a series of heart attacks, and she was calling our church because they were desperate and were looking for diaconal help. I don't know what God's going to do in that situation, but God hears and he answers prayer. He's alive, brothers and sisters. And God is at work in our midst. We need to believe that God is able, as in the days of Elijah, to hear us and to answer. Then we see we come to the next situation, the fourth one. In which why now things begin to move to a climax. Now God wants to demonstrate to the nation that He is the living God who hears and answers prayer. And so the fourth situation is to demonstrate the reality of God in an impossible contest. We read that after a long time, three and a half years, James tells us, in 1 Kings chapter 18. After this drought, no rain, remember, not even a five-minute sprinkle, no dew to give any kind of refreshment. After this time, Elijah goes to King Ahab. And he says in 1 Kings chapter 18, it'd be good if you follow, I'm going to read a few verses here if you want to follow this contest or just listen to it. But Elijah says, now summon the people from all over Israel to meet me on Mount Cormel. And bring the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table. She's the queen. He has to throw that in there, you know. You're allied with them, Ahab. You support this false religion. Bring them to Mount Carmel. And so Ahab sent word throughout all Israel. And he assembled the prophets on Mount Carmel. And Elijah went before the people and he said, How long will you waver between two opinions? Oscillating, James says, double-minded. How long? If the Lord is God, then follow him If Jesus Christ really is risen, follow him this week. Be sold out to him. But if Baal is God, then follow him. Don't waver and be wishy-washy. And so he's calling the contest. What do the people say? Nothing. See that? People said nothing. Man, they're standing there. Oh, hey, what are we in for now? They realize that God had said there would be no rain. And now they are humbled and they don't know what to say, because they know they've been wishy-washy. And then Elijah said to him, I am the only one of the Lord's prophets left, but Baal has 450 prophets. Now here's the contest. Get two bowls for us. Let them choose one for themselves, all four hundred and fifty of them, and let them cut it into pieces and put it on the wood, but not set fire to it I will prepare the other bowl, and I will put it on the wood, and not set fire to it. Then you call on the name of your God. And I will call on the name of the Lord. Baal, in addition to being the god of the uh rain clouds, was also the god of thunder and lightning, and so by extension, he was also the god of fire. And therefore the God who is able to answer by fire. So Elijah saying, I'm even going to give you the benefit of the doubt. I'm going to put it on your terms. You say Baal is the God of fire. Okay Put these two bowls here on the wood. Nobody sets a fire. You'll call on the name of your God. I'll call on the name of the Lord. And the God who answers by fire, He is God. Now. Does that make sense? So the people all say, hey, yeah, what you say is good. Faith, we all like to see the reality of God demonstrated so we can't miss it Right. We all would love to see now Jesus Christ walk in the room and say, I really am risen. You can trust me with your life. No worry. We'd say, Ah, if we could only have that, you know, I just say you're going to see the reality of God. So Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, go ahead, choose one of the bowls. Prepare it first. There are so many of you. You call on the name of your God, but don't light the fire. And there's the rules, and so they took the bowl and given to him and they prepared it, and they call on the name of Baal from morning until noon. Oh Baal, answer us! They shouted. But there was no response. No one answered. And they danced around the altar, their ritual dance that they had made. And at noon, Elijah began to taunt them. Chao outer, he said. Surely he's a god. Perhaps he's in deep thought, you know. Or maybe he's busy. Maybe he's traveling. You gotta call a little louder. He's a little out of earshot Maybe he's sleeping. He's got to be awakened. Well he's really having fun here, you know, at these guys' expense. And so they shouted louder. And they don't answer. They don't shut up Elijah. They say, okay, you know, so they shout louder and they begin to and slashed themselves with swords and spears. That was supposed to bring the gods a response, as was their custom, until the blood flowed Imagine the scene, these people bleeding all over, cutting themselves and slashing themselves in the hope that Dale is going to hear Midday passed, and they continued their frantic prophesying until the time for the evening sacrifice. But there was no response. No one answered. No one paid attention. How hopeless was their hope. And then Elijah said at the evening time, Call the people. Come here to me. Now notice the contrast of quiet. They came to him. And he repaired the altar of the Lord which was in ruins And Elijah took twelve stones, one for each of the tribes descended from Jacob to whom the word of the Lord had come, saying, Your name shall be Israel. Reminding them who they are, Israel, the prince with God. And And with stones he built an altar in the name of the Lord, and he dug a trench around it large enough to hold two seas of seed. And then he arranged the wood, and he cut the bowl into pieces, and he laid it on the wood, and then he said to them, Now fill four large jars with water, and pour it on the offering and on the wood. He used to wonder how'd they get all this water? Now notice this all they do. He says, do it again. They do it again, four more large jars of water. Do it a third time, he says. And they did it a third time. The water's running all around the altar and it's even filling the trench. It hadn't rained for three and a half years where they're getting all this water. Well there's a very deep well there. Perhaps they got it from there. They say that well never exhausts itself. But the other thing is very simple is of course now Carmel's right on the edge of the Mediterranean Sea. About twenty minute walk, so maybe you send some people down and this is seawater that they're pouring there. I don't know, but they got all this water. And now this thing is drenched. And at the time of the sacrifice, the prophet Elijah stepped forward and he prayed. Peace and in quiet. O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, let it be known today that you are the God in Israel And that I am your servant, and that I've done all these things at your command. Answer me, O Lord Answer me so that these people will know that you, O Lord, are God, and that you are turning their backs, back their hearts again. And then immediately the fire of the Lord fell. And it burned up the sacrifice. It burned up the wood. It burned up the stones. And it burned up the soil, and it also licked up the water in the trench. Supernatural, consuming fire from heaven, as God hears and answers prayer. And all the people saw this and they fell prostrate and they cried, the Lord, he is God. The Lord, he is God. Oh, what would it take, brothers and sisters, for you and for me to believe the Lord, he is God? But Peter tells us in the New Testament that you and I have a more sure witness than that. For Peter tells us that we have the eyewitness account, that Jesus has risen from the dead. That there was, in fact, the ultimate contest between the reality of God and Satan, not a caramel, but a Calvary. Where Jesus died, cursed by God, where Satan thought he had the victory. And Jesus at that point was paying for your sin and for my sin. So that we could pray that prayer of the righteous man and be accepted by Jesus. And Elijah was the one who demonstrated the reality of God to Israel. But Jesus demonstrated his reality all time when he walked out of that tomb. And you and I can know that Jesus is alive. And therefore, our God is a God who hears and answers prayer. He hears and answers our prayer, even to end the drought. And so the fifth example, of course. is when Elijah goes then up to Mount Carmel and he prays not once, but seven times before God hears and answers. James sums it up like this, you remember when he says in verse 18, again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops once again. He prayed, and God heard him. Does God still hear such an amazing prayer when it seemed that there was no hope that they would ever see rain again? Seemed like the heavens had dried up once for all. I've reminded you in times past of the Puritans, the pilgrims who had landed here, and in 1622, after weeks of drought, and it seemed like their crops were hopelessly lost, they called a day of fasting and prayer. The next day it began to rain, and it rained for two weeks, ending the drought and saving their crops and establishing the pilgrim colony in Plymouth. In 1853, there was a terrible drought in the state of Ohio. The ground had cracked, it was so dry, and the animals were dying left and right. A group of people gathered to worship and to pray that God would send rain. We read that the pastor that day came into the pulpit with an umbrella in his arm, though it hadn't pray it rained for weeks and weeks. And setting it on the chair, he began to pray, Lord, we do not presume to dictate to thee what is best for us. And yet thou dost invite us to come to thee as children to a father and tell thee all our wants. We want rain. Specific, you see. Pointed prayer. Unless you give us rain, our cattle must die. And the harvest will come to naught. It's an easy thing for thee to do, O Lord. Send us rain and send it now. Before he had finished his preaching, there came the unmistakable crack of thunder and the sound of rain against the roof. And Charles G. Finney, the pastor of that church, paused in his sermon. And then as the congregation quietly wept, he began to sing, When all thy mercies, O my God, my thankful soul surveys, uplifted by the view, I'm lost. In wonder, love, and praise. Just this summer, Time magazine recorded the during the drought in America A group of people paid a couple of hundred dollars to a man to do a rain dance. And uh they didn't record any rain that had come. In the same paragraph, it talked about a group of believers. Who called together a prayer meeting? They prayed, and in two days it was almost a couple of inches of rain that came to their area. And God has ended the drought But America hasn't returned to the Lord. And what's it going to take? But finally, we see the encouragement that God hears us even in our own personal needs. And so we read the sixth answer when Elijah was utterly wiped out, emotionally shot, and discouraged. Jezebel had vowed to kill him, and he flees, and in depression, he prays that God would take his life. And God sends them a vision. He sends them a vision and he speaks to them, feeds them first, and then he sends them a vision of a strong wind and God wasn't in the wind. And of an earthquake, but God wasn't in an earthquake. Then there came a still small voice, which God reminded Elijah not by fire from heaven, but in the depths of his own heart, in the most personal way, I still am the living God There's 7,000 who have not bowed their knee to Baal. You're not alone, Elijah. And I'm going to send you Elisha as your helper to comfort and to encourage you. Jesus knows exactly what your need is this morning. And he is able to meet that need. If you and I believe that Elijah, just like us, was a man who prayed and God answered. That you and I are bid to come before him and to look and to say, Lord, in what way do my needs match what you've encouraged me with here? In our prayer meetings on Thursday morning, we begun this fall to keep a log of how God hears and how God answers. And so, in doing that, we're planning to see how God hears and answers prayer in our midst as a congregation. I encourage you to keep your own record and to watch this fall how God will hear and answer your prayers as you take your needs to Him. Let's pray. Lord our God, hear us, for we are a needy people. And like Israel, we often vacillate. Help us to see if you are Lord, if you have risen, Lord Jesus, that we may follow you and trust all of our needs to you. Receive us and our needs now as we bring them to you. Hear us in the quiet of our hearts