Would like to ask the ushers to check. Maybe we ought to have tickets as they go out. We know a uh tremendous debt of gratitude to Linda McElroy and the team of people that work with her and also with Debbie Koch. Up until now, of course, uh Dolly Myers has been our Sunday school and superintendent at least the last couple of years Dolly's back to teaching. Debbie Koch is now superintendent. And God has given us a tremendous staff of people to work with our kids. That is such a rich ministry and it has been certainly one of the strengths of our congregation. Very, very grateful for that. The teachers as you begin again this year, and some of you beginning new this year. Very thankful for that. Kind of embarrassed as I stand here to um Mention to you that uh something happened this week's only happened a couple of times before in my ministry here ten years I uh was writing the message out on Friday and as I was uh writing out the final uh draft of this thing, I uh came to realize that there was really much too much material. to be able to either give it within a half hour uh without talking so fast that I sound like a tape recorder at high speed, or to cover it so superficially that you don't get anything of the impact of it. And so I decided to cut the message in half so that today you will get just half of what you see on the message outline The good news is that will get us through on time. The bad news is, of course, that extends the James series one more week. I I really want you to know I am not so enamored with James that I can't stand to leave it. And I knew that there'd be some people that would be thinking that I'm so insecure that I just can't leave James. That's really not the case But we will have to go on two more weeks, and so you'll have to wait till uh two more weeks to come to that last uh message on verses 19 and 20. I believe the Holy Spirit has been speaking to us through James to encourage us in our praying, to encourage us to pray at all times, to pray when we have trouble, as he says in verse 13. to pray even when that trouble may involve serious physical difficulties, even to the point of threatening death. and to pray for ourselves and for one another, whether it is physical disease or whether it is emotional or spiritual or relational That in every case, as he says in verses 14 to 16, that we believe God and we pray to see God do amazing things. And then you remember in verse sixteen that we looked at last week, at the end of that ch verse, James says that the prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective, whereas I have translated what I believe is uh the best rendering to understand James' intention. The petition, the specific petition of any ordinary Christian who is justified, made righteous by the blood of Jesus Christ, when that petition is made effective by the Holy Spirit, he finds it to be very, very powerful. And that that is an encouragement for you and for me, that God stakes his own honor and his name behind that promise given to you and to me. But then James doesn't end there. He goes on not only to state that, but to also illustrate that. And he illustrates it Through the life of a man by the name of Elijah. And he says to us in verses 17 and 18, let's hear God's word now, Elijah was a man just like us. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain in the land for three and a half years. Again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops. That is an amazing prayer, isn't it? That prayer, James says, and Elijah prayed the first time, the prayer brought on a national drought. A drought that lasted for three and a half years. And then Elijah prayed again, and James says God ended the drought and brought rain. And James wants us to be very clear that the phenomena of that drought and the end of it was not due to meteorological circumstances in some impersonal way. The cause of the beginning and the end of that drought was a man praying. And James wants us to feel the impact of that. Now, why did James pick Elijah? I believe that as we look at Elijah's life, we'll see a number of reasons why Elijah is an ex an excellent example to encourage you and me in our prayer lives. It was not an arbitrary choice at all. Now, we'll see some reasons for that this week, and then we'll finish it next week. But first of all, I want us to notice three things about Elijah. Three things to notice about Elijah. First of all, notice what kind of a man he was. Verse 17 tells us he was a man just like us. Those are the three blanks there. He was just like us. It's important that we not gloss over that too quickly. Because I believe as Christians that we have an a tendency to always put Bible characters into a separate category in life of people that are different kinds of human beings. Somehow we don't feel we can relate to Moses, to David, to Daniel, to Paul. They're people who aren't touched with the kinds of temptations that we are. Things that plague us, they wouldn't even notice. Their heads were so lofty and in the clouds thinking about spiritual things. That's at the Columbia Medical Plan just this week. And I did not hear the context of this, but I heard one woman say to one man across the room, and this is all I picked up, she said, This is not the Bible. This is real life. Well wish I'd known what that was about, you know. But I thought, isn't that a summation of how people in Columbia, Howard County, Baltimore, the whole area, you know, how people look at the Bible. The Bible is not real life. You know, these are kind of nice fairy stories to inspire us to do good things. Even as Christians, I think we can have a tendency to look at Bible characters as that's the Bible. It's not where I live. Now, James, I believe, picked Elijah, one reason, because he was one of the most exalted of all the Bible characters in contemporary Jewish tradition. In fact, Jews at that time, James's day, had so exalted Elijah in their minds that he was really kind of semi-divine He wasn't a person they could relate to because he had such exalted status. And I believe that there's a danger for you and for me just like that. That you and I can look at Elijah and we can see that he prayed and God stopped rain for three and a half years and then he prayed and it rained again and say, that's nice, but that was Elijah. There is no way in the world God is going to hear my prayers to do anything on any kind of national level or anything nearly approaching that kind of significance. And so James starts out and he says, before you look at Elijah's prayer, look at Elijah. Elijah was just like you. In fact, the word that he uses is the same word used in Acts 14, when Paul and Barnabas, you remember, were at Lystra, and they healed a man, and the crowds thought that they were gods. I was kind of intrigued. They thought that Barnabas was Zeus and that Paul was Hermes because he did all the talking. And they thought that they were gods and so they wanted to worship them. And they say, No, no, no, don't do that. We are just like you. The word means we have the same nature as you do. We're no different from you. And that's what James is saying about Elijah. Elijah was a sinner Just like you. Elijah was heard not because of any unrighteousness of his own, because he was somehow holy and deserved to have his prayers answered. Elijah was heard. Because God was merciful and Elijah was collaborating with the Spirit in what God wanted to do. And so he is a lesson for us in our praying. John White, who I quoted last week in his prayer and amazing answer to prayer, said that he learned to pray by praying with old prayer warriors. Because he could relate to them and he learned how to pray with them. Well, I don't know if you've ever found some old saints to pray with. If you ever do get that privilege, take advantage of it. One of the best ways to learn to pray is to pray with people who know how to pray. That's one of the things we want to do in stimulating each other in our concerts of prayers. But we have the opportunity, at least, on a second dairy level, to listen to Elijah to pray, to hear Elijah as an old prayer warrior, and learn from him how to pray. And so to do that, we have to remember that Elijah is just like us. After noticing that, I want us to notice secondly what kind of prayer he prayed. Notice what kind of prayer Elijah prayed. Literally, the Greek says in verse 17, Elijah was a man just like us, and he prayed earnestly. The word there he prayed earnestly is really a way of translating the Greek phrase, in prayer he prayed. James is saying, in prayer he prayed that it would not rain And that is a kind of a Semitic Near Eastern expression of intensity. And so I say that that speaking in prayer he prayed that Elijah prayed earnestly and simply. The next two blanks. He prayed earnestly and simply. In prayer he prayed. With prayer he prayed. He prayed intensely and pointedly. That's how Elijah prayed. If you look at his prayers, and I listed just three as an example in 1 Kings 17 and 18 and 19, you will see how very pointed and brief those prayers are. While those prayers are so pointed and specific, they come out of a relationship, an interaction with God that took months and years of development. So that he would understand what to pray with specific power. And that's the same way it is with you and me. If we're ever going to come to that point where we pray, as John White we talked about last week, Lord, bring him to repent. And that's the heart of the matter. Lord, hear that. Do that. If we're ever going to pray pointed prayers of power, we've got to learn through interaction that takes a long time with the Lord back and forth. We need to learn to pray earnestly so that we can pray simply. And then thirdly, notice what kind of results he got. Notice what kind of results he got. He got dramatic results. Dramatic, that's the word to put in there. Make sure you're sticking an exclamation mark. Dramatic results. Dramatic answers to prayer, of course, are by their very nature unusual. We don't expect dramatic answers to prayer every week or even every month. But from time to time, we should expect that when you and I have a dire need individually as a congregation, and we have learned what God's purposes are. That we can expect, if there is a dramatic need, that God may give a dramatic answer. God from time to time does delight, you know, in showing his power and his love to his children. By giving them an answer that they'll never forget. I'm sure that most of us as Christians who have walked with the Lord for some period of time can look back and can think of times when God gave an answer and you know, you might even in sharing that answer find that other people would sort of shrug their shoulders and smile and say, Well that's nice. Welln't a big deal to them. But to you it is very personal and powerful. Just this week at our concert of prayer, afterwards, Tom and Catherine shared a couple of personal answers to prayers in their lives that were dramatic and powerful to them. An example of God's personal specific love to them. And so, as Elijah got dramatic answers to his prayers, you and I should expect from time to time, not normally But we should not rule out that God may give to us personal and dramatic answers to prayers too. Remember Jack Miller talking about a girl who came to faith in Christ. Living in his home, just as a brand new Christian, she began to pray that God would give her a husband. And she prayed more specifically than that. She was learning pointed believing prayer. And she prayed that God would give her a husband who was rich, had a nice car, and was a good dancer. She was going to go for the gold, you know? And so she prayed this, and Jack sort of smiled and thought, well, I'm not going to tell her what to pray. You know, same thing as I've said. Let the Holy Spirit work in her. And so she prayed. Darn if uh fellow from Westminster Seminary didn't start taking some interest in her, found out that this fellow became uh very enamored with her, and uh pretty soon they were engaged This guy turned out was pretty wealthy. He had a very nice sports car. I never did hear what kind it was. And he was a dance teacher. You know, that's one of my kids, Heather and Julie's favorite examples of answers to prayer, you know. We review that one from time to time about God's power in prayer. But uh God delights. In answering the prayers of his children. Now I want for us to look at Elijah's life, and we're going to look at six instances of this, but as I said, we're not going to cover six instances this morning. We're just going to get through a couple. And take a look at how God showed this through the time of that great drought. Let me say again, this is recorded in 1 Kings 17 to 19, so uh You may want to take a look at that this week. It'll help you in understanding next week a little better to have that kind of background. But I believe that if you look at that, there's a couple of reasons why James chose Elijah as an illustration. I believe that when James says Elijah was a man just like us, he prayed it wouldn't rain, it didn't for three and a half years, he prayed it would, and God sent the rain. That what he intends for us to understand is not simply those two prayers. But to be reminded of Elijah and the whole circumstances surrounding those three and a half years. Because if you look at those three and a half years of the great drought in Israel, you will find that there were, in fact, six rather dramatic answers to prayer in Elijah's life. And those six dramatic answers to prayer cover all kinds of areas of need that you and I have and face As encouragement in whatever circumstance for you and for me to take our needs to a loving Savior. So I believe that James does not intend for us to just focus on these two prayers. But on all those circumstances surrounding the beginning and the end of that drought and all the things in between, to understand how God answers prayer. And I believe also another reason why James took Elijah was because his name can be translated, Jehovah is my strength. The Lord is my strength. And the Lord was Elijah's strength through answered prayer. And so his very name reminds us that God hears and answers prayer. The Lord is my strength. Now, how did he show himself as a God who answered prayer in Elijah's life, remembering that Elijah is just like us? First of all, there was the prayer to humble a nation in overwhelming spiritual darkness. That was the first one. The thing that got it all started. The prayer that God would humble the nation of Israel in a period of overwhelming spiritual darkness. Verse 17 says, He prayed earnestly that it would not rain. And it did not rain in the land for three and a half years. Now you read that sentence, you've got to ask yourself, why'd he do that? You know, I mean, why would a guy pray such a terrible prayer for his nation? Something must have prompted it. You need to understand a little bit of background to appreciate what's going on here. The time is around 860 BC. Several generations after the golden years of the reign of David and Solomon. And Israel is separated from those years when God was in the very center of the heart of his people. From the time that they're in now, about the same amount of time as we are separated from the great awakenings of the early colonial days of this country. And in those period that period of years, 160, 70, 80 years that had transpired, there had been a period of time in which there had been a tremendous decline in Israel's spiritual vitality. Interestingly enough, just like with America, religion had continued to be very prominent, and all the worship of the temple was kept, and people still talked about themselves as belonging to the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but in their hearts they worshiped Baal. Baal was the one, the God of the land, who had come into the center of their attention And so they had blended these things together, but their hearts really belonged to Baal. Now what you need to understand about Baal is that in Canaan he was the God of fertility and the Lord of the rain clouds. It was Baal that you prayed to to get rain for your crops. Now picture the scene, if you can use your imagination for a minute. Here's Elijah, a man of God, who sees the spiritual darkness of his nation. And he knows that God is a holy and righteous God, and he cannot continue to overlook these people calling themselves by his name. But blaspheming him with their hypocrisy. And Elijah says, Oh God, humble my people. Show them that you are the true God. Deliver them from the secular humanism of Baal worship. God, humble them before yourself. Lord, how do you want to do that? And Elijah begins to collaborate with the Lord. And he begins to think, now Lord, they're worshiping Baal, and Baal's the one who they think will give the rain. Now, Lord, we know that you have said in Leviticus chapter 26 and verses 3 and 4 that you alone give and withhold rain. Lord, would you want to consider withholding the reign until your people see that only you can give it? And can you imagine over a period of days and weeks and months of Elijah's quiet times that he begins to gain a growing conviction that perhaps what Israel needs Is to see that only God gives rain. And so Elijah begins to pray. And there grows a growing conviction, and as a prophet, perhaps he has a direct revelation from God. You're on the right track, Elijah. And so with a growing conviction, he becomes more pointed. And finally he comes down to it precisely and he says, Lord, stop the rain. And there is that sense as a prophet divinely revealed that that is exactly God's purpose. And so God hears and he answers that prayer. Now you remember this past summer when we had just a little bit of a drought. A drought is no light thing. And I was thinking as I was preparing this message this summer how appropriate this was going to be, and I couldn't help but wonder by the time I preached this whether the drought would be over or not. And mercifully it sure seems to have ended for us. But do you remember those hot, searing days of July and August? Do you remember as you watch things dry up and as people talked about their crops withering? And do you remember how hearing about in certain parts of the country And you've seen in other droughts how the animals finally grow thin and die through lack of pasture. The brooks and the rivers dry up, the lakes recede, and you watch things become parched and cracked. There's no relief. The heat becomes increasingly searing because the ground no longer absorbs uh that uh uh heat from the sun. It simply radiates it and reflects it back. And so the ground now uh is heating up the atmosphere in a an intense way, and that in turn continues to dry things out, and so there is no relief, there is no refreshment. You become depressed, don't you? You just long for something green, for some sort of relief to this. And this is what Elijah is praying for. Now, as I thought about that, I began to realize that that was a rather heroic prayer, because Elijah knew that he would have to suffer along with Israel. In order for that to happen, Elijah II would be affected. Elijah too would go through the suffering of a drought when God withheld the rain through that time. And you know, it's very interesting if you read in 1 Kings 17, where Elijah refers to this, it says, Now Elijah the Tishbite from Tish of Gilead said to Ahab, the king who had built the temple to Baal, king of Israel, As the Lord the God of Israel lives, whom I serve, and the phrase there, whom I serve, can also be translated, before whom I stand in prayer. There will be neither dew nor rain in the next few years, no duration mentioned, except at my word. Now you notice something there? There's no rain or what? Dew Now, you and I, during the worst part of the drought, at least could go outside and see some dew on the ground in the morning. And there was some refreshment and moisture from that. But in this drought, there was no rain at any time, no sprinkling shower to even give the slightest relief, nor was there any dew. In what is in fact a very arid area. No lakes, except Galilee, and then the Dead Sea, for what that's worth. Jordan would dry up All the brooks and the streams would dry up, and there would be no moisture. Now you think about that, and I don't know what it does to you, but to me that raises a very searching question. And that is, would I be willing to pray that in the United States today That God would be pleased to bring something like an economic collapse, for example, if that would bring America to its knees and bring revival to our nation. Would you and I be willing to pray that God would bring a drought or whatever else it would take to humble America and bring it to a place where the Spirit could bring revival? I don't know about you, but that's a very searching question to me, because I say, Well Lord, I want you to bring revival to Columbia and Howard County and God says, you know, in order to do that I may have to bring some suffering. I said, Well Well, you know, I couldn't you do it some other way? I mean, you know, let's negotiate this a little bit. I mean, certainly there's gotta be a way. It sends somebody who's gonna dramatically present with power the gospel or something or some televangelist. You know, there's other ways you can do it today, Lord. You don't have to use this stuff. But you know, I keep going back to the summer when on a few occasions I would mention to unbelievers who had talked about the drought, I'd say, you know, this drought really humbles us to realize that we're not the ones who can produce rain, doesn't it? You know it's interesting to me that not one unbeliever that I talked to mocked that statement this summer. I remember one guy who hadn't showed no interest in the gospel. I mentioned that to him and he said, Yeah, we think we're big deals till something like this happens. Something about a drought, about things that are totally outside of our control, that makes people stop and think about their secular humanistic beliefs. Would you be willing, would I be willing, to pray that God would do something dramatic in the United States if it meant that his Spirit could bring us to revival? You see, I think the principle here is that until you learn to have the heart of the Son of God and fellowship with him in his concerns. You won't really know the kind of power that Elijah knew in his praying. For it was the Son of God who pled with the Father. That he would spare his people. That he would spare those who had sinned against him and deserved his just and righteous wrath. And no one knew that wrath as well as the Son knew it. No one knew what it meant to stand before a holy God like the Son of the Eternal Father. And Hebrews 5. 7 tells us that Jesus pled with the Father with loud cries and tears on our behalf. And the Father heard him. But Jesus knew that in order for the Father to hear him, he was to be the answer to that prayer. And Jesus knew that if the Father was going to hear and deliver us from condemnation, it was by condemning Jesus in our place. And Jesus was willing to come, to take on a human body, to suffer, and to die the cursed death on the cross. So that you would not have to die that death, so that you could be covered with his righteousness in his place. But you know the interesting thing about that prayer was when Jesus prayed that, the Father heard him, and he not only saved us He saved Jesus. For he rose him, raised him from the dead. And you and I have been raised with him. And so Hebrews 5:7 says that he was heard and he was delivered from death. So that we would be delivered with him. See the funny thing about praying, when you set your agenda before God and say, Lord, I am willing to pray anything. So that you will be lifted up in my life and the life of the people that I care for, even in my country. This is when God answers that there may be a lot of suffering involved. But there will always be joy at the end. And you will always be glad that God did what he did in answer to that prayer. But are you and I willing to pray that? Well, finally, let me just touch on one other example of answered prayer, and that's the second one, which is kind of the other extreme. See, on the one hand, I'm talking about our need to pray for Columbia, for Howard County, for this area, for even Maryland and for the United States. God would be pleased to deliver us from a disaster that surely must come if we continue to blaspheme and ignore him. But on the other hand, God is concerned also for our own personal, tiny daily needs in a very personal way And so we see, on the other hand, that Elijah is an example to us of prayer for personal daily needs in an impossible situation. Because you see, after Elijah had prayed that the drought would begin, and it began, now he's got another problem. How's he going to live through the drought? And so in 1 Kings chapter 17, we read in verse 2, in verses following, that the word of the Lord came to Elijah. Elijah praised, Lord, take care of me now. I belong to you. Take care of my needs. And so the Lord said to him, Leave here, turn eastward, and hide in the Kerith ravine, east of the Jordan. And you will drink from the brook, and I will and I have ordered the ravens to feed you there. And so he did what the Lord told him. And he went to the Kerath ravine, east of the Jordan, and he stayed there And the ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the brook, still fed from the mountain streams. And after that, we read that the brook dried up. God told Elijah to move on, and he goes and he meets a woman. A widow of Zarephath, who has a son, and they're on the very edge, the brink of starvation. They have only just a little bit of flour and oil left Do you remember the story how Elijah brought the how God brought Elijah to that woman and after she is an act of faith and and compassion gave to him some of what she last had God caused that flour and that oil to last for months and months and perhaps even a couple of years before it finally ran out. God made it inexhaustible, supernaturally. Why? To show that he will always meet the needs of his children. And if you have a dire need, he will give a dramatic answer. Whatever your need, do you believe that Jesus Christ cares in his infinite compassion for you And that he wants to meet your need. And if you say, Lord, I don't have anything to eat. Yeah, I don't know anybody here this in that case. If you do, give us the deacons, you know, contact me. You say, Lord, I just don't have anything. Nothing left God says, well, if I have to make the flour and the oil last for a couple of years, then if that's what it takes, that's what I'll do. But I will provide for my children. I will show myself faithful. Do you believe Jesus Christ wants to do that in your life? He did it for Elijah, and Elijah's what? Just like us. I think of the year 1948, life in the ministry of Francis and Edith Schaefer. They were missionaries at that time over in Europe. And that time, that year, was the biggest crisis in Francis Schaefer's life. He had seen of a lot of hypocrisy and things in Christianity that had caused him to have a crisis of his own faith as to whether the Bible was true. And during that time he was praying that the God would show his reality to him. He worked that through in a way that gave him the strength and the uh Um mental stamina working through the understanding of the Bible that laid the foundation for his ministry even for the rest of his life began right then. But during that time they realized that after a couple of months they were going to come home for a year on furlough. And they had no place to live. There literally was no place. Now I don't know why the mission had nothing to do with that, but the fact is they didn't have a place to live when they got back to the States. Edith Schaefer writing about that time, looking back on that, says that Francis would pace up and down the balcony praying, Lord, where can we live? Please show us. Only one other time in his life thus far has Fran ever heard a voice answer him. Today in March of nineteen eighty-one, when she wrote this, he said, Edith, I can still hear that voice in memory. as distinctly as I can remember any voice that I have ever heard. He told me that the voice was so clear that he felt that if another person had been with him, perhaps they would have heard it too. It seemed not to be inside his own head. What he heard was nothing startling as fact as content went, simply three very practical words. Uncle Harrison's house. It was such a direct and startling suggestion that Fran felt impelled to write a letter and asked, What are you going to do with your house this year, Uncle Harrison? Feeling a bit foolish, as it seemed the answer would naturally be, live in it. What do you expect? Instead, the answer came back. I'm going to live with my brother and his wife in Wildwood this year, and I'd like to have you and Edith and the children come and live in Lenson Street as soon as you're home. And she goes on to talk about the fact that they, by the way, did go home and they had that place to live for that entire year that they were in the United States. An amazing, remarkable provision of God for a simple, practical need in an impossible situation. But she goes on to talk about how it is no less spiritual if you don't hear a voice speaking to you. It's no less spiritual if you uh don't have a dramatic provision, but God works things out in more normal, natural ways. But what she does mention is the fact that there is that indication. That God hears and answers the prayers of his children. And so I invite you: whether it's on a large scale or in your most intimate personal need, trust Jesus. I invite you to bring your needs to him, to believe him. To join us as we pray for Columbia, Howard County, and the area in our Thursday morning concerts of prayer. We are pledged this fall to see what God does in answer to prayer. And we're beginning to keep a log of our requests and of his answers to increase our faith. I encourage you also that in your own personal needs, that you will believe Jesus. You'll take your needs to him. And you'll see him show that he cares for you more than you can imagine. Because he cared for Elijah. And Elijah was just like you. Let's pray. Lord, hear us. Hear us as we bring our needs to you, as we bring our needs personally and as a congregation. For O Lord, we are a needy people, but you are a great prayer hearing God. Teach us as a congregation this fall, we pray. Teach us to pray. May we learn how to pray for both the personal and for the community needs. May we learn to pray those little daily worries. May we learn to pray the big Things that are on your agenda beyond our own personal concerns. Hear us, and may we grow in faith, because that's what honors Jesus Because he cares for us so much more than we know. We give ourselves to you for this purpose in Jesus' name. Amen.