Caught you didn't he? Everybody's looking for the chorus and where is it going? And I thought we already sang that and why are we down here and he's over here Blessed is the man who knows where the song goes, who hasn't sung it before. Good try. Turn in your Bibles to James chapter three again. And we're following through from chapter three verses 13 to 18 A four-week study within the context of the rest of the book on a self-test on your wisdom. People have always sought for wisdom, you know, uh whether the word has been very popular as with the Greeks, or whether the word itself is unpopular as it is in current America in the twentieth century People still have always been seeking for the same thing. Thank you. Because remember, wisdom simply refers to skillful living. That is the ability to live in harmony with reality. The ability to live in order to maximize contentment and well-being. And people have always sought for that. Kathy, my wife and I often after dinner will walk up Tamar Drive. And recently as we've been walking up and down Tamar Drive, we'd noticed that there were a lot of cars that were parked by this one house. And we began to speculate on what was going on in there every Wednesday night. You know, we hear singing sometimes. We thought maybe it was a barbershop quartet, you know, or m you know, was it a Bible study we didn't know about? We didn't know And one night finally when we couldn't contain it any longer this guy walked out of the house and I stopped him and I said, Hey, we've been wondering what's going on in that house. You know, I mean, you know, is it an Amway meeting or what you what are you doing in there, you know? This guy said, No, no, you know, and I guess a few other things. I said, Is it a Bible study? He said, No, but you're getting close. He says, It's Nam Yoho Renge Kyo Buddhism. And I said, Oh, that's one of the things I wouldn't have guessed right off, but could you please tell me what is Nam Yoho Renge Kyo Buddhism? I'm feel pretty proud that I can pronounce it. I didn't even know what it was. And he said, well, Nam means devotion. Myoho refers to the mystic law of the universe, the way things really are Now, you see, lest you think that people aren't interested in wisdom, here's a whole group of Colombians who take off after a long day of work to go over to this guy's house to study the mystic law of the universe because they claim, and by the way, if you haven't seen them, they're in the shopping centers, they've been over to Bradley's, they're handing out literature all over the place. Tina Turner is part of the movement and many people are promoting this. That if you in fact learn this principle of the mystic law of the universe and live in harmony with it, you will have peace and contentment, and in fact, you'll get whatever you want. And so you see, people are always looking for that principle. What is it that gives to us this law of reality, which if I learn it and live in harmony with it, I will find contentment and fulfillment and all the rest of that? And James says in chapter 3 verse 13, Who is it now that's wise? Who is understanding? Who of you claims to have that wisdom? To be able to know how to live skillfully in concert with reality? And James says, if in fact you know it, then he says, you will show it. And the way you'll show it, remember in verse 13 that we looked at before, was by a good life and a humble life, the good life which is adorned by a certain beauty and attractiveness, and a humble life which is gentle Which shows that it doesn't need to assert itself. And remember then he contrasted verse 14 with that kind of wisdom, the true wisdom. And he said, Now, if in fact you've got bitter envy and selfish ambition and you're going around denying that you're bitter and selfish and you are arrogant enough to think that that's not true of you and you deny the truth of that, then James says you don't know anything about wisdom. Because he said that's an utter contrast to wisdom. And then from that point, he leads us to the origin of it. Now he's gone right down to the root of it. And you remember we talked last week about the fact that basically what these verses do is to contrast counterfeit wisdom with true wisdom In three ways, their origin, their character, and then their results or their fruits. With that in mind again, let's read those seven verses, James chapter 3. Verses thirteen to eighteen as we look this morning at the question of origins. Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life. By deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. But if you harbor envy, if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, Do not boast about it or deny the truth. Such wisdom does not come down from heaven, but is earthly, unspiritual, of the devil. For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. But the wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure, then peace-loving, considerate, submissive. Full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere, peacemakers who sow in peace raise a harvest of righteousness. First of all, then what James wants to show us, wants to show us that there's a contrast. There's only two ultimate sources of wisdom The wisdom that is from above, verse 17, literally, NIV says from heaven, literally it's from above. the godly true wisdom or the alternative, the only alternative, James says, is verse 15, the wisdom that's not from above, the wisdom from below The wisdom that's from the devil, devilish, and therefore a wisdom which leads to chaos and destruction. Now, let's look at this verse 15 a little more closely to understand what James is trying to teach us here. Because this is God's word, and therefore God is teaching us through this. James says in verse 15 that this wisdom, which is characterized by being centered on self, A wisdom which seeks to promote self, to protect self, to live for self, which is totally oriented around self. comes from four different ways he describes its origin, the four descriptions that he gives for us to understand the root of this wisdom Because remember James' purpose throughout his whole book is to unmask reality. He wants to deceive us. He wants us to show us what things are really like, because he says the world isn't really what it appears to be. And I want you to see what things are really like. And he gives four descriptions in verse 15, which are in reality in order of a descending climax Notice what he says. First of all, he says, it's not from above. The NIV says, does not come down from heaven. Literally, it's is not from above. Notice that in contrast to chapter 1, verse 16 and 17. Again, remember, James is trying to de-deceive us, to unmask reality. And you remember he said back in chapter 1 and verse 16, take a look at it there. Do not be deceived, my dear brothers. Every good and perfect gift is from above. Coming down from the Father of the heavenly lights. Now James says, in contrast to that, you see, he says about this kind of selfish ambition, this wisdom that centers on self, he says, that's not from above. Therefore, you see, following his logic, it's not good. Even though it appears to be good, even though it appears to be innocuous, even though it appears to be the order of the day, James says that really isn't good. It's not from above. It's not coming down from the Father of Lights. And then he goes on secondly to say it's earthly. See the word there? Earthly. That word used in the New Testament refers to things of this world, earthly things. And so what James is saying here is that the origin of this wisdom is from the experience of this world. It is reduced to and contained within only the experience of man. It's what we learn from our own experience. There's no perspective in this wisdom outside of the perspective of this world. Thirdly, he says it's unspiritual. You see that word, the third description. It's unspiritual. That simply means it's not of the Holy Spirit. Now you notice the pattern in this verse. You see, it's a double pattern. He says it's a negative, positive, negative, positive. He says It's not from above, it's not from the Father of lights, but it's rather of the earth. It's not from the Holy Spirit. But rather, and then he comes to the fourth description, which is the ultimate disclosure of its source, he says, it's from the devil. The source of this wisdom is ultimately from Satan himself as a real personal being. It's from the devil Now, this is important because what James wants us to understand is that it doesn't appear to be from the devil. It appears innocuous, it appears like common sense. Do you remember on that occasion when Jesus called his disciples to himself after a couple of years of ministry? And he asked them, who do men say that I am? And they gave a number of answers. But remember it was Peter who confessed, you are the Messiah, the Son of the living God. And Jesus said, Peter, you didn't come up from that with that by yourself. The Father revealed that to you. And then Matthew tells us that he went on to describe to them how he was going to need to suffer at the hands of the Jewish leaders. In Jerusalem he would die and then he would rise again. And immediately Peter responded, Never, Lord, that'll never happen to you. And Jesus turned to Peter and directly said, Get behind me, Satan. For you savor not the things of God. Jesus saw through what was a well-meaning bit of advice from a friend who seemed to be looking out for his welfare to discern the origin of that wisdom. Jesus could see through what seemed to be something that was for his good, to understand that the root of that was a pride that denied the cross. that wanted to find any other way except through the cross. And Jesus, with his perfect perception, saw the origin of that. Now I'd like to suggest to you that that's what Jane wants James wants us to do with the advice that we're receiving. And the best example to illustrate what I'm talking about is to consider the pop psychology movement of the last 25 years. A movement which seems to have a lot of insight to it and a lot of help in enabling us to live skillfully And I'd like to share with you some excerpts of a paper that I put together with some notes about this movement of the last 25 years Interestingly enough, this is a movement which has very few scientific claims, but has produced more literature than it seems all of the research that's ever been done in psychology. The books have been legion, and they have been to the point of demonstrating and giving a mass consumer ideology of the good life. It is simply a whole mass of literature with easy-to-read guidelines for daily living. The guidelines are written to men and to women. But they have especially been revolutionary for women. And the message is a very simple one. Put yourself first. You are the one who is entitled to do whatever you want, not live up to anyone else's expectations. Your parents, your husband, your wife, your kids, no one else. Put yourself first. The roots of this were spawned in the human potential movement of the sixties. The sixties, remember, was the youth culture, the spirit of rebelliousness and a spirit in which there was a lot of exploration. It was uh described and a lot of it was articulated in books like this one by William Schutz, I remember Reading that back in the 60s and being impressed with how this guy articulated this, simply called joy. For Schutz, joy was the chief end of man. That inner child within you had no need to ever grow up. You should affirm that child as a perpetual resident within you. At the time Schutz wrote that book, Joy, he was on his third wife, still seeking to find a little bit more joy. Schutz articulated the fact that we should be carefree and seek joy through encounter groups, the touchy-feely movement, and all the rest that was spawned from that time. Joy is the chief end of man and Esselent Institute is its Mecca. From that there came a number of books that were produced in the seventies. You remember some of the titles, all the self-help books of that time, produced at the dawning of the age of Aquarius. There was how to be your own best friend, how to say no without feeling guilty, how to be an assertive, not aggressive woman. Winning through intimidation, looking out for number one. There was Wayne Dyer's books, Your Erroneous Zones, Pulling Your Own Strings. There was the Transactional Analysis Movement, fostered originally by Eric Byrne and Games People Play, then Tom Harris, I'm Okay, You're Okay. You remember all of these books, which led to what was called the post-romantic movement in America, where there are no ties that bind. Now we have come into the place where all that matters is you and your feelings. What's important to you? Accept responsibility for your choices and live your life the way you see best. The corollary, of course, to this was that you're not responsible for anyone else. And so the emphasis was only on considering your own needs Selfishness was no longer a dirty word, but merely, quote, an expression of the law of self-preservation, according to Jerry Greenwald in his 1973 book, Be the Person that You Were Meant to Be. When you're accused of being selfish, Greenwald says, don't worry. It's simply the other person being self-centered and saying indirectly, you're not paying enough attention to me. And so you can be selfish without feeling guilty about it Don't be a victim. How does its corollary? Don't rescue other victims. And it led to what we've all seen around on dentist's office and doctor's office. I'm sure it's not in Don Olson's dentist's office, but a lot of other dentists' office all around you see this thing called the Gestalt. Prayer. Have you ever seen that thing? Here's the way it goes. I do my thing and you do your thing. I am not in this world to live up to your expectations, and you are not in this world to live up to mine. You are you and I am I. And if by chance we find each other, it's beautiful. If not, it can't be helped. And that's usually written on, you know, a sand and the sea and some sort of a sunset behind it that makes it appear to be beautiful. James says, that's right from the pit of hell. Because that kind of philosophy sees relationships with other people as entirely to be exploited for my needs. Relationships at this point become based on consumer exchange. What I get for what I give. My needs are primary. The people are interchangeable. In fact, in this whole view of life, life becomes a game. And a number of the books reflected that. Books like Winning Through Intimidation, Winners and Losers, The Winner's Notebook, where you've all seen that bumper sticker, He Who Dies with the Most Toys wins. Forget your past and concentrate on winning. People are viewed often in this kind of psychology as in mechanized terms. Transactional analysis talks about your tape recorder, programming negative input, pushing anger buttons, negative payoff, and all the rest of it. There's no more romance in this view of life. There's no more sense as in the Song of Solomon that I belong to my lover and he belongs to me. But now you never give away yourself completely. For that's too risky and it's foolish. Protect yourself. As Berkowitz says, be your own best friend. Well, this of course radicalized many women who had been raised in an atmosphere in which they were taught to give themselves within the security of caring and loving relationships of the home. And so there had to be a whole new technology and training for women called assertiveness training. Survival skills were taught in which women could learn to be as aggressive and as selfish as men were. And so you are taught, for instance, that if your friend calls up and says, I need to do something tomorrow, could you take care of my two-year-old uh for a couple of hours, you were taught to politely but surely and assertively uh sympathize with your friend's need and say it must be a drag to have to um be restricted like that, but I have other plans. I will not be able to do it. And you're taught to do this without feeling any guilt because you never raise the nasty, nagging question of what is right to do. but only what you feel like doing. You have a right to do whatever you want to do, even to date a married man and be the other woman without guilt, according to Jean Baer in How to Be an Assertive, Not Aggressive Woman. But of course, the ones that suffer the most in this are the children. For how do you deal with a child in the terms of the Gestalt prayer? How do you deal with a child in terms of equivalent exchange of strokes in a relationship? You ignore an infant if he doesn't give you enough strokes? Do you deny dinner to a two-year-old who's wet as pants? What do you do? Do you walk out on a child who hasn't given you enough affirmation, mumbling the gestalt prayer to yourself as you leave them How do you deal with people who are weak and helpless and vulnerable on the basis of such wisdom? And so society is crumbling. And the winners and the losers are finding out there's a lot more losers than winners. Divorce rates have escalated. The mental hospitals are not able to take care of the number of people who are falling apart and having breakdowns and are unable to cope in such a society. And what James writes to us here, you see, is just as up to date as if it were the May 1987 issue of psychology today. As a matter of fact, the May 1977 issue of Psychology Today, which is the anniversary of its 20th year of publication, has a very interesting article, which is a kind of tongue-in-cheek look at the pop psychology movement of the last years, in which there is a lot of fun poked at it From the distance of what I remember reading in those issues, they were lauding as wisdom of the time, and now look back and say that was utter foolishness. And James says to us, examine it. Take a look at where this is coming from. What is the source of this? What can we learn about this. And so I would suggest that you ask the three questions of yourself you see on the back of the uh bulletin outlined there First of all, do you consider the ultimate source of wisdom of magazines and books that you read? While some non-Christians certainly speak some truth That can never be totally received because it's never in the context of a right understanding of who man is and what his relationship to God ought to be. And therefore, when you read things that seem like you could put some Christian terminology on it, and it wouldn't sound so bad, examine where it's really coming from. Is the root of that wisdom A selfish ambition that is centered on me, or is it in fact that which is centered on Jesus Christ? Wisdom ultimately must center on him and not on self. Or secondly, even as you read many Christian writings, we need to realize that just because a Christian writes it and uses Bible verses to support it doesn't mean that it's godly wisdom. Many times Christian writers today unthinkingly mix the devilish wisdom with the scriptural wisdom and come out with a sort of an eclectic combination of nonsense. Now, I generally don't like to mention people by name because I think that we should apply principles ourselves. But I think just in order to help us to see this that there is one example from a man whom I highly respect in general, James Dobson. But he has a most recent book called Love Must Be Tough, which is to me A classic example of the mixing of devilish self-centered wisdom with some good godly principles And so you come up with something that's very confusing. You have the same thing in a fellow like Myron Augsburg or Walter Trobisch sometimes I think falls into some of these kind of things. And you can name other examples. I'm not interested in trying to criticize people or to apply this too particularly My point is simply that just because a Christian writes it doesn't mean that we can assume that this is something that we can just take in. We need to discern, we need to think critically and biblically. as we examine advice, particularly in the realm of how to live skillfully. Well then thirdly, the other side of this, of course, is be careful That you don't have a hypercritical attitude, or I have to be careful that I don't have a hypercritical attitude that simply criticizes everything that's not the scripture itself from some sort of a superior position I see this often too as a Christian backlash, which simply says that anything that doesn't come from a particular stream of thought where a theological perspective that I'm comfortable with is automatically ruled out and criticized as having no value. It's not as simple as that James says we must examine, and we examine by the character and by the fruit. We'll look at that a little bit more in the next couple weeks, but we looked at it some last week. What does it center on? Is the center of that wisdom self, as he says in verse 14, or is the center of that wisdom Jesus Christ, as he'll go on to talk about in verse 17? So you see, the other alternative to this is the wisdom that's from above. You see that in verse 17. Skipping over verse 16, we'll go back to that uh in a future message, but Notice what he says in contrast, verse 15, this wisdom's not from above. Verse 17, he says, but the wisdom that comes from above. NIV again from heaven, literally it's from above. So you see the contrast there. That wisdom is the key to all that he's talked about in the first 12 verses concerning tongue control. You see, James is telling us here that wisdom is not innate to us. We do not have wisdom by simple good common sense. But as Proverbs 2 verse 6 says, the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. And so wisdom has to come to us, not be discovered simply by us in some flash of insight. From some human experience. The Bible teaches that the only way that you and I can get wisdom is that if we understand the source of it in the Lord Jesus Christ. I think it helps us to understand this if we do a comparison here. If you notice that in your little outline there, there's one thing for you to fill in this week, and this is it. Wisdom is for James. What the Spirit or the Holy Spirit is for Paul. And that is the key to understanding this really. Wisdom is for James. what the Spirit or the Holy Spirit is for Paul. Now that's not a new idea for James. I mean as far back as the book of Exodus in chapter 31 in verse 3 When the workmen were building the temple, you read in Exodus 31. 3 that the Lord gave to them the spirit of wisdom and skill. Now that spirit that he gave was the spirit of skillful wisdom in building. And so you have there, you see, the combination that to give them the spirit is to give them wisdom, or to give them skill. When the responsive reading that Mark led us through earlier, you see the same thing. The Messiah is one who's going to come, who will have the Spirit upon him And what's the effect of that? Well, the rest of the paragraph then goes on to talk about how he will have wisdom, because he is the spirit of wisdom. And so you see, you can compare and interchange these between Paul and James. Where James has wisdom, plug in spirit. Where Paul puts spirit, you can plug in wisdom. A couple examples. Paul says in Galatians 5, the fruit of the Spirit. James says in chapter 3 here, verse 17, the fruit of wisdom. And describes very similar things. Paul talks about the Spirit being given by grace as a gift of God. James says, wisdom is a gift of grace given by the Spirit of God, given by God. Paul says that the Spirit enables us to live godly and skillfully in the last days. James says wisdom enables us to live godly and skillfully in these last days. Paul speaks of the spirit of wisdom, James speaks of the wisdom of the Spirit. And so you can see that these two things are brought together in the New Testament's understanding of how to live. You can't have wisdom without the Spirit, and you can't have the Spirit without wisdom. Now, how does that wisdom come? There are two ways. It's through the word of wisdom and through the Spirit of Wisdom. The word of wisdom, of course, is the scripture. This is the origin of the revelation of God's wisdom. God speaks through scripture to instruct us. And so when you and I spend time in this book, We're spending time in wisdom. When you and I decide that we can neglect that book for something else that's better to read or to look at or whatever else to do, we're saying we don't need God's input for wisdom at that point. I'm not saying we ought to be reading the Bible in a twelve hours a day. I'm just saying if you go through the whole day or a couple of days or three or four days and you ignore that, you're simply saying, God, I don't need your wisdom that much. Because God says there is wisdom When you read the Ten Commandments, that's wisdom in skillful living. When you read Jesus' teaching, that's wisdom. When you read Proverbs, that's wisdom. When you read Paul's epistles, that's wisdom for skillful living. And that's what God intends for us to see. But we can't see it simply as a book, because the Bible teaches that we have to take those principles and they have to be incarnated in a living way by the person of the Spirit who incarnates Jesus Christ in our lives. Proverbs 8 speaks of wisdom as a person who is with God at creation. Mark referred to 1 Corinthians 1. 30 that says, Jesus is our wisdom. And so the Bible wants us to understand that wisdom ultimately is not a principle. It's a person. To come to wisdom is to come to Jesus. And the only way that you can find wisdom is to go to the cross. Because at the cross This is the very heart of God's wisdom. Do you understand now why pride and self-centered living is so antithetical to what wisdom is? Because the essence of God's wisdom was revealed when his Son, Jesus, laid aside his privileges and prerogatives in heaven. and came to earth, born in a manger, as a servant, with all the restrictions that the incarnation of human flesh placed upon him, in order that he would be able to be obedient unto death. And to die for your pride and your foolishness and my self-willedness and self-centeredness, that Jesus would give his life So that you and I could be transformed from foolishness to wisdom. And so if you want to see wisdom, if you feel like in your life uh maybe things are a bit of a shambles. You feel like things are all askew and they're out of perspective and you don't know what to do about some major decisions that you have You don't know how to live, and you feel like you're doing a pretty shoddy job of living skillfully. Your living is pretty unskillful at this point. And then what James calls you to do, you see, is to come to Jesus and particularly to the cross. You see, the pop psychology movement would say, turn on a subliminal tape and pump up your self-image. Go to some therapist who will teach you to think more about yourself without feeling guilty about it. Assert yourself, live for yourself, center everything about your desires and your needs. James says, the scripture says, come to the foot of the cross. Because you'll never see life in its right perspective until you see it through the perspective of the cross. That there for all my foolishness and pride, the Son of God gave his life and died. There he laid down his life for me as a sacrifice, so that in the cross, the way of denying self And simply being obedient to him, I can find freedom and skill in living. Kathy and I were talking about some problems and principles this morning, and I mentioned as we talked about that. That when I get really down and everything seems like it's in despair and I don't know what to do or where to turn, there's always two things that help me at that immediate moment. To ask myself the question, did Jesus really die and rise from the dead? And if I can affirm to myself, yes, he has, and he's done it for me. Then somehow God has the key, the solution to all the rest of this mess that I don't know. And then the second thing is, in spite of all the things that I don't know, how can I obey Him right now? Not tomorrow, not next week, but today. This hour. What is the one thing he is calling me to do right now? And in that, I go to the source in Scripture, in the cross of Jesus Christ, to find my wisdom. And I call you this morning to come. To come with me to the cross and find there in the person of Jesus Christ your wisdom and my wisdom. Let's pray. We realize that we so easily absorb the teachings of our age The teachings which center oneself and Lord as Mike Milligan said after last week's message, we have not we've come as a culture not only to Be full of selfish ambition, but we actually boast about it, as James says there in verse 14. We are an arrogant people. We are so puffed up. Lord God, we know so little of godly repentance, of the humbling of ourselves at the foot of the cross, to see there the right perspective of our disobedience and arrogance before you. To see there the right perspective about the extent of your love and your forgiveness and your grace extended toward us in the person of Jesus Christ. Oh Lord, forgive us. Forgive us for our arrogance. Lord, we pray right at this moment that you would speak to us, that as we come before you, we would come in repentance. Which is the path to true wisdom in the cross of Jesus Christ.