In 1923, a group of the world's most successful financiers met at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago. Collectively, these tycoons controlled more wealth than there was. In the United States Treasury. And for years, newspapers and magazines have been printing their success stories and urging the youth of the nation to follow their example. What has happened in the lives of these men just 27 years ago? Later. Charles Schwab, president of the largest independent steel company, lived on borrowed money the last five years of his life and died penniless. Arthur Cutney, the greatest wheat span. Speculator died abroad in Solvent. Richard Whitney, the president of the New York Stock Exchange, was eventually released from SINSEM. Albert Fall, a member of the President's Cabinet, was pardoned from prison so that he could die at home. Jesse Livermore, the greatest mayor on Wall Street, committed suicide. Round Fraser, president of the Bank of International Settlement, Committed suicide. Ivar Krueger, head of the world's greatest monopoly, committed suicide. Yet isn't strange, we still think money's got to Make us happy. If I only had some more of that stuff, I'd be happier than I am now. In spite not only of what God's Word tells us, but what we see around us in our own experiences. Day after day. And so James wants to de-deceive us. I've used that word again and again in this series on James. It's his purpose to de-deceive us, to put us in touch with reality. To take the mask off so that we can see things as they really are. And so he warns us in chapter five, verses one to six, that loving things and using people Comes to a terrible dead end. He's trying to show us that when Jesus Christ is in a person's life, we reverse that. We use things and we love people. And the sign that a person is a Christian is that he you Uses things and loves people rather than loving things and using people. See how James puts it himself in James chapter 5, verses 1 to 6. Now listen, you rich people, he says. Weep and wail. Because of the misery that's coming upon you. Your wealth has rotted. Laws have eaten your clothes. Your gold and your silver are corroded. Their corrosion will testify against you and eat your flesh like fire. You have hoarded wealth in the last days. Look, the wages you fail to pay the workmen who mowed your fields are crying out against you. The cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord Almighty. You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence. You have fattened yourselves in the day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered innocent men who were not accusing you. We've seen, you see at the top of your bulletin there, we've broken this these six verses into three sections. One, the warning. And then verse two and two thirds of verse three. He gives us the spelling out of that warning and the torment that's coming. Then the end of verse three through verse six. He speaks of the four. Four temptations of riches that come to us. Last week we looked at the first verse, the morning. This morning we want to spell out a little bit more what James is referring to in that torment that's coming. And then next week we'll look at the four temptations. There are two kinds of miseries that James speaks to us are going to be coming. It says in verse 1, he notice, weep and well because of the misery that's coming. And then verses 2 and 2-thirds of verse 3 spoke. Those miseries out in two particular areas. I call them corrosion and consumption. Those are the two blanks there. If you want to fill them in, uh get number two in in advance there. It's number one, corrosion. Corrosion, and number two, consumption. Corrosion. Verse 2, in the beginning of verse 3. Jesus says, all that you sold your soul for is now worthless. And in a day when every magazine we turn to seems to beckon to us about the pleasures of riches and how if we only have all the things that are presented on those glossy full-color pages and ads. then we would be much happier, much more satisfied than we are now. Everything beckons to us and all the things we watch, TV shows and all the rest of that, about what money can do, what it can buy, and the happiness that it will bring, and they're always laughing. laughing and smiling and all the rest of that, you know. And money's become an obsession with it. In fact, one of the things that's been interesting that I mentioned in the office in preparing these messages is that I have no lack of illustrations. It seems like every every week I pick up a magic magazine there's an article about money and wealth and riches and its effect. Just this uh week I noticed uh US News World Report had an article called On the Delicate Subject of Money. And I don't know if any of you have read that, it's an interesting article. talks about uh the plight of financial counselors today. And what is their plight? Well it's not that they're not doing good business. They're doing terrific business. But what they certainly have found out is that coin has become such a delicate and emotional That the financial counselors are complaining that when they get into these sessions they become marriage counselors. Because the husbands and the wives are talking about their financial plan and things start getting so heated that they're all yelling and screaming at each other about Money has become too emotional a subject. The article goes on to talk about how you can diffuse that, you know, and so it talks about how to think about money more productively. got a little cartoon section here that talks about that. It talks about such things as um it says that you should uh talk to your money and it shows a guy that's uh calls his m as uh dollar bill's bucky and down and he's telling them some jokes and You know, and he holds it in his hands and it says, uh, you know, some of the other things you can do is learn to play games with your money and it shows a couple pacing dollar bills on their cat, you know, and all the talks about hiding behind your money, there's a guy with these dollar bills and all holes cut in the eyes, holding a cocktail, you know. And you know, it goes on and on with this stuff and it says, but last uh and then for other things that church, use your money as a weapon. There's his wife shooting with a slingshot of quarters off her husband's head. And that says, But last and and and not least, you should learn to be fed with your money and know that that they'll never lead you. There's a guy tucked in bed at night. He's got all his dollar bills stuffed around his pillow, you know, coming around with a big smile on his face. You know, and again, it just shows us how we think of money. We're obsessed with this stuff. And uh this article is saying people are so obsessed with it now we you know we've got to take it a little more seriously because it's really getting to us as a culture. We need to remember that just because most of us in this room are Christians and we say our lives are committed to Jesus Christ at his kingdom, that that does not mean that these same kinds of temptations do not pull to us also. In a day when Christian T V leaders, you know, at least that segment of what is so-called Christian leadership, drive Lincoln town cars, Mercedes-Benzes, and even Rolls-Royces. We need to realize that we have to stop and we have to take a look, not just at what's happening around us, what does God's Word say? about the whole question of the pull of things and what that can do to us. Whether that can fatten us as Christians or shrivel us up. And James is running to say, I've got some strong warnings for you. He says to us here, That there will be three things that will happen to your riches. Interesting, you notice that he puts this in the past tense. He says, Your wealth has rotted. Have eaten your clothes and your gold and silver are or have been corroded. Why is that? Well, it's because James is using what is often called the prophetic perfect. He is saying that these things are so sure. Sure to happen, that I will speak of them as if they have already happened. But it's clear by what he says at the end of uh or the middle of verse three there, uh their conversion will testify against against you and eat your flesh. He's talking about what's going to happen in judgment. That time when we stand before the Lord. But it's so clear, it's so sure to games that he puts this in the past tense. But let's remember that what he's talking about is what is yet to come. And the three things that he talks about are what I call a rotted riches. That's the first one. You see there in verse 2. Your wealth has rotted. That is, you have now a worthless portfolio. The word used. There for wealth is the general word that's used in the Bible for wealth and can refer to all kinds of wealth. But he says that wealth has commoded, it's rotted, it's decayed, the kind of idea that he has here. The picture that comes to my mind When I think of that, is uh the film Glowing with a Wind. Now, you know, you may remember from that film uh this beautiful plantation tarot. And whatever all the racial implications of that thing, the fact is. It was a beautiful place. You look at that and you say, look at those green cliff walls and that beautiful building terra there. And uh recently I picked up a book in Crown Bookstore that uh was a book or born with a wing. And it showed the set of Gone with the Winds, taken in nineteen fifty-nine, third uh twenty years after the film had been made. And I was shocked when I looked at the picture, because there was Tara. And he's gonna talk about dash all your illusions. It wasn't even a house. It was a facade. All it was was this big mock-up of a southern plantation and it had all gone to seed. There was a you know an old motel behind it, you know, all the grass had grown up, it was all just weeds. everything had decayed, it had all crumpled down, there was nothing left. It was the ugliest thing you'd want to see. And I looked at that and I thought, how much like the things that I look at that are so substantial, that are so appealing, that are so alluring. It looked like those things will endure. And it's just like that mock deceptive scene in terror. It all looked so appealing, but there really wasn't anything behind it. There wasn't anything you could really live in. And it had gone to see in 20 years. James says your wealth has rotted. And many people have seen the insecurity of that in the October stock market crash, when their uh investments were reduced by a quarter or more. And yet we still don't learn. James has to keep trying to get our attention. Isn't that so strange? We keep saying, Because the things we see we do enjoy. I mean there's nothing, you know, that amazing about it. The fact is that it is nice to have nice things. But James says you must see that these things are so total. They're going to rot, they're going to decay. The second picture is particularly interesting I find, he says your clothes are useless. That's the word I use there, useless clothes. Even the best design are naval, you know, James says, are going to go out of style or they're going to be out of fashion so soon. The things that this year you just had to have in order to be in, so your friends uh particularly as teenagers so that you wouldn't be laughed at so that people would say, Hey, you know, wearing the right labels, you must be an okay kid, you know. And so all these things are so important and next year they'll be worthless. They go out of fashion so soon. They become stained. You become torn. In fact, you know, today I decided I had a preach with just these pants on because they always remind me of that. You know, generally my trousers, my slacks are pretty cheap. I'm not going to tell you how cheap they are, but I'll tell you just this much. The ones I'm wearing right now are about twice what I generally pay for slacks. I got on one time on a wheel thinking, you know, I need a nice to see these yeah, just so you don't miss that. I thought it nice slack, you know that have uh you know they're really nicely made it's a good colour that you can use all the time, you know, summer and winter and all the rest of that. You know, I had these like two weeks. I was walking into the stone house and caught on the door and it broke a pocket. I think I can show it to you, you know, so everybody looks at every time I went. Hey, you got the one with a hole on it? So I've wanted them ever since to remind me. They rip just as easily as K-MR Slack or I don't like Well any other slacks, you know? And all the stuff that stains, you know, you can get ink on one just as well as any other kinds of slack. And I thought because that I gotta wear those to re- Remind me of that. And uh you know, back in the old days, clothes were used for investments. And uh people, when James was talking about this, your your uh your maws have eaten your clothes, he wasn't talking about just the fact that you got the These designer clothes you like to wear to show off. People in Bernard States and right up through colonial times of the United States would invest in clothes. They'd be a lot of embroidery work and all this stuff would be done in the clothes, and they would give the clothes so much value. That people would pass on their clothes and that in particular articles of clothing would be named in wills because they were so valuable. But you see the picture James has given us here is this person's worked three months on embroidering this garment and it's worth a terrific fortune when James had you stored it away, you know, because you wanted to make sure that that thing would be a good investment. You didn't want to ruin it. And you stored it away. And then you opened it up one day. And the thing of course was made of wool and so many good things back then and the moths had just riddled it with holes. And J says It's it's just worth even. The word is used a number of times in scripture to talk about the uselessness of thinking that my clothes are something that I've got to have and that I've got to To find my pleasure in. And the third picture he gives us is of gold and silver. And the gold and the silver have corroded. And I call that sea rusted metals. Rotted riches, useless clothes, and rusted metals. That's an especially powerful picture because I want to tell you I checked this through with Sandy Sharp, our corrosion expert, and he's assured me that under normal conditions, silver and gold, particularly, silver course, tarish, but The gold will not corrode or rust. Just a good example of that is the tomb of King Tut. Thirty-three hundred years old that gold is in that tomb, and it still dazzles you when you see it. is saying there's coming a day when even gold and silver will corrode and be destroyed in the new heavens in the new earth. There's coming a time when even that which seems incorruptible to us by earthly standards. Is going to in fact be destroyed. It's going to corrode. It's going to become worthless in the day of judgment. It reminds us of what Solomon said in Proverbs 11, one of the wealthiest men who ever lived. He wrote Proverbs 11:4. Wealth is worthless in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death. Ezekiel talked about the day of judgment that was coming. And in Ezekiel chapter 7, in verse 11. 19. Ezekiel talks about how they're going to throw on sackcloth, their faces will be covered with shame, their heads will be shaved. Then he says in verse 19, They will throw their silver into the streets. And their gold will be an unclean thing. Their silver and their gold will not be able to save them in the day of the Lord's wrath. They will not satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs with their own. with it. For it has made them stumble into sin. Ezekiel seven nineteen. So this is the picture that James is giving us. He says, Come, look at reality. Let's see beyond just the Brief years do we have right now to something beyond that? Picture a jetliner flying over the Pacific Ocean. And it fills with all kinds of people. And there's a few important executives in it. There's a perhaps a mooted politician, there's a playmai a playboy with his glamorous playmate sitting there, and there's a missionary. They're all looking at the magazines, you know, that they give you in the racks that show you all the pleasures of the good life. And the things you could possess, and the trips you could take, and the things you can enjoy. And then the plane goes down to the Pacific Ocean. And all 269 of those people are killed. And instantly they stand before God. Now there are They're stripped of their MasterCards, their lines of credit. They're stripped now of their checkbooks. They're stripped of their registrations to their Mercedes-Benzes. They're stripped of their designer clothes. And they're stripped of their reservations to the hills. They all stand now with nothing in their hands before the face of the living God, having only what is in their hearts and the record of their lives. James says, In that day, all that you possess will be worthless. Now, is there any good news to this? Well, first of all, we need to go on and see what he says is going to happen in this the signs just The corrosion. Because the second point is it's not only going to corrode, but he says, even worse than that, it's going to be the means of your judgment. Your wealth is going to be the means of your j This is a very interesting argument that James uses here. Three pictures. Your walks rotted, laws have eaten your clothes, they're useless, your gold and your silver are corroded, and then it says, their corrosion will testify against you. And eat your flesh like fire. This is what I call consumption. How's it going to do that? Two ways. Number one, your wealth is going to testify against you for judgment. Now how's it going to do that? That's a little word four to put in there. It's going to do that in two ways. Number one, your wealth is going to testify that you invested in the temporal rather than the eternal. Remember the parable of the man who built the bigger bars in Luke chapter 12? And James's picture of a man like this, and he's standing now before God in the judgment. And all his corroded stuff is gathered around. him. And all that stuff is testifying to him about the fact that there are no people around him. There are no people that he can point to, in whom he's invested his life. There's only stuff And that stuff is going to mock him. That stuff is going to testify to God where his heart was invested. And James is saying those things are going to condemn you in the judgment, because that's all. to possess. And his very emptiness is going to be a witness against you. And James is saying is that it's going to testify to you that you never really knew Jesus Christ as Savior of the Lord. Because if you really knew Jesus Christ, you'd have more than stuff around you. James is saying that will be the witness of whether you really knew Jesus Christ or not. You see, this is again the same thing that's come from James again and again and again. Faith without works is useless. So James is giving us a graphic picture here of what it is for a person to say, I want to live in this world, I want to invest my life in this world, and have all the things in this world, but I also want to have Jesus as my Savior Lord, tacked on. If something to give me the insurance policy, when I stand before God, James says, that's absolutely hopeless. Those things will testify to you where your heart really was. But not only that, secondly, it will testify To you, it will testify against you that you preferred corrosion to compassion. All this stuff that's corroded is going to be an illustration of the parable of the talents. Remember that power. tell us in Matthew chapter 25 where the servant refused to invest what he had for the master. But rather he kept it and he buried it. He saved it. And James is saying something very similar to this. He's saying you kept what you had and you let it alone rather than invest it to put it to compassionate use for others. You didn't need it. You couldn't enjoy it. But you refused to let anybody else enjoy it. He refused to use it for the work of the kingdom, the work of the church, for the work of the diaconal ministries, for compassionate use for others who needed it, for the work of extending the kingdom through missions, whatever else, James is saying. You kept it, you hoarded it. That's what he goes on to say at the end of verse three. We'll look at it next week. But he says, You refuse to let it go, even though you couldn't enjoy it. You know I know a woman says like crazy? This woman's got more money than I'll ever see. And she's absolutely miserable. She refuses to spend it. She lives cheaply. And she just hours it up. She doesn't enjoy it. Money's not making her happy at all. But she refuses to give a diamond. And James says when she comes and stands before the judgment without Jesus Christ, that corroded stuff is going to be a witness against her, where her investment was, or where you yours or mine would be if the stuff is all that we have. But also not only will they testify against you for judgment, but they will also be on the backside now consume you in judgment. They will consume you in judgment. I believe that this means that part of the torments of hell is going to be the memory of the vanity of what you or I gave my life to. If it's only in things rather than in the kingdom of Jesus Christ and his people. And there will be no hope of making it up. James says their corrosion will testify against you and And eat your flesh like fire. That's a terrible phrase. What does that mean? Eat your flesh like fire. The picture of fire is a frequent picture of the fire. in the Bible of judgment. And I jotted down there a number of references that speak of the fire of God's judgment. Now without turning to them, let me give you just the drift of what those passages speak about. Psalm 11 speaks About God raining fiery coals on the wicked, burning sulfur and scorching wind in judgment. Psalm twenty-one speaks of the Lord making his enemies like a fiery furnace to consume them. Isaiah 30 speaks of the Lord. Speaks of the Lord, full of wrath, his tongue like a consuming fire. Amos 5 says, Seek the Lord, for he will sweep through like a fire unquenchable. Chapter 7 speaks of the fire of God's Judgment is so great that it devoured the deeps and consumed the oceans. So the names cried out, What shall Jacob do? He is so small and teamy before such an unquenchable fire. Retake in the New Testament. Jesus warning of the eternal fire that's prepared for the devil and his angels. And he says, Beware lest you be cast into that fire. Peter in 2 Peter chapter 3 speaks of the present heaven to the world. the earth, with all their beautiful things, their riches, being reserved for fire, he says, before the new heavens and the new earth. This one will be reserved for destruction. Or in Hebrews, you have the picture of our God is a consuming fire. Or most uh familiar probably to us are the pictures in Revelation. The picture of the judgment, of the trumpets, where A third of mankind is consumed by fire. And then most familiar of all, Revelation 20, where at the judgment there will be the fire that will destroy all evil. And those who do not have the relationship with Jesus Christ Christ and are not written in the Lamb's book of life are thrown into the lake of burning sulfur and are tormented day and night forever. But I believe that James gives us a very instructive insight into the meaning of all that. We're going to pick up on this in our how to interpret the Bible class at the Eden. Let me just say this now. You notice that what James is speaking of here is not the fire of God Himself directly. What's the fire here? It's the things. See, it's those things and they're acid-life corrosion that's going to eat your flesh like fire. And I believe to us that that's speaking of the fact that that's a clue that the fire Of judgment in Scripture is a symbolic picture of the corrosion of the conscience that is eaten away by the remorse, which is impossible to make up, the troubled and the guilty conscience. conscience that is eaten like fire, the picture of a torment that is acid like, that is fire light, and is not devoured for all eternity, is unquenchable and it never fully consumes you. And James says, that's the picture of a person who has invested themselves simply into this life. Hell, is there any good news here? Yes, there is. Because you see, if you really appreciate how bad that bad news. news is. And how wonderful to realize that Jesus Christ has delivered us from that fire. Jesus Christ took upon himself the fire of God's judgment. Jesus Christ went to hell, being cursed by the Father Himself, so that you and I would never have to endure this kind of fire. So that for us, We will not see our flesh because of our greed, because of our lives invested in this world, eaten by fire. By his merciless grace, Jesus said his spirit, and his spirit awakened us. To the fact that this world is not the most substantial or enduring, but it in fact is a far more enduring and substantial, unseen world that is far more worthy of the investment of our lives. And his spirit is revealed. That to us. And His Spirit has come to us to show us our greed, to show us our screwed-up priorities, and has turned us from ourselves to ask forgiveness and deliverance from the bondage of that in Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ gave us life and died. So that you and I would never have to endure that fire. What a wonderful message. But you only appreciate that, you see, when you understand the depths of the fire and the conviction of all the terrible judgment. That comes that James is describing here. But even more than his delivering us from the fire of God's judgment, that acid-like coroning of our conscience is eternal. But also the Bible says. that he has delivered us to something. And what he's delivered us to is the kingdom of his inheritance. And that kingdom of the eternal riches, that kingdom that Mark helps us to see from Psalm 36 to 15. feast of the eternal riches that we have in Jesus Christ. That kingdom that he described back for us in chapter two, James chapter two and verse five, you remember where he said, Listen, my dear brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world? To be rich in big and to inherit the kingdom that he's promised to those that love him. James is saying that's a kingdom that endures. That's a kingdom where never will a moth corrupt and eat through it, or never will it corrode, or never will it Rod away. He will never decay. Well, that's a kingdom that's eternal. And Paul says to us in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 5, I hasn't seen, neither has here ever heard, nor has it ever even entered into our imaginations. The riches and the fullness of what God has prepared for those that love him. You know, boy, I wish there were some Baptists around here. I'll tell you, you know, amen from what God has given. That's a kingdom to invest in. To think about what God has given to us in place of what is good. He's given to us all things richly to enjoy him, but so, so peacefully. How in Hindus one says, leave me. as him originally that says, there are only two things that will survive this life, the word of God and people. Therefore, if you want to invest in eternity, invest the word of God in the lives of people. And that's what James is telling us. See, this isn't a negative message. It's a positive message. James is warning us of the inconsequential, the poor investments. And he's saying, invest in what endures. You're walking on the edge of an abyss in materialistic society. James says, Step aside from that. See what Jesus Christ offers in terms of forgiveness and deliverance and an eternal kingdom that can be yours. As you give your life to him and invest your life for him. Why is it that you and I are so reluctant to invest in it? So you know in the Puritan days when they used to preach sermons, they would break the sermon into two parts. The first would be the expounding and the opening up of the sermon, and the second part would be what they call its uses. And I want to apply that very briefly here, having expounded this, to very briefly touch on three uses of this message for your life and for my life, as practical as possible. First of all, the use of words. The use of war is for each of us. I do not for a moment assume that there is no one here who would say, Yes, I'm a Christian. Yes, I've given my life to Jesus Christ. Who is this the person that James is talking to directly? here, who's saying, you, if you're really honest with yourself, do you find that you are constantly preoccupied with things? Do you find that if you're really honest with yourself, all of your life goals center on acquiring faith and experience? in this life. You call yourself a Christian, but if you're really honest, your heart is fully set upon this world and the things you can touch and feel. If that's your case this morning, if you really honest with you, Sophie said. I've really got to admit, my heart and my life are in this world and this world alone. I'd like to think that when I go and buy and if the Bible's true, that I got that insurance policy and Jesus will take care of me. But I'll tell you. My real bets are based on this word. Then I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ, flee to him for forgivence, forgiveness, and for deliverance from the bottom edge of that trap. Jesus is trying to rip the mask away from the facade. And he wants you to see that your own life is found in Jesus Christ. Think of the way an Eskimo kills a wolf. Eskimo kills a wolf, according to Paul Harvey. What Eskimo kills a wolf is it'll take a very razor-sharp knife blade. They'll cover that knife blade with uh animal blood. And when it freeze, and then it'll put another Another coat of animal blood on it, it'll let it freeze, and another coat and let it freeze, until he's got so many coats of animal blood you can't even tell there's a life there. And then he'll bury that life solemnly into the ground. And he'll let it just sit there. And that light alone will come a wolf. The sensitive smell is picked up, the scent of the blood. And the Lord begins to lick at that blood. He licks off the first coating and his his lust begins to increase and the craving, the insatiable desire for that blood, and he licks more and more of the blood until he has licked all through the blood. And the wolf by that time is in such a frenzy he doesn't notice the point of time in which he begins to lick his own blood as it's cut by the knife. Until he continues to lick more and more frenzily. Until the wolf is lying there as a corpse in the snow, killed by his own lust that morning. That's the picture that James is giving to you and to me. He says, Beware. Let that which you crave become the means of your own judgment and death. Flee to Jesus Christ who can deliver you. The second use is this I think for many of us we may find that we are tempted. Even though we're Christians, we are tempted, if we're honest, to covet the materialistic non Christians that we know. Then I encourage you, read Psalm seventy three. Where David says, you know, I looked at all the people that seem to be doing so much better than me, and I thought, you know, in vain, I I closed my aunt hands in innocence, they got a lot better than I do. Aren't there times when you and I are honest and we say yes and so on, this the man I go out and I seek my friends out, it sure be nice. And I really do covet it. I envy them. Psalm 73, David says there, until I saw their end. He finishes up by saying, Lord, who do I have but you? There's nothing on earth that I need beside you. Let's get in touch with reality again. Last thing I would say would ask you is beware of thinking only in terms of ourselves. I believe that probably every one of us here have friends or family who are thoroughly and utterly materialistic. We find it in our own lives. Sometimes we win a little, sometimes we lose a little. But we look at some of those that we know that are very close to us, our friends and our family, and we say, I look at them and I know their whole lives are wrapped up in this. Have you ever won? Have you ever told them, you know, uh, I find that uh I really enjoy the things I have. But have you ever thought what are you gonna do with all this stuff after you die? The old saying, you know, there's no hearse there's no U-Haults behind hearses? We can do this stuff when we're standing before God. Have you ever thought of learning the people that you love? Have you ever thought of looking and reading these verses and saying this applies to my brother, my sister, my aunt, my dad, my mom? And say, Lord, help me. Give me the courage to warn him before it's too late. Let's hear James's warning. Let's take off the mask and see reality. Amen.