You don't need me to have two microphones, do ya? Good morning. It's great to be here. It's great to see the children's program here this morning. It really gets you in the mood for for Christmas and seeing the tree and seeing the star. It's wonderful. We put our we put our tree up yesterday, a little late this year, because we have a we have a new cat. I don't know what's happening there at home right now, for to be frank. Uh they're away, they're away. But anyway, it's great to be here. We're in a series on Isaiah 9. 6, and uh we have the scriptures. Um I'm gonna read Isaiah 9. 6 and John 14, 1. to 11, which is what will be my main passage today. John 9, 6, for to us a child is born. To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. It's Isaiah 9. 6. And then John 14, familiar passage, verses 1 to 11. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to a fair place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I'm going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know the way where you're going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you'd known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father. It is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father in me is in me? The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority. But the Father who dwells in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me, or else believe on account of the works themselves. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, familiar passage that we'll look at today. Thank you for for Christmas and all that it means. And as this as we think about this passage in Isaiah 9, I pray you would speak to us and encourage us and inspire us to love you for who you are. And know that we're yours in Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The deepest, most basic questions that individuals ask is, the first one is, is there a God? And if there's a God, second question, what's he like? And then the next question, if there's a God and what's he like, what does he think about me? Those are basic core questions that I believe all people who think about these things have to come to grips with. And we all have feelings of our own inadequacy, don't we? Those feelings are very real. It comes from somewhere. It comes from from somewhere. Our nature, our environment, whatever. Parents, one of the tasks of parents is to try to pump us up. Say, come on, Johnny. You can do it. You can be anything you want to be as long as you try hard. As long as you give yourself to it. As long as you focus. And so Johnny, you know, you you know we we we do that and yet at the end we still feel inadequate, don't we? You feel inadequate. Jesus, knowing this basic heart problem of all human beings, invites us to call our Creator Father, just as he did. In fact, in the prayer, before it's prayer, he says, Father in heaven. Father, do you maybe you remember a time as a child when you really disappointed your father, your mother, your parents? I do. I might have shared this story a while back, but I'm going to share it again. An experience that really was one of the most life-changing experiences in my story. I grew up uh we we were kids in Anacostia for a while until we moved to Prince George's County, but I was eight years old. And like a lot of young kids, for some reason going into convenience stores and doing what we call five-finger discount. I don't know if you remember that that phrase. You know, just steal this stuff, see what you can get away with. Not that I was not that I was hungry, but it was a game. Can I get away with it? Well, one day I didn't get away with it. And the security god saw me walking out the store. And he said, he said, young man! Now, now, some guys, they run. That wasn't me. I stopped, I froze, I cried Now, they took me to the manager of the store and they said, I had the box, the press was in my little red jacket, I remember today, little red jagged. And um He says, I I think I recognize this gentleman. And he lives on my street, which is about you know half a mile away. He says, His parents are good people and they'll take care of it. And so they did. They took care of it all right. Now what I remember most, one of the one one of the one of the first things I remember was you you ever seen the the On on TV when s when a criminal is is is caught and they had they they show the the perp walk, the the perpetrator walking from here from one point to be. I had a perp walk. I I'll never forget this he this security guard who lived on our street. He drove he put me in his car, didn't take me to the police station, took me to our street. This is like 4 30 in the afternoon and all the kid all my buddies were out playing. And I'm getting a strange man out of a strange man's car, walking into my apartment, and all my kids, all my friends stopped and looked. What's going on? And he knocked on the door. I'll never forget my mom, the look on my mom's face when he told her I was caught stealing at the convenience store. Her disappointment, I'll never forget it. And she said, just go to your room and wait till your dad gets home. And they deliberated. It was a quick deliberation. And three things. There was a a spanking that I'll never forget. The spanking took place During um it was a Wednesday evening. I remember that and here's why. Um I was grounded for for over a month, but I remember it was a Wednesday evening because The third part of the punishment was I had to cut one by one my wonderful baseball card collection, which was the envy of the community. One by one in front of my sisters my sisters um with tears in my eyes And in the background, I'll never forget was the show The Beverly Hillbillys. Some of you remember that. When I think of that show, I think of that Wednesday night. My mom and dad's punishment was swift, wise, life-changing. And I'm so thankful that that they had what unfortunately many urban youth don't have. I I had a father in my life, who loved me and loved my siblings and loved my mom. He was strong, firm, loving, and daily sacrificed for his family. Deacon James Long. This was a life-changing experience for me. The response of my mother and father was it showed me a lot of what God is like. He is just, righteous, wise, forgiving. And this month we're reflecting on Isaiah 9. 6. And the prophet It's giving us descriptive titles or names for the Messiah who was to come centuries later. Many of you probably know the uh the handles Messiah Well he that that that one piece, the second most popular piece of Messiah, where he says, wonderful, counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting father, the prince of peace. Now, in the cadence of that song, you would think there were five titles. Because he says, wonderful counselor. But most Bible scholars believe that it's wonderful counselor. And I'm glad that this series affirms that because that's what I think it was. Wonderful Counselor and Brother Mac two weeks ago He gave us that the context of Isaiah 9 and Jesus as the wonderful counselor. Last week, Brother Craig talked about the Jesus as the mighty God, the El Gabor, the victorious warrior who defeats the enemies of God's people. And today and next week, I'll get to finish up with Jesus as the everlasting Father and the Prince of Peace. Jes Now today's message is going to be a reflection on the Gospel of John. And the interesting insights that John has about God. And what I want you to see is to see what God is like, you need to simply look at Jesus. You know that first question, what is God like? Look at Jesus. We're going to explore the eternality of Jesus. He's an everlasting. He's eternal. The ways in which he is father, which is kind of interesting, and finally how the fatherly nature of Jesus is shown us in the Gospel of John. That's where we're going. First is he's the everlasting one. The eternality is eternal. The story of Jesus is an amazing story, of course, in the Bible. There are Four of the 66 books that are that focus on Jesus and his life and his death and his resurrection. The perfect written word of God. Have you ever thought about how each of the gospel writers begin their gospels? Matthew starts with a genealogy Clearly from the first chapter, he's trying to show the royal Jesus. He's the son of David. He's the son of Abraham, the Jewish Jesus. Matthew gives it, starts with a genealogy, and then we have the Christmas story, Mary and Joseph, as they're as they encountered it. The gospel of Mark. Mark skips it, he skips the incarnation totally. He says, this is the gospel, and he talks about John the Baptist, and then boom, Jesus is an adult doing ministry. Nothing about the early days. Luke, the doctor, the scholar, the theologian, he did a lot of research and he he gives a lot of information. He starts the Jesus story with John the Baptist, actually with John the Baptist's mother, Elizabeth. He goes back a little further. And then he goes in chapter 3 finally, he gives you a genealogy, and he goes all the way back to Adam. So Luke, the theologian, the Dr. Luke, he goes back further than Matthew and Mark. But that's about as far back as you get, right? Adam Right? Well, this is a good John. Let's talk about John. Years later, closer to the end of the first century When all the other three Gospels were already being circulated and discussed and studied and preached by believers scattered throughout the ancient world, the Apostle John wants us to see clearly. that something needs to become absolutely certain. Maybe people weren't as clear from Matthew, Mark, and Luke or John. John clarifies that Jesus goes all the way back before Adam. And so he begins John 1. Remember how John 1 begins? John 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He, so this word is a he, he was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. Without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life. Life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and darkness has not overcome it. This one, this word, this Logos, this expression or communications from heaven, Logos word. It's a man. He says from verse 14. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we've seen his glory. Glory is of the only Son. From the Father, full of grace and truth. No one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side has made him known. Now, as you read the Gospel of John, there's a couple things that are clear, but a couple things that aren't clear. What's going on here? No one has seen God, the only God has seen him. What's going on? John's going to unfold that. Now, of course, again, the phrase our Father in Heaven is a very familiar phrase, the Lord's Prayer. But for John, the Father is the one who sends the Son. He sends the Son. And this is the incarnation for John That the Father, Father God has sent his son, and the Son and Father then eventually send the Spirit. That's later in the Gospel of John Now one place where this is very, very clear in John's Gospel, the deity of the Son of Jesus Christ is John 15, 16. It's a good story. Well, it's a great story. It's a miracle story, of course, fulfilled on the Sabbath. Verse 16. This is why Jesus, the the Jews were persecuting Jesus. Because he was doing these things on the Sabbath, killing this man and doing other things on the Sabbath. Verse 17. But Jesus answered them, My Father is working until now, and I am working. Then John says, this was why the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him. Because he not only was breaking the Sabbath But he was even calling God his own Father, making himself equal with God. He called He with God, Jesus. And then later, a couple chapters later, chapter 8 of John, Jesus says to the Jewish leaders, before Abraham was, I am. I am a very important phrase in the Gospel of John, pointing back to the burning bush with a voice of God in Exodus 3 told Moses When he said, who who are you? When I talk to the people and say I've I've talked to you, what's your name? He said, I am who I am So when Jesus says before Abraham was, I am, the leaders took up stones to stone him. It was blasphemous. Now listen, if Jesus was not before Abraham and they were about to stone him, I think he would call a big timeout. You didn't understand what I meant. That's not what I meant. But no, no time out. He left because his time had not yet come. But he never denied what they thought he was saying, because that's what he was saying. That Jesus, the Son, is equal to the Father. He's divine. It's interesting in 1 Timothy chapter 3, The Apostle Paul reflects on the story of Jesus in a little poetic way. He says, great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. There's a mystery to how the story of Jesus changed our lives. Great is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world, taken up. in glory. There's a mystery to this thing that God can come to the world through Jesus, a man born of Mary. Jesus is the everlasting one. He is eternal. The fatherhood of Jesus. Now let's look at chapter 14 now. Now again. For those of you who don't know, Jesus never married, and he never had physical children. So what am I talking about? The fatherhood of Jesus. Where are you getting at, Pastor Stan? Look, explicitly, look at John 14. What do we hear? First of all, Jesus said that uh in my father's house are many rooms, many mansions, and I'm going to the Father's house. And that he said that how do you get to the Father? He says, I am the way to the Father. I am the way, the truth, the life. So he's the way to the Father. And then, so Philip says, show us the Father. Show us the Father. And Jesus replies, if If you've seen me, you have seen the Father. Now, what's he getting at? What is that all about? If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. As a young believer, I remember struggling to understand the nature of the Trinity. I was been a believer for a few years, starting to read my Bible. In fact, I distinctly remember in high school after a few years of reading on my own and reading some literature to try to figure this out, some of it was good literature, some of it was not good literature. I remember a table discussion around our family table with my dad, Deacon James Long. Well, it was with the family. I was trying to convince them some some weird stuff about God about Jesus. My dad was teaching the Bible class at the Baptist church where we were raised for many, many years. And he he knew that the Trinity was the Orthodox position and that there were many reasons for that. The church councils had solved that many years ago, but of course I was the new Christian and I had some new information to give him Go figure. Now, knowing what I know now, having been a seminary and all those kind of things, I know that what I was expressing was called that old heresy of modalism. Modalism. Jesus is coming to us in different modes. It's like a like a on a uh in a on a theater where someone is is a a one-act kind of guy where what a guy is He's one person with a hat on. He goes offstage, comes back with a different hat because he's another character. He comes the same person in different modes That's the the the ancient heresy of modalism. And when you think about it, many people, when they think about analogies of the Godhead, that's really what they're doing. I mean, look. I am a son. I have two parents there with the Lord now. But I'm a son. I'm also a husband. I have One wife, Terry, and I'm a father. I have five children. So, in one sense, I'm one person that has a lot of different roles and functions. Now That's not what that's not Jesus that's not when we talk about Jesus being divine, that's not what that's not a good picture, but that's a picture that some people use. One person with different modes You know, some people look at the analogy of water, H2O, existing in water and ice and steam. So this one thing exists in three waves. Well, again, yes, but no, it's not complete enough. So I'm gonna look at the egg. I had an egg this morning, had two eggs this morning. A shell, a yolk, white, three parts, one egg. Simple, right? Not that simple. All these analyses do show us that something can be three in one But they all fall short of an orthodox picture of a Godhead. And so I've always been encouraged to not try to use analogies, though I just gave you three bad ones. Because it's really it's impossible for the human mind to completely understand the Trinity. But Scripture clearly states that there is only one God. Deuteronomy 6, 1 Corinthians 8. There's only one God. Scripture also clearly states that the one whom Jesus called Father is divine. And that Jesus, the Son, is divine. And that the Holy Spirit is divine. And that's when there's a lot of discussion about that, some people, the cults. It's interesting, the most important chapter there is Acts chapter 5. Write that down. Where Peter goes to Ananias and Sapphire when they lied about their offering. He says, you didn't just fly. He said you lied to the Holy Spirit. And then he says you lied to God in the same passage. The Holy Spirit is God. I have a better grasp on the Godhead now, but it's only a better scrap grasp, because none of us has a perfect grasp. of this incredible truth, this amazing truth. But we affirm it. We affirm it when Isaiah in Isaiah 6 and John in Revelation Had visions of the heavenly temple. They heard the angels cry, holy, holy, holy. The threefold holiness. And we sing God in three persons, blessed Trinity, affirming The threefold nature of God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit. Notice some implications of this for us from John's Gospel. Jesus, like a a good, good father It's a lot of things. And he tells us a lot of things about God in the gu in John's gospel. I'm gonna be I'm gonna I'm gonna give you a uh several of them. I'm gonna just focus on a couple No, Jesus shows us that he's the source of life. Remember the resurrection story in John chapter 11? I'm the resurrection and the life. I'm the way, the truth, and life. John 14. He's a source of wisdom. It's funny. John 13-17, the upper room discourse, the last night, the last supper, Jesus talking to the disciples, the apostles, that last night. The wisdom that came from him. The other gospel writers don't have that. He's the source of wisdom. He's the source of justice. Think of John chapter 2. When he goes into the temple and clears out the money changers because what they're doing, ripping off the people. It was supposed to be a house of prayer and worship, and they were using it uh to uh to gain income from the people. He's a source of peace. John 14 he says, peace I leave you. My peace I give to you, not as the world gives do I give it to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Jesus is a source of peace. It's a source of joy. Think of that chap that story in in John chapter 2, where the wedding is going on and and they're out of line. Wine is uh symbolic of joy, and Jesus expands the amount of wine that's in the in the house. And he said later in John 15, 11, These things are spoken to you that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be full. Source of joy. Source of compassion. John chapter 9. Great story. It's during the light of the world discourse. It starts in chapter 8, but there's this man who's blind. And Jesus goes up to him and he heals them. And then there's this whole rigmarole, great chapter. And at the end, he comes to see that it was Jesus, the light of the world, who gave him sight. Jesus, his compassion in touching that man. Jesus' compassion at the gravesite of Lazarus, his friend, where we have the two shortest, the shortest verse in the Bible, two words. Jesus wept. See the compassion of Jesus. But I want to look at just two of these things. I'm going to look at Jesus as the source of provision, like a father. The provider. Think of the story in John chapter 6. It's one of the miracles. In fact, it's one of the few stories in the Gospel of John that's in the other three Gospels. It's interesting. This is a very important miracle. And John gives us commentary afterwards the next day about the miracle where he talks about being the bread of the world. But if you remember that story in John, they desired to crown him as king because of his provision. He's providing for this great multitude of 5,000. That was 5,000 men. There were probably women and children. Who knows the size of that congregation there? The source of revenue. God, our Father, is a provider. Jesus shows that. Jesus is a provider. One thing about my dad is he was a great provider. My own dad. What are this I tell my kids this late this marble? I I graduated from college with no student debt. That's a miracle nowadays, isn't it? Despite the fact that at one point three of us, me and two of my sisters, were in college at the same time. They were just, you know One was three years ahead of me, one was two years ahead of me. We were all at it at the same time in college. And um my dad had what was a man who had wise planning and who worked hard. He planned his work, they worked his planned. He he worked for NSA, but he also had a part-time job for many years, anticipating this crazy time when he would have all these bills. He worked several nights and then worked on Saturdays and particularly the last couple years we got to spend a lot of time together because we worked pretty much the same place and we drove together to that to those evening jobs. But my dad was a great provider. So when I hear, when I think of father, I think of one who provides. And here in John 6, Jesus provides for this multitude. who are hungry with the two loaves and bread from a little boy. He's a source of provision. And he's a source of forgiveness. Just the story in the first chapter of John. Where he's calling men to discipleship. And they say they look at him and say, behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. That's Jesus. He's the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. One other interesting thing about that story that I told earlier about the Ancostia and stealing and all that stuff. Um one of the most amazing things as I look back on my life and look back on my back on my parents is that I told you their judge their their justice was swift and clear and shame it shamed me among my upon my friends. And uh that was when I was eight years old. Until the day I died, they never mentioned it again. We never had a debreaching about it. We never discussed it. The judgment was done. The deed was done. They executed judgment. And then it was over. And I didn't realize how incredible that was back then. But now I know that I don't know if they were intentional about this. They were modeling for me the gospel. The love of God That when j when when justice has been paid, it is finished. Jesus, the everlasting Father, source of life, source of wisdom, source of justice, source of peace, source of joy, source of compassion. Source of provision, source of forgiveness. To see what God is like, we need to simply look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Great song by a simple song by Tommy Walker. I have a maker. He formed my heart. Before even time began, my life was in his hands. I have a father. He calls me his own. He will never leave me no matter where I go. Because he knows my name. He knows my every thought. He Hears each tear I cry, and he hears me when I call. Jesus shows us the Father What is God like? Look at Jesus. So you think about the Lord's Supper. I was thinking about a passage in a Psalm. Psalm 103. It's a psalm of praise, but the psalmist says this. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love. He will not always chide. Nor will he keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west So far does he remove our transgressions from us. And then verse 13. As a father shows compassion to his children. So the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. Jesus.