Good morning. If you have your Bibles, please turn to First Peter chapter three, beginning in verse thirteen. I'm getting out of here. That's okay. Thank you. We're continuing a study of 1 Peter chapter 3. We began this study this particular session last week as we looked at 1 Peter chapter 3. Alan's been taking us through 1 Peter and This is where I happen to be in my own study as I go through 1 Peter. And yet it's also really appropriate that this is the last Sunday before missions month. Because in this particular passage it really has an application of evangelism. Last week I talked about the fact that it is not the primary focus. The primary focus of this passage is what we're going to look at again today. But there's certainly an application of how God uses us as we focus on Jesus. So let me open us in prayer, and then we'll look at the passage. Jesus, in one sense, it really is true that we s we're called to surrender all to you. And yet in another sense, that's silly. We surrender to you our pittances, our poverty, our weakness, our sin, our pleasures, our distractions. And we receive from you grace, mercy, redemption, new life, relationship with you, your smile Lord Jesus, what we receive is so much greater and so much more glorious than anything we could possibly give up. That it really isn't a surrender. We receive. And so, Jesus, this morning, as we come to this passage, free us to hear what you give. That what we have held on to we'll let go of. Lord Jesus, nothing compares to you. You are, as we'll sing, our only hope. You are glorious and you are holy. And so as we come to this passage, Jesus, speak to our minds, speak to our hearts. Holy Spirit, transform us that we might be living in Christ and in all that that entails. Lord Jesus, please. We pray that you would do these things in your precious name. Amen. Peter writes in chapter 3. And who is there to harm you if you prove zealous for what is good? But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not fear their intimidation, and do not be troubled. But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense. To everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence, and keep a good conscience, so that in the thing in which you were slandered Those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For it is better if God should will it so that you suffer for doing what is right rather than for doing what is wrong. As we come to any passage of Scripture, any passage God calls us to engage honestly and deeply with the truths He's revealing. God calls us to hear, to engage, and to respond. It's particularly true in this passage. We spent time last week looking at two of the points that Peter was making that were difficult, and then looking again at that point where At least for me, I tend to move into what can I do? How can I fulfill and be in a safe position with Jesus, whatever command he gives So if you find yourself passing over parts of any passage, but this passage in particular with the statements that there is no one to harm you when you know for a fact there are people who harmed you last week. When it says it's better to suffer for doing what is right than for doing what is wrong, you honestly acknowledge that it feels unfair. When you see that call to obey and to act by giving a defense for the hope If you're like me, your propensity is to say, okay, this I can do. I will focus on what hope I have. I will strengthen my hope, and I will make it visible and I will share it with others. If you find yourself mentally rewriting any passage of scripture, stop. Listen. Jesus is speaking through all of Scripture. We spent time last week looking at the fact that what we're called to do is to focus on Him That he makes himself clear in Scripture, and that is a huge gift. We interpret, and what comes in may not be what we perceive. When you find yourself in the position of recognizing that what you've heard isn't what was said, recognizing that you're convicted of sin Recognizing that in the midst of this dynamic of focusing on Jesus, you have shifted your focus to an idol once again. The point of this passage is that you have an incredible gift. You have Jesus' invitation to repent. And to rest. Jesus knows you don't measure up. Brothers and sisters, that's why he's our redeemer. That's why he went to the cross. So let's begin by focusing on Jesus. Peter calls us to focus on Jesus, the heart of this passage. It's all about that. Who is Jesus? Jesus is God. There's a number of things he tells us about himself in Scripture. He's God. He is creator. He's our bridegroom. He's our older brother. He's our redeemer. Are those words? Are those only words to you? Or when you say that Jesus is your Redeemer, do you recognize that means you need redemption? That one descriptor of Jesus summarizes everything we just talked about with the freedom to see our failures, the freedom to see our inadequacies, the freedom to see our actual sin. and rebellion and hatred for God, and recognize that what He's calling us to is to rest and repent. Is Jesus Redeemer for the sins you committed, not even this week, but this morning? Do you know what sins you commit and do you bring them to Him? He's glorious. He's amazing. He's ours. He loves us Focusing on Jesus entails all of that. Do you realize that Jesus doesn't come to you and say, when you measure up, come back? Jesus isn't looking for you to fail so that his sacrifice makes sense. Jesus wants you to blossom. He wants your best. He wants your good, and he will glorify himself through your good. And so Peter calls us by saying, Sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense for the hope that is in you. Peter focuses on the fact that Jesus is Lord. That's the one thing that I think he's saying in this particular passage. He is our master, he is our defender, he is our God. And so we talked last week a little bit about the distinction between some translations. If you have the ESV, you'll notice that what it says there is, regard Jesus Christ as holy in your hearts. And there is an exegetical way you can look at this that would focus on the holiness of God, and there is an exegetical way that focuses on the Lordship of Jesus. And I think that as I look at the context, while I like the ESV in so many ways, the New American Standard captures something here that other translations don't. Sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts. Always ready to make a defense. There's another exegetical point I want to get to that reiterates the fact that the central focus for Peter is sanctifying Christ. Because in your translation, you'll see a number of verbs. As you look at this, it says, Sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you. There's one verb describing us in this passage, and it is an imperative. It is a command. But that one verb is to sanctify. The reason I put the second part of this phrase on the screen is because you'll see that being is in italics. If you have a new American standard, one of the things that you'll recognize is that there are a number of times where, for some unexplained reason, words in your text are in italics. Well the the reason that the translators will give you in the beginning of your Bible if you go there I hate to go to the explanatory notes But the reason they've italicized those words is because they're not in the original. There is no verb being in the Greek. Peter writes this. This is a more literal translation. Sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always ready to the defense for the hope that is in you. Defense is not to make a defense. There is no verb there. It's simply always ready to the defense. Giving an answer. The defense is giving an answer for the hope that is in you. Always ready to explain. Always ready to give the explanation. Peter wants you to see that the one thing Jesus calls you to do is to focus on him. Everything that flows out of that is secondary. As we focus on Jesus, something miraculous happens. He transforms us. He changes us. If you look at this passage, it talks about the fact that if I focus on Jesus, I have hope. And if I focus on Jesus, my hope is visible to others to the degree that they will ask me. They'll ask me about why I have hope. It's not something I'm called to build. It's not something I'm called to strengthen. It's not something I'm called to focus on. My one focus is Jesus. And the consequence of that, the fruit of that, is that Jesus transforms me. So the issue here for us this morning is how do we see more of Jesus? We talked last week about the fact that he most clearly reveals himself in Scripture, in the Word. If you want to focus on Jesus, if you want to sanctify Jesus as Lord in your heart, the issue for you is to listen to Him. Be in the Word. But I grew up in a fairly legalistic Christian environment. Once I went to college and I got involved with the Navigators, which is a great group, and I make no complaints against them. The easy way for me to go is to focus on what I do. And so the questions became, have I had a quiet time? Have I prayed? What have I prayed for? Have I been faithful? Have I acted? Have I done? What am I focusing on? Me, my works, anything but Jesus Brothers and sisters, I believe that's sin. And it's another reminder to focus on Jesus and to realize I need him desperately. And so do you. But if I'm in the word, God tells me in Isaiah that his word is powerful and strong and will not return empty. God does good things in taking me to the word, and he gives me his spirit. And he opens deaf ears. He opens blind eyes. He gives a heart of flesh where a heart of stone exists. Those are all his promises. He tells me he will do these things. And so there is a value in being in the word period. But I want more. Jesus wants more for me. Jesus wants more for you. And not only do we need his word and his spirit, but he's created us to need each other. When I get ready to go to work, when I get ready to go and be out with people, basically when I get ready to leave my bedroom and go anywhere. One of the things that I always do is I prim. You probably couldn't tell it, but I look in the mirror. And I make sure that my seams are lined up and I make sure that my belt buckle isn't over on the side and I make sure that I've got colors that fit well together. Many times as I as I use my closet light to see what colors work when I go into the fluorescent light of my bathroom I am amazed at my poor color choice. I don't have to do too much with my hair anymore, but But the difficulty of that is that I look at the mirror from one position. I don't have eyes on the sides of the back of my head. And so I'm looking at how I look in the mirror, and generally I can feel fairly comfortable with how I appear from that one direction. And I really wish all of you would just sort of line up And stay directly in front of me. Because from that side I see and I'm concerned with how I look. But periodically as I'm walking along, I catch a glimpse of myself from the side. And I haven't primt from the side. So I have to stand straighter, then I have to suck in my gut, and I have to try and make myself better. Because there's a whole nother series of perspectives. And I oftentimes don't like what I see when I catch myself unawares And that's so much more true spiritually, emotionally, and socially than it is just in the mirror. And brothers and sisters, I need you. I need you. I I don't need fashion police. This is not an invitation for you to come and tell me that I really ought to try some different colors. Although if you're gracious about it, I I I might concede the point But I need you to help me see me. Because I don't see me well. I have blind spots. And I'm not created to see all of me any more than you are. And you need us as well. You need brothers and sisters who can see you from angles you don't see and can graciously, artfully, creatively, and lovingly and redemptively help you to be more. to apply Jesus' words, his truth, and his love to you. We're created for community. We talked last week about the fact that Jesus is part of the Trinity. God is three in one, and He's creating us in His image. To be community. You cannot live in a one-dimensional world. You can't presume that because you see you one way, that's all of who you are. And the author of Ecclesiastes makes it clear. In Ecclesiastes four, verse nine, he says, Two are better than one. Because they have a good return for their labor. And then he describes the labor. For if either of them falls, the one will lift up his companion. But woe to the one who does not have another who will lift him up. Woe to the one who does not have another who will lift him up. You're not created to be alone. You're not created simply to be with a crowd of people. We are created to be a community together that realizes we will fall, that realizes others will fall, and as they fall, will pay the price both to be lifted up, because it hurts. It hurts to see your weaknesses. It hurts to see your sin. It hurts to see your inadequacies. But it also hurts to lift another up. It's risky. It's dangerous. Because they may not like what you have to say. And you may say it poorly. You may not be lifting them up, you may be stomping them down. So it's a call for us to be artful, to be gracious, to be loving and redemptive in fellowship. That's part of the transformation Jesus works in us. It's part of who we're called to be. And as we find that we're transformed, and as we find that we are gracious and artful and redemptive, we live in community, we find Jesus gives us hope. There's tremendous hope in knowing his love. There's tremendous hope in knowing his care and his power, knowing that the God who created the universe is willing to come as a baby. And live as I live, as you live, to suffer temptation, to overcome temptation. To love firsthand, by touch, by word, by life, and to die So that we can belong to him. That hope is so powerful that we will follow him into suffering. Some of you here are graciously at a distance from suffering. Some of you are enjoying a time in your life now where it's good. It's pleasant. It's fulfilling. It's satisfying. You've come through valleys. You're not going into valleys yet. And suffering is a concept that you remember but don't experience. Praise God. But some of you here are in the midst of the valley so low that you can't see the sun. In those valleys, we look for anything that gives us hope. of a good future, hope of overcoming the pain, hope of survival. And for us in those places, Jesus is remarkable. And we hunger for him. For those of us who are in places of comfort, we want to stay. And at times the greatest temptation is to Stay even if Jesus leads elsewhere. That's some questions that I ask myself and I want to pose to you. And those questions have to do with Will you follow Jesus wherever he leads? Wherever he leads. Some of what I do with my my week is counseling, and there are many times that I'm dealing with people who have hit rough places in their marriages. And one of the questions that I have to wrestle with in my own life and I wrestle with with my friends is Will I follow Jesus as he leads me into relationship issues that hurt? If you're in one of those places, you may desire comfort and safety, and you may be willing and tempted to think about running. Some of you have been tempted by that. And it may be other issues. It may not be marriage. It may be health. It may be career. It may be children. It may be neighbors. I mean there's a lot of ways that we're tempted to run, but but the thing I want you to think about, I want you to put a picture in your mind. I don't know if any of you have lived in desert environments. Certainly at least you probably passed through them, but the desert's a very hot place. It's a very dry and dusty place. And it's a very unpleasant place. I've lived in deserts. And I've lived in deserts where there's plumbing. I've lived in deserts where there's grocery stores. I've lived in deserts where there are highways and gas stations. And I've never ever suffered a lack living in a desert physically. But the Hebrews followed Moses, who was led by God. Out of Egypt, which is an oasis, the entire nation is an oasis fed by the Nile, and there's water, and there's food, and there's comfort. And the Hebrews left and they followed, and they had one command. The one command was when the pillar of cloud and the pillar of fire Cloud by day, fire by night, so it was visible. When the pillar moves, you move. When the pillar stays, you stay. Their focus, their very life existence was focused upon the pillar, which was the very presence of God And so when God stayed in a land of dust and of bugs, no water and no food, they stayed. And when God led them away from an oasis, they followed. Will you follow? When Jesus says to you, love one another as I have loved you. Will you follow? When Jesus says, give, will you follow? When Jesus says reconcile and offer forgiveness, will you follow? When Jesus says, look and see the wounds you cause, will you follow? One of the greatest problems I have in following is that there are times when Jesus leads me from the wilderness to wondrous places. And I have to date myself. I grew up in an age of cowboy and Indian movies. I don't think they make them anymore. One of the one of the scenes that that really strikes me are the scenes where there's always this guide. He knows how to lead them from place to place. He knows where the watering holes are, he knows where the food is. He knows how to get to the towns. And so while they're in the wilderness, this guide is the most important component of their life. If they lose him, they don't know where to go. If they lose him, they're lost. But there's always those scenes. Well, not always, that's an overstatement. Frequently there are scenes in those movies where the guide is leading them, and off to the side you see this watering hole. The horses, the cows, the cowboys, they'll just charge off to the watering hole because what they want is water. And the guide says no. You see, the cows get there and they drink and they die. Because it's a poisonous watering hole. Will you follow Jesus even when he leads you to the watering hole? Or will you decide that the water is more important than the guide in charge? Will you follow Jesus wherever he leads? however he leads and move forward. The question that then comes up for me is, what if I don't see? What if we don't see how we're transformed? Nobody's coming to me and asking me about the hope. Nobody's seeing the hope in my life. I'm hopeless. I'm depressed. I'm one of those pitiful souls who just lives in a funk. Life is never going to get better, it's always been bad, and that's just me. How can I be transformed? I don't mean to minimize pain. For some of us, it's a long-term process, and I'm not poking fun at anybody. But brothers and sisters, Peter says, if we focus on Jesus, there will be hope and people will be engaged. A plus B equals C. What if I don't see my transformation? What if nobody else does? What do I do? Well the first question is Jesus our focus? Because brothers and sisters, this is not this is not a a A continuous event. We don't get to this place and rest. We are prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Take my heart, O Lord, and seal it, seal it to thy courts above. It is difficult to remain focused on Jesus because there are just too many distractions. So when I come to those places where I look at my life and wonder, am I not transformed? Why don't I see how God is at work to transform me? The first question he calls me to constantly, sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts. The temptation, when I begin to say, what if I don't see my transformation, is to move my gaze from my focus on Christ to my focus on success. I've moved from following the guide to looking for the water I'm tempted in those times to focus on my circumstances, and Tim mentioned last week that we don't see Jesus most clearly in our circumstances, but we cannot see him apart from them. And Jesus calls us to look at our lives and calls us to see the fruit of his work in us. Galatians 5 says that the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, gentleness. Kindness, self-control. I may be focused on the fact that I don't have self-control, and I don't see that he's working in me to give me love Certainly I need I need to cling to him for that self-control. But Jesus is the vine. John 15 says, it quotes Jesus. John quotes Jesus saying, I am the vine, you are the branches. If you abide in me and I abide in you, you will bear much fruit. He's not selling the branch to tie on the fruit. The solution to being fruitless isn't to create fruit, tie fruit on, staple fruit on, nail fruit on. The solution is to cling to the vine. And let him do the work. So what fruit believes demonstrates that we believe in Jesus. First, we will know him. We'll know Jesus. If I belong to Jesus and I'm focused on Jesus, I see who he is, I see he is my Redeemer. He is my savior. He is my bridegroom. He is my life. When I move away from that, and we do. The solution isn't to try and find some way to feel good about where we are. The solution is to go back to Jesus, to hunger for him, to follow him, to love him. If I see Jesus and I know Jesus, one of the things that's going to happen is I will care about what matters to Jesus. If we are focused on him, we will care about those things that matter to him. It's a demonstration of our love. People you care about, you begin to find that you're concerned about their hobbies, their interests, their desires. Their successes, their failures, what matters to them matters to you. And Jesus calls us to give our hearts to what matters to Him. And what matters to Him. His glory and us. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor. As you love yourself, Jesus cares most for his glory and second most for his people. If I'm focused on Jesus and I see fruit, one of those fruit that I must recognize, then He's going to call me to see my failures and my sin. It is not a punishment from Jesus to show me my heart, to show me my behaviors, to show me my weaknesses. It is his love, because he is redemptive. I don't believe Jesus ever shows us weaknesses, failures, and sins to leave us there. He shows us that because he is redemptive and wants us to grow. He wants us to grow in grace and to honor him. To know his pleasure. And so honest self-evaluation is a part of that. And again The fruit that demonstrates that we believe is that our hearts are given to what matters to Jesus, and that means we will be involved in other people's lives. Jesus did not create us. For isolation. And he didn't create us merely for relationship with brothers and sisters in Christ. He created us to be light. He created us to reflect Him. He created us to be a mirror of grace to the people around us. This morning as I was driving in, the days that I preach I abandon my family and get here very early. And as I was driving in this morning it was still dark and I I wanted to look for the moon. I wanted to see moonlight because The moon has no light of its own. There is no source of light generation on the moon. It is only light when it reflects the sun. And brothers and sisters, Jesus is quoted by Matthew as saying in Matthew 5 You are the light of the world. A city sat on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do men light a lamp and put it under a peck measure, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. And then Jesus says to us, let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. You have no light, not of your own, but you are a mirror Jesus has created to reflect his light to the world. You are to be a city set on the hill. You are to reflect Christ to the world around you. One of the fruit Of being transformed and believing in Jesus is that you care about the world. We're going into the missions month, and the missions month is going to show us what's happening globally. But brothers and sisters, we are called to reflect the light of Christ to the world around us. To engage to such a degree, Peter says, that our hope is visible. And people see it and are challenged by it and feel the freedom to come to us and to say, what's going on? All because we focus on Jesus. He is unbelievable And apart from his grace, I won't believe him. But praise God, he gives us his grace. He gives us faith. He gives us hope. And as you wrestle to see what hope you have, focus on Jesus. And as you see Jesus, focus on the matter the things that matter to him And live in grace. Let's pray. Jesus, you are our only hope. You do not call us to be enough. You do not call us to succeed. You do not call us to save the world. We can't even save ourselves. But you give us grace. You love us. You hold us. You prosper us. Jesus, be our focus. Give us the grace to turn our gaze to you. And Lord Jesus, as we do, honor yourself, delight in us, and give us the pleasure of delighting in you, and of being mirrors to the world of your light. In your name we pray. Amen.