If you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 11. This morning I'll be reading for us verses fourteen to twenty-three. Let us pray. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. And Lord, we pray that we would welcome your word Lord, into our innermost being. You commanded prophets in the Old Testament to eat the scroll of your word, to take it, to ingest it, to digest it, Lord, to then express it in new life. To declare it, Lord, to delight in it. May it be to us sweeter than honey and more precious than much fine gold. And Lord, we pray that you would bless this reading to us. And Lord, bless the preaching as well. And Father, in as much as the preaching of your word that follows is faithful to who you are and what you've done, Lord, we ask your every blessing upon it that we might be encouraged and strengthened. We pray these things in the name of our living Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. Luke chapter 11, beginning with verse 14, the Word of God. Now he was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marveled. But some of them said, He casts out demons by Beelzebel, the prince of demons. While others, to test him, kept seeking from him a sign from heaven. But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them: Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste. And a divided household falls. And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebubel. And if I cast out demons by Beelzebubel, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore, they will be your judges. But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. When a strong man fully armed guards his own palace, his goods are safe. But when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armour in which he trusted, and divides his spoil. Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, I want to say to all of you welcome. If you're visiting with us today, a special welcome to you. If you have been here a hundred times, a special welcome to you as well, and of course those of you on the live stream. I want to share with you, just kind of overtly here, one of my great missions in preaching is to declare the text of Scripture as best I can in a way that connects us with the great threads that run through Scripture. You see, sometimes we look at uh at each uh e each passage of scripture that we encounter, each section that's cordoned off by those italicized headings in your Bible, we look at each one of them almost as if they are kind of unique unto themselves. And we sometimes miss the broader th threads and streams that run through a book like Luke. or the New Testament or the entirety of the Bible from Genesis to Revelation. One of my great interests is that sense of biblical theology structured by the covenant that runs from creation through fall. to the coming of the Messiah and all the way to his return. You might think, well that that's why why after three years in your third year, why do you share that now? Well, because this text in particular is often read in isolation of what comes before it. So I want to invite you to step back from this text for a minute and think about what we just read. In fact, to think about what has come before. You remember, Jesus is baptized, he goes to the wilderness, he begins his ministry in Luke chapter 4. Beginning at the end of Luke chapter 4 and moving through the next two chapters, we have a very geographically defined ministry of Jesus in Galilee. which is the northern part of Israel, above Samaria, which is in turn above Judea and Jerusalem. And while Jesus is in Galilee, the emphasis seems in large part to fall upon not so much what Jesus said, but the fact that he was there teaching and that he performed mighty acts. And the underscoring theme of those chapters is how Jesus is received. You'll remember there's a an escalating or a crescendo of responses that the people have to Jesus. From him being sort of despised and well, who is this? We know him. What is he doing here? To fear and trembling, to r the emphasis is on his reception and on how the news about him goes forth. We remember beginning in Luke chapter 5, we have rumors about him, then we have stories about him, and then we have the news. A very concrete, explicit term. We have a growing awareness who Jesus is, and then we have the Sermon on the Plain, where sort of the the heart of Jesus' early teaching is laid before us in descriptions of his power and the sending out of the The 12 and then the 72. After the 72 get back, we have this emphasis on the kingdom of God and the spiritual contest that is current on this side of heaven. After the 72 come back, Jesus says, and I saw Satan falling. We have descriptions here of Martha and Mary engaged in this spiritual contest of what should we do? How should we prioritize our life? the merely worldly cares or that which matters and is essential or necessary. Then we have a prayer When they want to learn how to pray, Jesus says, when they want to learn how to pray, Jesus teaches the disciples, pray this way, our Father. May your name be hallowed. May you be praised. A clearly spiritual request. May people throughout the world. Acknowledge you. Extol you. Worship you. And may your kingdom come, which builds on the praise. It's a spiritual prayer. It asks for protection from temptation. And then we come to this next thing, absent any geographical context. Absent anything about how far removed in time it is from the teaching on prayer. After Jesus has taught his disciples how to pray about the kingdom, we have a healing in which someone who is mute is enabled to speak And the disciples learn something about the kingdom. This perfectly follows his teaching on prayer. And it would be a mistake to think about this just as an incidental event and a sort of random, unfortunate accusation lobbied at Jesus. This is rather very intentionally put here by the Holy Spirit speaking through Luke so that we understand something of the kingdom of God and the importance of coming to the Lord Jesus with ourselves. If you think about this text for a moment, we have a Failure of the people to respond in a manner that we might have expected. And I know we have a number of seminary students and seminary graduates here. But the word used that gets translated marveled is a huge step back from the response of the crowds previously. And I kind of allude to that in a little paragraph that I give you at the beginning of the sermon notes. And we won't get into all the grammar and syntax of an ancient language, but Just know this, that in the past, previously, the crowds had responded to Jesus' miracles with words that get translated as astonished or amazed, or even amazed so much that they're even fearful. This word marvel is a word that could be translated wondered. Like, huh, you don't see that every day This is a word that is by all academic accounts something of a surprise to encounter at this point in the narrative after the news of Jesus has been so carefully spread, not only by Jesus' ministry and hearsay, but By the 12, by the 72. And then the responses that are given are basically two. He's doing this by the power of Bealzebel. And hey, we need another sign. We've got to verify this a little more carefully. And in the face of that, Jesus, in healing this mute man, he wants to clarify two things for all of those whose thoughts he knows. And the first is that questions about by whose power he is doing these wonderful things comprise an illogical accusation. Some of them said he casts out demons by Beelzebal, the Prince of Demons. Jesus, knowing their thoughts, goes on to tell them something about how kingdoms fall and are laid waste if they're divided And the fact that this is kingdom-oriented in this passage, think about the words used here, kingdom, rule, household. A prince, a ruler, even the name Beelzebal itself. Beelzebol is We're far more familiar with the pun on that name, Beelzebub. I'll get to that in a minute. Beelzebub was the Baal, the Lord. Uh Zebul, the house or temple, who was worshipped most famously in Ekron, the northernmost city of the Philistines, during the time of the monarchy in Israel, and even up to the time, remember the Hellenistic culture was very syncretistic. They would take whatever God you worshiped and associate it with someone from their pantheon and say, hey, let's rock on. Keep worshiping that person, that God, that that idol, that rock, that that stick. And so Beelzebol was still current in that culture, especially in that place that we would associate with Gaza today geographically. And Beelzebel, this lord of the temple, was considered the top of the pyramid structure of pagan deities in that part of the ancient world. He would be the equivalent of the Zeus. Now, Baal Zebub, Lord not of the house or temple, but Lord of the flies. You see, in 2 Kings chapter 1, in the 800s A. D. , slightly before Ekron becomes noted uh as the kind of an epicenter of the the the oil, the olive oil industry in that eastern part of the Mediterranean world and had a huge temple devoted to Beelzebub. The prophet Elijah rebukes King Ahab. King Ahab wants to get advice on how to run his country well. And so what does he do? He sends to Ekron to get priests and counsel from Beelzebal. And in a pun that is a little bit uh colorful. Elijah says, go to Beelzebub, because he's the Lord of the flies. He's not the Lord of the temple or of the house. And in the ancient world, as in today, They understood that flies are attracted to dung. That's the most polite way to put it, right? And Elijah is making a point that those of you who worship this God, that's really what you are making of yourself. If he is your Lord, this is what you are. Powerful thought. Well, if you look at this account in Mark and in Matthew, you'll find Beelzebub is the name put here. But here we have Beelzebub. And think about why that might be. Matthew writes to Jews who are struggling with the possibility that Jesus might be the Messiah. People that would know very well. The Elijah context of Beelzebub, the name by which the rabbis would probably have referred Mark is writing his gospel to Christians in Rome, where there was a huge Jewish population. Luke is writing to Theophilus, a thoroughly Hellenized Greek person who may not be aware of that, but would certainly know who Beelzebol was. The two names are for the same person, and there's an utter consistency in that fact. But we're right to recognize that here the rabbis, the teachers, those who are uttering and muttering and murmuring about by whom Jesus is casting out demons is attributing Jesus' spiritual authority to the one who Jesus is attacking. And they're putting it in the words that would have been the most denigrating. Not the words merely of the accuser of God's people, Satan, but Beelzebub, that great, pathetic, worldly, grotesque rival to Yahweh, the living God of Israel. Is Jesus empowered by Beelzebel? Well, there's no chance of that. Jesus offers them this thought. He says, A kingdom divided against self is laid waste and a divided household fall. And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say I cast out demons by Beelzebal. Jesus then, in a sense, saying, this is utterly illogical. Why and for what reason would Satan, the Prince of Demons, be eligible, be casting out his own lieutenants or captains, if you will? Just think that through for a moment. Why would you do that? Why would a head coach right before a big game bench all of his best players? Or any of them for that matter. Think it through a little bit. This doesn't make any sense. And it is illogical to assume that Jesus, who came to set people free from demonic oppression and from the overwhelming prevailing might of sin in the life of a person, that he might be doing that by the one who champions sin itself. Makes no sense. It's an illogical accusation. To drag Jesus down to the level of some petty demon, that is utter foolishness. But it's also representative of a very inconsistent skepticism. He goes on to say this. He says to to those who are wondering, um Boy, it'd be nice if we had another sign from heaven. You see, that's skepticism. So we see that you made this deaf this mute person be able to speak, so now he can, among other things, you know, pray. But boy, that's sort of not enough for us to not think you might actually be a false flag type agent of the enemy. And Jesus asks them, If I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons, a way of saying your disciples, by whom do they cast out demons? Do you have the same standard for them? If they're out casting out demons, and demons are as real as this platform is, make no mistake about it, we live in a very materialistic culture. that has uh kind of imbibed deeply from the Enlightenment commitment to naturalism. It doesn't surprise me in the least that there are fewer overt evidences of spiritual demonic activity Keep in mind this. C. S. Lewis famously said, Satan does not care how you err, he simply cares that you err. And if you've embraced a worldview that leaves no room for the spirit world that surrounds us and the deep mysteries of life and of morality and ethics and good and eternity, well, Satan is delighted by that. He would hate to distract you from that calming, shallow, two-dimensional view of existence by confronting with you with the utter truth. Of spiritual reality. It doesn't surprise me at all that we don't see the kinds of demonic influences and spiritual contests that I, for example, saw in Uganda. Personally, with my own two eyes. Doesn't surprise me in the least. But that is real, it is true, and it's something that we have to be mindful of. Now, it is also true that God, by his grace, equipped his people of old with how to handle and address this. Famously, we know that the rabbis before the time of Jesus used Psalm 91 in exorcisms, a psalm that in a bizarre, ironic uh man are filled with hubris and arrogance that I can barely wrap my head around. Satan himself quotes from that psalm in tempting Jesus Talk about someone, a being full of himself, truly an arrogant spirit, as Martin Luther said, about Satan. And so there were others who were by the grace of God enabled to cast out demons too. And Jesus is saying in this time when the covenant is about to be ratified by the blood of Jesus Christ and everything will change and the curtain will be ripped. Jesus saying, if I'm casting out by Beelzebub, by whom are you casting out? And your disciples? And are you requiring from them, in essence, an additional sign from heaven to certify that they are not themselves demonic? So there's an inconsistent skepticism that Jesus calls out here when he is defending his kingdom and enabling his people to pray, praising God and seeking his kingdom. Jesus Christ is very intent on communicating that he is not casting out anything by the name of the Prince of Demons. And it is utterly unreasonable for those who would accuse him of such evil who do not apply that to all the voices that they do listen to. And isn't it interesting that in this world we so often require more verification from the living God who speaks through his word than we do from the experts on our favorite cable TV shows? We read the Bible and we say, yes, but what does psychology teach us? We read the Bible and we say, yes, but what does philosophy teach us? We read the Bible and we we it's as if we have to support and buttress the Word of God and the words of Jesus with other outside. Authenticating voices. And rather, is it not the case that we should be watching our cable news and saying, okay, that's fine talking head, but what does the Bible say? We should be looking at what every from everyone from politicians to movie stars to philosophers and psychologists tell us and say, okay, that's great, but what does God say? We get it flipped. And Jesus here is implicitly calling that out. By whom are they working? The question isn't by whom is Jesus working? Jesus is the Son of God, demonstrated in his baptism, authenticated by his signs, powerfully communicated from his teaching with authority. Jesus, after healing the man made mute and enabling him to speak, says that to reject his authority to reject his claims about himself, to step away from embracing this living, powerful, loving Savior Is illogical, it involves a deep inconsistency, and it neglects an absolute distinction. Let's start from the end here. Whoever is not with me is against me. Jesus has been talking about kingdoms. He's been talking about his own kingdom and how we should speak and cry out, Your kingdom come, and your kingdom comes as people. Hallow the name of God. And here Jesus is saying, you are either in my kingdom or you're in that other kingdom. There is an absolute binary here. There's a plus a minus, an either or. You are in this or that. You are either with me or against me. And let's back up for a minute. Now let's look back at after the question, by whom are others casting out demons, if you think I'm casting out demons by Beelzebub and need further authentication. Jesus then says this. He says, when a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, again, the language of kingdoms, the word could be translated castle, a fortified house. His goods are safe, but when one stronger than he attacks him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he trusted and divides his spoil. You can get the picture very well. Imagine somebody who is armed to the teeth by the standards of that day, living in a mighty fortified home, and has great treasure within the house. You can't plunder that home. You can't take possession of that area or that house and what is in it until you defeat the armed person. Now, there is a gospel tradition that we see clearly beginning even in Mark chapter 1, that Jesus is the stronger one And we discover in places like the Gospel of Mark later in the next chapter that Satan is merely the strong one. And we would be remiss not to note here that that is precisely what is being referred to. Satan, Beelzebub, the Prince of Dons, is the strong one, fully armed. Mighty to oppress, fearsome in his visage, and he has taken up residence in a home. And he will by no means leave it or part with the treasure he has obtained. Now, what is the home? Looking ahead at what we're going to look at in three weeks. Jesus goes on right after this, continuing his very theme of thought. He says, when the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, It passes through waterless places, seeking rest, and finding none. It says, I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order. Then it goes in and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person Is worse than the first. The house is a person. Those who are not Possessed of the Spirit of God, and by union with Christ made members of the kingdom of the living Creator, are inhabited by a dreadful and a fearful presence. They themselves are to greater or lesser degree a temple or a house. And the Lord of that temple or house is Beelzebal. Do we often realize that when we find in John's letters and in the writer to the Hebrews that this idea of the world being under the control of the evil one uh on this side of the judgment day, uh the need to flee from Satan, that he flee from you. Do we find that we come across references to spiritual warfare somewhat flat-footed? Do we find references that Jesus came to set us free from Satan, from the fear of death, and from sin? And do we think Well, I don't know what all that means, but I like being free from the fear of death. Do we fail to understand that those who are lost are under the thumb of Satan himself? And it's not simply that they are not in the kingdom of God, but they are in that kingdom of great darkness without hope in this world. By nature, enemies of God, children of wrath, who desperately need to hear the offer of life through the forgiveness of sins And faith in Jesus. There is this absolute distinction, and there is this beautiful thought. Jesus is telling these skeptical, inconsistent, illogical, and accusatory, befuddled and shallow crowds. I am stronger than Beelzebub, the Lord of the house that is you. And all that is to be treasured and is precious in who you are. I have come to claim. And I can utterly defeat everything that holds you down and back forever. Don't you want to be with someone like that? Don't you want to worship someone who can, in fact, set you free from things that doctors and psychologists and scientists have said define you and own you and break you forever? Don't you want to understand that you are a soul that God can treasure and that he can consider the spoils of his victory that he will delight in and he will preside over for eternity? If you are with him, he is not against you But if you are not, you declare yourself his enemy and swear your allegiance to another who is a proxy for Bealzebub. When I think about life and its spiritual reality, I'm reminded that the spiritual dimensions of reality are of far more importance, far more importance. than the merely physical, natural, materialistic. I'm reminded that we are called to live by faith, not by sight. That we are not to look at things or people the way that we do, but rather the way God does, seeing truths that are far more than simply molecules and atoms, energy and entropy. We are called to think and to act as if we know that we were created for eternity and we will experience it in one way or another. In the kingdom of the living God or the kingdom of his great enemy. And once we as Christians become so focused on this world, We forget that our citizenship is in that one. And our every effort should be to experience as much as we can the beauty and the grace of that kingdom. and pass it on by calling others to let go of all that is preventing them From abandoning Beelzebal and embracing the Lord of glory. And that's what Jesus means when he says, if you don't gather with me, you scatter. Because if you are with Jesus and not against him, you are incrementally at the very least beginning to experience that you have by union with Christ been translated from the sphere of Satan's power to that of the Holy Spirit's presence. And you are day by day, even though you feel like you're falling backwards as you more and more become aware of sin's way with your heart, You are nonetheless more and more being conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. And you long for others to experience freedom and grace and peace. To the extent that you are experiencing that, however slowly that grows And you are in your way by the use of your gifts, your words, your relationships, your life, your actions, your deepest desires, longing for your spouse, for your kids, for your parents, for your neighbors, for your colleagues. To have that same freedom that you have in Jesus. To know the presence of the stronger one Who can never be defeated, and who will hold you close forever and be your keeper, coming and going, both now and forevermore. Do you take Jesus at his word and see in him the coming of God's kingdom? Or do you attach the coming of his kingdom to lesser worldly things? As you fellowship in community groups and households, think on that, discuss it. Talk about it Ponder it. What would your life look like if you saw in the coming of Jesus, in the heralding of his gospel, in its reception by others, the coming of that great and glorious kingdom? the inbreaking of heaven itself, transforming men and women, families, countries, continents. Pray in that direction. Hallowed be your name, O Father, and your kingdom come. Is your life governed by the strong one or the stronger one? I want to challenge you with this thought. Do you believe that Jesus is stronger than anything and everything that is detrimental or oppressive in your life? Sometimes, I'm afraid, as Christians, we think that he's not. Sometimes we think that we have problems that nobody else has. And there's just no solution. And I'm just going to be miserable and sad my whole life. Or I'm going to be this way my whole life or that way my whole life. Some of you have known me now in my adult form. For those of you who are visiting, I grew up in this church, so I can't say this about those who knew me 45 years ago. How many of you have seen me get really angry in the last three years? No, fe feel free to raise your hand. Does anybody see any hands? Because I'm blind as a bat. How many of you now You're checking that you're really gonna carry? See, that's a wise man right there. That's uh yeah. No, hey, now some of you knew me when I was ten. Do you remember how angry I used to be? I was so angry that I was diagnosed with gastritis when I was in fourth grade. That's like a kitty ulcer. Angry all the time. You know that when I was a kid in elementary school, I was on a first name basis with Mr. Hose. You know who he was? Principal of Swansfield Elementary School. Do you know why we were on first name basis? I would relentlessly beat children up. I was angry. And I struggled with anger as a young believer. And my dad said, son, I was probably in ninth grade. He said, son, you don't have to be angry. And we walked through a little tract that Jay Adams wrote on anger, and we studied scripture together, and he led me to realize I don't have to be angry. And by the grace of the living God and the power of the Spirit, it takes so much to get me angry when I used to snap like that. What about you? What are those besetting sins that you have been told will dominate your life? Do you believe that the stronger one can rescue you from all oppression and treasure you for eternity and make you like Jesus? What a blessed and beautiful thought. And lastly, dear friends, will you commit yourself to gathering? To gathering with this Jesus who does mighty things. Will you commit yourself to in word and in deed, in your relationships and in your imagination, in work and in recreation saying, how can I live and conduct myself in such a way that I adorn the gospel, making it look good, and herald it, making it clear? Talk about that in your community groups. Evangelism is going to be a special point of emphasis this year here at CPC. And won't you pray for opportunities to gather with your Savior? And pray for opportunities for us to grow as being a gathering church. That this congregation swells with voices and hearts, hallowing the name of God, feasting in the house of the Lord together, delighting in his presence and loving our neighbor. Amen. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your goodness and grace. Lord, we thank you so much that you call out the false gods and you denigrate them to the point that we are confronted with the fact that yes, they are utterly worthless, they are rubbish, they are dung. We would not be that We would be children of the living God. What a glorious thought. We would be the treasured possession of the mighty one, the God of Israel, Jesus Christ. The Word made flesh, the author of salvation. Lord Jesus, we pray that you would bless us, work in us, help us to know our deliverance. Help us to walk as children, the bars of whom slavery had been broken, who can hold their heads high. Make us the children of Leviticus. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.