Passing out Bibles because we're going to be looking into the Word of God and you'll need yours. He brought a copy of the scripture. I invite you to turn to Matthew chapter twelve. This week and um on the thirtieth Someone other than Alan is going to be preaching through the Gospel of Matthew. I appreciate Pete your prayers for Alan and Kathy and their refreshment on vacation. Today I have the uh privilege to uh to look at Matthew 12, 1 to 21, and then uh next week we have actually a uh a guest speaker Lynn Stewart is going to be preaching in both services, and in between the services, he's going to be sharing his ministry to the Persian community. And then after the second service there's a luncheon and uh sponsored by the World Mission Task Force and um if you want the details on all that please get in touch with the office this week. There'll be an opportunity for the congregation to ask their questions of Lynn at that luncheon. And then on the 30th, uh Steve is going to continue in Matthew twelve. And then when Alan gets back, he will pick up the Gospel of Matthew in chapter 13. We look forward to all of that. We have uh before us uh an impressive task because there's twenty-one verses, and this is like uh stepping into a gold mine and seeing the the ribbons of gold ore in the walls, and we can only tap into just a couple of those veins. Because this is a very rich uh passage passage. It it contains Jesus displaying his glory as Messiah. He's on the scene and he's saying, I am the one you've been expecting. I am the law giver. I am the law fulfiller. I am the fulfillment of all the righteousness of God. I'm here in your presence. Look upon me and come to me. Did not our hearts delight last week when we heard the invitation from the Lord For all those who are weary and heavy laden, those who are burdened by their own pathetic attempts to keep the righteousness of God. And he says, Come to me and rest. I will give you rest. You will find rest for your soul. We have. A lot of errant views about who God is. They were prevalent back then, too. Not very clear what the Messiah would do, who he was, what he would accomplish. John Calvin said that errors can never be uprooted from the human heart until true knowledge of God be planted therein. Errors can never be uprooted from the human heart until true knowledge of God is planted therein. That's the goal of every preaching event then, to expose Jesus Christ clearly So that the errors that we all have, each of us brought misconceptions, some large grand errors, some small errors About who God is and about what God has accomplished. We brought those with us. Those are the things that He's uprooting. Those are the things that His Word is clarifying for us. Because our response to him is based on our understanding of who he is. And so that is our goal today. We have a large chunk of scripture. It's a great, big, hefty, meaty passage where God reveals himself. If you uh want to look at it this way, we've got three main sections The first verse through the eighth verse, you can see that as the open opposition to Jesus as Messiah. It's the open opposition to Jesus as Messiah. The second section then from 9 to 14 is the object lesson Of Jesus as Messiah displaying mercy. The object lesson of Jesus as Messiah displaying the mercy. And then, if you will, the fifteenth verse through the twenty-first verse is an Old Testament witness to the Messiah and his mission, and then us in turn, those followers of Messiah As we have been commissioned by him to carry his truth to the nations. The righteousness of God is always in view. In the Gospel of Matthew, it's clearly in view. From the very first time where Jesus as an adult is on the scene and he comes to John the Baptist at the river. And John says, No, no, I I I I must need be baptized of you. And Jesus says, John This must occur in order to fulfill all righteousness. That's the declaration Jesus said, God gets glory when God's people display his righteousness. That's why in the Sermon on the Mount It is very clear as Jesus takes the what you've heard about the law, what you've read, and he interprets it. Not from the uh from the exterior act, certainly, thou shalt not murder, thou shalt not commit adultery. And he takes it to the heart And he as the lawgiver, the fulfillment of righteousness, says this is what righteousness of God looks like. Elevating the standard to such a level that he says, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and the Pharisees, the very best keepers of the law. Unless your righteousness exceeds that of theirs, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. So be holy, even as your heavenly Father is holy. Be perfect. even as your Father in heaven is perfect, raising the standard way, way beyond what we could ever possibly think about achieving. The reason for that is so that we would see there is only one solution to our lack of righteousness problem. Jesus, you recall, said, Do not think that I've come to abolish the law. That's actually foolish thinking. Don't think that I've come to abolish the law. The law is good, the law is perfect, the law is holy, the law points us. To the glory of God, the righteousness of God. Jesus said, I didn't come to abolish the law, I came in my person and work to fulfill the law. And so you see, Matthew is developing this theme of the authority and the power and the righteousness of God throughout. And in chapter 12, what happens is The open expression of Jesus as Messiah is met with the open hostility, the open opposition of those who would reject Jesus as Messiah. They will not submit to him and his will and his way. You remember Alan talked last week about that illustration, the the kid with the report card comes and he's got, you know, four A's and one C and the oppression that you feel when all the focus goes in on that one C. Well it prompted me to think of a another illustration that I've used in the past to describe the gospel. And I know that uh no illustration, no analogy will hold up as you take it to the instant degree, but Imagine, if you will, kids, a hypothetical situation That the Department of Education has passed some wide-sweeping legislation recognizing that good students make good citizens. This legislation has been enacted And that is this. In order to graduate from high school, you have to complete every assignment, every quiz. Every exam, every essay, every math problem, every creative writing project Perfectly, completely. Every assignment, every class, every grade, every time, perfectly You feeling me? Now there's a serious student. Every time In order to graduate, a perfect, spotless report card. A grade point average Of shining perfection. Now, how are you feeling about Graduation Day? Oh wait, I forgot the one most important element Because the Department of Education believes that good students make good citizens, if you fail to comply with the standard of perfection, then on the day of graduation, when you are substandard, You will be put to death. Now, how do you feel about graduation day? As you approach the platform and your trembling hands hold your pathetic attempt at reporting. With your D's and E's and and eked out B and creative basket weaving You see the chopping block, and you see the executioner with his shiny axe awaiting your graduation. And at the moment where you are offering the only record you have, the triumphant voice of another is heard pealing above the crowd. And hearts leap as this one comes to the stage and says, HALT the proceedings. For I bear in my hand a report card that is spotless and blameless, every assignment. Every class, every quiz, every exam, every essay, perfect punctuation, grammar, stellar, to perfection. And I offer this report card to this individual. In exchange for his, knowing full well that it means my certain death. That's the gospel of Jesus Christ That is why we come and celebrate and we sing your mercies. Because people who deserve the wrath of God are not given the wrath of God. They are showered with mercy, lavished with that which they do not deserve. His grace, amazing grace, how sweet the sound. So it's in this context, the establishment of the righteousness of God in your midst that we pick up our reading today. In Matthew chapter twelve, we see those who would love to get credit for their pathetic attempts at righteousness. The Pharisees in the crowd. Listen to God's word as I read just the first eight verses. At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain and to eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. And he said to them, Have you not read What David did when he was hungry and those who were with him, how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the presence. Which it was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests. Or have you not read in the law how on the Sabbath the priest in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless. I tell you, something greater than the temple is here. And if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. Then you would have not condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man is the Lord of the Sabbath. I see what Jesus is doing in the most perfect expression of his compassionate authority. He takes the occasion of the Sabbath, that which the Jewish legal system all centered on. The Sabbath laws were myriad and many. Time doesn't permit us to look into all that the Jew had established as hedges to protect them from breaking the Sabbath. This is a couple I came across of. If you tossed something up with one hand, you had to catch it with the other hand in order for this hand not to be working You couldn't drag a chair across the floor for fear that the the bottom of the chair would cut a furrow and you'd be breaking the Sabbath by ploughing. Over and over and over we read, couldn't take a bath on the Sabbath for fear that the water would spill out and you would be guilty of washing the floor. That's the way the Jews had constructed these man-made regulations to bring glory to God. They're pathetic attempts at righteousness. And Jesus takes the occasion of the Sabbath To press them. I think the disciples were just hungry You know, I think they were walking, and here's hunger, and there's grain, and they ate. They took and they ate. And the Pharisees seized upon that, seeking To trip him up. Look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath, putting forth their righteousness And Jesus says, with a full expression of sarcasm in view, the effective use of sarcasm is not lost on our Lord here. Have you not read? of what David and his companions did. These are the teachers of the law. These are the ones who were puffed up and proud of the fact that they knew the word. They knew the scriptures. They knew the Old Testament, boy howdy, right? And Jesus says, Have you not read of David and his companions and how when they were hungry they Ate the bread of the presence. First Samuel tells us of this story. And now and an admonition did not fall on the priest there. An admonition did not fall on David. They were found guiltless in that act. This is what Jesus is saying. Do you want to talk about fulfilling the law with me? I'm glad to. I'm glad to talk about that because your pathetic report card of righteousness Will not hold up, dear Pharisee, in the light of the glory of Almighty God. It won't hold up. And so Jesus says Have you not read of David? And if you were aware, look at the effective use of the law here. Look how Jesus quotes from Hosea 6. Just the first part of that verse. If you were aware of what it meant, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, then you would have not found these who are guiltless, you would have not condemned them. As you raise your standard of righteousness, Pharisee, our Lord says, you don't understand the heart of the law. And so he gives them the law. Do you understand what's happening here? Jesus, in a masterful, compassionate way is challenging their heart. All you want to do is talk about the letter of the law. And Jesus says it's not about that Don't you, if you understood, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, if you understood what that meant He puts the law before them in order for their hearts to say, Examination, am I merciful? I find myself lacking in mercy. That's what the law does. It challenges our hearts Matthew five and verse seven, Jesus says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Why is he elevating those things? We can never you remember when we went through the Sermon on the Mount here of the congregation? Lord, why do you keep raising a standard that we could never possibly meet? I have no mercy for my fellow man. I have contempt mostly And all this other stuff. And God says, that's right. I want you to see the void in your own heart when it comes to righteousness. And come to me, ye who are weary of your own righteous works. Come to me, and you'll find rest for your soul. Take my yoke upon you. You remember Alan talked last week, took us to Acts 15. That expression was very familiar to the first century To take someone's yoke upon them was to be in submission to them. That's why Paul to the church in Galatians said, let's not be enslaved again to the yoke of slavery. To the yoke of the law. Don't bring yourself into submission to that. But rather to be in the yoke of submission to God, His will, His way. The Pharisees would not submit themselves And that's what Jesus is challenging. He's challenging it in them. He's challenging it in us. He's challenging it in me. Your attempts at righteousness will not satisfy a holy God in the day of judgment. And so, as Martin Luther would tell us, so we despair of our righteous works, and we cling to the righteousness that was given to us by another. The alien righteousness received by faith. Amen. That's the gospel. Jesus says, Do you understand as you bring the law to this conversation, Pharisee, what I'm doing? Someone, something greater than the temple is here. Implied in that is someone greater than David is here. David was the hero in the Jewish tradition. And Jesus says, We're simply doing what David did. And David was found guiltless. I am the law giver. I am the law fulfiller. I am the Messiah And then, because he wanted there to be no confusion whatsoever, he is openly expressing, I am the one you have been looking for. He claims, I am the Lord of the Sabbath. I'm the one who created all things in the space of six days, and it was all very good I am the one who rested on the seventh day. I am the one that gives you your pattern of one in seven to come apart from the world to worship and adore the one who has given you mercy. The one who has provided to you that which you could not provide for yourself. I am the Lord of the Sabbath. We pick up the reading again. Jesus, he went on from there and entered their synagogue. Again, I Stop for one second. You see, here's one of those gold ore threads through the wall. I want to stop and camp out here, but we can't Jesus just finished a discussion about the law, the very heart of the Jewish legal system, the Sabbath, and he claimed to be the Lord of the Sabbath. And then he goes on from there and enters into their synagogue. They're probably just like this. Well, we're gonna get him now, because now we're on our turf. And Jesus goes into the synagogue, and there is a man there with a withered hand. And they ask him, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? They asked him that question not because they're concerned for the man. Matthew tells us They asked him that question so that they might accuse him of violating the law and somehow elevating themselves Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him? And he said to them, Which one of you who has a sheep? If it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out. Or how much more value is a man than a sheep So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. And then he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And the man stretched it out, and it was restored. Healthy, like the other. The Pharisees You see their response there? Did they rejoice? Oh, the Messiah, he has come. He's displaying the mercy of the living God. He's among us, Emmanuel, God with us. Look at how he uses the withered hand and the healing of a man to display the mercy of God, to show us again the goodness and the greatness of God together in one person. No, that wasn't their response. The Pharisees went out and they conspired against him. How to destroy him. This is the beginning of the open hostility. That's the reaction of a heart unwilling to submit to the authority of the one who claims full And complete obedience and submission. That heart will not submit. In fact, that heart becomes enraged. And we see it here. There's a parallel passage in Mark chapter 3 and a parallel passage of this in Luke chapter 6. We see our Lord compassionate and tender, never once giving an inch with these Pharisees, but all the while bringing this man. He's going to describe what he meant. I desire mercy and not sacrifice. It was a great sacrifice for these Jews. Tremendous sacrifice to keep the law A burdensome, wearisome, tiresome sacrifice of ritual and pathetic report card righteousness. And Jesus never giving one inch on that, he shows them what the Sabbath. He is Sabbath rest. He is the rest for your weary soul. And I envision this man being brought to the center And Mark records for us that Jesus, drawing attention to the man, he looks around at the Pharisees with anger. Because of the callousness of their hearts. See, Jesus is saying, look, the mercy I've come to provide is a free gift. It's costly, but I offer it to you freely. And you continue to dig your heels in and not submit to me. He looks on the crowd with anger because of their refusal to submit. Because of their callousness of their heart. And then without very much pomp and circumstance at all, he simply says to the man, Stretch out your hand. Don't miss this. That's the power of living God. Stretch out your hand, and it is restored. Completely restored, the scriptures record. Jesus displays, this is the mercy. All of you in this crowd, Jesus is speaking to the Pharisee, if you had a sheep and it fell into a pit, you would get that sheep out. You know you would. There's no argument at all from the Pharisee back. You would find a way to get a stick or a log or somehow roll it ten Ten paces and get somebody else to help you with the next four so that you wouldn't break the Sabbath law, but you'd get that sheep out. And just as Matthew has recorded for us time and time again, at least twice before this, how Jesus takes uh an animal And he compares to the value of the man. You know, are not the sparrows sold for many for a penny? And yet your heavenly father knows them fully. Not one sparrow falls to the ground, except that your father knows it. fully. Are you not more valued than the sparrow? And Jesus is bringing that exact language to bear on the Pharisees. This is a man. With a soul who is created in the image of God to bring glory to God. I present him to you with withered hand and all. And Jesus says If you had a sheep in a pit, you'd get him out. But how much more value is this man? Stretch out your hand. Bam. And it's restored. Pick up the reading again. In verse fifteen, see again the Full deity of God dwelling in flesh. Jesus, aware of this, what is he aware of? He's aware that in verse 14 They plotted to conspire his destruction. In Luke's gospel he records that these Pharisees went and plotted together with the Herodians Now I had to look this up because I'm not familiar with the Jewish history, but the Herodians and the Pharisees were dread enemies. They didn't have anything to do with each other But for the purpose of destroying the false Messiah, they believed, they would get together and they conspired together to kill Jesus. And Jesus, aware of this conspiracy, withdrew from there. Hey, don't lose that. He knew what they were plotting and he withdrew from their presence. Why? Because no one takes his life from him. He has the authority to lay it down, and he has the authority to raise it back up again. It is God's appointed sovereign time, and this was not the time of his death. You see the sovereignty of the Messiah? He says, It's not my time. And so he withdrew from their presence, and many followed him. And one phrase that we can't really spend a lot of time on, but listen, they followed him. And he healed them all. That's the kindness of God. He ordered them not to make him known at that time. He wanted The Messiah to be understood in the way that God wanted the Messiah to be understood I think that maybe one reason that Jesus tells them not to go tell people that they've all been healed is so that they won't try to set up this earthly setting To where all their bodies get fixed, but their souls might still be lacking. There was a lot of confusion. Even after he was resurrected in Acts chapter 1, you see the disciples come to Jesus. Lord, at this time will you now restore the kingdom to Israel? You see, he doesn't want that confusion to be there because the Old Testament now is going to give witness to the Messiah and his mission. It's not just for the Jewish people. It's not just now this exclusive people group. The Messiah has come To be the savior of the world. Matthew records This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Behold, my servant. whom I have chosen, God the Father, speaking of God the Son, my beloved, with whom my soul is well pleased. I will put my spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles. He will vindicate the righteousness of God Don't think that sin will go unpunished. God is a just God. And Jesus Christ was commissioned by God to come to declare the justice of God to the nations, to the Gentiles. He is a suffering servant. He is able to sympathize with you and your weaknesses He will not quarrel, I read again from verse 19, he will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not quench. Until he brings justice to victory. And in his name the Gentiles will hope. You see, what Matthew is doing is unfolding the gospel for the world. Written to a Jewish audience with steeped in Jewish heritage and tradition, what Matthew is doing is saying the Messiah has come. To be a light to the nations, to the Gentiles, to us. He is a gentle and compassionate Savior. He's come for the bruised reed. He's come for the smoldering wick. Matthew 9, he's come for the harassed and the helpless. He's come for the distressed and the downcast. He saw the people that they were like sheep without a shepherd, and he had compassion on them. He's come for the weary and the heavy laden. He's come for the fractured and the fading. The bruised reed that reed that was useful, but not if it got bent over. I read one commentary that talked about the shepherds used to pick a reed, and if it had uh structure still, they could Pull out little places and blow through it and make a flute. But if the reed got bruised, it was of no effect. So they'd break it off and throw it away. That smoldering wick he would not snuff out. Not even enough to give light, this little itty-bitty wick fading. And he wouldn't even douse that. That's the gentleness, the tenderness of our Savior, declaring justice, displaying mercy. That's what he's come to do, though he was God He did not count that equality with God something to grasp tightly to, Paul tells the Philippians. But he laid that aside and became obedient, taking the form of a servant, a suffering servant. And humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross. In Romans chapter 3, Paul sums up. The gospel of Jesus Christ. In the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth verse Paul says that God put Christ Jesus forward as a propitiation by his blood. Someone who would stand in our place. Someone who would offer his record of righteousness and take the death, the crushing wrath of God that you and I deserved as sinners A propitiation that he would incur the wrath of God. Paul says that he put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. Why? This was to show God's righteousness. This was to display the glory of God. Because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at this present time, so that he might be both just. And the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus Christ. Do you see the display of the gospel? All those myriad sins that God passed over, passed over, letting go, letting go, because the display of his righteousness, there was an appointed time. When we would understand how serious sin is to a holy God, when we would understand the cost. of what it is to pursue a path that doesn't bring glory to God. So that at the Paul says at the present time, that time of the sacrifice, so that we would see that it cost God his one and only Son That's the precious death of Christ on the cross for you, for me, for all of us who labor with our little pathetic attempts to love our neighbor. Can I offer this C minus and being a husband, Lord? How about this D plus as a father? God says, you don't understand. I fulfilled the righteous requirement of the law, and I want you to come to me and rest in that. Come unto me, all ye who are weary and heavy laden, and I'll give you rest. Take my yoke upon me. Why don't you Finally, submit yourself to my authority. Why don't you come under my yoke? It's good, it's light And I will give you rest. That's the invitation to you and to me to live in the power of the cross. The forgiveness and in his righteousness. Let me pray for us. Heavenly Father, we do pray you'd take this word and Lord use it to cause us to walk rightly with you. In the knowledge, the true knowledge of God and what you've accomplished on our behalf, to display your righteousness. God help us to pursue and desire your glory above all other things That whether we eat or drink or whatever we do, that we will do it to the glory of God, including repenting of sin. Forsaking and despairing of our own righteousness to rest in your finished work, Lord Jesus. I'd pray for these people with me, Lord, in this room. Make us a people of the cross, a people of the resurrection power of Christ at work, believing that what you have completed, Lord, is completely done. And we'll follow you all the days of our life. We thank you for your blood, which washed away our sin. Jesus, thank you. Amen.