I want to set this passage in its context. Because I believe that if you look at the transfiguration and you don't understand where it takes place in redemptive history, you lose the impact of the transfiguration. In all of the synoptics and all three of the accounts in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, there is a threefold chronology. The first thing that happens is that Jesus meets with the disciples and he asks them who the people say that he is. They say a prophet, they say Elijah, so he goes to Peter, to the disciples, and he says, Well, who do you say that I am? And Peter identifies the Messiah. He says, You are the Christ of God. Up to this point, Jesus has been doing his ministry to bring the people to recognize his identity. He has done signs and wonders, he's taught. He has identified himself as the Messiah. People now understand to some degree who he is, and the disciples have become clear that he is the Christ. Immediately after that, in Matthew, Mark, and in Luke, we see that Jesus is described as beginning to teach from that point on that the Messiah must suffer Must die and must rise again. And so Jesus' focus at this point in his ministry and at this point in his life has shifted from his identity to his task. Jesus is now focused on Jerusalem. He's even in the northern part of the country at this point, up around Cesarea Philippi. And his focus has turned from ministry there to the south, to Jerusalem, where he will go and die. And then we have the transfiguration. And I want to try and point out to you in this message that there are really two key things that are going on in the event of the transfiguration. One of them we're fairly familiar with, and that is that the disciples are being prepared for ministry following Jesus' death and resurrection. And that's really true. But there's another part that I think we don't focus on because typically we don't take Jesus' position. We don't think about what's going on for Jesus as we look at transfiguration. It's kind of difficult to do that because here is God the Son in human flesh, and we can't really identify with him. But there is something happening here that is critical for us to understand. God the Son is facing his coming death. He's identified himself and now he's moving into the task he has come to accomplish. And so there is this overwhelming, overwhelming burden, this this terrible weight This cause of fear for Jesus. Because Jesus is the second person of the Trinity, but he's also fully human. And so I want you to see how closely tied the transfiguration is with the Garden of Gethsemane. You see, what's happening to Jesus here is that he is in a point in his life where he needs comfort. He needs someone to care for him. And I think that's one of the most important things that's happening in the Transfiguration is that the Father, God the Father, the first person of the Trinity, is caring for and comforting his Son. And I think we see that as we see what God does. Now, in your notes, you don't have these three steps of what God does. I want you to write them down. Because I think in the account we can recognize three very, very important things that God does in comforting Christ. Number one, He does not deny the problem. Just as a corollary, we'll get to it a little bit later, but I want you to recognize what Peter does. Do you remember the account in Matthew? You can turn to it if you want. It's Matthew chapter 17, or actually chapter 16. And Jesus, in verse 21, from that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and the chief priests and scribes. And be killed and be raised the third day. You see, Peter wants to comfort Jesus. I really believe that in his heart, Peter is trying to encourage Jesus. But what Peter does, in his arrogance, Peter rebukes Jesus. It says, then Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. Saying, far be it from you, Lord, this shall not happen to you. Now I believe Peter's heart was good. But Peter's comfort was tragic. Peter took Jesus aside and said, No, it's not going to happen. What problem? How many times do we do that? But God doesn't. God doesn't. Look at what God does do. God sends Moses and Elijah. Verse 31. Verse 30, and behold, two men talked with him who were Moses and Elijah, two godly men, come back from glory, who appeared in glory and spoke of his decease, his exodus, his death. Which he was about to accomplish in Jerusalem. Yes, Jesus, this is hard. You're going to hurt. It is a horrible fate that awaits you, but we are with you. God does not deny the problem. He focuses on it God also affirms the identity of the Son and affirms his love for the Son, where you see the Father meets with Jesus There's a number of verses in your outline that you can look at later on. I I don't think it's really helpful for you to be turning back and forth to Exodus nineteen right now So please don't don't don't do that. But what I'm going to say is clear in Exodus chapter 19. God comes to Jesus in a way that is remarkably similar to his coming at Mount Sinai. At Mount Sinai, they were on a mountain. Jesus and his disciples have gone up to a mountain to pray. On Mount Sinai, the cloud descended. The glory of God was hidden in the cloud, but God was manifest physically on the mountain within the covering of the cloud. Here it says that as the disciples saw Jesus and saw Moses and Elijah, a cloud descended upon them. On Mount Sinai, God spoke to Moses voice to voice. He spoke and gave the Ten Commands. Here, God speaks from within the cloud on the top of the mountain and says, This is my beloved Son. Listen to him. As startling and as magnificent as God's first coming to the mountaintop on Sinai was As much preparation as there had been for the Israelites to recognize the holiness of God, to stay away from the mountain, and to hear the law that God had given, this coming on the mountain is more significant. This coming is more important. Because while it was Moses that met with God on the mountain on Sinai. Moses comes now to comfort God Himself, who walked up the mountain. And he walked up the mountain in preparation for his atoning work. Not only does God meet with Jesus to show the honor and the glory of Christ, God shows it physically. In Matthew 17, verse 2, there's a good description. It speaks of the fact that Christ's face shone like the sun. His clothes became as white as the light in Mark. It speaks about this as well. And it says He was transfigured before them. Mark chapter 9, verse 2 and 3. He was transfigured before them. His clothes became shining exceedingly white like snow, such as no launderer on earth can whiten them. The disciples woke because the glory of the Lord woke them up. And as they looked, they saw Jesus, his glory revealed. And they recognize that this is not just a man. That the things that they had said that identified him as the Messiah were more true than they ever thought. Because God now is identifying him as the Messiah. Not only does his face shine, as Moses did in Exodus thirty-four, his whole being shines. His glory is so great that not even his clothes can hide it. And he stands in blazing glory before the disciples, identified in fullest detail as God. I want to look for a minute at a comparison between Sinai and this mountain. Because we see in Exodus 34, But as God met with Moses, God gave Moses a reflected glory. Exodus 34, verse 29. Now it was so when Moses came down from Mount Sinai, and the two tablets of the testimony were in Moses' hand when he came down from the mountain. Then Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him. So when Aaron and the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him. Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him, and Moses talked with them. Afterward all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them as commandments all that the Lord had spoken with him on Mount Sinai. And when Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil on his face. But whenever Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he would take the veil off until he came out. And he would come out and speak to the children of Israel whatever he had been commanded. And whenever the children of Israel saw the face of Moses that the skin of Moses' face shone, then Moses would put the veil on his face again, until he went in to speak with him. Being in the very presence of God the Father, Moses reflected his glory. In identifying Jesus as God, there was no none of a reflected glory. The glory that showed in Jesus was his because he is God Himself. He did not need to be with anyone else in order to reflect that glory. It was his, and he had veiled it. In order to do his ministry. But here on this mountain, in terms of comforting the Son, the Father revealed that glory and showed him once again who he is. Showed him once again where he had come from and encouraged and comforted him to the task that was ahead. But I think perhaps the best affirmation that the Father gave the Son was from the cloud. Because the voice in the cloud said, This is my beloved son. Wouldn't you long to hear the Father speak to you to say, You are my beloved Son? As you go through the trials and the difficulties and the hard times that you face, wouldn't you want God the Father to come to you and to say You are my beloved son or daughter. What a tremendous comfort But not only is God coming in this mountaintop experience to comfort Jesus, he's coming to prepare the disciples. And what Jesus brought Peter, James, and John up on that mountaintop to experience wasn't simply his comfort. For I'm convinced that if Christ simply wanted comfort, it would have been better for him to be there with the Father alone. You see, he was also preparing his disciples for the task that was ahead. Jesus is about to die. He is about to be arrested by a handful of soldiers. Taken to be judged by a handful of arrogant men who are about to give judgment upon God. And then he's going to die. And anyone looking in on that is going to assume that this is just another rabble rouser who has come, has spent his wad, has been defeated, and has been put to death. Much like any country looking at Israel, the southern kingdom, following the defeat by Babylon, would think that the God who had been worshipped and trusted in that country had been shown to be nothing, because the armies were defeated. Because the city walls were torn down. Because the very temple in which he had been worshipped was desecrated and destroyed. And in neither case had God been defeated. In Ezekiel we see time and time again that God says You will know that I am the Lord. In spite of what's taking place, you will know, because I'm going to show you, and I'm going to show the world that I am the Lord. As Jesus is facing his death, he is saying to his select disciples, who will carry this word after he has risen from the dead. to the rest of the disciples and to the rest of the world that Jesus is indeed God in man. That he has not been defeated, and that his ministry will continue You see, just as Jesus experienced his glory, the disciples saw Jesus in a way they'd never seen him before. They recognized that this is God. And this is the third comfort that the Father gives. He affirms the benefit that Jesus' work will accomplish. Yes, Jesus, you're going to suffer. Yes, Jesus, you are my beloved son. And yes, what you're going to do is worth the sacrifice. He shows the disciples not only his glory but a taste of heaven, for they see Moses and Elijah in glory, worshiping Jesus, comforting Jesus, experience the very presence of God. They see the glory of God the Father come down on the mountain in the cloud and they experience the voice of God speaking to them. They have a taste of heaven. How do they respond? Peter responds by saying, as he always does, abruptly without thinking, and and because it's Peter, I Tend to try and immediately say, well, okay, what mess is he getting into now? But Peter says, Lord, it is good for us to be here. Let us build three tents One for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. And let's camp out. And I've thought about it. My immediate response is, Peter, you're an idiot again But you know what? After thinking about it, praying about it, and considering it, I think he's right. He's pasted heaven. What more could you want? He's got the very glory of God facing him. He sees Jesus as he is. What else is there? What more could he want? Why in the world would anyone want to leave that mountaintop? Why would I want to leave that? What else can hold a candle to Jesus? He says in verse thirty-three, Master, it is good for us to be here. Do you say that this morning? As you come to the presence of God to worship Him here in this household, do you say it is good for us to be here? This is the closest taste you're going to get to heaven until you get to heaven. Because here you meet together with God's people and here you worship Him. Your focus is on Jesus. You have the privilege of leaving the distractions aside and being with others who will bear with you the praises and the honor and the glory of Christ. But you see, because this takes place in a particular point of redemptive history, Peter can't stay Jesus can't stay. For you see, Peter at this point has been spared what he deserves Only because Jesus will go from this mountain and die on the cross can Peter be in the presence of the glory of Christ and not be sent to hell. If Jesus had stayed, Peter would have gone to hell. If Jesus had stayed, you would have gone to hell. Jesus had to leave the mountaintop. Jesus had to go from Cesarea Philippi to Jerusalem. And in going to Jerusalem, he went to his death. This morning we can sit here and look forward to heaven. We can come and worship God and be in His very presence. And not fear the wrath and condemnation and just judgment of hell, because Jesus went to the cross. Because for your sake, he suffered and died and rose again For those of you who are here and do not have that assurance that Christ has taken your sin, for you to dream and think about coming into the presence of the glorified Christ. Means you must be prepared to be seen. Every sin you have thought, every sin you have committed, every evil word you have spoken must be paid for. The same is true for the rest of us. But the person who paid for ours did so on a cross in Jerusalem 2,000 years ago. If he doesn't pay your debt, you will. And so the thing for you this morning The only step for you to take before you take any others is to come to recognize who he is, what he has done, and your need for his work. You need to trust Christ. For those of us who have come to that point of trusting in him, there is a task to accomplish. For you see, the disciples couldn't stay on that mountaintop even if they had already had Jesus pay the debt of their sin. For you see, Jesus had a task, a commission for them to undertake. That's why he prepared them. You read that task in Acts chapter 1, you shall be my witnesses. You read that task in Matthew chapter 28. You shall go and make disciples. The disciples had to go, and they were prepared for what Jesus sent them to do because Christ prepared them. Christ prepared them And so this morning, as we come to this time, my question for you is what is your response? What's your response to the transfiguration? Do you come to Christ and bow down and worship Him? As you continue in the service, is it Christ who is your focus? Or are your distractions, the things that await you when you leave this building? Or is it the tensions that exist even amongst the time you have here in this building? Is Christ your focus? And are you honoring Him? Do you delight in the work that He has accomplished for you? And do you anticipate the glories of heaven? What's the last time you thought about what it will be like to be with him in glory? Brothers and sisters, I urge you, long for the reality of heaven. Long for the time when you will see Christ's glory face to face. Hunger for that heaven. But there's a second part to what the Father says that I want to draw your attention to as he speaks from the cloud. Because not only does he give comfort to Christ, he gives a commission to the disciples. He says, This is my beloved son. Now in most of the English translations there's a very weak translation that simply says, listen to him. That's not very offensive and it's not very troubling. We listen to all sorts of people. We can listen to the Democratic National Convention. We can listen to the Republican National Convention. We can find all sorts of things that we can take in. But the context of the term the Father uses is not simply listen. The most important prayer for a Jew is found in Deuteronomy chapter 6, and it begins with the word Shema. The prayer is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Shema is the Hebrew term to hear. Shema and the term that's used here in this passage, akuo, which is a Greek term, have a much stronger meaning than listen or hear. It has the meaning heed. Heed him. Which means that you understand what's being said, you process what's being said, and you act upon what's being said. So as the Father speaks to the disciples from the mountaintop, God himself, without mediator, says to Peter, to James, and to John, This is my beloved Son. Obey him. God says to you this morning, Jesus is my beloved Son. Obey Him. He calls you to commit to doing what Christ calls you to do. First and foremost, for the disciples, that meant they could no longer rebuke him for the fact that he was going to die. Peter had to shut up. Peter had to listen, and Peter had to obey. Jesus was indeed going to die. What does God call us to? What does God call you to this morning through Jesus? He calls you to delight in his grace. He calls you to worship him. He calls you to fulfill his commission. Go and make disciples. Come, worship me. He calls you to the Christian life And he equips you. We're going to see more of that in September when we look at the crucifixion. And in closing, I want to draw your attention to two things. The Christ on the mountain was both God and man It's easy to focus upon his deity. Easy to focus upon the fact that he is God revealed. But don't lose sight of his humanity because that's why he needed the comfort The God on the cross, Jesus on the cross, is man and God. It's easy to focus upon his humanity there, because there he suffers and dies. But as you reflect and you consider the cross, it is God who is upon that cross for you. God whose glory is present but veiled. God who could have chosen in an instant to have forsaken the suffering and sought his own comfort. It is God upon the cross. Let's pray. Jesus' words fail us. We have nothing to bring you. We ask that you would show us more of yourself. And that you would strengthen us by faith to serve you in ways that bring you honor and glory and pleasure. Where we ask for a greater understanding that we might recognize what it is you have done for us and who you are that has done this marvelous thing. We pray for your spirit to be poured out in rich measure upon us that we might know you. And that we might please you. Amen.