Please be seated. Well again, welcome. I am delighted that this Sunday we are returning to the Gospel of Luke. So if you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to Luke chapter 8, verse 22. Let us pray. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. And Lord, may we never cease to thank you for its beauty and its truth. And Lord, we pray that you would help us, Lord, as it is read to hear the reading of Scripture as your word. And Lord help us to take it more seriously than any other message we could ever hear. Whether a message comes from a doctor, a politician, a lawyer, a teacher. Nothing can compare to the truth and power and significance and importance of your words. They are the standard by which all other words are evaluated, screened, interpreted. Lord, help us to be men and women of the book, of your word, of the Bible. So bless this reading to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, bless that as well. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 8, beginning with verse 22, the Word of God. One day He got into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, Let us go across to the other side of the lake. So they set out, and as they sailed, he fell asleep. And a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water and were in danger. And they went and woke him, saying, Master, Master, we are perishing. And he awoke and rebuked the wind and the raging waves, and they ceased, and there was a calm. He said to them, Where is your faith? And they were afraid, and they marveled, saying to one another, Who then is this that he commands even winds and water? And they obey him. This ends the reading of God's Word. So in the bulletin, I've done something a little bit different from what I usually do with the sermon title I have a mini-series heading, Lessons for the Mission Field, and then the title, Jesus Calms a Storm. You're going to have a total of five messages with this sub-superheading lessons for the mission field. But why is that there? What does this have to do with the mission field? Is this a missions text? And I want to give you a way of looking at Luke chapter 8 and chapter 9, at least the beginning of 9, as the first introduction to missions that Luke offers Theophilus and the rest of his audience. He'll remember Luke is writing this gospel account of the life of Christ to Theophilus, his dear friend. Someone who needs to know something of the life of Jesus and the significance of Christ's life and work, not only for him, but for all who believe. And you can't separate that work and ministry of Christ without at some point dealing with the subject of missions, evangelism, sharing your faith. Up until chapter 8, Jesus has been developing who he is so that his disciples have an understanding of that. In fact, it is only at this stage in the gospel that his disciples have come to acknowledge that, yeah, this is the Christ. You'll remember, beginning in chapter 4, there's this theme of rumors spreading about Jesus, then uh uh news about him traveling, and then the word about him, this increasingly broad an increasingly clear picture of who Jesus is that takes us from chapter four to chapter seven. Now in chapter eight We have three passages that deal with Jesus' teaching, and we have four accounts of Jesus acting in such a way that prepare us for chapter 9, verse 1. And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases, and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal. The very first. Missions trip in the New Kingdom Age. It's not only looking at the Gospel of Luke from this 40,000-foot view that suggests this should be understood as a missions text. There are two other things that are really intriguing. First of all, notice that beginning one day. Now, we know that this isn't the beginning of a new section of Luke's gospel because Jesus isn't mentioned at the beginning. It just says one day he got into a boat. When the gospel writer Luke or John or Matthew or Mark for that matter begin like new major sections, they would say, one day Jesus got into a boat. But they wouldn't say one day. Remember, Luke was a historian. He carefully studied all of the documents, all of the other gospel accounts, and led by the Holy Spirit, he gives us this orderly account of the life of Christ. But that doesn't mean everything is in chronological order. I want you to think for a moment if you were going to write a history of your life. Would everything be in chronological order, or would there be sometimes a thematic overlay that caused your history telling to jump back a little bit and restart? Let me give you an example of that from my own life. If I were to tell you my own life story, I would talk about growing up in the Bjorkus home, having Alan and Judy as parents, having three brothers, going to high school, learning how to play the saxophone, backing into a music scholarship. playing the tenor sacks uh sometimes you know professionally in different organizations and and growing as a musician and all of a sudden that stopped. Twenty-five years old, blow my jaw out. uh no cartilage here, had to quit playing the saxophone. And then I'd pick up other interests like lacrosse. But to start that story again, I'd say, now, back in 1991 I got my first coaching job, and at the time I only took it because I needed work to pay for seminary bills. And I really didn't know very well what I was doing. And I just coach and so that thread starts back here and I'd run that thread out. And then at some point I'd say, Now, when I turned twenty-seven, was almost twenty-eight or almost twenty-nine, Carrie, when did I get married? Almost twenty-nine? It took a while. I I was, as Carrie would say, unmarriageable until I was twenty nine. But in any event, then I might say, and now, one day I met this girl, I happen to be five years old in the church nursery down in Burtonsville. And so this telling of my story might be reiterative of time, but go back and pick up a theme. Now, why is that relevant to this one day? When Luke writes one day he did this, that is indeterminate with respect to chronology. There are two different ways that Luke introduces stories. One is the Greek word chi. which just means and or also, and another is the Greek word takte, which means then, and that's a very chronologically serial or sequential time stamp. But not this So Jesus has given teaching in three different areas or arenas about who he is and his mission, the kingdom mission, and then he and then he's going to illustrate it with these four accounts. And he starts by saying, one day, you're going back. Now this this event could have happened. chronologically at several different points in the telling of the story. But it's foundational for Luke inspired by the Holy Spirit representing to the disciples and all of us who read the Word of God. This is foundational for understanding what the disciples needed to know in order to be sent two by two, declaring a kingdom. And there's one other clue. One of the reasons I'm so thankful that I got the great privilege of going to seminary and studying Greek and Hebrew. There's an unusual word here. So they set out. It's at the end of verse 23. And you might think, Birchis, you might study Greek and Hebrew, but your grammar is wrong. That would be interesting words. But I say, no, no, it's one word. One word in the Greek, so they set out. And that's an unusual expression, that one word. It doesn't occur very frequently at all in the other gospels, maybe once or twice in total. Luke uses it every time in the book of Acts a new mission strip commences. That one word, so they set out. And if you spend time reading the Gospels, reading the Acts, its original language, it's like a flag. It's like a marker. This is a new trip. And so the Gospel of Luke is signaling to us in chapter 8, verse 22, that we're embarking on the exploration of a new theme, and the new theme culminates In chapter 9, verse 1, and he gathered the twelve, and he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom. This is a missions text. It's a text for life, yes, and it's been used that way by many preachers for 2,000 years. But it's also a missions text. That should not only inform how we live our life with respect to the little storms we experience and the raging typhoons we experience, but it's also one that should prepare us. And help us to be forewarned about what it's going to be like to walk with Jesus on the pilgrim trail and declare the gospel. As we look at this text, there are two questions, two questions asked that the first one would jump out at you. If you have uh a red letter edition of the Bible. I love red letter editions of the Bible. I don't currently have one, but they're they're they're it's a it's a neat It's a neat tool just for study. I would never recommend only looking at the red letters, because all of it's the Word of God. But if you look at this text, the words of Jesus jump out One sentence. If you saw this in the red letter edition, there's only a couple of words in English. Where is your faith? Where is your faith? In this entire context, as Luke, led by the Spirit, gives us this account of this important moment in l in Christ's ministry too and with his disciples. He has one thing to say. Where is your faith? And he's saying this to disciples who've already been clearly led to understand that he is the Christ. They don't know everything that that means. They don't realize that he's going to have to die for them yet, but they know he is the sent one. And yet they struggle with their faith. Why do they struggle with their faith? Because they've seen this Jesus doing amazing things. They've heard him speak with authority that no one else had. They've seen him walk patiently, avoiding the dangers of popularity, avoiding the temptation of wealth, avoiding every sin imaginable. They've watched this man demonstrate. Something they had never seen before, perhaps never imagined possible. A degree of godliness and power that led them to believe that this new kingdom, this new reality of the Lord reigning, was something that was imminent. And certainly they thought of it in terms of socioeconomic stability, in terms of Rome being defeated, trade routes being re-established through Jerusalem Prosperity and wealth, and yes, health. And so for them, the thought that they might die in a boat while the Messiah is sleeping As the kids would say, didn't compute. It made no sense. They believed they were perishing. The Gospels of Matthew and the Gospels of Luke also give us this account, and they give us some different details. We're not going to preach those details. We're going to focus on Luke's inspired account. But they say, don't you care that we're we're going to die? What's going on here? Here, they see they're perishing, and Jesus' response is, where is your faith? You know, dear Christian, something that you know, even as I know it, and you need reminding of, even as I do, is that trouble is a part of life. And it will not cease to be a part of life when you become a Christian. It will not cease to be a part of your life as you grow in Christ. As you become more and more mature in Christ, going from grace to grace and glory to glory, you will still have thorns in your flesh. You will still experience hurricanes and typhoons that will afflict your body, your heart, your career, your family. In the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 8, Jesus tells us not to worry. And he says, what do you gain by worrying? And he says something else at the end of that short teaching on worry. He says, sufficient to the day is the trouble thereof. Now that's the old translation that old guys like me memorized when we were kids. Each day will have trouble of its own. Have you ever pondered the thought that Jesus basically alerts you to the fact that you're going to have trouble every day? Did you know that when you signed on to be a Christian? I know for a fact that before you were a Christian, you had trouble every day. But did you know that that was going to continue to be the case? In fact, the only difference is that you understand that the trouble that you experience is a trouble that Jesus experienced, being tempted even as we are, fully entering into all of the pain and trouble and turmoil we experience. And the fact that he is with us in the boat as we're experiencing the trouble. And we might be tempted to think that Jesus is not mindful, Jesus doesn't know. Jesus needs reminding. We're like those Baal worshippers that Elijah was debating with when Elijah told him, Well, scream louder, cut yourself deeply, dance, create a ruckus. Maybe your God's asleep and needs to wake up. No, we are not like that. We are believers of the living God, El Roy, the God who sees. We worship the Lord, the keeper. Who in Psalm 121 keeps us in a coming and going, both now and forever, who neither slumbers nor sleeps, who keeps us day and night. Protects us from all harm. Now, how do we reconcile that with the fact that we can be in a boat and the boat can be sinking? And we're terrified for our lives. Well, we fill up in our bodies the suffering of Christ. We consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever we experience affliction of any kind. You see, we have learned to live our life in a different register. We as Christians learn at some point in our pilgrimage that we will still experience colds and flus and COVID viruses and family issues and and emotional ups and downs. We will experience all of the career advances and setbacks. We are going to be as subject to the stock market as the pagan next door. But what we have that they don't is the Settled assurance that God is sovereign and He works all things for our good, even the storms. And we can, like the Apostle Paul, as we experience the storms in our life in 2 Corinthians, we can pray three times, Lord, take it away. And if he doesn't, we can determine with the Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians. That this is something God has ordained in my life to keep me where I best belong, humble before Him, dependent upon His grace and power, that in my weakness, God's strength can shine through. See, even when we go off on missions. Even when we determine that we are going to make a sacrifice and we are going to set out, that we are going to one day set out and we are going to declare the kingdom of God. Even when we go to seminary and get trained for ministry and get ordained or become an elder or a deacon or decide we're going to brave the Sunday school classes like the volunteers we just applauded. You're gonna have trouble. For all you Sunday school classes and you teachers, some of you, I regret to inform you, are gonna have little Bobby Dirkuses in those classes. And you might go to Vicky and say, I'm done. I want out. And she's going to say, No. You train that little Bobby Birkus up in the Lord. Ministry is hard. Life is hard. The mission field is hard. And the loving rebuke of Jesus Says, where is your faith? Because it is a rebuke But it's not nearly the rebuke that he offers the wind and the waves when he tells them basically to shut up and sit down. As you go to the mission field, dear brothers and sisters, know that you will experience great trouble. But that Jesus Christ calls you and invites you and expects you to grow in your exercise of faith, to know that God in Christ by his Spirit is with you. And even if you are one of many, many missionaries over the course of 2,000 years who died drowning after a shipwreck. God's purposes prevail. And He will be glorified in and through your efforts and labors And you are assured of a standing in his presence forever. And that is what matters The Apostle Paul suffered a shipwreck multiple times, as he explains to the Corinthians William Carey, the great missionary to Indian India, and his first voyage, such a terrible storm broke off before they rounded the Iberian Peninsula, they had to go back to Bristol and London and start over. Storms will come. You will be afraid. You will think you are perishing. But that is a time to exercise faith There's a second thing missionaries need to know, and by missionaries I mean you. Not only do you have to constantly be Intentionally exercising your faith throughout the storms of the mission field and life in general, you also have to be constantly reminding yourself of who Jesus is. You see, the response of the disciples when they were asked, where is your faith? It's interesting. They their response really had nothing to do with What they were feeling inside. We way overemphasize our experience in understanding the Christian life and spiritual development today. They think, Jesus says to them, where is your faith? And their response is to discuss amongst themselves, who is this? You see, their faith was in Christ. That's already been established, chapter 6 and chapter 7. But they did not fully realize the enormity of who Jesus was. And that points me as a missionary here in Howard County. That should point you as a missionary here in Mer in Howard County. or Cameroon or in the 1040 window or or wherever God calls you on trips to Brazil or Peru or Africa. We need to be growing in our knowledge of who Jesus is. And we have to understand that Jesus didn't just come to give us a message and heal our diseases. Jesus came to be with us and to help us endure storms, not be free from them. Jesus came to help us to live for him, living and dying. Jesus came as the one who has power over all things. Even the climate, the weather, even those storms have been sweeping down out of the mountains to the east of the Sea of Galilee. Sea of Galilee, hundreds of feet below sea level. It could be a place of tempest in a teapot times 10. Even a dreadful storm that you have no expectation of surviving, Jesus even has power over that. And if you are willing to entrust your soul to Christ for eternity, Why not trust him with your body too? Let him determine your health and your longevity. How good each day is, and how many you have on this side of heaven. See the point of living as a missionary here domestically or abroad. is to see yourself as offering your life as a living sacrifice to the living God and being a mouthpiece for his message. And a slideshow of his love, by acts and by words, communicating the gospel however and wherever you can. Where is your faith? And who is Jesus? These are questions that it would be wise to ask every day. Every day, say to yourself, who do I believe in? I believe in Jesus. I believe in the triune God. And every day, ask yourself, and who is Jesus? And tell yourself this, my Jesus. Is the Lord of glory, the matchless one, the King of Kings, the Captain of Salvation, the author of life, the Lion of Judah, the coming one I can do all things through him. I can even die in a storm at sea. Because I have believed that God so loved the world And whosoever believeth on him shall not perish. Same word. John 3:16. Luke 8. But have everlasting life. Is your faith in Christ If your faith is in Christ, join me in a commitment to daily say, Where is my faith? Or in whom do I believe And then follow up with saying, and who is Jesus? And remind yourself of what you know to be true. Jesus is a certain Savior for hopeless sinners. He is a lover of souls who will never be turned back by your weaknesses and infidelities. He is a faithful companion who will never betray you. He is a rock on which you can build a life A fulcrum on which you can by his grace move whatever he calls you to shift. For those of you who don't have your faith in Christ, you are in a boat, and it is being assailed by storms, and one day it's going to sink. I'm talking about the fact that you have a timeline. And that timeline is one where you might be young now. But there is a psalm that says this literally. I was once young, now I am old. And one day that scripture is going to apply to you. And you are going to start falling apart. Your hearing is going to start to go. Your eyesight's going to start to go. When I was in high school, believe it or not, I could do 100 push-ups. Do not ask me to do 10 today. You're going to get weak. You're gonna get the diseases are gonna pile up, and then you're gonna die. You see, you're in a boat, and that boat is your body, and it is sinking. You're perishing. Do you care? Do you care that you're perishing And will you put your hope in the one who enters into our perishing estate? That any who believe in him, though they die, yet they will live And will you, with repentance, put your faith in the Son of God who died to pay the penalty for my sins and was raised again, that we might have a sure hope of our own resurrection? Will you put your hope in Christ? Let him be the captain of your ship, the companion in your boat, the friend for your life Almighty God, we come to you and we ask that you would help us to see every day of our life as one day, and every opportunity in your life an opportunity to set out. And every day of our life an opportunity to be a part of traveling in order that your mission might extend. Whether that means going to our cubicles in the workspace we have or to our neighbor next door. Father, we ask your every blessing on us. Lord, we know we too will have storms. Help us daily to put our faith in Jesus and help us to be growing in our knowledge of who He is, such that we will exercise faith. In every storm, and give you glory and praise. And O Lord, if there are any here today who do not have a saving relationship with you O Almighty God, by a strong, powerful voice or a soft, persistent whisper, invite them to yourself that they might know that they too are invited into this great boat, the Church of the Firstborn. The assembly of saints, those who are forgiven. May they never know another day of unbridled fear again. Work in us, we pray, O living God, and Savior of the Lost. Amen.