But now in our study of the three Jewish judges at Jesus' trial, we come to the last one, Herod Antipas. who was son of Herod the Gate Great, the fellow who tried to kill Jesus in Bethlehem shortly after he was born. Herod Antipas, one of his sons, was called King Herod. He was really simply governor of Galilee and Perea. Galilee, of course, where Jesus lived, a good deal of his ministry, Capernaum and that area around Lake Galilee. Let me set the scene for you so you get a little bit of an idea. Again, part of this whole thing is that we get back in the scene, we be able to picture what was going on so that we realize it's history and we're We're able to get ourselves into it. This is Jerusalem at the time of Jesus' trial and death. Pretty much what it looked like. See the by far the most prominent structure is the temple. with all the area to gather outside of it. Probably Gethsemane was just outside the temple, uh just outside the walls in that area. And um Let's go to the second slide to show you. This is the same thing only instead of like this. This is tilted more this way. So there's Gethsemane over there when Jesus was arrested They took him inside the city down here to the palace of Annas and perhaps Caiaphas could have been the same place. And uh that was what we looked at these the pre-trial, the interview with Annas, where there were the false charges and Jesus embarrassed them Annas then sends Jesus to his uh excuse me, Annas uh sends Jesus to Caiaphas, still in this area. And um there is that illegal trial with the Sanhedrin late at night. Uh They finally asked Jesus, who is it that you are, because they can't get any witnesses to build a case against him. Jesus in an amazing display of grace and majesty Says while he's standing there in bonds, I am the Son of Man, and you will see me at the right hand of the Majesty on high, sitting in judgment upon the nations Uh they charge him with blasphemy, beat him around a bit, then there's a couple of hours of peace because they're waiting for dawn to come when they can have the official trial When dawn comes, they gather the Sanhedrin. Now it's perhaps most or all of the 71 members of the Supreme Court, same place. And they had this brief pre-uh this brief trial, official trial now, to go over the same material. That's what you see at the end of Luke 22. They then condemn him, take him over to Pilate, who's here at the Praetorium. They take him to Pilate in order to simply get on with it, try to persuade Pilate, this fellow deserves to be uh executed, crucified. Um, he says he's the king of the Jews. Pilate takes him in, interviews him. Are you the king of the Jews? Yes I am. Pilate goes out, he says, I don't see any basis for a charge. That's not what they hope to hear. So they start screaming and yelling, and a couple of them say, you know, he's been disturbing everybody, all the way from Galilee down to here. And Pilate, who's getting a little irritated and anxious about this whole thing, when he hears Galilee, he says, huh, Galilee. You know, that's the jurisdiction of Herod Annipas. And I think he really ought to take this case. So Pilate takes the coward's way out. That's a first step downhill for him. Takes the coward's way out rather than standing and saying, No, I told you he's he's innocent. He says, well, let's take it to Herod, uh to Herod Oedipus. So they take Jesus from there over to Herod Antipas. Now let's go, well, let me hang on just for a second. He'll go back to Pilate. Then they take him out this gate, and that's where Golgoth is. Now let's go back and take a look. This is where they had the trial for with Pilate. This is where Caiaphas and Annas are. They take him down here, this large palace A beautiful place that was erected. The Romans had their government there. And then they take him up to Herod, another beautiful palace that you see really pretty much the center of the city When they take him back to Pilate, he is then eventually taken through this gate probably and out here, and that's Golgotha, which is on the edge of a stone quarry, a very desolate place where Jesus was crucified. You read in Luke chapter 23 in verse 8 concerning this whole uh This matter being taken to Herod, that Herod was glad to see Jesus. Herod had been looking forward for some time to meeting and seeing Jesus. Now you need a little background for this because Herod's a more complex character than Annas and Caiaphas. Mark 6 gives you some of that background Unlike his father, Herod the Great, Herod Antipas had some spiritual sensitivities, perhaps more than Annas and Caiaphas, ironically. He had some spiritual interest. He had been married, and then he divorced his wife simply in order to marry his niece, Herodias. His niece Herodias had been married to his brother, who also was her uncle. She divorced her uncle, who was her husband. In order to marry Herod, who was also her uncle. So she divorced one uncle to marry another uncle Now even for the cynical Jewish court of that time, that was too much. That was a scandal. You guys are over the top I mean it sounds like days of our lives or some sort of soap opera to try and keep track of all the stuff that's going on. At that time, John the Baptist, who was a prophet and a very popular preacher, publicly denounced that marriage. This is unlawful. It is scandalous. Here is a fellow who is claiming to be king of the Jews, and he is acting in this scandalous way. So Herod had him arrested, put in prison, because he was being interviewed by the Capernaum Times, you know, and everybody was spreading the story. People were turning against Herod. So they tried to shut him up. But here's where it gets interesting. Herod felt the sting of John the Baptist accusation. And so secretly he would visit John in his cell to hear him talk more about the kingdom, about his sin, about this news, this Messiah, and all the rest of this. Herodias, his wife, who was also his niece, was, on the other hand, embittered against John. She hated that he was portraying her as an immoral woman, and she wanted to get rid of him. So you read in Mark chapter six that um let me get it here. Uh well I'll see here. I'll just read it. Well no, I don't gotta read it here. So let me find Mark six. Uh you read There, so Herodias nursed a grudge against John and wanted to kill him But she was not able to because Herod feared John and protected him, knowing him to be a righteous and holy man. When Herod heard John, he was greatly puzzled. He would go down, visit him in his cell, and John would talk to him about he needed to repent, this was wrong, he would talk to him about the kingdom And yet he liked to listen to him. Isn't it kind of strange? So he's feeling convicted. He sees something here, but he doesn't repent. He keeps putting it off. Well, this goes on for a while until Herodias, who had a sexy daughter Salome. comes to Herod on his birthday and she does this dance. It's an exquisite dance that stuns the people at the party. Makes such an impression that Herod Antipas says, he's her stepfather, he says I will give you anything you want. That was spectacular, even to the half of my kingdom. You name it, it's yours. Herodias seizes the opportunity and says to Salome, Ask for the head. of John the Baptist. And Antipas is trapped. He's publicly made a promise. He can't go back on it. That would be to be dishonored. And so sadly, nervously, very reluctantly, he has John beheaded and his head brought in on a platter for Salome, who presents it to her mother Herodias. He's haunted by this. In fact, he is so haunted by it that Mark tells us, now look at Mark chapter 6 and verse 14. Sometime after this, Jesus sends out his disciples, and they're performing miracles of healing, casting out demons. And you read that when King Herod heard about this, for Jesus' name had become well known, Some were saying John the Baptist has been raised from the dead. That's why miraculous powers are at work in him, that is Jesus. Others say He's Elijah. Still others claim he is a prophet, one of the prophets of long ago. But when Herod heard this, he said, Oh Oh, John, the man I beheaded, has been raised from the dead. He's now convinced that Jesus is John the Baptist raised from the dead. Now to make things even worse for him, it so happens that one of the people who followed in Jesus' group, along with the twelve disciples, there were a number of women who were his disciples. One of those women was a woman by the name of Joanna. The Bible describes her as a woman of substance. She contributed materially to the disciples did some service and provided for some of their needs. It so happens that Joanna was married to a man by the name of Shuza. And Shuzah was Herod's butler. Shuzah was a manager of his household, worked in the palace, saw Herod every day. So you can't but help to suppose that from time to time Herod, who had so much interest in hearing from John the Baptist, would be talking to Shuza about the kingdom. about this Jesus and who he was and all the rest of these things. So Herod is a tortured man. He is not like Annas and Caiaphas. Guys that are just cynical, and they simply are using the religious system for their own advantage. Herod is a governor And he has a conscience that has at first been penetrated by John, but not to the point of repentance. So that by the time you get to where Pilate sends Jesus to Herod, Herod is a different man. Because you read in Luke 23. 8 that he's looking forward to Jesus. Why? So that he can talk about the things that Chusa mentioned? So that he can say, tell me how I can get forgiveness. Tell me how I can get relief for my soul. No. What do you read? He was looking forward to seeing him do some miracle He's thinking, next time I have some king come visit me and he tells me about all the great stuff he has seen, boy, I'm going to say, yeah, you know what? Let me tell you what I saw this rabbi Jesus do. He's only looking for the spectacular. His conscience has now been seared, and he is only interested in religious trivialities. Why do I say that? Because the very next verse, Luke 23, verse 9. You read, He plied him with many questions. But Jesus gave him no answer. Now, if Herod had had any serious questions, if he had said, you know Uh I was interested in what John was saying. I've talked to this chooser, perhaps others. Help me to understand. Tell me about the kingdom. Tell me who you really are, why you've come. Jesus certainly would have answered him. Remember, he answered Pilate. He talked to a Roman governor. But the Bible tells us he didn't give Pilate, didn't give Herod a single word of an answer. He doesn't give an answer because Pilate is a man who is not asking questions seriously. He's a man who is fooling with religion. He's playing at it. There's no more fear, just a fascination with the supernatural, an interest in entertainment and religious trivialities. fruitless questions that aren't going anywhere. We're not told what they were, you could sort of guess, well I hear that you're a miracle worker I hear that you can heal lepers. Hey, why don't you bring in a leper? We got a few around here and get it. Hey, can you heal that leper? Here you heal cripples too. Here's a cripple. He's been hanging around a pound. Come on, let's see him make him stand up and walk. And you know, I've heard that you can walk on water. Let's go out to the pool in the back and let me see you walk across the water. That's the kind of questions Any trivial questions. Do you ever know somebody like that? It's a scary thing to see. I've known people like this I remember a guy that Kathy and I knew in the church that we grew up in, Eddie. Everybody knew Eddie. Eddie had been hearing the gospel for years. But at some point Eddie had moved from being really touched by spiritual things to dismissing them as something that was trivial. Eddie loved to talk about two things. Religious trivialities, anything spectacular. You know, he would want to see the Christian version of the inquiry or something. He would just want to talk about whatever was some spectacular thing. And he loved to gossip. He loved to talk about anything that a Christian was caught doing wrong. That was Eddie. He was pathetic. He was repulsive. And nobody knew how to handle Eddie. I remember some cases where people rebuked Eddie publicly, but he continued to hang around Because he liked to hang around religious people for whatever reason. I remember another guy, Mike, Kathy and I had been sharing the gospel with him for a long time Mike used to watch the 700 Club. Every time it was on. I don't even know how long it's on, but he'd watch it all the time. I remember one time we were talking about Christ and talking about some things when we were together and his wife who was also not a believer said, You know, you realize you're just wasting your breath. We said, Why? She said, Michael never become a Christian Really? Why do you say that? Mike just likes to talk about it. Mike has no interest in becoming a Christian. That's scary. How does Jesus respond to Herod? Silence. Total silence You see, Jesus is not going to be caught making a fool of the gospel. It was Jesus who taught in the Sermon on the Mount. Don't give that which is sacred to dogs or cast your pearls before spine. And Jesus is giving us an example of exactly how to apply that verse in what he does with Herod. Jesus is not going to cheapen the gospel. Why? Herod bringing up some trivial thing and Jesus saying, Well, you know, maybe that's an opportunity. And just there's times when you have to realize That the best way to answer foolishness is with silence. Jesus is silent. So that Herod's foolishness Will simply ring in the air and rebound back to him, and the fact that it's unanswered will show the sheer foolishness of it. So Herod, so Jesus is absolutely quiet. He doesn't He doesn't give any deference to Herod just because he is a king. Herod probably thinks, well, Jesus will certainly want to please me. So he will want to do whatever I say because, hey, I've got his whole fate in my hands. I can do with him whatever I want. I could give him the sentence, pass it on to death to Pilate, or I could free him. I can do whatever I want. Jesus pays him no deference simply in order to bring the weight of the gospel to bear on what shred Of conscience he might have left. Herod is a tortured man Vincent Van Gogh was a tortured man. You may have seen his art, brilliant work, some of it's been shown locally. You know, Vincent Van Gogh grew up hearing the gospel. Van Gogh heard the gospel. He was so interested in the gospel. He actually volunteered to assist the pastor in ministry. Van Gogh enrolled in a missionary school for the gospel. But Van Gogh never gave his life to Jesus Christ. As he grew into his teens and his twenties, he became a more tortured, confused, and depressed individual. You see his confusion and his torture expressed in the brilliance of some of his work. And at age 37, Vincent van Gogh shot himself. His last words were, The sadness will last forever. There may be some of you sitting here this morning that have grown up hearing the gospel. You were raised in a Columbia Presbyterian home. You have heard the catechism. We had first service. Two girls, Whitney and Karen, received the plaques and the awards for memorizing the child's catechism. You may have heard so much of the gospel that it's become cheap to you. You haven't renounced it. You just don't want to give your life to Jesus Christ. And so the gospel is boring to you. Preaching is boring to you. Sunday school is boring to you. Let me tell you something. Don't think that you can determine that someday you will decide to give your life to Jesus Christ. Proverbs says, he who hardens his heart shall suddenly be cut off, and that without a remedy. You may harden your heart to the point where, like Herod, religion has been reduced simply to superstition and trivialities. I urge you, if you have heard the gospel for years, and you know that you are still on the outside looking in. Do not put off one more day giving your life to Jesus Christ. What do I have to do to get your attention? Maybe it's to go to the third point here, because it gets even scarier You see, when a person like Herod, whose heart has been hardened, doesn't get what he wants out of spiritual things Out of Christianity, he turns nasty. You see, in Luke twenty-three in verse ten that the chief priests and the teachers of the law were standing there. They're watching to see what's going on. But when they see this isn't getting anywhere, and Herod's just making a fool of himself, they start Getting inserting themselves back in the conversation. They're vehemently accusing him. Not just questions now, but it's to accuse him. And how does that affect Herod? Does he say, hey, wait a minute, wait a minute, no, no, no, no. He doesn't deserve that. And there's some spark of rejuvenated interest. No, verse 11. Herod and his soldiers joined in. They ridiculed him and they mocked him. They get some elegant, ostentatious robe, and they put it on Jesus, and then they get rid of him. Take him back to Pilate. We're done with him His conscience totally seared. Now, something that I've noticed is that people who have Christian backgrounds Sometimes become the greatest enemies of the gospel. Axel Rose from Guns N' Roses, vitriolic anti-Christian hard rock group Grew up going to a Pentecostal church three to eight times a week. He taught Sunday school and sang in the choir. Meanwhile, he was being beaten at home and his sister was being molested, according to his statement. He didn't just reject Christianity. He spent his life attacking it. Marilyn Manson went to Christian school. Ted Turner was involved in Youth Group until his sister took sick. He prayed for her recovery. She died. And he used all of his measurable, considerable resources to attack Christianity. Herod turns against Jesus to discredit him. One of the things that I used to be surprised at, could never quite figure out. When I was with University staff in my early years of ministry here in Columbia, Was that some of the greatest enemies of the Gospels, of the Gospel, were religion professors at liberal arts colleges, sometimes colleges with Christian backgrounds? And I would speak to these people. I would talk to them, get together with them, and I was always amazed that usually they had an evangelical church background. They weren't people from secular backgrounds or liberal backgrounds. They were generally people from evangelical backgrounds. But in every case, there came a point where they decided it was not true, and then they attacked it. They had to attack it. You don't tolerate Jesus. You don't simply dismiss Jesus. You worship him or you hate him. You can hate him passively in our culture. But if you are confronted with him, you will either worship or you will hate him. Herod turns now to hatred And Jesus' response is once again, majestic silence. He neither responds to the dissolute curiosity nor to the dishonest charges. What suffering the Lord Jesus endured for you and for me on that day Can you imagine what suffering it was for him on the most solemn day in all of the history of the world to hear trivial joking? Mocking banalities, messing around with spiritual things, heaping more judgment upon themselves. By the trivial mocking and ridicule. Laughing. At this point, in this day, the only sane beings in the universe that would be laughing would be demons. And the Jewish leaders who should have known better are mocking and laughing. This is the fourth time they've done that. We're going to pick that up more on Friday at Tenebrae. They're laughing and they're mocking. What inappropriate juxtaposition of all that was going through Jesus' soul at that time. I still remember back in 9-11. It was a beautiful Tuesday morning, as you recall. As I went out, I had two errands to do on my way to the rest of the day One was to go to the bank. I stopped at the bank, it was closed, and it was a sign. Confused me a little bit, but it was something about some national emergency and was kind of vague and I didn't understand. And I went to the library To return a couple of books. In the process of doing that, again not knowing all that was going on, I made a joke with the person who was doing the checkout. And I still remember the dirty look I got. And then when I found out what had happened, I felt so ashamed. How inappropriate to joke at a time like that Get a hold of what it was like for Jesus to be in the midst of mocking and ridicule At the point when he is taking on the sins of the world. Your sins and my sins. and the sins of everyone here who's hearing my voice, who trusts him as Savior and Lord. He sees them simply heaping more judgment upon themselves But don't dismiss the fact that at this time Peter, who is probably still recovering in his bout of bitter weeping. From having denied Jesus. Years later, Peter looks back on that morning And he writes in his epistle, 1 Peter chapter 2, in verse 21, to this you were called. Because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example. Not simply to see Him and His suffering, see that, worship, adore, have your heart broken for His suffering. But realize he also leaves you an example that you should follow in his steps, Peter says. He committed no sin, no deceit was found in his mouth. When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate. When he suffered, he made no threats. As they garbed him in that elegant robe and they mocked him and they ridiculed him. No answer, no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. Jesus saw beyond the moment to the cross. Verse 24, He Himself bore our sins in His body on the tree, so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness, for by His wounds you have been healed. For you were like sheep going astray, but now you have turned, returned to the shepherd and the overseer of your souls. Jesus saw beyond the mocking to the cross, and beyond the cross to the resurrection And oh what Herod must have felt when he heard not John the Baptist. But Jesus has really risen from the dead. How little you and I suffer for Jesus, don't we? And here we are upon Holy Week. And there may be opportunities to think about what the Christians, it's kind of anachronistically considered, celebrate on a week like this. And will you see that as an opportunity to say, I want to speak a word for my Lord? I want to tell him something what this week means to me, but it's going to be awkward. It can be kind of embarrassing. Maybe they'll make fun, or maybe they'll just sort of like, mm-hmm, that's nice for you. But I know it'll be sort of an embarrassment in a conversation. So what? We've talked to people for years. Just found out in the last week, somebody we'd shared the gospel with for years and dismissed it and didn't show any interest. All of a sudden this week said, I'd like to gather and talk up get together and talk about that again. Honor Jesus because you love him, because he is so worthwhile, because it is such an honor, as Paul says in Philippians 3, to fellowship. In his sufferings, to see what he has done for you because he loved you so much. Let's pray Lord Jesus, open our eyes that we might see you in your suffering before Herod on your way to the cross for us. See the majesty of your silence in contrast with the fools that clamoured about you Lord, may there not be anyone here who has heard the gospel for so long. It has become so common. So boring that their heart is becoming hard, and they don't even realize Until you, Holy Spirit, pierce through this morning to show. Don't presume on Jesus' answers. He will always speak to the honest question, but he never promises to speak to the fool whose heart is hardened. So Lord, wake up any such. Draw them irresistibly to yourself at this moment, we pray. And cause us as we see Jesus to be willing to abandon ourselves to you this week, to be useful to you, to honor your name. Whatever is the response, simply because we love you and you are worth it, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.