Well, if you have your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 4. The words will be on the screen as well. I do encourage you to have your Bibles with you and follow along in the text. It's been demonstrated by the experts. That hearing and reading at the same time actually helps you remember better. Little uh free trivia there. And we do want to remember the word of God. Amen. Before I read for us, beginning with verse 16, let's bow our heads. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for its truth and for its beauty. And our Holy Spirit, as Jason pointed out earlier in the worship service, we rely upon you to understand it rightly. We know and we understand and we feel deeply the fact that that prefix holy rightly belongs to your word And Lord, in Christ, we are set apart as holy, and yet we struggle with sin that affects our feelings, our actions, and even our thinking. And so, Lord, we pray that you would help us by your grace and your power to understand what you have said. Lord, bless this reading of your word. And the preaching that follows, O God, we ask that in as much as it is a faithful echo and an application of what you have said, Make it helpful and useful, that we might be prepared to live for you well and to know you better. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter four, beginning with verse sixteen, the word of God And Jesus came to Nazareth where he had been brought up. And as was his custom he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read, and the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me. To proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. And all spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? And he said to them, Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, Physician, heal yourself. What we have heard you did at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well. And he said, Truly I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. But in truth I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months. And a great famine came over all the land. And Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarepheth in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian. When they heard these things, all in a synagogue were filled with wrath, and they rose up and drove him out of the town, and brought him to the brow of the hill on which the town was built so that they could throw him down the cliff. But passing through their midst, he went away. This ends the reading of God's Word. Have you ever read the Bible and sat back and thought, what exactly did I just read? I want you to think about this text because it's got parts to it that we're familiar with, but sometimes we don't know exactly how they all fit together. For example, we're familiar with the fact from this text and from Mark chapter 6 that Jesus' first recorded public sermon was based on this text from Isaiah 61. The Spirit of the Lord is on me, He's anointed me. The gospel is being preached to the poor. We're familiar with that idea. And we're familiar too with the fact that the people spoke well of him and marveled and said, How gracious are this man's words! And we're familiar with the fact that Jesus said, Physician, heal thyself is what you would say to me. And we're familiar with no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. We're familiar with the stories from 1 and 2 Kings. And we're familiar with the fact that the crowds wanted to kill Jesus. But how does all that fit together? For example, About six or eight weeks ago, uh our intern, Edward and I were sitting in the office talking about texts and how sometimes they're somewhat difficult to preach. And we were actually talking about this very text. And have you ever wondered how we get from everybody in the congregation, all in the synagogue, speaking well of Jesus, saying, how gracious are his words. How do we get from that to Jesus rebuking them and them wanting to kill him? Why do they marvel at his words and say, isn't this Joseph's son? How do we get from that to doubtless you will say to me, physician, heal yourself? Doesn't that seem like a bit of a non-sequitour? And I want to invite you to join me in stepping back into that original synagogue in something of a historical narrative sermon. We're going to follow the shape of the text and try to understand what's going on so we can really experience the tragedy of the last three words in this translation. He went away. Jesus has just been baptized. The Spirit of God descended on him. Visibly, a voice spoke from heaven. He has been anointed, consecrated to his task. He has just endured 40 days in the wilderness, preparation, and temptation. And he leaves the wilderness full of the Spirit, equipped for ministry, and he's preaching through the towns of Galilee. And now, after presumably having been to Capernaum, If these are in chronological order, these verses and the ones immediately following, he comes to his hometown. He comes to Nazareth, where he would have spent his probably middle school through young adult years. Maybe he spent his decade of the twenties here. Remember, Jesus is 30 when he begins his public ministry and is baptized. So he would be well known, as would Joseph, a local carpenter, home builder by trade. And he is offering something radical when he preaches from Isaiah chapter 61. And that's the first thing we have to notice if we're going to walk into that synagogue. We're going to notice that here is a teacher who is offering himself. That is what is offered. Jesus did not come like John the Baptist to simply be a messenger or a harbinger or a herald of the messianic age. Jesus came and he picked as his first sermon text in his hometown, homecoming, public beginning of his ministry, one of the servant songs from Isaiah, a messianic text that specifically Specifically says, I am the Messiah The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives. Jesus is not coming saying the day is coming when this will happen. Jesus is saying, I have been sent to do this And all of the messianic expectations that God's people have, from Deuteronomy 18 straight through to the Isaiah 40 through 66, we have all of the hopes of God's people being claimed. By Christ as something He brings with Himself. Jesus is demonstrating beyond a shadow of doubt a messianic consciousness at the very beginning of his ministry. He didn't figure it out. He knew exactly who he was and what he was called to do. And he offers himself. Notice that when he turns the corner and rebukes this hometown synagogue, he says, No prophet is acceptable in his hometown. It's the prophet who is rejected. It's Jesus who is rejected by this hometown. And the first thing we have to realize to understand what's happening in this text is Jesus comes, reads a text. And identifies himself as the Messiah and offers himself as that special anointed Savior. And what's their response? Isn't this the son of David? You know, in Capernaum, there's an entirely different response. Someone possessed by an evil spirit, an unclean demon, Just four verses after these texts. Same chapter, Luke 4, verse 34 What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God And as we've seen going through the Gospel of Luke, Luke is constantly juxtaposing different texts about the foretelling of the birth of John the Baptist and of Jesus, the response of Elizabeth, the response of Mary. The response of Joseph, the response of Zechariah. There's constant panels set next to each other showing the supremacy of Christ in all of these relations. And here in the second half of Luke chapter 4, we have these two panels, these two accounts. Jesus in Nazareth, Jesus in Galilee, and Jesus in Capernaum. In Capernaum, someone with an unclean spirit says, I know who you are, a holy one of God, the Messiah. And in his own hometown, he is but the son of David. Familiarity has bred a measure of contempt. You know, and Jesus comes offering himself to everyone. And this is another thing that we're going to see in a moment. The good people of Nazareth seem not to have appreciated. Because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. Now we need to stop there for a moment and think about what is poverty in the spiritual mind of the ancient Israelite. We think of poverty a very certain way today. We think of it as a as a mostly economic but socio-economic indicator of how much tangible financial or economic wealth or power someone has. And you can pick up any number of history books that tell you about the ancient society of the Israelites or Hebrew culture or Bible commentaries that will point out to you the fact. That poverty was a much more expansive term than that in the days of Moses and the days of the apostles alike. Poverty. When I was growing up in this county back in the 1980s, as this is when I was a teenager. It used to be that if someone told a really bad joke, your buddy could say, that's poverty. What did that mean? That meant it was lacking in humor, not a good joke. You see, there's a sense in which that funny short-term usage of that word in the 80s in the mid-Atlantic region of this country Hinted at what this word meant in the ancient world. To be poor meant so much more than to simply lack money. In fact, you could be counted as poor even if you had a lot of money. There were socio-religious, political, networking, kinship webs all throughout society. And to be depleted or outside in any of them could render you poor. And while poor is an apt description and a good translation, when Jesus in his Beatitude says, blessed are the poor in spirit. He's basically saying, blessed are those, in a sense, who are outside the orb, who are pushed to the edges. Blessed are those who lack power. Familiarity. Kinship network was very important. The right to be considered a child of Abraham, we'll see in the Gospel of Luke. And the point being underscored in the statement the gospel is preached to the poor is not that Jesus favored some socioeconomic group, but that everyone Even the poor were subject to his offer. There is no one, in short, to whom Jesus did not come to offer himself. And the free offer of the gospel goes out to you whether you are a billionaire or whether you are in debt by a billion dollars. And that point is a point that Christians in every age, I believe, struggle with at least a little bit. Do you marvel at the fact that Jesus Christ came? And when he said, Come to me, you who are weary and heavy laden, he meant that person too? There is no one, not a single one of you sitting in this room, regardless of how many Facebook friends you have or how many dollars you have in the bank There's not a single one of you to whom Jesus does not say, come to me and I will give you rest. And that mystery of the free offer of the gospel to all people is something that didn't sit well. Perhaps it sat particularly poorly with the people in Nazareth. He came to preach the gospel to everyone, and he came to bring a sense of finality to the hopes of God's people. He's using language here to proclaim liberty to captives, the recovery of sight to the blind, and to set at liberty those who are oppressed. That is Luke is weaving in there a verse from uh Isaiah 58. 6, this says clarification of the text that Jesus read in preaching. And when we think about this whole picture of what that servant song is saying and what Jesus is saying he's come to fulfill, is he has come not only to perform the signs and wonders John's gospel talks about as not simply attracting attention to the person of the Messiah, but establishing his credentials as one who could do things only God can do. There's always the greater truth of the spiritual blindness that is cured. The spiritual imprisonment that is broken. The spiritual poverty that is addressed with the riches of heaven. There's a sense in which Jesus has come to address these real, significant, damnable lacks with a gracious, eternal, guaranteed Relationship with God. The year of the Lord's favor is in a sense inaugurated with the public ministry of Jesus. What an offer. Jesus is basically saying, I'm the Messiah. I have come to address all of your deepest and realest and most dreadful needs, whoever you are. That's how Jesus preached the gospel. Sitting down and saying, today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. Now that's what's offered, but what is desired? You know, there are certain things you want when you come into a church. Whether you're visiting today or whether you are a longtime member, there's certain things you're looking to get when you come into a church. There's certain things that this crowd would have looked for when they came into a synagogue, certain things that they would have hoped for. When they encountered Jesus in his ministry. And we see what they were hoping for. They say, is not this Joseph's son? And Jesus said to them, and keep in mind there are five places in the Gospel of Luke. The first one's in chapter 5, the second one's in chapter 6, then chapter 9, then chapter 11. There are these five instances in the Gospel of Luke where we are told that Jesus, knowing the hearts of men or knowing what they were thinking, you see, we're dealing with the Son of God here. He can look directly into the deepest, deepest, most uttermost extent of your soul. He knows exactly what's going on. And so Jesus says to them, doubtless, doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, physician, heal yourself. What we have heard you did at Capernaum do here in your hometown as well. They were interested in what Jesus could do, the signs and the wonders. And they rejected the prophet himself. They weren't so interested in him. They were interested in the miracles more than they were the message. And how does looking for him to do what he had done in Capernaum in Galilee connected with this business about physician heal thyself? You know, I do a lot of studying to prepare to preach sermons from this, and I study the Gospel of Luke, and you know, I've read a lot of books on the First century culture, and uh I came across many references to the fact that this proverb, physician, heal thyself, is very well attested. in the century of Jesus Christ. Let me read you something that was written by someone who was born in 40 A. D. So he's older than younger than Jesus would have been, but he would have lived at the same time as the apostles, and he would have certainly been alive at the same time this gospel was making its first forays into literature. Dio Chrysostom, not to be confused church history buffs with the later Christian preacher named Chrysostom. Dio Chrysostom grew up in what is northwest Turkey, the area of Bithynia, if you have a Bible map. And Dio Chrysostan was trained as an orator. He was one of these sophists who, for a lot of his life, he'd travel around. He was a public thinker. He was a great uh ethicist, and he was He was the golden-tongued. That's what Chrysostom meant. And this is what he wrote after he was invited by his hometown there in northwest Turkey to come back and be the equivalent of a of an ancient mayor of his hometown. He writes this in his 49th oration. He says, But if a man, alleging that he is not competent, is reluctant to administer his own city when it wishes him to do so and calls upon him, So here's Dio Christosom. Bear with me. I know you guys are thinking, I tell you what, I didn't come to church for this. This is going to illuminate what Jesus says here, trust me. I i if you come to me and ask me to administer your city and I say, oh, I don't I can't really can't do it, I can't do it. Diokristosin says this, it is as if someone should refuse to treat his own body, though professing to be a physician, and yet should readily treat other men in return for money or honors. You see, Dio Christostin was saying basically the same thing. And you can find twenty other examples just like this of the use of this proverb. You see, they thought of the body as not just their own body, but metaphorically of their kin group. When David is talking about replacing his general Joab, he says to the new candidate, Are you not flesh of my flesh? You're my own flesh and blood. That kinship network established something in the mind of bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, the unity. They had this idea of the body that included the clan, the town, the village. So for Jesus to say, doubtless you will say to me, physician, heal yourself. He's saying that the people in Capernaum are thinking, ah, Jesus is one of us. Therefore, we're really going to reap the benefits of all the power this guy has. What's the best way to lose all your friends? Win the lottery. Because all of a sudden all your friends are going to think, well, it's not like he earned it. You're going to share that with me, right? There's a sense in which the people would have thought, just like they thought about Dia Chrysostom, you're a homegrown guy, you've got good gifts, surely you're going to come and be here. The Jews in Jesus day in the synagogue. Jesus, you're the son of David. You grew up here. We've heard what you did elsewhere. Now you're going to do the things you've done there here, right? That's the expectation. Their focus is on the things, on the earthly ministry of Jesus, on what they think he can do to rectify some of their immediate worldly. Maybe political, maybe health-related, maybe financial woes. I can see the gears turning in their heads because those gears would turn in mine too. If Jesus, who proclaims to be the new Messiah and can do signs and wonders, sets up residence in Nazareth, isn't that going to be amazing? That's going to be an economic boon to everybody from the barber to the fisherman down on the wharf by the Sea of Galilee. That's going to bring people here. That's going to help our reputation. That's going to help us with It's sad how quickly we think in worldly terms. Physician, heal yourself. What we heard you did at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well. And so Jesus then says to them this. Truly I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. They are not accepting Jesus for who Jesus says he is. They want Jesus to do the things they would like him to accomplish. And Jesus then tells them, I tell you the truth. And he gives them two examples of things that happened. early in the experience of the people of Israel. During the period of the kings, Elijah was a prophet. And Elijah was during a time of famine in the ten northern kingdoms, a time of drought, a time of great want. He was sent to a widow in Zarephath in the land of Sidon. That's out there close to Tyre on the coast, on the northwest corner of what you might think of as Israel. And he's saying he didn't go to a hometown widow. He went to a foreign woman. And then in the days of Elisha, Elijah's disciple. There were a lot of people with the disease leprosy, which was considered a death sentence in Israel at the time But God had him cure Naaman, a general in the Syrian army, that were geopolitical enemies of God's people. Now, this fact that Jesus has come to basically say, the day of God's favor has arrived. I am the Messiah. I have come to meet all of the deepest and realest eternal needs of everyone who comes to me. And the people in his hometown say, we know your daddy. It's Joseph. Do the things you've done elsewhere here. And they appear to resent the fact that God has plans for others as well. And so they're enraged. And what is forfeited? We've seen what is offered. We've seen that they desire a worldly messiah to address their personal, local. Earthly needs. What is forfeited? These are among the saddest words in all of Scripture But passing through their midst, he went away. You see, the beginning of this text is Jesus saying, the Spirit of the Lord has anointed me. And at the end of the text, he goes away, together with the benefits and the blessings of the Spirit of God who indwells him. We live our life wanting to be connoisseurs of everything this world has to offer. We are like that little boy who wants his cake and he wants to eat it too. And we want desperately to have the focused, undivided, if you will, attention on the gracious offices of our God and Savior. And we seem reticent to acknowledge that God is doing great, maybe greater things by some standards, in other places where his spirit is more active. And his church is more revived. And whenever we want to limit the work of Jesus to our parochial interests and our personal here and now experience of living, We run the very real risk of ending up spiritually lonely And in those cases, I would say it's not that Jesus has left us, but it's that we have turned around and are looking away from him. But there are other cases. I want you to imagine for a moment that you're here this morning for God knows why, but you're here because God intended you to be here this morning. And you heard a sermon about Jesus of Nazareth, who was attested by signs and wonders, who proclaimed that he was the Son of the living God. who lived a sinless life, to die to pay the penalty for your sins, so that by repentance and faith in his name you could be forgiven, reconciled to your God, and you could have life. And imagine that that Jesus comes and he says to you in the preaching of the word and the reading of Scripture, he says, today this scripture has been fulfilled. You in your poverty are invited to be spiritually rich beyond your wildest. Imagine you in your captivity and addiction and imprisonment can be freed. You in your blindness. can be made to see. What if you choose to downgrade all those offers to, well that was interesting. What does it do for my credit card account? What does it do for my blood work results? And before you know it, your opportunity, your invitation your experience of the presence of Jesus Christ ends when you walk out the door. And there's a sense in which These sad words, he went away, are tragically true. I would plead with you, dear friend. This is a tragic thing. When Jesus goes away When Jesus goes away Today is the day of salvation. Today is a day for you to say, Jesus, I hear your voice. You offer yourself. You offer blessings heavenly indescribable. You are that anchor for my soul in what you did and in what you've offered. And I would rest upon and receive and accept you for who you are and what you've said on your terms, not mine. I often think of this text in parallel with a text from Revelation that says, Lo, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear and open up, I will come in and eat with him and he with me. And these texts in the scriptures stand as invitations for you and for me to come to know Jesus. To name him Messiah, to offer ourselves to him in joyful service, to experience the forgiveness of sins. spiritual sight, to know that ours are the joys in heaven, an inheritance kept for us that will never be taken, eaten, or destroyed. All of these offers and promises If you are here this morning, I want to encourage you, if you don't know Jesus, following the service in that back corner, we're going to have People that would love to meet with you and pray, don't go away. Don't walk away from Jesus This is your Nazareth invitation. Come to Jesus. And for those of us who have walked with Jesus for many, many, many years. Let's remember never, ever, to look at Jesus through the lens of what he's doing for me right here, right now, today. Remember, just as it was appointed onto Jesus Christ to suffer during his years of temptation and trial, the entirety of his incarnate experience. It is appointed for us to go through some tough times too. That does not lay one finger. Against the promises that God and Christ has made you more than a conqueror, an inheritor of heaven. That He's given you eyes to see and ears to hear, and life eternal. And always follow that Savior, mindful of that heavenly promise. As we pray for blessings in the here and now to serve him well. Almighty God, we confess that we often fall into the hometown trap of your people. And we often think of you in terms that are familiar to a fault, localized in a way that denies your sovereignty over the entire universe. Lord Jesus, we pray that you would help us to consider you in all of your awesome glory, who has come not just for the remnant of Israel, but for all flesh. Lord, as Isaiah says, that all flesh might see. And you have come to herald your coming, your presence, your offering of life. Through your people, men and women, boys and girls, who have beautiful feet and share good news wherever they go, Lord, that invitation, Lord, help us to delight in seeing it spread as wide and far as it can be spread. And Lord Jesus, we pray that you would be drawing men and women, boys and girls to know you, that your church is this one and every church in these counties we live in. Montgomery, Howard, Carroll, Baltimore, Lord, we pray that every church would be full. That people would be singing praises to this Jesus who was anointed for us. who came for us and who proclaimed the gospel to us. Bless us, we pray in Christ's name. Amen.