Thank you for that ministry and music. That was beautiful. I shall not want. If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 5. This morning we'll be looking at verses twelve through sixteen. Let us pray. Almighty God, we thank you that when we taste your goodness we shall not want. What a thought And Lord, may those words so beautifully and even hauntingly sung for us over these last minutes. Lord, may they It'd be true of us in a way that is not simply suggestive of exposure to a great song sung by a wonderful musician. We pray that it would be the deep experience of our souls, that we taste of your goodness and are satisfied And Lord, we see your goodness not only in the beauty of creation, but we especially see your goodness in the person and the work of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, Savior of sinners. And in this text that we look at today, Lord, so especially. And so we ask that you bless us. And Lord, the reading of your word is precious to us, bless it to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, inasmuch as it is faithful, Lord, make it useful. We ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 5, beginning with verse 12, the Word of God. While he was in one of the cities, there came a man full of leprosy, and when he saw Jesus, He fell on his face and begged him, Lord, if you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I will be clean. And immediately the leprosy left him. And he charged him to tell no one, but go and show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing, as Moses commanded, for a proof to them. But now even more the report about him went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him and to be healed of their infirmities. But he would withdraw to desolate places and pray. This ends the reading of God's Word. Sometimes I'm sitting in my office, and I consider it one of the greatest joys in the world to be paid to study the Bible. It is something that has intrigued me since, well, really my youth, when Mrs. Olson was my middle school, Sunday school teacher. and assigned me my first theology paper. I had missed class and so I didn't recite my memory verse because I was sick and I so badly wanted a perfect attendance record and a star for every memory verse. And she said, well, I can give you extra credit. And I said, I'm on it, Mrs. Olson. I didn't say it that way. That was uh I probably said, please. And she signed it to me and and I can't remember what that paper was, but I was in middle school and I remember it was two pages. And uh studying the Bible since then has been such a joy. And it's, again, trustees, please cover your ears. I don't need to be paid to do it. But uh Carrie would like for me to be paid to do it. I discovered something in studying this passage that I'd never noticed before. And I didn't learn this. By reading any of my deep academic commentaries, I read I discovered this because it In the collection of fifteen or sixteen books that I'm regularly reading through on the Gospel of Luke to prepare these messages and study, One of those books is this very wandering, eclectic, meandering collection of thoughts that are In some ways, improperly called a commentary by an old preacher from over a hundred years ago named G. Campbell Morgan. And G. Campbell-Morgan makes an offhand comment that none of the DEEC professors and PhDs in Greek and New Testament picked up on. And that is the fact that verse 15 is key to understanding something definitive and beautiful about Jesus our Savior. But now, even more, the report about him went abroad. Many of you know that there are three Gospels that are very similar. That's why they're called the Synoptic Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and how a lot of the stories are the same in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Synoptic is kind of Greek for Sin mean S-Y-N meaning with or together with optic meaning of view. And those three Gospels kind of take the same view. The Gospel of John, we call it the fourth Gospel, that's kind of a different Different thing altogether in some respects. They all give us this beautiful, composite, and complementary picture of our Savior. But the three Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, are very similar. And when Luke in particular, which is probably the last of those three to be written, when he takes, inspired by the Spirit, one of those received Narratives of some teaching or action of Jesus, and he puts some divinely inspired redaction or change to a verb here or a placement there or a noun there He's giving us something priceless. You might think, well, what in the world is Pastor talking about? Well, I I I actually and I promise you this will not be a common thing. Look at your sermon outline. Luke chooses to as a structural element in organizing the public ministry of Christ in its first chapter after his baptism in temptation. and increasingly deepening and broadening exposure of the community to Jesus. And unlike Mark and unlike Matthew, he has these formulaic statements in verse 14 of chapter 4, which is right after If you if you in fact, if your Bibles are open, you'll see this. Literally right after the temptation ends. Verse 13. And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time. Now Jesus begins his ministry. This is what we read in verse 14. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit of to Galilee, and a report about him went out through all the surrounding country, and he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all. Then we have again in verse 37 of chapter 4. This is after the first part of his ministry on that Sabbath day in Capernaum. And reports about him went out into every place in the surrounding region. And then in chapter 5 After the healing of a leper. But now, even more the report about him went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him and to be healed of their infirmities. So we can already pick up, even by the inclusion of, but now even more, there's a crescendo here in terms of the volume to which Christ is being heralded as someone who teaches and heals. But there's something more going on here Because Luke, unlike Matthew and unlike Mark, uses very specific words. In all of those verses that I read in translation, the word in English was report. But behind that word report, in each of those three verses that I gave you, is a very different Greek word. And we have a lot of words that could be translated report, as is suggested here, news, gossip uh buzz, uh all kinds of different words. It could rightly be translated report. And I think in part The translators of most English Bibles, and I'd be very interested for those of you who read in different languages, what how that verse is translated in the languages you like to read the Bible from. But here the translators are trying to make the point that this is a common feature in each of these. The old NIV that I trans uh that I grew up reading was not the report went, but the news about him went out. But let's look at these three words. The first word in verse 14 is they report And the word in Greek is fami, and that's a word that sometimes translated rumor. So at the beginning of his ministry, right after his temptation, The word, the report, the news that goes out about him is a little bit vague. It's a little bit hearsay. It's did you hearabout? Now, after his Morning in Capernaum preaching in the synagogue. We read reports, and there the Greek word is echos. We get the word echo from that. News and it has to do with the commotion. The fact that now everybody's starting to talk about it. The news about him goes out. So it's more than a rumor. But it's less than a certitude. Now it has gone from being, did you hear, to bona fide buzz This is what people are talking about now. But what happens, what happens in this glorious passage about a leper? But now, even more, the report. And for the first time, we have a definite article. Now, kids, what a Sunday for you to sit through the grown-up sermon. Greek and grammar. The definite article, the It's not just news. It's not just a rumor. It's not just people are talking about them now, the, and it's that beautiful word that many of us know, Lagos. Now, even more, the word about Jesus went abroad. And every time we find that idea of the word, either in ancient parallel literature from the Hellenistic culture, or especially in the Bible, it is a word that is definitive in quality. We still get an idea of that. You know, kids, uh, if you want to study life sciences, it's called biology BIOS, life, Lagos, the study of or a word about. If you want to study geology, it's Gaius for Earth. Lagos. If you want to study anthropology, it's anthropos, the word for humanity or man. Lagos. Theology. Thaos God Lagos, a study of her word about. You see, now something definitive, something with authority. Now for some reason, Luke, inspired by the Holy Spirit, says, and now even more. The truth about Jesus started to go out and penetrate the communities. And so we are right as G. Campbell Morgan, that old pastor with his eclectic, meandering, almost random commentary, he is absolutely right when he says This passage bears the closest of examination. Because here's where we begin to see the pieces come together and the truth begin to crystallize in the imagination of the people that heard Jesus first. Now they're starting to get it. And it is only after this happens that Jesus fills out the repertoire of his disciples. gathers the crowds at the mountainside and begins to teach in earnest, not just on Sabbaths, but seven days a week Because something happens here that signals to the community this is Jesus and this is what he came to do. And what is that exactly? What is the definitive report concerning Jesus? It has everything to do with leprosy. We think about leprosy today, and we kind of dismiss it if we know what it is clinically. Hansen's disease. It is curable now. And it is something that is exceedingly rare. It exists more in what in the past were called third world countries. I don't know what the politically correct term for them is, developing nations, perhaps. But it's not something we fear at all. We have no stigma associated with it. We don't hear leprosy and find ourselves unable to eat, unable to sleep. Crying all night long, thinking our life is over. I'm not sure there is a disease that affects us that way anymore now that we have such good therapies for AIDS. And cancer is not the death sentence it once was. I'm not sure that even in the height of COVID, COVID had this effect on us. We have so significantly tamed our health such that we way outlive Sometimes our capacities to enjoy life, the body doesn't fall apart the way it used to. Oh, it still falls apart, trust me. After a day of working, Gary said, Hey, do we need anything I'm running out? For those of you who know, for the second Saturday, a team of just lovely beautiful people. Don't get me wrong, you're all lovely and beautiful, and that's not just because I'm legally blind. You are amazing people. And you are but for the second Sunday, Carrie and I were so blessed. that uh a team of saints from this church came and helped us with our new house, which is in a terrifying state of destruction right now. However, Gary was leaving. He said, do you need anything? And I said, I could sure use a new back. But uh he he did not come through for me. But uh Gary, thank you for all that you're doing. I do mean that. And thank you, dear congregation. We feel so very loved. Well, that got my mind on a whole different track. Leprosy. Our bodies still fail, but we don't have a stigma associated with a particular failing the way they once did. Leviticus chapter 13, entire chapter, and it's not a short chapter, is devoted to skin diseases and what they called leprosy. And this is the case of a leprous disease. Leviticus chapter 13, beginning with verse 47. When there is a case of leprous disease in a garment, Whether a woolen oh pardon me, I started in 47, I wanted to start in 45. I too need more caffeine. The leprous person who has the disease shall wear torn clothes and let the hair of his head hang loose, and he shall cover his upper lip. And cry out, Unclean, unclean He shall remain unclean as long as he has the disease. He is unclean. He shall live alone. His dwelling shall be outside the camp. Could you imagine a life in which everything about your appearance, everything about your presentation, everything about your lifestyle, everything about Your auditory verbal participation in life was completely, relentlessly ironclad Bound to a disease that separated you from society in every way. In every way. Nobody would live with you. You were untouchable. If someone touched you by accident, they also were unclean. You had to broadcast your status as unclean everywhere you went. Your life depended Upon your obedience to the fact that if you saw someone, the first word out of your mouth was unclean. A warning, stay away. I'm diseased. There are three major sources of information that Bible scholars use when they want to reconstruct the world in which Jesus ministered that are of particular importance. The Talmud really comprises two of those. The Talmud was put together around the year 200 A. D. And it's comprised of two parts. The first part is called the Mishnah, which is a collection that was gathered during the time of the apostles of Jesus Christ by rabbis. And it it is com it it is made up of all of the oral traditions from the rabbis from the time of like Ezra through the time of Christ regarding what the Old Testament in particular The books of Moses, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy meant. The Mishnah is the first half of the Talmud. The second half is the Gemarah, which is a commentary on the Mishnah. The third great source for understanding the world in which Jesus lived in and the apostles ministered in is the midrash, not to be confused with the Mishnah. The Midrash is later. And the Midrash, building on the oral traditions of the Judaism of the time of Ezra through Christ, is a series of commentaries on the basically on the Old Testament, in particular on the law. And between looking at the Talmud, which is comprised of the Mishnah and the Gemarah and the Midrash, we have this beautiful picture not only of life in the Jewish communities during the time of the first century A. D. But the expectations of their messianic hopes. Now there's not a single verse in the Old Testament that says, and when the Messiah comes, he will heal leprosy. Not a single verse. In fact, the only healing of leprosy that takes place in the Old Testament is performed by Elisha of someone who wasn't an Israelite, Naaman, the Syrian general from the area of Damascus. In 2 Kings. In fact, the rabbis, according to the Talmud, the mission of the Gemarah and the Midrash, believed that it was Every bit as hard to heal someone of leprosy as it was to raise the dead. It could not be done And so in the Midrash and the Mishnah and the Gemarah, we read that they expected that when the Messiah came, two things would happen. He would heal leprosy. And leprosy would no longer affect the people of God. Because leprosy is utterly unique in the Old Testament. You see, when you had leprosy, the word that described you was not sick, the word that described you was unclean And so this man is unclean. He is untouchable. He is outside of society. During the time that this man lived and Jesus walked and breathed and lived among us, eating and drinking with sinners and saints alike, healing people and preaching his synagogue sermons, during that time, 2,000 years ago. It was illegal for this leper to even be in the city at all. And yet we read that when Jesus was in one of the cities, there came a man full of leprosy. Full of leprosy. That word that's translated full is a word that shows up in the medical literature from that day. And so the suggestion is that this man was an advanced state. He was a goner, and he was nasty. He was truly untouchable. And this man, breaking all law and custom, hears about his one hope. And he, by the grace of God, formulates a plan That he is going to take his diseased and nasty self and he is going to find where Jesus is. And it's not like the guards at the city gate or the entrance to the town are going to lay hands on him to prevent him from coming in. He can go where he wants, though he earned the scorn, the derision, and the hatred of all. Even if they want to kill him, he is going to find this Jesus. And say, if you are willing, you can make me clean. And this is where we see that the definitive report concerning Jesus is focused on the fact that he is willing and he is able. He is a great savior, and he brings a great salvation. And I want to talk to you about how great a savior he is. Look at what the text says. When this leper saw Jesus, he fell on his face and begged him. Now keep in mind, let's recreate this event. When he sees Jesus 20 yards away, 30 yards away, he falls down immediately. He knows better than to come too close. He sees him and he falls on his face and he begs him, Lord, if you will, you can make me clean. And Jesus, the Gospel of Mark says, full of compassion, goes to that man, stretches out his hand, and touches him. Saying, I will be clean. Is it not fascinating that the word about Jesus goes forth? When Jesus was heard to say what are only two words in the Greek, I will be clean. I will. I have the desire I have the love, the compassion, and the mercy to right the dreadful wrongs in your life and your experience. Be clean, and I have the power. I can make good on the movement of my heart towards you He abounds in love. He touches him. How long must it have been for this advanced state of leprosy? Since this man had ever experienced the touch of another human being. And Jesus didn't even need to touch him. We already read in Luke chapter 4 that when Jesus goes to the home of Simon's mother-in-law, he rebukes the fever and he heals. We've seen in Matthew chapter 8, we see later in Luke, Jesus doesn't need to touch anybody to heal him. He can simply think it. And a centurion's daughter is healed. Miles away. Jesus is communicating something when he reaches out and touches this leper. And to the astonished eyes of all who looked, something unbelievable happens. Jesus Christ is so holy, so powerful, so good, so right, that when Jesus touches the unclean, Jesus does not become unclean. The unclean becomes holy. Jesus touches humanity in its worst, nastiest, most disgusting state most untouchable, most extremely unlikable, most abhorrent, most unfit for society, he touches it and it becomes pure. Your Jesus has such a love that he wants to do that very action of sanctifying and healing for the worst of us, even a leper like this fellow. And oh, the power, the power to raise the dead The power to with a touch heal the disease. The power with a touch and the desire of his heart and the force of his will to put that man back in society. New, changed, whole, complete. He is a great Savior, and his salvation is great. I have two things here that I want to observe. First, he delivers us from our worst, and I've already said a lot about that. There was no worse diagnosis than leprosy in the ancient world. Socially, physically, mentally, that was the worst thing you could have. It excluded you from pretty much anything that could possibly give you comfort And Jesus delivers from that. He delivers us from our worst. But we also see here something intriguing, and again, I will rely upon A man I will delight to meet in heaven, G. Campbell Morgan. Those of you who are church history fans, he is most famous for the fact that he handpicked his successor. a little-known preacher from Wales named uh Martin Lloyd Jones at the Westminster Chapel outside of London. But G. Campbell Morgan was on to something when he notes that here we have a leper. who had clearly broken the law of Moses by entering the city. And now Jesus is saying, as a first thing, you're going to obey the law of Moses. Jesus charges him, tell no one, we'll get to that in a minute, but go and show yourself to the priest and make an offering for your cleansing. And then the completely unnecessary words as Moses commanded. And there we see that Jesus has touched and healed this man, not only of leprosy. But he has changed him from a lawbreaker to a lawkeeper. The changing, cleansing, sanctifying, justifying touch of Jesus Christ. changes our hearts and our wills, our minds and our actions, such that we are no longer rebels. Now we are citizens. We're no longer strangers. Now we're children. And Jesus Christ says to this man, your first order of business. is to obey God, not to go run back to your family and tell them, hey, we can hug again. It's not to go have a meal with your friends and say I'm back at the banquets. It's to obey God and present yourself to the priests. And now even more the word goes out about Jesus. He has power and he has love. Gary earlier used Psalm 62 as our call to worship. And I'll tell you what I love about that psalm. That verse used as an assurance of pardon. Once God has spoken, twice have I heard this, that power belongs to God, and that to you, O Lord, belongs steadfast love. And I would say that in this two-word conversation of Jesus, I am willing be clean. We see the perfect encounter of humanity with that God who has power and who is love. What about us? Will we come away from a text like this and immediately find ourselves wondering How the Ravens did or will do? I don't even know what time their game is. I'm a terrible Ravens fan, but I will work on it. Say you're welcome. Have you, dear friend? made a beeline for Jesus, and said to him with respect to the disease of your heart, mind, soul, and strength Jesus, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Or have you made peace with your condition? And chosen not to compare yourself and contrast yourself to a holy God, but simply say, well, I'm better than my neighbor. Have you. approached this Jesus and fallen down before him. We call that repentance. And said, Lord, if you're willing, you can make me clean. We call that faith. DV said, Jesus, I'm an absolute mess and I can do nothing for myself. I'm utterly incapable of being reconciled to God or man alike. The disease runs to my very marrow. I'm without hope, save in your sovereign mercy. Have you done that? Or are you playing at being a Christian? Have you ever thrown yourself wholly upon the God of the universe who has drawn near to us in Christ? And dwells us by his spirit and said, I have nothing but you. And if that question at all resonates with you in your inner heart, don't let it rest After the service today, we will have members of a prayer team in that back corner, and they'd love to talk to you. I'd love to hear from you Jesus Christ is the solution to the problem of life, of my life, of your life. And he has the power and he has the love. to translate you from the kingdom of this world to the kingdom that He Himself sits and reigns over. What is Jesus calling you to, dear Christian, now that you know him and have cast yourself upon Christ? This passage, taken in context, is part of a section in which Jesus is demonstrating authority. And Luke giving us this gospel account inspired by the Spirit of God is emphasizing authority. And even here we see that this Jesus who reaches out and touches us and heals us. He commands us. And here at first he tells this leper, don't tell no one, but go do this. And he has been throughout the early stage of his ministry, Jesus has been saying, I'm not trying to have a lot of nonsense and buzz and gossip about me going out. Let me control my narrative is in a sense what he's saying early on. We call it the messianic secret of Jesus. Jesus is very, very carefully curating his public appearances and the messages that go out regarding him. But here the word goes out more and more, and it's definitive. He is loving and he is strong. But he also commands. And Jesus in the Gospel of John He says, those of you who love me obey me. And so I ask myself when I read a text like this, and I will ask you as your pastor, what new obedience is Jesus calling you to? What humble act of service? What act of repentance? What act of renewed faith? What new area of growth is God calling you to as he would call you one step higher and closer to him? And that is a wonderful question to explore in your community group After the service, pray with people. Sign up for a community group. Kids, come tell me about something you heard in the sermon. And all of us, preach this first to me. Know that your God is powerful and loving, and Jesus Christ is that God come in the flesh for you and he would reach out his hand and touch even you. Have you been touched by Jesus? Lord Jesus, we thank you for your love and your power. Lord, I think of my own life and I think of how I have so many great intentions, so many wonderful desires, Lord, so many warm enthusiasms to do so many good and great things. And Lord, I can't. I lack the means to produce such actions. I have ideas that I don't have the skill set to follow up on. I have hopes that I don't have the time to enact. Lord, what a comfort to know that there's these two things we know about you. You are strong and you are loving. And Lord Jesus, how beautiful it is that if we know only two things about you, that you are willing and that you are able, we know enough about you to fall down before you. And begin the rest of our life differently. Work in us, O God Almighty. And Lord Jesus, we give you praise and thanks and glory and honor. We pray in your name, Lord. Amen.