Three weeks from now is Easter. And if you're like me, you need some help in seeking to focus. Focus your mind and your heart on the familiar events leading up to Jesus' death and resurrection. You think So that 24 hours from the Lord's Supper to Jesus' death and burial where occurred the most dramatic and significant events in all of human history, along with the early hours. of Easter Sunday morning. So I want to help you to get into the scene for us to relive that, to feel the drama and the wonder of that terrible and wonderful day. Now, four years ago I tried to do that by doing a character study of Pontius Pilate. Some of you may remember. We looked at Pilate's heart, saw that it wasn't perhaps all that different from our hearts. We saw also his tragic behavior and his lostness, and we saw Jesus in his wonderful wisdom and love And his sacrifice suffering under that unjust judge. So this year I thought I would look at the three Jewish judges. that presided over Jesus' trial, three Jewish judges, Annas, Caiaphas, and Herod To look at their hearts, to see what we can learn from seeing how they responded, what their hearts were like in interacting with Jesus. And then more to see how Jesus responded to them. And before we too quickly say, oh Yeah, I need to learn to respond to my enemies more like Jesus did, to first stop and say no. I want to see how radically different Jesus is from me. The way he thinks, the way he responds is so different. And to adore him and worship him first for how different he is And then to see more of his sacrifice for you and for me, and to love him and trust him more. So we're going to look, first of all, at the story of Anis this morning. The story of Annas is only in John's Gospel. It's not in Matthew, Mark, or Luke. It's a very minor story. It takes up nine verses. It's usually passed over. It's only a minor part. But Annas was anything but a minor man. Who was Annas? Well, in John 1813, the Tim read, we see that Annas was the father-in-law of Caiaphas the high priest. But if you were listening especially carefully, you might have noticed what seemed like some discrepancies Because in verse 13 says he's the father-in-law of the high priest. In verse 19, John calls Annas the high priest. And then in verse 24, he says Annas sent Jesus to the high priest. It's even worse than that. Luke 3, verse 8 talks about the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, and yet there could only be one high priest. In Acts 6:4, Annas is called the high priest. What's going on? Some people say there's discrepancies. Clearly, there's an error in Scripture. A little bit of history clears it up. Annas was high priest from A. D. six to sixteen. He was to A. D. fifteen. He was then as a power-hungry man deposed by Pilate's predecessor, Valerius Gratus. In the next three years, there was a flurry of high priests, three at that time, and then Annas got his son-in-law, Caiaphas, into the office. Caiapus served as high priest from A. D. 18 to 36, the longest rule in all of the first century. Annas so grabbed for power that he ensured that five of his sons served as high priest, plus Caiaphas' son-in-law, and one grandson. This was a man who was not going to give up. He was a man who grabbed for power. He was a shrewd politician. So whoever had the name high priest or who was seen as in power, the word in Jerusalem was, have you run it by Annas? And that's why in John's Gospel you read in chapter 18, verse 12, then the detachment of soldiers with its commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus. They bound him and brought him first to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas the high priest that year. Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jews that it would be good if one man died for the people. They take him to Annas because they need some time to run around and gather up the Sanhedrin, 71 rulers who made essentially up the Jewish Supreme Court. So while they're running around in the darkness, scurrying to get these people assembled, they bring Jesus to Annas to kind of work him over, soften him up a little bit before the trial. In the nine verses that John records the story, there are basically simply three main characters. There's Annis, there's Annas' official, and there's Jesus. Put yourself in the scene now and watch what happens. First thing I want you to notice before we look at the observations, is to see that John emphasizes Jesus comes bound. It's in his first verse and the last verse of this section, chapter 18 in verse 12 it says they arrested him and they bound him and sent him to Jesus. Verse 24, still bound, they sent him on to the high priest. Don't miss that. Because you see their amazing irony and contradiction. Here is God, the Creator, in fetters. God, Jesus, is bound. He's bound like Isaac being taken to the altar for sacrifice. How can you bind God? And yet Jesus allows them to bind his hands, make him look helpless, and come before Annas in that state. Oh, how Annas must have reveled in the fact that this his enemy now stood before him, bound and apparently helpless. But would only have taken a word from Jesus to have broken those fetters and walked simply free out of that courtroom. But he allows himself to be bound for you and for me. So, four observations and three applications of what's going on. First of all, You see, Annas, who sees Jesus as an intrusion, an intrusion upon his power and an intrusion upon his wealth. Jesus is an intrusion on Annas' power. When Jesus denounced the Jewish leaders to the people as hypocrites, That was a personal insult to Annas and his family. They were the power people. They were those who controlled Jerusalem. And Jesus denounced them, and here he is now, bound before Annas, to take his revenge. Jesus is an intrusion on a shrewd politician who wants to look religious. These three leaders that we're going to look at, two of them were very religious. They were not liberals or secularists. They were very religious people, card-carrying leaders among the evangelicals. And Anna sees Jesus as an intrusion on the charade of his seeking to look religious. But in fact, all he cares about is himself, his power. So Jesus is an intrusion that must be dealt with, not just to his power, but also to his wealth. Anis' family was notorious for their greed. Much of their wealth, it was said, came from the sale of the sacrificial animals. And the temp, you know, if you offered a A lamb, a ram, a goat, a bull, you had to purchase it there out of temple currency. Guess who controlled the exchange rate of the currency in the temple? It was Annas and his family. That's how they gained their wealth. And so when on two occasions Jesus cleansed the temple, he said, you've made my father's house, a house of prayer, into a den of thieves. That was a personal accusation against Anus. He's the thief. So Jesus is an intrusion on Annas' wealth and on Annas' power. And Jesus now apparently stands helpless before him. So as the petty officials are rounding up the 71 members of the Sanhedrin, Addis's job is to seek to build a case. A case against Jesus that they'll be able to present the next morning to Pontius Pilate. Because they only have till sundown the next day to have Jesus executed. After that, for the next week during Passover, it's illegal to have any executions. So they're going to hold an illegal trial of the Sanhedrin at night. In order to bring to Pilate a case that will persuade him to immediately have Jesus executed the next morning. Anis' strategy, and this is very easy to miss when you read verse 19, Anas' strategy is to get Jesus to incriminate himself by asking manipulative questions That's what he's going to try to do. So when you read verse 19, it looks like a pretty simple, straightforward, innocuous verse. Meanwhile, the high priest, that's Annas, questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. No, that's not what's going on. What Annas is doing is he is implying to Jesus that he's sneaky. He's saying, tell me about your disciples. Well, you see them. No, no, no. Tell me what's really going on. Tell me about your doctrine, what you're really teaching. The things you're teaching behind closed doors to your disciples. He's seeking to intimidate Jesus and to get him to incriminate himself by putting him on the defensive. So the second observation is that Jesus simply sees through this, and his simple response. That can come across first, I say it respectfully, but you might read this and it seems like kind of a smart aleck response High priest questioned him about his disciples and his doctrine, and what does Jesus say? I have spoken openly to the world, Jesus replied. He doesn't teach him, he doesn't talk about his disciples, he doesn't talk about what he has said. He simply says, I always taught in the synagogues or at the temple where all the Jews come together. I said nothing in secret. Why question me? Ask those who heard me. Surely they know what I said. Now Annas probably knows that Jesus didn't teach two different messages. Jesus was always open about what he taught. Jesus is saying what I taught in public is the same thing that I elaborated on with my disciples in private. Don't imply that I'm sneaky. Sneaky people always think that other people are sneaky. At this very moment, Annas is being sneaky. He's rounding up the Sanhedrin for an illegal nighttime trial in order to bring Jesus to execution. So he is implying to Jesus, what sneaky things have you been doing to bring about a sedition? A revolution to bring your kingdom in. You're called King of the Jews. You're seeking to foment rebelt and revolt. Well how are you doing this? Jesus before the most powerful man in Jerusalem. Jesus stands and gives him a simple, straightforward answer. You're not going to get me. I haven't done anything duplicitous. You can ask anybody that I've taught. They'll tell you the simple, straightforward truth. That I have taught. Now, John wants you to see, in the way he organizes material, a contrast here. You notice that these nine verses are in two sections, 12 to 14, and then 19 to 24? What are they separated by? They're separated by Peter's lying. Peter comes, a girl says, Hey, you're one of his disciples, aren't you? Who? Me? No, I don't know the guy. Who are you talking about? John wants you to see that in any situation, Jesus is truth. He will tell the truth regardless of the consequences He will stand eye to eye with the most powerful man in Jerusalem who's trying to intimidate him and get him to incriminate himself and imply that he's got something to hide, and he says, I have nothing to hide. This is what I've taught. When I asked my disciples, ask them. While at the same moment Peter is outside denying the truth. Right after this section in verse 24, John goes right back to Peter denying the truth while Jesus is confessing the truth. John wants you to see, Jesus majestically simply is truth. He can be nothing but the truth. And all the accusations brought against him will never reveal the slightest inconsistency or falsehood in him. Third observation. Look at the official. The official sees this as an embarrassment. The official, unknown, don't have any idea who he is, feels the sting of Jesus exposing their hypocrisy. Jesus has made Annis look foolish. You don't make Annis look foolish. And so out of frustration, verse twenty-two, when Jesus said this, one of the officials nearby struck him on the face. Is this the way you answer the high priest? he demanded. He struck Jesus on the face. The first of many blows that Jesus would receive that night. He struck him out of frustration. He struck him out of anger. He struck him in order to cow him, to intimidate him, to cooperate. He struck him because there was no answer that they could give. He struck him simply because he was trapped. Slaps him in the face. Dishonor. Injust. So undeserved. Fourth observation. Look how Jesus responds How he responds not simply to unjust, insidious questioning, but how he injusts how he responds to a slap in the face. It's a simple response, verse 23 and 24. If I said something wrong, Jesus replied, Testify as to what is wrong. But if I spoke the truth, Why did you strike me? And then Anna sent him, still bound, to Caiaphas the high priest. Conversation's over. Jesus is neither defensive, he doesn't strike back. He doesn't lose it. He simply asks gently a question directed straight at the man's heart. Why'd you do that? He appeals to his conscience. It's turning returning good for evil. Oh, if only at that moment the man could have seen, I had no right to do that. I did that because of my sin, because you exposed our hearts. Jesus, I'm so sorry. I shouldn't have done that. But it doesn't do that The hardness of their hearts is so fixed against Jesus that all they can do is say, take them to Caiaphas, we're done. This isn't getting us anywhere. Same thing goes on today. It's the same thing. You see it in our world, don't you? Three sowats of this story. Today we still have angry attacks on Jesus. Unjustified? Without basis? The attacks that say, particularly from the angry atheist movement, Christianity is simply a self-diluted hoax. Jesus is a fake and his followers are self-deluded, pathetic people. Don't usually attack Jesus. But it's an indirect attack upon Jesus through attacking his church and his people and his movement There are many people that do this. The books are quite popular. They usually make the top ten of the New York Times bestseller list. Their conferences are packed out. Let me give you just a few of those that are currently writing and speaking on this. Richard Dawkins, one of the best known, Sam Harris, his Letter to a Christian Nation. Christopher Hitchens, Bart Ehrman, his book Misquoting Jesus, Michael Onfray's Atheist Manifesto, and Thomas Nagel For sake of time, let me focus on just two of them. Christopher Hitchens, his book, God is Not Great, asserts that Christianity is the enemy of civilization. Evolution and atheism are the friends of civilization. Despite the clear connection between evolution and eugenics, the tool of the Nazis to produce a super-race. At the expense of eliminating substandard human beings. But when you press Hitchens more closely You find it is not simply that he sees his atheism as rational and Christianity as irrational But rather that he hates the God of the Bible. From an interview that was conducted with him, He admitted in this recent interview, Hitchens calls himself not an atheist, but an anti-theist. Most atheists say that based on the evidence they believe God does not exist. Hitchens' position is somewhat different. He does not want God to exist. He hates the idea of God's existence because he thinks of God as a tyrant who supervises his moral life. Even the tyranny of Stalin or Kim Jong-il, Hitchin says, ends when you die. But this God, he wants obedience and praise and worship even in the afterlife. To Hitchens that's a form of unceasing subservience and slavery, which is intolerable. He hates the authority of Jesus. Interesting thing is that Christopher Hitchens has a brother, Peter. And Peter is a believer. So he grew up with Christopher Hitchens, and he says, I remember when he came to that conclusion. He was nine years old. The teacher taught an ordered universe. And Christopher reacted and said he had a blast of insight that showed him, in fact, the whole universe was disordered and meaningless. In fact, he said it was almost a mystical experience whereby he could see through all the teachings of other people to see what was really true, that nothing was true. So he says, this is the words of Peter now. He says, My brother has gone through his life with very strong moral convictions, like a man with a compass, saying, There is no true north. Take Thomas Nagel. In his book, The Last Word, Thomas Nagel writes, these are his words. He's writing on the fear of religion. Quote, I speak from experience, being strongly subject to this fear myself. I want atheism to be true and am made uneasy by the fact that some of the most intelligent and well-informed people I know are religious believers. It isn't just that I don't believe in God and naturally hope that I'm right in my belief. It's that I hope there's no God. I don't want there to be a God. I don't want the universe to be like that. My guess is that this cosmic authority problem is not a rare condition And it's responsible for much of the scientism and reductionism of our time. That's a very honest statement. In fact, listen to this. One of the tendencies it supports is the ludicrous overuse of evolutionary biology to explain everything about life, including everything about the human mind. Darwin enabled modern secular culture to heave a great collective sigh of relief. by apparently providing a way to eliminate purpose, meaning, and design as fundamental features of the world. That is a disarmingly honest statement from an atheist. You see, what John's telling us here is that Annas didn't have a strong case against Jesus. He simply hated Jesus and had to get rid of him. Because Jesus was an intrusion on his autonomy. This is not something that is simply theoretical of people writing books to one another and holding conferences with those who already agree with them. Have you ever heard of the Foundation from for Freedom from Religion? It's an organization in the United States. The the um let me get it right, the Freedom from Religion Foundation this week I just read that they are bringing two lawsuits against Shirley Dobson, George Bush, and two state governors to stop the National Day of Prince. To halt any future national days of prayer. They want them abolished because they create a hostile environment for unbelievers. So we see this, and we ask the question: how should we respond? How do we respond to the angry atheist, to the foundation from freedom from religion? And Jesus provides a pattern. Jesus shows a non-defensive Now, let me say quite clearly, I am glad that the ADF, the Alliance Defense Fund trains finances to contributions, lawyers that will take the case for the Freedom from Religion Foundation to the courts to protect religious freedom. I think we do need to carry out those um battles in the court. But there are Christians who, when they see these things and read these things, look at those people as the enemy and want to get back at them. Jesus simply spoke the truth in a gentle, non defensive way, and said, Why Why are you doing this? He addressed the heart. We look at this week Three deaths of people in or close to the congregation. Thursday night, my wife's aunt, who I've known for 41 years, suddenly died. A fourth death in one week. You could look at these people laid out And ask the person who sees Jesus as an intrusion, where are you going to be? What's going to happen to you on that day when your body is laying in the coffin. I've told some of you of the very animated discussion I had with a good friend of mine who is an atheist And we talk about these things from time to time, and we were having a very vigorous discussion. And in that discussion, I stopped and I said, Do you ever think about what will happen to you when he d when you die? And he stopped and we were kind of kidding around and he stopped and came dead serious and he said, No. No one, no one does not think of that. Why? Do you strike out each other Jesus Is there somebody here for whom he's an intrusion on your life? He's an intrusion on your autonomy. He's an intrusion on how you want to live, which is all focused around you. Jesus went to the cross to pay for the sin of anyone who admits I need a Savior. I need Jesus to forgive me just as John Eckert said, I need his forgiveness. He offers it to you, but he offers it with the right to run your life. Choice is yours And if you are wrestling with that, come speak to me. Speak to somebody here before you go home today. Jesus offers life. But he offers it as Lord. Let's pray Lord, we pray simply two things that you would give us eyes to see our hearts. To see why it is we respond to Jesus the way we do, whether it is out of love and obedience or whether it is to shut you out. Because you're inconvenient. You're an intrusion. There are things that you call for us to do, to abandon, to forsake, to come to you. We're not willing to do that. Neither was Annas nor his official. And so, secondly, Lord, we'd ask you to help us to see Jesus. Show us Jesus in all his majesty and all his truth, who stands ready to forgive based on his own sacrifice. But to take our lives, to change them into devoted followers. Lord, may there be no one here. Who would shut you out? May we come now and embrace you. We pray in Jesus' name.