If you turn in your Bibles to John chapter 13, I'd like you to be able to look at the passage that we're going to consider today. As we get going. When he was gone, Jesus said Now is the Son of Man glorified. And God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will glorify the Son in Himself and will glorify Him at once. My children, I will be with you only a little longer. You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now where I am going, you cannot come A new command I give you. Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we come to you Grateful. We come to you because you bid us to come and because you have redeemed us And Lord, we come to you wanting to grow. We pray this morning as you speak to us through your word. That we would know you, that we would know ourselves, and that you would be glorified. It is in your name that we pray. Amen. Jesus is giving a new command. However, this command has been spoken before. So in what sense is it new? If you look at Leviticus chapter 19, verse 18, you see that as God was giving his law He spoke to the people and said, Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against one of your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord Not only did God give this back in the Old Testament, but three times in the book of Matthew we see Jesus quote this passage, quote this law. In Matthew chapter 5, verses 43 and 44 We read Jesus not only quote this but expand it. In chapter 5, he says, You have heard that it was said, love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, that you may be sons of your Father in heaven. In chapter 19, verse 19 Jesus quotes this again as he's speaking to a leader, a rich man. And he's speaking to this man who says Which command should I obey? Which ones? The man inquired in verse 18. Jesus replied, Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal Do not give false testimony. Honor your father and mother and love your neighbor as yourself. In chapter 22 of Matthew, in verses 37 and 38, Jesus speaks of the great command. Um Jesus replied Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the first and greatest commandment, and the second is like it. Love your neighbor as yourself. Jesus knows that this command is not new in the sense that it's never been given before. So why, why this night As he gives this command, does Jesus say, A new command I give to you? It's part and parcel of the setting of what's taking place. Jesus has just celebrated the Passover with his disciples. He's instituted the Lord's Supper, He's washed their feet. And the most significant event of redemptive history is about to take place. Redemption, which has been anticipated from Genesis 3 until that period of time. It's about to be fulfilled. Redemption is about to be accomplished because Jesus goes from this room. to the Garden of Gethsemane, where he prays with his disciples, and while praying, is arrested. He's tried, convicted, crucified. So this command is new, not in the sense of never been spoken, this command is new in the sense it's about to be transformed. Jesus takes it and makes it grander. He makes it larger. He makes it new. It's commands. Now I don't know about you, but but there are certain commands when I was growing up that I could always tell were commands given with a wink. You know? Okay, you've really got to do this. Nobody knew that you ought to do that. Everybody knew that what was being said was I have to fulfill the formalities and tell you you have to do this. But I don't expect you to follow it. Although I wasn't there and I didn't see Jesus' face, I can tell you that there was no wink with his command. Boy, I wish there was. But there was no wink. Jesus gives this command as a command. It is not advice. It is not a request. It is a command. He intends for it to be followed. And you and I, as we sit here this morning and worship him, are under obligation to obey this command. Not only in form is it a command, but it's given by one who has the authority to command us. I d I don't know about you, but there have been times when I've a child. Been tempted to give a command to someone who I couldn't command. I don't know if you children have ever had a temptation to tell your mom or your dad to do something for you. Or to do something because you want them to do it. Last night I was disciplining one of my children. He had broken my command. Because I'm his father, I have the authority to give it. And when he broke it, we had to deal with the fact that he broke it. And after we dealt with the fact that he broke it, he looked at me and said, Get out of my room Woohoo. We had a situation to deal with again, but you see, he thought he could command me. He thought he could tell me what to do, and that I'd have to be obliged to do it. After all, it's his room. Well, but I bought the house. While it may be his, it's mine. Jesus, who gives this command, is God. There is no question of his right to command us. There is no question of the form of this command. There is no wink. But not only is he God, Jesus is about to accomplish our redemption. He's speaking to his disciples, whom he loves. He's speaking to them and saying, I want you, I command you to love one another as I have loved you. And he says it with a heart that is given to them, and their hearts in response are given to him. He's not only God, he not only has the right to command us, he has our hearts. Because he is our Redeemer. He is the one who loves us. And so frankly, there's no escape from this command. There is no way to sidestep it. There is no way to avoid it. The command is to love. What does love look like? There's a lot of misunderstanding today about what love means. Those who are on the receiving end want love to mean make me comfortable, make me happy, make me feel good. How does God love us? I think we need to understand His love demonstrated to be able to understand what love means. Proverbs chapter 3, verse 12. For whom the Lord loves, he reproves, even as the Father, the Son, whom he delights. Proverbs 13, 24 He who spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is careful to discipline him. Proverbs nineteen. Discipline your son, for in that there is hope. Do not be a willing party to his death. Hebrews 12, 6 through 8 Because the Lord disciplines those he loves and punishes everyone he accepts as a son. Endure hardship as discipline. God is treating you as sons, for what son is not disciplined by his father? If you're not disciplined, then everyone undergoes discipline, then you are illegitimate children and not true sons. What are the contrasts to love? I want to say that there are two that we need to look at this morning: hatred and apathy. Hatred has the goal of destruction. A lot of what passes for love today is hatred. Because the goal shows whether it's love or hatred. If my goal is to make you comfortable, My goal is to make you feel good right up to the point where you die, then I hate you. I don't love you. I love me, and I want you off my back. I want you to feel good so you don't bother me. It may not even be hatred, it might be apathy, whose goal is abandonment. I will make you feel good. I will let you have what you want. I will give you what you desire right up to the point where you finally realize what you need. And by that time it's too late the crisis has hit and you're off my back because you're gone. Love is not something that does concern itself only with feeling good. Love is also not something that only concerns itself with a goal, and it doesn't matter how you get there. Love is concerned with the whole process. I want you to be whole, and I want you to be kindly and lovingly treated in your growth towards wholeness. That's God. That's how he treats us. We're to love one another. The clearest application of this passage is to our brothers and sisters in the Lord, frankly, to one another here. Jesus is speaking to the twelve, then the eleven. He's speaking to them about his command to love one another. And we might want to take comfort in the fact that we can sort of narrow that circle and say, well, yeah, those whom I'm closest to, those who are brothers and sisters, those with whom I have the greatest comfort, I can love. No, you can't. Even if you define the command that tightly, you still can't love. Not the way you're called to. But Jesus doesn't give you that option. Leviticus talks about loving your neighbors, those who are around you, not simply believers. Jesus doesn't shrink that command, but again in Matthew 5, he expands it. Where Jesus says, You've heard, love your neighbors and hate your enemies. I tell you, love your enemies. And even if the command is to brothers and sisters, you don't know who that means. It's an open set. You can't claim that because they're not a brother now or a sister now, they never will be, and you can't claim that you don't have to love them. The option's not open to you. You can't narrow the command. And most importantly, there are people you're going to enjoy being with who are Christians and people you're not going to enjoy with being with who are Christians. There are people you're going to enjoy being with who are not Christians, and there are going to be people you don't enjoy being with who are not Christians. But the command here is to love the unlovable Romans chapter 5, verses 6 through 8. Let's just look at verse 8 right now. We'll get to 6 through 8 in a moment. But in verse 8, he says, that God demonstrates his own love for us in this. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. God is not calling you to love those who are easily lovable. God is not narrowing that circle of those he calls you to love and making it easy for you. This command, without a wink, is hard. Not only is it hard in scope, but it's hard in character. Jesus is the model of love we are to follow. As I have loved you, what does that mean? Well, first of all, he left heaven. He left the glory and the comfort of heaven, the worship of the angels in all created order, and became man. God and man in one person. First John Chapter 4, verse 2. This is how you can recognize the Spirit of God. Every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus Christ is coming in the flesh is from God. He was tempted. He was tempted in his humanity and overcame that temptation. Hebrews 4:15, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are yet without sin. Jesus met every condition of the law. His act of obedience, his complete obedience to the law is what makes his life a worthy sacrifice. And that's a sacrifice that He offers in our place. He suffered death to pay the debt of our sin. John chapter 19, verses 28 through 30. Later, knowing that all was now completed. And so that the scriptures would be fulfilled, Jesus said, I'm thirsty. A jar of wine vinegar was there, so they soaked a sponge in it and put the sponge on the stalk of a hyssop plant and lifted it to Jesus' lips. When he had received the drink, Jesus said, It is finished. With that he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Jesus not only dies to pay the debt of sin, Jesus gives us his record and takes our record so that we can be declared righteous by God. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21: God made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Okay. All of that's pretty familiar to an evangelical. You understand the sacrifice that Jesus made. You understand that sacrifice both in terms of his coming as human. Taking upon himself humanity and deity in one person, you understand that he lived through the temptations, he obeyed the law completely, and he died. But that's not the full story Because Jesus' love goes beyond that, and he now works in our lives to bring us into greater and greater personal holiness. In Ephesians chapter 5, we read the description of love husbands are to have for their wives, where Paul says, Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the Word, and to present her to himself as a radiant church without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy. And blameless. You see, Jesus is at work to bring his bride to himself in her glory That's you. You might read that church and bride and think corporate and say, okay, God's in the business of raising the corporate average. So that we're as a body going to be more and more holy. But you know what? He's going to work in you, and I can sort of coast. No. God is at work in each one of you To bring you into greater and greater holiness and transform you as men and women of God without wrinkle, blemish, stain, but holy and righteous. He wants you fit for him. That's his love. Okay. I don't know about you, but right now I'm feeling pretty much like I want some wiggle room. I'm squirming. This command is unbearable. God wants me to love as He's loved, and He wants me to love the unlovable, and I can't do it. Let's go back to Romans chapter five. Verse six You see, at just the right time, when we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man, though for a good man someone might possibly dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love for us in this, while we were still sinners. Christ died for us. Christ died for us in our ugliness. He died for us in our rebellion. He died for us while we spat in his face, while we denied that we needed someone to die for us. We have to recognize this command cannot be obeyed in our own power. It can't be shirked, it can't be escaped, it can't be completed. Now just to place this in context for you, I want you to think of somebody who's been sitting in this room today, either now or in the first service. Somebody that clearly fits that category of brother or sister. But I also want it to be somebody from whom you're alienated. Somebody from whom you have a difficult time relating. Somebody that you would not take a vacation with. Somebody who you don't want to come over to your house and have dinner. Somebody who you hope doesn't invite you to theirs. Jesus says to you of that person, love one another as I have loved you. When you hear this command, how do you feel? Are you searching for the wink? Don't. You won't find it. But you do have the grace of God to work in you. He is again sanctifying you, presenting you blameless to himself By this all men will know you are my disciples. Verse 35. There's a couple of things that's important for us to recognize about this. And number one is that this is a visible mark. All men will know. They're going to see you. And the way Jesus describes us, they're going to see love. When people look at you, do they see love? Think for a moment of an encounter yesterday. If you were the other person With whom you related, and you were given one word to summarize yourself, what would it be? Would it be love? When people look at you, do they see judgment? When people look at you, do they see Jesus? It's not only visible, it's distinguishing. People will see this and know that you are my disciples. He doesn't say that they'll see this and know that you love This is distinguishing. It's visible, they're going to see it. And it tells them who you are, that you are a disciple of Jesus. When I look at the church and I look at myself, I don't know that I would agree that the distinguishing mark of the church is love. See, I'm much more comfortable with the distinguishing mark of the church being doctrine. You'll know what I believe. You'll know that I claim that Jesus is my Savior. You'll know that I believe that the Bible is the authority and the Word of God. The trouble with that, while it's all true, is that it isn't what Jesus said. Jesus doesn't say that if you have all true doctrine and teach it accurately and reflect it well, people will know you're my disciples. He says, If you love one another as I have loved you, by this all men will know that you are my disciples. Do people think well of you? Do people respect you? Do they recognize this character of love in you? And are they moved? The love that Jesus speaks of will be recognizable, and it will be recognized as impossible. There has to be a secret power. There has to be something that gives you the freedom and the power to live this way Because they want it. But apart from Jesus, they don't have it. But Jesus says to you, If you have this love, all men will know that you're his disciple. But like I said a few moments ago, it gets worse. I want you to look at 1 John chapter 2. The wiggle room is continuing to shrink I want you to see these words with your own eyes. Anyone who claims to be in the light, verse nine Anyone who claims to be in the light but hates his brother is still in the darkness. Whoever loves his brother lives in the light, and there is nothing in him to make him stumble. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness, he does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded him. Chapter 4 Dear friends Let us love one another, for love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love. This is a distinguishing mark. It is a matter of our identity. It is inescapable. John doesn't give you any wiggle room. He tells you that if you love, the world will know, and you'll know that you belong to Jesus. But he says in 1 John that one of the distinguishing marks of a believer is love. Not only does he say that this will be present in the believer, he says if it's not, you are not. Now you might want to wonder why I'm preaching this passage. I usually like to preach passages that I feel like God has been doing a good work in me and. But I'm not a man of love. Not this kind. I'm a man of doctrine. I'm a man of justice. Sometimes a man of mercy. But when people look at me, they don't see Jesus. And I'm not preaching this because I think that I'm doing well. I'm preaching this because he says it's the mark of a believer. And as we go into celebrating the Good Friday sacrifice of Christ and the Easter resurrection of Christ, I think this is critical. We talk and pray about revival. We talk and pray about reaching the lost. This will We talk about the gospel. We talk about our sin. This is it. This is the heart of it. This is us. But it's impossible. So what do we do? Well, first and foremost, we do what we're doing right now. We recognize that we're sinners. We are more ugly in our sin than we can possibly begin to recognize. It is not in generalities that we sin, we sin in specifics. And as you think of the last encounter you had with somebody that indicates how sinful you are in relationship with them, praise God. He does not leave you there. Because you see what Jesus is saying to you this morning as you recognize how little you are, is look how big I am. What's the context of this command? It's given as Jesus is preparing to die for your sin. He's dealing with the fact that you cannot obey this command. That's why it's new. It's new because Jesus is going to fulfill it for you and in you. And when you recognize how sinful you are, you come to Him and you say, Jesus, love me. I need to know your love. I need to know your care for me. I need to know your compassion. I need to know your sanctifying work that presents me spotless and blameless because I'm a sinner who hates, who's apathetic. who wants to be left alone. And Jesus says to you, Come, you who are weary, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. And as you begin to experience his love for you, an incredible thing takes place. Because that love is too good to hoard. It's too rich to keep. And you find yourself changing. Because you see, he is in the business of sanctifying you. You will not be the same man, woman, or child. That you are now, because he's in the business of bringing you to himself whole and complete, Let him love you. Let him love the world through you. Set a high goal. Don't look for the commands to have winks. Don't look for wriggle room. Look to grow. Let's pray. Jesus, I have to confess that I'm just not here. I am not one who loves as you love. I want to be. I pray for my brothers and sisters that they too not only will want to be, but will see your grace at work in them to transform them. And I pray, Lord, that as this church wrestles with this command, that we would be a people of love, that in community we would show love to one another, reconciling conflicts. Honestly caring and pursuing the goal of wholeness for ourselves and for others. Lord, I pray that you would shower and lavish us with your love And that as you do, we would see others who need it and move to share it. Lord, give us the power to know what you want us to do and who you want us to do it with. Give us the wisdom to take the steps in your way, lovingly, kindly, and gently, to do those things. And Father, I pray that you would mend the broken hearts. That you would knit the broken bones. That you would restore the broken relationships. And that we would be a taste of heaven on earth, people would recognize we belong to you. Lord, we long for you to receive the glory that only you can receive, that only you are due. For that to happen, we have to become people who are powered by your power, a power that comes only from you. Changes take place. Recognizable changes, visible, distinguishing changes Lord, we thank you for this command. But more so, we thank you for your grace. And look forward to your work in us and through us in Jesus' name, Amen