Good morning. Yes, Dick. It's been a great joy to be here. I do plan on being here for the installation of Pastor Bob. Don't want to miss that. And uh it's been great to be part of the interim preaching team here at Columbia Press during this year. Well we're finishing up the Advent series uh looking at this just the four titles of Jesus that the prophet Isaiah gave in Isa in Isaiah chapter 9 verses 6 and 7 and and uh we'll we'll read that text in in in just a We're also going to look at Philippians chapter 4 because it our theme today really drives us towards the idea of Jesus being the the pe the prince of peace for us. So uh we'll have our text from the ESV translation, Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6 to 7, and then Philippians chapter 4, reading verses 2 to 9. For to us a child is born. To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God. Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it. With justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. I entreat Yodia and I entreat Sinkiaki to agree in the Lord. Yes, I also I ask You also, true companion, help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel, together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in the book of life. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God and the peace of God. Which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just Whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, Think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me. Practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. God's word. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you for this portion of your word. Lord, this Lord's Day morning. This this Christmas Eve, Lord's Day morning, the special time. We pray for all who would hear, for for those who are here live, for those who are on the live stream, for all of us. with all the distractions of this weekend, that our hearts will be focused on you and your word and what you have to say to us through this these portions of your word. Speak to us and may our may the words of my mouth, the meditation of all of our hearts, Be acceptable in your sight, Lord. You are a rock, you're a redeemer. Amen. Amen. Jesus, the Prince of Peace. That's my title today. Prince of Peace. They're memorable words that highlight many Christmas cards. I'm sure some if you receive cards, you might have received cards that have these famous words. Many. Songs today around the world are going to be sung that echo the words. The words were uttered by the angels of Judea who cried out in unison, Glory to God in the highest. On earth, peace among men of goodwill. Or something like that translation. You know, ever since Adam blamed Eve for the fall. And even soon afterwards, when Cain slew Abel, the human race has had a deep longing for peace, for harmony, for reconciliation. In the book of Romans, Paul concludes, there is no one that is good. No, not even one. No one of goodwill. And yet we have hope. The hope that is reflected in Luke chapter 2. Peace among men of goodwill. The good news. Is that the so-called men of goodwill are not the source of peace. It is the one in the manger. The one called the Prince of Peace, who's the source of peace. Peace. The Jewish people still greet with the ancient term shalom. Peace, which means blessing and wholeness and welfare and well-being. And it's a rich word. Historians talk about uh the Roman peace. They call it the Pax Romana. Pax Romana, peace, which we know was basically because they destroyed everybody else. Pax Romana. I didn't destroy, but they they were heavy-handed. The New Testament letters, the Apostles began that what give a common greeting, grace and peace, addressing the the the the the peace, the shalom of the Jewish people and the charis or Greek of the Greek uh uh uh uh culture members of their churches were often multicultural These multicultural congregations were encouraged to have grace and peace. Peace. Even in in our life, I don't know if you're old as me, you remember back in the seven sixties and seventies, there were these people called the hippies. They had a symbol, they did this. Remember that? Come on, you come on you you come some of your hippies. Do that, do that for me Remember that picture of Richard Nixon doing this? Remember that? Peace. Now now there's now the the modern day contemporary uh uh progressive movement, they use fingers as well. They use one finger as a matter of fact. It's a different kind of movement, but that's another story. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among men of goodwill. Look, here's where we're going today. Jesus came to bring to broken, divided people the eternal peace of God. He came to bring the eternal peace of God to a divided world, to the people who are broken and divided. We're going to look at peace in our world. Peace in our relationships and peace in our hearts. Now, peace in our world, I want to just do a little bit of reflection on on the Isaiah passage again where he he he said in in verse six Um, the child will be born, the son given, and the government will be upon his shoulders. When we think of government, we think of most of us are Americans, I would. we guess. And we think about the American United States government. The government will be upon his shoulder. He's gonna be he's gonna have some authority to rule, to make decisions, to to lead in that kind of sense. And then um In verse 7, of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. So this is going to be a a government that there will be no coup d'etat for this for this this one. Now Isaiah doesn't stop talking about the this government, this piece of the Messiah. A couple chapters later in chapter 11, he goes really into it. I'm just gonna read some some verses from Isaiah chapter 11, where it says, There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse. and a branch from the roots, from his roots shall bear fruit. And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him so this is a hymn, it's a person. The spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what he sees, or decide disputes by what his ears hear. But with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth, and he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, With the breath of his lips, he shall kill the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins. So this one, this shoot from the stump of Jesse will establish righteousness and justice. Speaking about the Messiah who wants to come. He continues. Now he doesn't use the word peace, but listen to these next few verses. The wolf shall dwell with the lamb. And the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together, and little chow shall lead them The cow and the bear shall graze, the young shall lie down together, the lion shall eat straw like the ox, the nursing child shall play over the whole of the cobra, and the winged child shall put his hand on the adder's den. It's a picture of a depiction, a picture of peace that will happen. He won't just bring righteousness and justice. He'll bring this peace. This peace that Isaiah describes. He says, Verse 9, they shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord. As the waters cover the sea. So generation after generation of Jewish people hoped and longed for and prayed that in their day. The Messiah might come and restore all things and bring about this justice, righteousness, and peace to make things right. To establish righteousness and justice in an unrighteous and unjust world, a peace That will be a positive thing, not just the end of outward conflicts, but a piece that will reflect the harmon the harmonious state of affairs And into that longing, into that waiting, into that desire comes the cry of the angels of Judea. In Luke 2, suddenly there was the angel, a multitude of the heavenly hosts, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. On earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. The New Testament Gospels tell us a lot. In fact, one of the key themes of the New Testament is the kingdom government. Of God. That's what the New Testament's about. It's about this government, this kingdom that King Jesus brings to this broken world. And in Matthew 13, as he tries to explain to his disciples and to us and all who would read what this kingdom's all about, he gives parables, he speaks in parables He talks about the fact that this kingdom is going to be an invisible spiritual kingdom. It's not going to come with a glorious white horse into Jerusalem to overthrow Roman, the Roman uh uh uh uh uh oppressors, no. It will impact the world. It will grow small. Impact the world. But it will be expanded not through violence, but as the word of God, the seeds are sown. And that seed expands into people's hearts. So he tells them about the nature of this government, this kingdom. This kingdom of peace. You may recall in Matthew 16, where he kind of gives a midterm exam to the disciples. People are talking about me. What are they saying about me? Well, some say you're the you're like Jeremiah, the prophet. But yeah, but who do you say that I am? And and he said, and Peter Appointed by the Spirit says, You are the Messiah. You are the Son of the Living God. And Jesus said, Blessed are you, son of Simon. You're right, you got it. And then he says, and then it says in the Gospels, it says, He began to talk. About his death. Now that you know that I'm king, that I am the Messiah, I want to tell you what it means for me in the first coming to be your Messiah. Means I'm gonna die. Not gonna rain yet as you think I am and do you remember what happened after that? Come on, you remember that. After that, if you read the Bible, after that, Peter says, Jesus, wait, time out. That's not what I understand from the Bible. That's not what I understand from my Jewish schools. You're not, you're not, and it and then it says, Jesus said, get behind me, Satan. Because he didn't understand that the Prince of Peace could rule, but there'd be no one to rule unless our sins were dealt with. And Peter, that includes you. Get behind me. You don't understand. And still, many of us still don't understand that in his first coming, this Prince of Peace had to die to bring peace to his people But he's coming again, isn't he? See, Christmas reminds us that he's the Prince of Peace. And then when he comes that second time, the second advent, there will be peace on earth. There will be a new hammers and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness, the scriptures. There will be the fullness of shalom. For all God's people, not just the people of Israel, not just the Jews, for all those who call on his name, who confess him as Lord and Savior. The book of Revelation, which I've been reading this year, reminds us that that uh that shalom, that uh new heaven and new earth that comes after Armageddon. After the the the the great beautiful harlot of this world is destroyed. I was thinking that that is the real peace through strength that we talk about. There's a strongness that happens and then peace, the lasting eternal peace comes after that. But like the saints in Revelation, we still cry out, Lord, how long? Lord, how long? It seems in our world that peace, times of world peace, are simply times where everybody pauses to reload. But the New Testament shows us that we don't have to wait to experience peace from God. In Ephesians 2 It looks at divided people, Jews and Gentiles, the people of the world who are divided, who have trusted in Christ and are now a new temple worshiping in the Lord with one voice. And in that chapter Paul simply says, he, Jesus Christ, is our peace. He is our peace. And two chapters later in chapter 4 of Ephesians, he urges the saints to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now let's look, let's look at how this piece has played out in the life of everyday believers in Philippians. This just takes me to Philippians. This Prince of Peace. What does it look like right now? Before this second coming? What does peace look like among God's people? Philippians 2 gives great insight here. In verses 2 and 3, he entreats two women, Eudodia and Syntache, to agree in the Lord. He's going to talk about peace of relationships. These are two women who had a significant conflict. A conflict that's so significant that the church knows about it. Paul's heard about it and he wants to address it in his letter. Which essentially many believe was just a it was a thank you letter for support because they supported uh big time the the the the the apostolic ministry. But in this letter, he has words of encouragement, and he has this encouragement of these two women to be at peace with each other. So there's strife, there's tension going on. There's disunity going on. Let's review a few things about the city of Philippi, the church of Philippi. It's interesting. This is it's during the Acts 16 is the second missionary journey of the Apostle Paul. He goes to the city of Philippi and he does not go to the synagogue, which is where he usually went When he went to a city, there was usually a synagogue. He didn't go to the synagogue because apparently there was no synagogue. So he went to the riverside. Because unless you had either nine or ten Jewish males, you couldn't have a synagogue. And so there were some godly, God-fearing people. who who were worshiping God and down by the riverside. There's a song by that, down by the riverside, by the way. And uh so Paul goes there. He hears that that's where the That the uh the believers uh in in Yahweh are are gathering. And so he has this ministry there. And and the gospel goes there. And there's a woman there named Lydia who's apparently a leader. She's a rich, she's a rich woman And so you can read Acts 16 and find out more about what happened in the Philippi. But one of the things we do know is that he ended up in prison there, and a great miracle happened. But the apostle Paul knew about Philippi. He had some experiences there. And he may have known these two women that he lists here. He may have known them. At least he knew about them. He said it says that they had labored side by side with me in the gospel. That's what he says Some believe this means that women can have equal leadership authority with men in the church. Others, like me and like our PCA, we disagree with that equal authority, but it does say to us that women clearly had leadership role alongside men in some way. Our presbytery, our local presbytery, encourages this, and so does our denomination. Every church needs to figure out what it means for women to be co-laborers alongside ordained men. Every I know different churches in our presbytery worked it out in different ways. That's up for for Columbia Press to to figure out. There are ways I've s as I've watched worship, I've seen lead women working alongside men, and that's good. He says, I entreat Yodia and entreat Sintkiki to agree in the Lord. This is a co-laborers conflict. They were co-laborers together and with Paul. This one just happens to be between two women. But if you remember the Apostle Paul, he had conflicts with some men. Remember that? Remember he and Barnabas had little problems in Galatians chapter 2 in Antioch. Remember how he had a co-labor conflict with Barnabas over Barnabas' cousin John Mark in the book of Acts? After leaving the middle the middle of the first missionary journey, apparently John Mark, we wrote the gospel of Mark later. John John got homesick, sick, we don't know what it was, he took off. Didn't he couldn't finish the journey? Paul said, okay, bye. The Jerusalem Council happens and they they want to take the the message of the council back to the churches. Did they have been to? And so the gathering team for the second journey. And and and and Mark, John Mark's ready to go again. Barnabas says, come on. And Paul says, time out. No, no, no, no, no. He's not eating no. He didn't finish last time. No, no, no, not this time. I'll fool me once, shame on me. You know how you know the deal with the phrase? Fool me twice? No. So it it it says in the in the book of Acts that that that Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension. They had an argument. They had an argument. And it was an argument that the conclusion was they went their separate ways. Okay? There was no there they did not resolve it. Barnabas wanted to give the son of encouragement is his nickname. He was quick to forgive and want and said, come on, Paul, give him a second chance Now, I think about that story a lot. I imagine that Barnabas brought up the story of Peter denying Jesus three times, and the Lord restored him after the resurrection. Imagine he brought up the uh Damascus road where God where Jesus forgive him of all the things he'd done. But still, Paul would not budge. And it got so ugly they parted ways. Thankfully, it appears at the end of their lives, of Paul's life, he reconciled with John, Mark, and possibly Barnabas. But so don't think that because the tension was between Yodia and Sintriki that only women have disagreements is my point there. I I recall years ago when I was uh in campus ministry in university, um we were having a regional staff meeting uh before, it was in August before school was beginning, the next school year And we were having a discussion. I don't remember what the discussion was about, but we had a very heated difference of difference of opinion, uh, uh, a debate. About where what about some decision. And I'll never forget that it got it came time for our morning break. And so our area director said, okay, it's supposed to be a 15-minute break. Let's take a half-hour break. So we said okay so we we we got up and and and and and the women were kinda they were saying wow Then some rudeness happened in there and then the voices got a little loud and people weren't listening to each other as they should. They wanted to debrief together what had just happened Where the the guys when things broke up they said where's the basketball? We gotta play basketball. We gotta we gotta we g we gotta go release our energy and and and and and and and and bang each other a little bit And that was our way of dealing with the stress of what had just happened. And I and I bring that out because I um I know I've been I've been accused of of having stereotypes. I know that, forgive me. But I think God has created some differences in us, men and women, and we need to not deny that but affirm that and figure out what it means as a church goes forward. It has been said many times that men need to be more alert to relationships and and understand the importance of relationships and that we can learn that from our women and it's true. But it's also true that women need to sometimes realize that sometimes for the sake of relationships you have to agree to disagree and move on And somehow we've got to figure all that out in the body of Christ, or we get stifled. We become we just like a we get stuck in cement and can't move forward. Men and women need each other because God has built made us differently. That's a word to our the church, a word to the particularly the evangelical church, that we need to continue to think through ways to empower women. The counsel is imperative. Their wisdom is needed. Their perspective is very important Now to the world, I would just say we need to understand the French would say, viva la différence. Men and women are not only equal, they're different. And by the way, there are men in there, women, too. It's maintain the creational distinction God has made. We complement one another, and that's a beautiful thing The church lacks peace about gender roles because we fail to appreciate this unity and this diversity that God has built into the world through the presence of the two genders. We talked about peace in the world. We talked about peace in our relationships in the body of Christ. But Philippians moves on, verses 4 to 9, he talks about peace in our hearts, peace in our own private lives. Christmas is a time where we're told to experience joy. Come on, be joyful. Joyful, joyful. We adore him. Joy to the world. Honestly, that's wonderful, but some people Sometimes aren't really feeling the joy. We've talked about that already in this worship service. It's been helpful. And yet we have verse 4. It just shouts at us, doesn't it? Where Paul says, rejoice in the Lord. Always. Always? Yes, always. And again I'll say, rejoice. So, we're never told in the Bible to rejoice because of all the circumstances, but to rejoice in the midst of all of our circumstances because of the Lord. Let's go back to Paul again in Philippi in Acts chapter 16 in that Philippian jail where he and Silas are in the stocks. What are they doing? They're singing hymns to God. They embrace the thoughts, maybe, of hymn writer Charles Wesley. This is anachronistic, I know, but. Charles Wesley centuries later would write, rejoice! The Lord is King! Your Lord and King, adore, rejoice, give thanks and sing and triumph evermore. Lift up your heart, lift up your voice, rejoice. Again, I say rejoice. That phrase is taken straight from this passage in Philippians 4. And then he gives three reasons in the next few verses. Jesus, the Savior, reigns, the God of truth and love, when he has purged our sins, he took his seat above. His kingdom cannot fail. He rules over earth and heaven. The keys of death and hell are to our Jesus given And so he says, rejoice in glorious hope. Our Lord and judge shall come and take his servants. Up to their eternal home. Lift up your heart, lift up your voice, rejoice again. I say, rejoice The song, that song takes us beyond our circumstances into God's plan for his people. A plan that includes all who have trusted in Jesus. And Paul in Philippians 4, as he writes, is not in a holiday inn or a Marriott or a four-star hotel. He's in a dark, gloomy Roman prison, probably chained to guards Humanly speaking, he has no freedom, no hope of even having another meal. He knows his next meal could be his last. He has no reason for peace or for joy humanly, and yet, yet, rather than having a pity party for himself, He says to all who would read this through the centuries, rejoice. Rejoice. Wonderful song about 20 years ago. Israel Holden uh used these ver these phrases as the key phrase in his song. Come bless the Lord. Come bless the Lord. Draw near to worship Christ the Lord and bless his name, for he is good. His holy name, he is good. Oh, that men would praise him. Oh, that men would praise him. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I'll say, rejoice. It's almost like that's a command that Paul has commanded in his heart to rejoice, and he's commanding us, no matter what our dungeon is, no matter what uh our prison is, no matter what our future looks like, no matter what our circumstances. Find something to rejoice in, and we have things to rejoice in, if we would but think. If we would but think and reflect and pray. Verse 5 says, let your reasonables be known, reasonableness be known to everyone. Reasonableness. One commentator says it's fair-mindedness. The attitude of a man who is charitable towards men's faults and merciful in his judgment of their failings because he takes their whole situation into his reckoning. Perhaps graciousness is the best English equivalent. Then he says, the Lord is at hand. The Lord is at hand. He's present. He's there. And he's coming and he's real. Ponder the presence of the Lord is what he says. That because he's there and he's your Lord. Your situation is not what you think it is. Broaden your perspective is what he's saying. In verses 4 to 9, there's kind of a there's a five-part Kind of recipe for peace, a pathway to peace that he gives. It's kind of five ingredients. He talks about this joyful heart. He's talked about this eternal perspective. The Lord is at hand. You know, then that comes from being in God's word. That's where you see it. As you live in God's word, you see that all is not all that you think it is. There's more going on. We forget that. So there's joy, there's rejoicing, there's uh the eternal perspective, and thirdly is in verses 6 and 7, a prayer life. He he talks about a rich the richness of having a prayer life And he uses several words there. He says, talks about supplication, thanksgiving, request, supplication. This is to fervently seek. Jesus talked about as. Seek, not. Continue going after what you need from your father who loves you, who gives you what you need. One commentator Muller says, the cure for worry is not in action. Nor apathy, but the outpouring of the heart to God. That's the cure for worry. Don't be anxious, but give yourself to prayer. He says, thanksgiving. This is praise and adoration. Again, Mueller says prayer without thanksgiving is like a bird without wings. I like that. Prayer without thanksgiving is like a bird without wings. Such a prayer cannot rise to heaven and can find no acceptance with God. Supplications, thanksgiving, and then requests. These are just petitions, things that you ask God. The fourth element of this these ingredients is what I call a disciplined thought life. Verse 8. And our minds are really the battlefield. That our minds become the battlefield for whether we're going to experience the peace of the Prince of Peace on a day-by-day basis Look at verse 8. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there's any excellence. If there's anything worthy of praise, think about these things. Your mind, what you think about. You talk about a disciplined thought life. I confess, this is harder and harder for me and for all of us in the world in which we live, where there's so many negative voices. But we're but but but the the exhortation is to think positive just the other day we were um we we had we had our Dick was talking about having grandkids you had seven grandkids coming tomorrow we had a couple of our grandkids were over this a couple uh Friday and Saturday and Friday evening, we were watching that great movie Home Alone. Funny movie, but Sometimes, again, as adults in our world, sometimes we miss this. There were several times in the movie where one of our grandkids says, they said a bad word. It is so easy living in this world to get so used to hearing certain words, we don't realize it. And I was kind of, I commend him, I said, hey, my son taught him something. That's good. Because so often we hear those words and we don't think they're bad words anymore because everybody uses them. The mind, discipline of the mind Years ago, one of the brothers at the Faith Christian Fellowship preached a message about our minds, and he's talking about these devices that we have. And he challenged everyone. And it's and it's something, I mean, this sermon was probably about eight, nine years ago, and I still remember it every morning. He says, when you wake up in the morning And go to your device, what's the first thing you go to? This I've heard that that comes to me all the time. Do I check my email? Do I check something on YouTube or some sermon? Do I check a Bible? What do I look at? Where does my mind go? First thing in the morning. It's a great challenge for us to start our day thinking of the things that are true and honorable and pure, because you know what? As the day goes on, what's gonna happen? Those things are not gonna be part of of our mindset. And so we if we if we start our day, ground our day in those things. We maintain in our lives. Well, the the fifth of the fifth ingredient, I think, for this piece is just a life of obedience To God's word. Look, look, look, look carefully what he says in verse 9. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things. So Paul's been talking, he's lived before them, but he's also been, he sent them some letters and he's preached to them. The word of God, the things that from God's word We need to not just hear them, but do them. And the ESV uses the word practice these things. I was thinking about reflecting on that word practice. One of my favorite musicians, I'm a guitarist, is a man is a jazz guitarist named Earl Clue. And one of his interviews, he mentioned that Every day of his life he touches his guitar and he practices. If it's not just for ten minutes, every day he practices his guitar. And he's a phenomenal guitarist And I said to myself, well that may be why I'm not that good. Because I don't do that every day. I thought about the the importance of practice. Think about the great athletes. How when the lights are on and they're performing their craft, they do it like it's second nature. How can they do it like it's second nature? Because when the light's not on, at 6. 30 in the morning, they're out there getting their body trained, learning repetition, skills, skills. We will never grow in our Christian life unless we realize that we have to practice the disciplines that God has for us. Someone says practice makes perfect. Well, I don't know who makes that slogan, but it's a nice phrase. But you know what? I like the idea of practice because sometimes when you practice, you don't do it perfectly. And that's okay. We want to see pro God wants to see progress. That's the point. Not perfection. God isn't smashing you because you're not perfect. God wants you to progress in these things, in the discipline of the mind, and in experiencing his peace. And again, as we said, the source of this peace is the Lord. Several times we see the God of peace and the peace of God. That's where this comes from. That's where it comes from. Verse 7 is interesting. There's this imagery. Just back to verse 7, the imagery there. The peace of God which surpasses all understanding. Guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. The word guard is an interesting word. Guard. You know, in in in sports we have guards. A football, the guard protects the quarterback. Um in in our in our country we have the National Guard, they protect the coast, they protect us from enemies It gets closer to the way Paul's using that word. If you're my age, you know what colt and guard is. That's a medical procedure that us guys know about. Some women do too, but Cola guard. Protecting you from the disease. Dreaded disease. Guard, guard. Alec Mulder, who's a British theologian, commentator, he refers to the British Royal Household Guard. who since 1660 have protected the British royals at Buckingham Palace, wearing their red and black uniforms and their big bushy headdress. You've seen them, I'm sure. Mortar says this, God's peace will guard us, and God himself will be our companion. This is a picture of the besieged citadel. It's the castle of the mind of the Christian. If the castle can be held, progression and sanctification and renewal goes forward. If it can be captured, then backsliding and spiritual decadence begin. But It is garrisoned strongly, it is guarded strongly. Its walls are constantly patrolled, its sentries never sleep at their posts. The troops are the household guards of the King of Kings, and they march behind the standard of the peace of God. Meanwhile, inside the citadel, hearts and thoughts alike are kept in quietness, for their companion is the King of King himself, the God of peace, who's with them. The God of peace is with us. Isaiah chapter 26, verse 3. You keep him in perfect peace, his mind It's stained on you because he trusts in you. Verse 4, trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord, God, is an everlasting rock. Jesus Christ, the Prince of Peace. This classic song that people sing. Sometimes they sing it during this time of the year. It's not necessarily a Christmas song. And it's a song that I have mixed feelings about. I'm glad I haven't heard it here during Advent. The song is called Let There Be Peace on Earth. Which is a great wish. And it says, let it begin with me. That's a great wish, too. But the second line of the song shows some theological weakness. It says, with God as our Father, Brothers, all are we. It's pointing towards what some would call the universal brotherhood of all people, which is not an emphasis of the scriptures. The scripture says that we're united in our sin. We're all born of Adam from one blood, but Jesus says that he has rescued us. And some of us are no longer children of the devil, we're children of God. No longer children of Adam, but children of the king. So the song is just a little bit too idealistic for me. To say that brothers all are we, why can't we just get along? Why can't we have internal peace? Why can't we have external peace? Why can't we have world peace? A world of people who are not experiencing God's peace can never blossom into a peaceful world. And yet, Jesus is the wonderful counselor, the Almighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. And in one sense The song is on to something. It's almost like there was a song by I love music, you know. There's a song by Michael Jackson. It's it I'm looking at the man in the mirror. Some of you know Michael Jackson, that song It does start with us. It does. That is something the song gets right. Jesus Christ. Glory to God in the highest. On earth, peace among men. Jesus Christ brings that peace. And people are saying, well, the world's not peace. He failed. No. No. He brings peace, peace to hearts who trust him. Romans 5. 1. Peace into our relationships. Those who realize that we are brothers and sisters in Christ. And we maintain that unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. And ultimately, peace to a world, a per a world that will one day. uh uh uh experience the truth of revelation that that he that will know that he is the king of kings and the lord of lords overall Where righteousness, justice, and peace dwell forever and ever. Let's pray. Well peace is a theme that we think of a lot of times. And during Christmas season we think about it a little bit more because of Verses like the ones we've talked about. Lord, I pray that that as we think about our own lives, the the simple daily, mundane, day-to-day living that we do, we would reflect on. This fruit of the Spirit, this peace that you bring to us and offer to us on a daily basis, that our hearts would be overflowed with joy, and that joy would move us into the peace of Jesus Christ. And that that peace would be so evident in our lives that others would want it. Want to know what is that that you have? Lord, I pray that during this Christmas season, I pray for all of us tomorrow as we experience different relationships with people, Lord, your peace would flow. And we would we would rejoice in you. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen.