He has uh put a new song in our hearts, and then he calls us to declare that song, that good work that he's done. Thank you, choir, for sharing. With us that song. And thank you for your Wednesday evenings of rehearsal that got us to this point. If you have a copy of the scripture, I want to invite you to Mark chapter 10, the Gospel of Mark chapter 10. We'll actually be in Mark chapter 10 this week and Lord willing next week and the week after that. And then the following week is April the first, which is Palm Sunday, and we'll be in Mark chapter eleven This is a uh series of sermons that uh cause us to see uh various encounters that Jesus Christ had on his journey to Jerusalem. His final journey, where he was preordained, foreordained to be crucified for the sins of his people So we're going to walk through these encounters in Mark 10 and the first part of Mark 11 for Palm Sunday, and then on Good Friday, which is April the 6th. We want to encourage you to uh look forward to a time where we'll gather slightly different than um the uh Previous Good Friday services, where we're going to take a look at the seven words of Christ from the cross. various reflections and songs uh woven throughout that evening, which we trust will uh prepare us to come ready to celebrate Christ's victory over the grave on Easter Sunday morning. morning, April the eighth. So that is what we intend to do if the Lord wills. Let's read from Mark chapter ten then. I want to pick it up in verse twenty-three Through thirty-four. God's Word for Us. And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples. How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God. And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again, Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. And they were exceedingly astonished, and said to him, Then who can be saved? Jesus looked at them and said, With man it is impossible. But not with God. For all things are possible with God. And Peter began to say to him, See, we have left everything and followed you. And Jesus said, Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands. For my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands. with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. And they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking ahead of them, and they were amazed. And those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve again he began to tell them what was to happen to him, saying, See, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priest and the scribes. And they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles, and they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him. And after three days he will rise. God's word for us. Mark chapter ten I remember when I was in junior high school. We didn't have middle school back then. I was in junior high in Glen Burney, Maryland, just up the road, and we had gone to the Cinema Herrendale, big huge movie theater. Not these little boxes that they used to put out. Huge movie theater. And my brother and I saw the movie A Bridge Too Far. It was a World War II film, cast of many. And it we told the story of the failed attempt, this uh joint paratrooper and ground campaign called Operation Market Garden. where they were attempting to take the bridges that led into Germany from Holland and various other places. But it seemed that it had every venture, uh what could go wrong did go wrong. Bridges were demolished prematurely. Allied forces were cut off from supplies and left stranded for days, what I'm sure seemed like to them eternity. And although spotted throughout with acts of heroism, it was not the brightest day in military history. And I wonder sometimes if we think of a bridge too far as our view of what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. We struggle with the initial battle of humbling ourselves and receiving the truth that we are sinful and that that sin justly. Righteously deserves hell forever and ever, all eternity of suffering And we struggle with that first battle to agree with God's truth. And then by grace, we embrace the work of Jesus Christ on our behalf, the sinless life offered for our righteousness, his substitutionary death in place of us. Him incurring the wrath of God that we deserve. But then we slip into this battle for the next bridge mindset. A battle for the next bridge mindset as it relates to us being a disciple of Jesus Christ. Following Jesus seen as a series of bridges to conquest. Along the road of our Christian pilgrimage. We begin with the really hard bridges. We work on anger and lust and gluttony and greed and In an effort to clean up for Christ. And then we move on to the battle for the next bridge. Gossip or how to properly worship God or a good position on missions, whether we're going or sending. And the next bridge battle comes up, the the intricate ones. We take Dave Chandler's marriage class and we work on loving our wives the way Christ loved the church. Or we're concerned mostly for raising Righteous or at least rule-abiding children. And the disciples, we look to the next thing that we are to do To either inherit eternal life, we wrestle with that false notion, or to secure the eternal life that was already purchased for us. I'm tired just thinking about it. But that's not what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. These series of encounters that Christ has with the various individuals that we'll look at in Mark 10. Jesus is laying out in a very clear and simple fashion what we need to know about what it means to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Don't get me wrong, the battle with our flesh and sin is a vicious battle, and it is exhausting. But it's not accomplished in the strength that we bring. It's accomplished in the strength that He provides through His finished work. And that's what our Lord would have us to see. I want to make five points from this passage and reference to some passages that we looked at last Sunday. The five points are this. I apologize for the blank space in the bulletin. But this sermon became something different from Thursday to Friday and then Friday to Saturday. And this is the one because it's 11 that we have to preach. Here are the five points. Jesus alone defines discipleship. Make no mistake, we don't define what it is to be a disciple of Christ. The Lord Himself does. The second point we're going to look at is Jesus puts our possessions into proper perspective. Jesus puts our possessions into perspective. Jesus boldly proclaims that the path of salvation is only possible with God. Jesus reassures his disciples that there will be no regrets. We'll get to that. That's the fourth point. And then the fifth point we'll touch on briefly because it sets the stage for next week's message is that Jesus' disciples marvel At his completed mission. The heart of a disciple is drawn to It's Lord. So Jesus alone defines discipleship. At several points in this chapter, we see Jesus laying it out. Uh last Sunday night we looked at the passage of Scripture in Mark chapter 10, verse 13 to 16, where people were bringing their children to Jesus, to have him touch them, to lay hands on them, to pray for them. You see this pictured when a minister of the gospel takes a small baby in his arms and he walks him up and down and he says, People of God, this is how God receives us. This is the picture. And the disciples were rebuking the people that were bringing those children to be blessed. And Jesus said, Let the little children come to me. Do not hinder them, for such belongs the kingdom of God. We looked at this last Sunday night. These were actual children, an actual encounter. But what Jesus says next is the lesson of the disciple. He says the words, truly I say to you. See that there in Mark 10 and verse 15? It's not projected anywhere. Don't go anywhere on the laptop, Emily. In verse 15, Jesus utters this phrase that we'll hear again in the text today. Truly I say to you, assuredly I am speaking. It's like when we had the construction zone over here before this beautiful building was erected. And there were signs all over the place. Hard hat area. If you didn't wear a hard hat in this area, you took the great risk of one of these great workers dropping a great big bolt on your head. It almost happened to us. We were working right outside that door, and hard hat area signs are important for that very reason When Jesus says, Truly I say to you, what comes after those words are eternally important. And in Mark 10 and verse 16, when he says, Truly I say to you, he wants to instruct our hearts about what kind of faith a disciple has. And he says, Truly I say, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. We pay attention to this because we complicate the faith that we bring to discipleship. And Jesus says it's simple, childlike faith. It's trust-filled simplicity. It's unassuming humility. Jesus is saying That the truth of who God is, the truth of who we are, as it's presented in the scriptures, and the truth of what Christ has done to bring a holy God in reconciliation to a sinful man is to be believed. with childlike face. Children have that no-guile, take you at your word, way of hearing things. They believe it when you say that you'll get ice cream later. They don't know what air quotes are all about. They'll bring up later. Mark my words, truly I say to you. That later will be recalled. Jesus says that we are to receive this truth of the kingdom like children That's the kind of faith that we're to have. It's to take God at His Word. It's to believe the message It's to believe that you are unfit and unable to come to a holy God on your own. It's to believe that because of your sins and your sinfulness You justly deserve God's wrath. Believe that. Let that weight sit on you so that you might believe that the sinless Savior substituted himself for you on the cross. and offers himself freely as a gift. You can't earn it and you can't pay it back. Believe Believe with childlike simplicity. Believe that He is the faithful one when you are faithless. And then we saw last Sunday when Pastor Randy preached of this just heart-wrenching encounter. of a rich young ruler who comes to Jesus with the notion of finding out what he can add to his to-do list. Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Randy elaborated on the words of Christ As the young ruler rehearsed some of the commandments. And then Jesus, in that loving Pastoral way wanted to reveal his heart, the man's heart, to himself and to the disciples standing there One thing you lack. He didn't Jesus didn't laugh out loud with the ridiculous notion that this guy could have kept the commandments. He could have. He could have said That assertion is asinine. Are you kidding me? The perfect holy law of God, you've kept all of these since your youth. You've gotta be kidding. Guys, gather around. Look at this idiot. There is no way that one of us Could ever achieve the standard of perfection as it's reflected in God's holy law. But Jesus didn't do that He loved the man. And he looked on him with love and he said I'm Wanting to show you your heart. One thing you lack. Go and sell all that you have and give it to the poor. And then come and follow me. Recall the words of Jesus in the invitation in Matthew 16. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. And follow me. And then again in Luke in chapter 9, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross daily, Luke adds, and follow me. See what Jesus was doing was showing this young man what it was to be a disciple. Your heart cannot be divided if you follow Jesus Christ. And that's what Jesus was pointing out to the young ruler. Because the Gospel of Mark records that the young man, disheartened, turned away from Christ and walked away. Why? Mark elaborates. Because he had a great many possessions. And apparently unwilling to give them up. Well, that's where the scripture that we read this morning picks up. Jesus alone defines discipleship. He is describing for us in these encounters what it means to be one who follows after him. And Jesus puts our possessions in perspective when they're brought in line with who He is. The text that we looked at, that I just read, occurs immediately following this young man turning around and walking away. Can you imagine the scene? Can you picture this? Now Jesus looked on this young man with love, and Jesus offered him the opportunity. To follow after him. It was that picture of a man with great possessions, earthly possessions. Being given the opportunity to embrace the pearl of great price, as we heard last week, and turning around. It'd be like you and me with a shiny nickel Five cent piece, being offered all the gold in Fort Knox, if they even have any more there, and saying, Well, I kind of like this shiny nickel. Thanks, but no thanks. And even that illustration doesn't really get to it Because Jesus said, Follow me with an undivided heart, and you'll see what blessing is. Imagine the tragedy of that moment. And Jesus standing there as the young man walked away. And he turns to his disciples because he knows that this is a pivotal teaching moment for them, and it's very important that the scriptures record it for us. And Jesus says, how difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God. How difficult it will be for those with wealth to enter the kingdom of God. And you see the disciples' reaction. They're actually starting to get a little anxious. The disciples, Mark records, were amazed at these words. And look at the love of our Savior. Look at the tenderness of our Lord. Again, He doesn't bring into attention how ludicrous they are to think otherwise. They're amazed, and I think sensing their anxiety, the unsettling feeling that seems to be pervading the group of twelve now, Jesus says Children. It's a term of endearment. There are ways to cut somebody down by calling them son or little man or whatever you want to do, but this is not what's happening in this passage. Jesus tenderly addresses them and then he reiterates the truth. Because Jesus never backs down from truth. He sees them getting a little bit agitated, amazed, astonished, a bit anxious. I think if I was in that situation I might well well you know, well but I I didn't really mean that. What I meant to say was Well, it's kind of like this, and can I do not Jesus. He reiterates it and even with more force. Some of the manuscripts, the early manuscripts include the phrase Children, how difficult it is for those who trust in their wealth to enter the kingdom of God You see how Jesus is reaffirming what he had already done with the rich young man. If your trust is in anything other than the finished work of Jesus Christ. Then you will not enter the kingdom of God. That's how eternally critical this truth is And he cares for those disciples. He knows the feeling of an unsettled that they have. And then Jesus, just to make it clear, uses an extreme hyperbole. Is that redundant? I'm sorry, English teachers. He uses hyperbole to make the point. I tell you this That it's easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. And we've heard this maybe talked about before. I don't think there's any reason to think anything other than Jesus was using an extreme hyperbole. A large desert-going mammal with one hump or two, able to carry a lot of pack. Passing through the eye of a needle. Now there's a story told, you know, that the uh gates of Jerusalem had names, the East Gate, the West Gate, the Dung Gate. Yep. You s pull that one out at lunchtime, kids. And there was a gate that was known as the eye of the needle. But it wasn't known that way in Jesus' time. In fact, it wasn't really known that way until about the ninth century. And you may have heard it preached that this eye of the needle, the camel could pass through, but it had to get down on its knees, because camels can go on their knees. And then you had to shove and push and shove and push until the camel finally squeezed through the gate that was known as the eye of the needle. Now Okay, so that fits, right? It'll preach, as we used to say in seminary. Because a rich man needs to get on his knees and humble himself and then you push and you shove from the from the backside and then he'll hopefully eke his way into the The kingdom of heaven. I want to submit to you that Jesus was literally saying a huge desert-going mammal through a space about that. Can we agree that if that is the hyperbole, then Jesus is trying to make a point that we need to pay attention to? Jesus puts our possessions into proper perspective I recall when Dana and I were expecting our first child, who is now twenty years old. This is how Jesus works to put possessions in proper perspective. But we need a regular reminder, do we not? We were expecting Emma and we were in this rental house out in Pasadena and there was a terrific thunderstorm and our house got struck by lightning and burned us out actually. A huge fire ensued. We ended up moving into my parents' basement. And um like the prodigal son, you can go home again. But as I we Dana and I got out of the house and it's pouring down rain and I'm standing in the driveway looking up at the gable end of our house just billows of fire and smoke coming out. And some of you have heard me share this before. The very first thing that came to my self-absorbed heart was, oh God, what about all our stuff? And then God graciously brought some memorized scripture to my mind because immediately in connection to my self-absorbed heart. was the words of Jesus. Do not lay up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust and Destroy where thieves can break in and steal, but rather lay up for yourself treasures in heaven where moth and rust cannot destroy, where thieves cannot break in and steal. And God puts our possessions into perspective. That's what Jesus is doing here He knows the hearts of the disciples. He knows that Matthew set aside his tax collecting business, got up and followed him. He knows that the James and John and the others who were fishermen, they left a thriving business to follow him. They followed a a a traveling rabbi for close to three years He knows that, but he wants to make sure that they know that an undivided heart is the heart of the disciple of Jesus Christ. My heart needs a regular reminder of my possessions in their proper place. That's why we sing the hymn, Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus. Look full in his wonderful face, and the things of earth they'll grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and his Grace. That's how our possessions are put into perspective. The disciples weren't confused. They didn't think maybe it's a shove a big camel through a a gate in the city wall. They thought he was being serious with his hyperbole. And they became, Mark says, exceedingly astonished. Literally, the word is shocked. Gulp, shock. What is Jesus saying? And they asked him then the only logical follow-up question to a group of people who just heard a rich man cannot enter in just like a huge desert going mammal can pass through this And they said, then who can be saved? It's a logical question. It follows Logically. And Jesus again does not shrink back from declaring that God is the absolute sovereign one in salvation. Jesus boldly proclaims the path of salvation is only possible with God. That's the third point. Jesus boldly proclaims Again, if we're to ever see any kind of man orientation to the doctrine of salvation, it should be here. Jesus should be mitigating some things, he should be balancing some theories, he should be sharing some ideology and incorporating in a syncretistic view how to approach God as man. You can get yourself there by your bootstraps. Jesus does not do that. In fact, if anything He simply makes it clearer. Can you stand it? He simply makes it clearer I tell you, they said, who can be saved? But keep see what Mark does here? He records again the the the witness probably Mark is the witness of Peter for all that's going on. And right before Jesus speaks, we see Mark record, and Jesus looked at them. I think we should probably pay attention to all those little phrases Because Jesus has already dealt with them tenderly. Children, do you see how difficult it is for someone with great wealth to enter the kingdom? And then they become anxious and he uses his thing and they say, Well, who can be saved? And he looks at them. I think maybe he just wanted to calm things down. And he wanted to be clear, with man, with man, it's impossible You can't save yourself. Cannot do it There's no achievement that God will look on with favor that you produce That's why I think that when it's about God's sovereignty and salvation Where he gets the most glory, then our hearts get the most good. I don't want Jesus at this point to say, well, here's what you need to do. To be saved. I don't want that. I want him to say, no, with man it's impossible. Can't But with God, with God all things are possible. If God wills that a huge desert-going mammal can pass through a space that big, that I'm gonna guarantee you something today, if God wills that Then that camel's going to pass through safely, and on the other side, if he could, he'd be whistling a happy tune. Because if God wills something to come to pass, it will come to pass. Do you believe that if God wills a man of great wealth named Abraham, who was old and couldn't bear children with his wife Sarah, was to father a child and in turn become the father of many nations Do you believe that that would come to pass if God wills it? Do you believe that God wills that a man, if God wills that a man who was raised in the rabbinical school of Gamel and the Pharisee of Pharisees who hated Christians with a white-hot passion and persecuted the church Do you believe that if God willed that that man would turn in faith with Jesus Christ and write most of the New Testament and spread the gospel of Christ to the Gentile nation? Do you believe that if God wills that, it will come to pass? Do you believe that if God wills that those who scornfully use you, who persecute you for Righteousness' sake, for the sake of righteousness, do you believe that God wills that they're deserving of your prayers and in fact can, by the power of the preached word See their hearts turn? Do you believe that if God wills that, that that will come to pass Do you believe that God calls you to be faithful in the daily walk and the promises? And promises you in the power of the Holy Spirit That you'll be able to resist temptation even to the point of shedding your own blood for the cause of the gospel. Do you believe that if God wills that, that it will come to pass? That's what Jesus is teaching. With man, this is impossible. With God, all things are possible. Jesus boldly proclaims that salvation is only possible in God, through God, by God, to God alone be the glory. And then Jesus reassures his disciples, this is point number four, Jesus reassures his disciples that there will be in that day no regrets. The reassurance of no regrets is available only to the disciple of Jesus Christ. I want to say that again, not for you, for this heart. The reassurance that there will be no regrets Is only available to the disciple of Jesus Christ. You see, this discussion that's taking place gets inside Peter's head. You see the scripture there, and Peter says He just starts to talk. Aren't you glad that Peter was there? I would have never thought up these questions, but boy do I want to have the answers to these questions I would have just been like miserable and walked away sad probably. But Peter's like, oh Lord, you know that we've left all to follow you. See, the the conversation is rolling around in Peter's head. He's aware of what's being said. He's aware of the hyperbole. He's aware that this rich young man just walked away disheartened And Peter says, Lord, we've left everything to follow you. And listen what Jesus says. Listen, it's that hard hat Area sign. He says, truly I say to you, reassuredly I say to you, you can confidently bank on what I say next, he says to you. And then he goes into this description. There is no one who has left houses or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands. for my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive hundredfold Now, in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecutions. In this time and in that time, eternal life. You see, what Jesus is promising to his disciple is You will have no regret. No regret that can be reassured by the body of Christ in this present age, because we're to help one another with that. When you're feeling weak, when you're feeling hopeless, when your heart is downtrodden, the body of Christ is to point to the Savior. There's no regret here. Jesus is not saying give up a house that cost you $250,000 and you'll get a house that we could probably get for a million Give up that old beat up Toyota Corolla, 1981, and we'll get you a Lexus. That passage of Scripture, in no way, shape, or form. Produces that teaching. So reject that teaching if you ever hear it. By the way, what Jesus is saying is if you leave those who don't follow me to follow me, you'll have a family embrace that you could never dream of. And yes, you'll have it in this present age. You'll have the opportunity to pick up the phone and say, hey, I'm coming to El Paso, Texas. I need a place to stay. And the body of Christ will say, Okay, we'll pull out the sofa. Or probably we'll give you the best bed and we'll sleep on the sofa. Germany, England, Glen Burney. That's the embrace of the body of Christ. That I believe Jesus is teaching here. There will be no regret. And there will be no regret in that day to come The recompense. Jesus will not ultimately disappoint. Do we believe that? One day, beloved One day, no regrets, no regrets that you laid down your life for the sake of another. No regret that you laid down your rights When you were in conflict with another. No regret that you humbled yourself and acknowledged the wrong that you realize you have committed in a relational strain, even if the other party seems to be clueless. No regret that you poured yourself out, like Paul says to the Philippian church, as a drink offering for the lives of others No regrets that when the world scoffs at you for the way you use your hours serving the body of Christ and serving your fellow man, you'll have no regrets in that day. And Jesus says to you. Beloved. Listen, verse thirty-one. Many who are first will be last. But the last will be first. This is a lesson that we'll see throughout the rest of the chapter too. Jesus is teaching what the servant posture of a disciple of Christ is. And this is the first thing, we see the second and the biggest impact of that in verse 45, where he said, the Son of Man did not come To be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for the many. You see, when we look to Christ, we see what it is to humble ourselves for the sake of the kingdom. So we can humble ourselves for the sake of the kingdom. If we look to what we're getting out of it, we'll never do it. So the next time you're tempted to wonder if following Jesus is worth the trouble that you're encountering, whether it be internal trouble or external trouble or whatever it might be. When you're tempted to think, is this worth it? Think on this passage. Think on the no-regrets reassurance of the Savior. Think of the way he highlighted the sacrifice of that widow who gave the two coins in the midst of all the wealthy men she gave out of her want, not out of her abundance. And Jesus highlighted her for the crowd because that's the way the kingdom of God operates. Think of that time when there was a dinner party at Simon's house and the woman lavished this uh expensive perfume on Jesus. And everybody was ridiculing her, but she did not shrink back from the worship of her Lord. And he noted, wherever the gospel is preached. In all the time that it is preached, what she's done today will be remembered. Those who scoffed at her, not remembered That's the no-regrets reassurance that we have. Beloved, listen The last thing we see, and we'll we're gonna pick this up next week, is that Jesus' disciples marvel at his completed mission. We worship We sing of a wondrous cross. No one would think that a torture, uh a piece of wood that was used to excruciatingly kill people would be wondrous. And yet because Christ purchased our salvation on that cross, we sing of it You see how Jesus is in front of them in 32. They were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was walking ahead of them. So I'm finished this teaching. I am heading to where it has been ordained for me to head before the foundation of the world That the Son of God, the eternal Son of God, the holy creator of all things, through whom all things were made, and by whom all things are held together. It was predetermined that I would go to Jerusalem. And he tells the disciples what was going on. We're going there. The Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes. They will condemn him to death. There'll be some sort of trial. I'll be condemned to death. They'll deliver me over to the Gentiles, to the Romans. Because Jesus knew of the type of crucifixion that he was to receive, of the type of death that he was to receive. Not of stoning the way the Jews would do. With a death sentence, but a crucifixion, the way the Gentiles would do. The prediction is so on point. And they will mock him, and they will spit on him, and they will flog him, whip him, and they will kill him. And Jesus maybe let that sit there a second, a beat, I don't know. But he didn't leave it there. And on the third day, can you just picture the disciple? They have walked with this man, they have seen him calm the sea, turn Five loaves and two fishes into a feast for five thousand. And now he's just said, I'm I'm going there. They're gonna try me. I'm gonna be beaten, I'm gonna be crucified Spit on, killed. But on the third day, I will rise again Now we know that they didn't quite grasp that. Do we quite grasp that? And yet that is what Jesus Christ has accomplished. And the disciple of Christ marvels and gives himself to that cause. We're going to sing in just a bit the hymn that Martin Luther pinned for the church. That fourth verse, sing it at the top of your lungs, disciple of Christ. Let goods and kindred go, this mortal life also, the body they may kill, but God's truth abideth still His kingdom is forever. Let's pray together Gracious God, please help us now to believe, to receive this truth of who you are and what you've done, and to worship you with our full heart. Not divided, but with a heart that is filled with joy, filled with the hope of a resurrection day that is promised to each of us who follow you. Lord, I pray for the ones who are wrestling with the idea of following you. And I ask right now that you would be at work in a way that only you do. Only you do this, Lord, by your spirit. To convince us that yes, Jesus is all that he promised he would be. And I pray, Lord, for the faith to be exercised and for people to follow you. Help me, help my brothers and sisters here to follow you all the days of our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.