The Bible means an awful lot. And whenever we say, I believe the Bible, we are saying that we love the Lord Jesus. He also believed the Bible. It's something I've been telling the kids in the senior high Sunday school class for years. Is that the first words out of Christ's mouth after he is baptized by the Spirit and his ministry begins are as it is written. And in Luke chapter 5, we read about what Jesus used to do when he would preach. He would walk into a synagogue, find the text he was going to preach from. Stand up as was the custom and read from the scrolls and then sit down. And Christ Himself, who we read in John's Gospel, was the Word Submitted his preaching to the Word. What a book. We're going to be reading this morning John chapter 7 Verses 37 through 44. But before we read that, let's take a moment to thank our God for this book and the hope that we can have every time we look to it. Father God, we do praise you and we do thank you for the many good things you have done for us. Lord, for the fact that you have created us, that you have redeemed us, and Lord, that you have revealed yourself to us. And Lord, as we come to you, having praised your name Lord, having rejoiced in the forgiveness that we have in you, the redemption that is ours in Christ, we come now to hear from you through your word. And Lord, you have promised that even as you send rain, that it might produce a harvest. You send your word, and it does not return empty, but it too produces a harvest. And Lord, that harvest that we read about in Isaiah 55 is that we might be led forth in joy and in peace. Lord, we ask that you do this in your mercy and your grace for us this morning. Amen. John chapter 7, verses 37 through 44. On the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood and said in a loud voice, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink, whoever believes in me. As the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. By this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive. Up to that time the Spirit had not been given, since Jesus had not yet been glorified. On hearing his words, some of the people said, Surely this man is the prophet. Others said, He is the Christ. Still others asked, How can the Christ come from Galilee? Does not the scripture say that the Christ will come from David's family and from Bethlehem, the town where David lived? Thus the people were divided because of Jesus. Some wanted to seize him, but no one laid a hand on him. This ends the reading of God's word. Is that a strange passage? I can remember when I first was a seminary student in the fall of 1991 And I took one of my first classes was on the Gospels, and I can remember really being drawn to the Gospel of John. I want you to think about the Gospel of John for a minute. It's probably the Gospel that most of us are most familiar with. When we first came to know the Lord, we were probably told when we asked, What should I read? Start with the Gospel of John. But yet the Gospel of John never quite loses its impact for us, does it? It just never stops. There's a depth to it. Out of all of the gospel writers, out of all the New Testament writers, John speaks in a language of metaphor and poetry. It's a language which does more than just tell us kind of in propositional truths, like Paul does, who God is and how we can know him. It speaks to us an image. It captures our hearts and our minds. As I can remember thinking about John, I'd been a Christian since I was 14, and there I was a seminary student, just profoundly confused by the whole book, amazed by John's revelation. I'm still confused about some of his letters. I can remember coming across a commentary on John that was written a little more than a hundred years after he wrote this gospel by a North African Church father named Tertullian. And he began that commentary by saying, the Gospel of John is like a river that infants can play in and elephants can wade in. It has something to say to you, whether or not you have known Jesus for one day or fifty years. And it has something to say that perhaps you have not heard, although you're very familiar with the text. Come, you who are thirsty, and drink, you who believe in me. What confused me, and my whole theme of the strangeness of scripture, is this next part. And I want to begin by jumping ahead and looking at the second half of verse 38. Look at what it says there. As the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. And I want you to notice that if you like I, in fact, this is the exact same Bible that I had back then. The punctuation in your NIV goes like this, verse 38. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. Now, whenever we read John, we have to understand that he's very different from Mark, he's different from Luke, he's different from Matthew, he's different from Paul, he's different from James. John is writing to a community which is very, very familiar with Old Testament word pictures. John is writing to people who understand that Hebrew culture. He's writing to people who would understand what the difference was between the Feast of Passover, the Feast of Tabernacles. What the Old Testament images of water, of light, of a lamb, of a lion, of a scepter and a crown would have been in that Old Testament context They weren't at all confused. And here, strangely, there's only a couple places in all of John's writing where he does this. He decodes his image. Look at what he says. He says By this, he meant the spirit. Streams of living water, the spirit. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, the Spirit will flow from within him. And I can remember I was uh Wanting my to do my best to be as hardcore a seminary student as I possibly could, just like all the rest of us guys down there in Florida. And I can remember thinking, where in the world does the scripture say ever? That the Holy Spirit will flow from within me. We sing a song Spring up, oh well, gush, gush, gush, gush. Within my soul, spring up, oh well, and make me whole. And then uh the chorus part of that Which I probably should have written down, goes uh uh I've got a river of life flowing out of me. Is that true? I don't think so. There's no scripture that says the Holy Spirit jumps from one person to the next. There's something in the New Testament about how the Spirit was received by certain believers by the laying on of hands of the apostles, but that was not scripture at the time that Jesus said this. When Jesus says something in fulfillment of Scripture, he is talking about something in the Old Testament, something that is true that he came to fulfill. All of Scripture's unified testimony is to us that Jesus is the fulfillment of all of our hopes and needs and the means of reconciliation with God. Why did Jesus say this? It's a very strange thing. I want you to look for a minute at, if you have the NIV, there's a footnote And I like it when Bibles do this. It doesn't happen very often, but it's nice. You'll notice if you have a footnote, it says down there, or If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me, period, and let him drink who believes in me, period. As the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. So that's option B. Does the Bible ever say that streams of living water will flow from within the Messiah? Oh yes. Ezekiel talks about the day when a river will come from the temple. In Joel chapter 3, we talk about a fountain being opened in the house of David. The whole last two chapters of Zechariah talk about this river that will gush forth from the temple in those days. God Himself is called a spring of living water, again and again in the poetry of the Old Testament. Now what would it mean then for Jesus to say, Come, you who are thirsty, and drink you who believe. I think of statements like that, and I have to confess, I think about a certain recent politician who got up and said that we're all points of light. I think to myself, you know, that's just a sort of goofy thing to say. That just really it's it's cute. It's kind of like a little aphorism. It's something you'd want to put on a magnet, maybe it's something you'd want to write on a bumper sticker. It has a certain it's memorable But what does it really mean to you and to me? Come if you're thirsty and drink if you believe. Going back to the idea that John was writing to people who understood the significance. of what the Hebrew Bible had to say, of what the traditions were. I want to draw your attention to another fact A fact that this passage tells us. A fact which would not have gone unnoticed by John's first readers. And a fact which has a lot of implications. It sets this statement in a context. On the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood. On the last and greatest day of the feast. What feast? The Feast of Tabernacles. Now John's readers would have known right away what that was about. The Feast of Tabernacles was a feast prescribed in the Old Testament in Leviticus chapter 23. in which the people of God were supposed to remember for seven days and it got stretched out to eight days. That's how holidays generally happen. Every year I'm telling you what, the lights are up another extra day on uh West Running Brook, and you know how that is. You still have uh pieces of your pine tree uh hanging on your wall. They were supposed to take seven days to remember, looking backwards, what God had done for them in bringing them up from Egypt. They were supposed to have booths that they lived in, and they were supposed to spend a lot of their time during the day in public worship during processions, which we'll get to in a minute, with palm thrawns and citrus fruits. One in each hand. We have similar kinds of things. We have symbols that go with our holidays. We have wreaths, we have candy canes, we have all sorts of things. We have eggnog, we have it's Part and parcel, I think, of probably every culture's holidays. But they were supposed to look back and remember what God had done for them in the past to deliver them And they were also supposed to look forward. They were supposed to be looking forward in much the same way as we look at Thanksgiving to what God would do in the future. Now I want you to think about when this falls in the calendar year for the Hebrews. This would be observed right there before October Towards the end of September is when they would have this festival. The last of the crops would have come in, the late figs and the dates. They would have just looked at having collected all of God's provision for them, all the food would be in And they would be looking forward in October to the rains that would have to come in October in order for the next year's crops to be successful. And it's funny to note that uh I came across one uh scholar talking about this who said that even today And the regions around there in Jordan where there's still a lot of Arabs who really are not too kindly disposed towards the people living in Israel. They still tune into CNN or the Weather Channel or whatever they have out there to find out, okay, is it going to rain in Palestine in October? Because if it does, we're set for next year. If not, we better do something with the oil prices to be sure we get enough grain next year. God's people were supposed to observe this holiday, and it was supposed to be a prayer that God would not just continue in his goodness, but that he would bless and save and deliver through giving rain. Zechariah talks about that. In fact, the last paragraph in the book of Zechariah basically says, For all of you who do not observe my feast of tabernacles, I will not give you rain. Your land will become as desolate as Egypt. Looking backwards on God's salvation and forwards on his blessing. Now what did they do on this holiday? I want to take us back to the times of Jesus and tell you about what might have been going on for three days before Jesus showed up. He didn't come to the first couple days of this feast. John tells us he came later. But during these days, every day there would be a big procession. Now imagine you're looking at the back page in your Bible where you have that map of Jerusalem. And as you're looking at it, you have the city of Jerusalem and the temple's kind of up there, up there in kind of the northeast corner. And below that you'll have a box, usually blue because it's water, called the pool of Siloam. And there was a little spring that fed that pool, the spring of Gaihan. Every single day during this feast there would be a procession in which the priests would get their people together and they would go from the temple court down to that spring of Gihon carrying a golden pitcher. And they'd take that golden pitcher and they would dip it into the spring of Gaihan and fill it with water. And what were they doing when they did this, you might ask? You don't often see a silent parade. All the way down there, the people of Israel were singing their festival psalm book, Psalms 113 through 118. The same psalms that Christ and his disciples would have sung after the Lord's Supper when they crossed the Kidron Valley and went up the Mount of Olives, and Jesus was arrested. When they got to the spring of Gaihan, they were singing a different song. Early historians, Josephus being one of them, who is Jewish, who writes to us about the customs of the Jews, tells us in detail what they did. We know what they did. And in Isaiah chapter 12, you see two Psalms, one of which was sung. And the refrain was repeated as the water was drawn: with joy, we will draw water from the wells of your salvation. Then this golden pitcher of water was carried back to the temple The parade walked around the altar of holocausts, the altar where all of the sacrifices were made one time, the priest climbed up and there was a silver funnel, and he poured that golden pitcher of water down over top of the altar. And Psalm 118 was sung. Verse 25 was the refrain: O Lord, deliver us. O Lord, grant us success. On the last and greatest day of the feast, this was the focal point. One rabbi later writes that nobody has experienced joy unless they have experienced the joy of the water drawing. For the Jews, this was something that encapsulated their hope, their anticipation, their gratitude, everything that we would associate with our holiday season, which has just ended. Think for a moment about how you long for the new year, a fresh start, a new beginning, the new potentials, new blessings to be had. Putting away chapters of your personal autobiography that you would like to have closed with and over and done. Think about how you take that time to be grateful and thankful for the things God has done for you mercifully in the past. And think about how all of this tends to come to a focal point for us just in this past month. A time of gratitude and anticipation. And the focal point of the ceremonies of this feast were something that Jesus didn't even bother looking at for the first three days. And on the last day, you can imagine Jesus watching these people rejoicing, singing songs, looking with rapt attention at that golden pitcher. Hearing those words sung, with joy will you draw waters from the wells of salvation, watching it come back, singing that song, and this time the priests and the musicians and the temple people would walk around the altar seven times, and then the altar would be climbed up and the high priest would pour that down, that water down the funnel, and say, Oh Lord, deliver us. Oh Lord, grant us success. And then Jesus stands up and says in a loud voice, Come to me, you who are thirsty, and drink, you who believe. Where is it that we have our springs of living water? Jeremiah in chapter 2 says, My people have committed two sins. They have forsaken me, the spring of living water, and they have gone to their own broken cisterns. Two sins. They have rejected the true fountain of life and peace. And they have created their own broken golden pitchers. I can remember being charged with this passage as a young man in a Sunday school class. Mrs. Olson would go through just about everything with us, all the nuggets of wisdom, and they're true, folks. For babes who are yet bathing in this river, yes, come and drink. But for those of us who have come and who have drunk And who know Jesus and have our peace in him. We also, as elephants waiting, need to take heed. Because Jesus is watching the people of God on one of their three high holy days. And he's watching them associate all of their hopes and gratitude for blessings with a golden pitcher when he is in their presence. Jesus Christ is here this morning. Wherever we gather together, brothers and sisters, our God is here. I want you to think for a moment about what you associate gratitude and anticipation with. As you look backwards and you look forwards, as you try to find peace and life in the midst of this hectic, ugly world we live in What are your golden pictures? What is it that is giving you hope for tomorrow? Thankfulness for yesterday. What is it that you look as that point at which you can say the old has gone, the new has come Is it a broken cistern? All leaky, polluted, muddy, dirty, just a hole in the ground with a dirty puddle Or is it a spring of living water? Is it your career? Your relationship with your spouse or your kids or a friend? Is it something in your personal life? Is it some sin that you would rather not have uh cataloged up here from the pulpit Is it just your need to constantly entertain yourself and distract yourself from the realities of this world? Or is it Jesus? I can't begin to imagine what must have been going through Christ's heart as he watched this festival, knowing that these were the people who within a year would kill him. But I think it would be maybe something like you or I attending our own wedding and watching our spouse flirt with everyone but us. Because Christ was there, the well of living water, the one who gives that Holy Spirit that is life and peace for us, who is God indwelling us. And those people were so focused on that lousy golden pitcher, which frankly we have no idea where it is today. Jesus was there. And Jesus, unlike that golden pitcher, is still here today. I can remember the words of Elmer Dortzbach before he left. He left several years ago now. He used to be on staff here, retired pastor. And he one time told me as I was getting all excited about evangelism and we were doing evangelism explosion and doing all sorts of things and I'd made myself all kinds of promises about sharing my faith, none of which I kept. And I can remember Elmer Dortzbach saying, Bob, just remember this one thing. Whenever you share the gospel with somebody Just remember that it is not a crucified Lord who is begging that says, Come. It is a risen Christ who commands. And whether you don't know Jesus this morning or whether you do, I just want to make a couple of observations about this one point that this sermon has had. That Jesus Jesus is the one in whom we have gratitude and anticipation. He is our source of blessings past and future, our source of worship in the present. And one of those things that I just want to observe briefly is the fact that both of these are commands. They're in the imperative voice. Come and drink. Jesus isn't saying if you think it's a good idea, there's nothing subjective about this There are no options. Folks, you can either come to Jesus and drink, or you can be thirsty. It's very simple. You can either believe in Jesus and have peace in life, or not One or the other. There is no middle ground. Because of Jesus, the people are divided. The second observation I want to make is how strange this piece of scripture is. Because you know it's sort of for those of us who like to think that we're logical once in a while. It sort of irks him almost, what uh Jesus says here. Look at what he says. He mixes his metaphor. If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink he who believes in me. Now, we've already made the case that that is how that should be rendered, one sentence, and that is echoed again. He says that John says the exact same thing. And you want to think about how significant this statement is? The Bible ends on it. It's the last thing we're commanded. As the people of God say, Come, Lord Jesus, come. We hear the Lord Jesus saying, Whoever is thirsty, let him come, and whoever wishes, let him take the free gift of the water of life. And John mixes his metaphor there too. Whoever is thirsty, let him come, and drink he who believes. And a part of me, just the way my brain works, maybe somebody can help me afterwards who's in some social profession, I want to read, Whoever is thirsty, let him drink, and come he who believes. And Jesus never says that. And you know, I'll tell you what, I'm glad he doesn't. Because I want you to think for a moment about what the connectedness of this word picture says to you and to me. I know for a fact that you are thirsty. I know for a fact that you have needs that you know this world cannot meet And what a comfort it is for you and for me to know that God's invitation is for all the thirsty. All of the thirsty are bidden to come. You see that? The invitation, the command to the thirsty is to come. There are no thirsty people in this world ever in the history of creation to whom God does not command come. And one of the saddest things that I have ever seen in my life is a thirsty believer. There is not a believer in the history of God's covenant community to whom Jesus does not command, drink. If you are thirsty, come, and if you believe, drink A thirsty Christian is a sad sight. But not so sad as a thirsty person without an invitation. I can remember five years ago when I first started coaching at Oaklands High School, I had to take a class called Health, Care, and Prevention of Athletic Injuries. That was so I could get recertified. And basically all I learned how to do is wrap and tape a knee, and I learned some other interesting things, and I had a uh guy who used to be an athletic trainer for the Miami Dolphins teach the class, which was cool. But I was amazed to learn something about Gatorade. Gatorade is like the it's supposed to be the panacea, the cure-all. It's supposed to take away all your problems if you're an athlete. You know, you're supposed to be like dogging it on the field, thinking, oh, when is Coach B gonna let me come off the field? Oh, let me and then boom, you're supposed to sit on the bench, drink some Gatorade, and bang, you're right back out there ready to go And I was really surprised when this guy who'd been a professional football trainer for the Dolphins said: never let your athletes ever, under any circumstances, ever drink Gatorade. I hope none of you are Gatorade salesmen. On the sidelines, Emma! Because it's no good. I'm thinking, what do you mean it's no good? It's got everything you need in it. It's got the vitamins, it's got the minerals, it's got the salts which your body needs, it's got the water in it Everything you need is the promise of Gatorade. But the fact of the matter is that everything that you need that is in Gatorade wreaks havoc upon your body's ability to take it in. And your stomach is so busy sorting through all those minerals and vitamins and everything else and all of that that the water doesn't even get absorbed until like an hour and a half later, and the match is done. And you will have sat on that sideline, you can have drank two gallons Gatorade, and you will be every bit as thirsty when you go back out on the field, if not thirstier because there was salt in it, than you were before you came off. This world offers a lot of different flavors of Gatorade, friends. An awful lot. I want you to think about professional football. Some of you perhaps watch it, some don't. And I challenge you to watch a winning coach get dunked by his team. And all of those Gatorade pitchers and bowls and whatever you call those cartons coolers There's never anything in them but ice water. Ever. You'll never see anything orange or red or green or that looks like radiator fluid come out of one of them You will only ever see pure ice water come out of a professional football player's cooler when they dunk it on their coach I just want you to think, brothers and sisters, those of you who know Jesus, about where you go when you are thirsty and on the sidelines of your faith. You mess around with that Gatorade? Fall off the tracks? Allow a bright label with cool-looking green letters on an orange sticker Distract you from something that's really going to quench your thirst? And it's going to cost you Or do you go for water? Pure, crystal, clear, ice water. Because Jesus does quench thirst And the hope for the Christian is that all those TV advertisements for that shoe company that say obey the thirst are basically right. As Christians, we have the freedom to obey our thirst. But what we have here That nobody else has is the means by which to quench our thirst. You can either be a secular consumer of all kinds of Gatorades Or you can be a spiritual imbiber of this book and the Jesus that it presents to you and to me. If you don't know Jesus, and you are living your life thirsty in a dry and barren land, come and drink. And if you do, keep coming back. Please pray with me. Lord Jesus, we do thank you and we praise you for the way that you have so mercifully, so kindly, so lovingly made yourself nothing to be our servant, to be our Savior God. And we thank you for the fact that John, who alone in the entire New Testament, sees you as that source of living water. Lord, we just thank you that John was able to watch on a cross, and he was able to see from afar with the women he was standing with. The soldier pierce your side and the blood and water flow forth. And Lord Jesus, we just thank you that in your manifold wisdom, your inspired word, at that conclusion of John, we can read that this was done to fulfill the prophecy. That they will look on the one they have pierced, and that a fountain will be opened. Lord Jesus, you are that fountain for us, as you wash us in your blood, and as you nourish us on your water. We just ask that by your Spirit at work in us, by your grace and mercy, that you would help us to have the strength to resist the temptations of the Gatorades of this world and ever turn to you for thirst. We pray this in Jesus' name, who died that we might have life forever, and rose again that we might have a sure hope of eternity with you. Amen.