Amen. Well thank you very much for that. And I must say I have never been more impressed with Katie Espy. Because with my tunnel vision, I was looking over here and I thought, how is Katie the only female voice producing all of that? Only at the very end when I came walking up here did I see all these other ladies over here, so very impressive, Katie Kids, if you have not already gone to children's church, this is your belated cue. I think, well, I can't really see, but I'm imagining they're gone. And speaking of kids, Does anybody know the exciting event that happened in the life of our church? I'll give you a hint, it involves Ryan and Amanda Dimek. Andrew Dimek is now among us and uh Ryan is holding his baby in his arms, so let's give thanks to God for that as we As we think of that. That's an experience that'll change a man. This morning we're going to be looking at a very familiar passage. Jesus feeding the 5,000. And it's the kind of passage that you think, well. I've heard that so many times. Is there anything new there for me? And I found there was stuff new there for me as I prepared this sermon. And I hope that's the case for you as well this morning. If you have your Bibles with you, please turn to Luke chapter 9, verse 10, and I will read the account of Jesus feeding the 5,000. Let us pray. Almighty God, we give you thanks for this day, and Lord, even as we give you thanks for the new life that you brought into the Dimec family, Lord. Life that's been there and developing for nine months, but but is now uh in his daddy's arms. And Lord We pray, Almighty God, that uh the reading of your word will also bring new life. Lord, that it will enliven parts of us that have become callous and weary and tired and even deadened. Lord, we would be in your arms, even as that precious baby is in Amanda and Ryan's arms. And Lord, we thank you that your word constantly draws us and woos us. And even goads us and sometimes chides us, but Lord, always with the goal to draw us, to bring us, to win us closer to you. So we ask, O God Almighty, that you would bless this reading of your holy word. We confess that it is inerrant and that in every jot and tittle it is the authority by which we live The great means of our hope in knowing you as it tells us about the gospel and as your spirit seals the truth of it to our very hearts. And Father, we pray that you bless the preaching as well. Lord, we pray that in as much as it is faithful, it would be memorable and effective. In my life and in the lives of all who hear, we pray in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 9, beginning with verse 10, the Word of God. On their return, the apostles told him all that they had done And he took them and withdrew apart to a town called Bethsaida. When the crowds learned it, they followed him, and he welcomed them, and spoke to them of the kingdom of God, and cured those who had need of healing. Now the day began to wear away, and the twelve came and said to him, Send the crowd away to go into the surrounding villages and countryside to find lodging and get provisions, for we are here in a desolate place. But he said to them, You give them something to eat. They said, We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we are to go and buy food for all these people. For there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, have them sit down in groups of about fifty each. And they did so, and had them all sit down. And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and set a blessing over them. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd. And they all ate and were satisfied, and what was left over was picked up, twelve baskets of broken pieces. This ends the reading of God's Word. Prior to the service beginning, I was standing on the That'd be the west end of the foyer. And I was talking with Stephen Smalley and Brandon Johnson, and Brandon was telling me, you know Bob, I'm reading the Bible and he didn't know I was going to drag him into the sermon, so I'll give you $5 later, Brandon. Uh that's the deal I have with nephews and kids alike. And he said, you know, I grew up in the church, but I'm reading the Bible and I'm just seeing things, details, stuff I never saw before. And I said to him, Well that that never stops. One of the things that I learned this week that I had never seen before is that in Luke's gospel, and indeed in the others, the emphasis in the response to the miracle is uniquely limited. And all of the other works that Jesus has performed in miracles and healings, everything else he's done, we're always told how the crowd reacted. Here we have no idea how the crowd reacted. All we know is how the apostles reacted to what was happening and participated in the great event. You see, what I learned is that this particular miracle, as well known as it is, was really a very designed experience in which God was teaching primarily his apostles something about who he is. And if you think about where's the emphasis on who is Jesus, remember this whole passage hangs together with what preceded. In chapter 9, beginning with verse 1, we see Jesus in that great culmination of his preparation of the disciples sends them out for the first time, beginning missions as we know it in the New Covenant era. And this passage begins with on their return. So it's connected. Now what happens when the apostles go out? When the apostles first go out, we read that they went to villages. They had power and authority over demons and diseases alike, and they had a message to declare. And it was the kingdom message, it was the gospel itself, with those great signs and wonders affirming their authenticity and and indeed their authority to speak for the Messiah. And Herod was perplexed, and he, among no doubt, countless others, were asking the question, who is Jesus? Now after Jesus feeds the 5,000 in Luke chapter 9, verse 18, the disciples come to see Jesus. Jesus is praying alone. And Jesus asks them, Who do the crowd say I am? You see, this account of the healing is bookended by this great question, who is Jesus? Herod and his company, they didn't really have an answer. They wondered the same things that the apostles tell Jesus later in chapter 9. Well, some people say John the Baptist, some people say uh Elijah, some people say another prophet come back, referring no doubt to Moses in particular. But that's where Peter gives that wonderful answer to who do you say I am? And he confesses Jesus as the Christ, the Son of the living God. So, what is the significance then of how Jesus is revealing himself to his apostles? after they come back to report on their great success in being sent out two by two. Well let's follow the theme of this narrative for a minute. They come back on their return and they tell Jesus everything they'd done. No doubt there were accounts of demons being driven out of their human suffering hosts, of people being healed, of the gospel being preached, of people being drawn to put their faith in this This Messiah. No doubt these things happened. People began to follow Jesus and take an active saving interest in him. No doubt. And so Jesus takes them, and as they're telling him this, he he withdraws to a place near Beth Seda would be the more appropriate idea, especially as we look at the other Gospels, Matthew and Mark in particular. Just to get away. To get some rest, no doubt, is part of the picture here. They'd be tired. But the crowds learn of it and they follow And Jesus welcomes them, despite the weariness of everyone involved. He welcomes those who come stumbling to his doorstep at an unwanted hour. Jesus, the most interruptible man in the history of the universe. And he teaches them, and he teaches them, and he teaches them, and he cures those who are sick. And the disciples Show some initiative. No doubt they've become something more of leaders. They've been sent out, given authority. And so they, because they have learned so much and reported so much success, they say to Jesus, hey, Jesus, it's time to send these people away. Because we are in a desolate place, literally a wilderness or a desert could be translated. And these people need to go get food and lodging You see, they recognize that there is a very large, very significant, looming need that has now become imminent. That they can't meet. And so they suggest to Jesus, let's send them away. We've just reported on all our successful ministry. Power over even demons. But it's getting late and these people need a place to sleep and they need food and we we can't give them any of that. See, they recognize an impossible need. And Jesus points them to a glorious opportunity. This is an opportunity to demonstrate That the Messiah, Jesus, the one who leads the twelve, the one who commissioned the apostles, he is able not only To cast out demons, but to feed the hungry. He, like Moses before him, is able to be the means by which God brings bread into a desert, sending manna from heaven. He is something even more than that prophet, because he can do it in his own name. And we see Jesus telling these disciples to sit people down in groups of 50. to take what bread they have and just start distributing it. Jesus is the one who takes impossible needs and turns them into glorious opportunities. and even those who are veterans of ministry and have experienced great victories spiritually and through the answer to prayers concerning physical dilemmas and needs. Even those of us who are up to our eyeballs in ministry and have seen God's work need reminders that this biblical statement is true. With God, nothing is impossible. Amen? And we often look at our situations and think: there are impossible needs here. It's time to withdraw. It's time to quit the field. Because this isn't something that falls within the purview of the Almighty to address or to remedy in any way. Even the apostles are tempted to be limited in their conception of what God can do. They saw their ministry season as ended for a lack of bread. Jesus reveals himself to his apostles in the midst of questions about who is Jesus, as the one who makes impossible needs become glorious opportunities. He is also the one who reveals himself here to his apostles as the one who turns insufficient resources into a great surplus. Now, I want you to think about this because it's hugely significant for you and me. When Jesus tells his disciples He tells them, you give them something to eat. They said, and if you had a pedantically, painfully literal translation of the Bible, the first word out of the apostles' mouth or mouths is ook That's a Greek word. It's a not doesn't sound like a good word, does it? It means no No. That's the first thing they say. No, we haven't got anything except five loaves and two fish. Jesus presents them with an opportunity. You feed them. And their response, limited by what's in their wallet, What's in their refrigerator? They say no. This is all we have. We can't do that Think about how often you and I see a need. Perhaps we ponder that it could be a great opportunity for somebody else who has more. And we who are there on the scene of that great need, we who are endowed with the Holy Spirit, who has taken up residence in us. We who have the power of a risen Christ for the church exercised through his people You think, well, surely we can't be expected to do that because what we have is just five loaves and two fish. No, Lord Jesus. We won't send them away, but neither will we feed them because we don't have what it takes to do something like that. Sound familiar? We see needs everywhere. And the people of God consistently in the West bail. on opportunities to meet needs because we have somehow convinced ourselves that ourselves that well that that's the job of people who have more resources like the federal government. Or the bigger church up the street. Or somebody who has more. And we don't have enough And church history, not just in the West, is full of accounts of Christians who were willing to see a glorious opportunity. But unwilling to consider the possibility that what God gave them is indeed sufficient. To do the work. Your God is a multiplying God. Your God is a God who takes one man and one woman past their child bearing prime and makes them the father and mother of nations. Your God is the God who brings children to barren wombs. Your God is the one who takes Twins, the second born, the one from whom little is expected and makes them mighty. Your God is the God who turns mustard seeds. And to shelter for every bird of the air. Your God is the God who breaks mountains and walks through oceans and leads people in doing those things. And we need a reminder that our God is mighty. He is mighty to save And he brings salvation to people through other people. In your Westminster Confession of Faith. which is, in my opinion, the greatest summary of the system of doctrine contained in the Bible produced by theologians It has a phrase in there that I can remember struggling with when I was young and debating my father, an elder at this church when I was in high school, about the merits or the truth of this statement in the Westminster Confession. Apart from the church, there is no ordinary means of salvation. Anybody ever read that? Well, probably a lot of you, but you might have blown right by it I did not. And I thought that's crazy talk. And something that I learned from my dad that day, trying to don't ever try to debate Alan Bjerkes. I have found it to be a losing, humbling proposition. He said, when you are saved, you become a part of the church, the invisible universal church. And ordinarily, as in every case any of us have ever heard of, God uses a Christian with beautiful feet to declare the message that you might hear it, that you might believe it, and you might be saved. God uses people like you with whatever resources, however many pieces of bread and however many fish you have in your pocket, He uses you. to do glorious things in the midst of impossible circumstances. And isn't it a lesson for those apostles? That those twelve apostles who thought, we don't even have enough bread for all of us. Those loaves of bread were probably four inches in diameter and round and maybe two inches high. We know a lot about how bread was produced in the countryside's Galilee back in the first century A. D. And those fish were not We're not talking about stripers pulled out of the bay that could feed a Thanksgiving gathering. We're talking about one serving. So at best uh you know five loaves and two fish could could maybe feed seven people and none of them are getting both grains and protein And at the end of the day, those twelve disciples who thought they didn't even have enough to eat have a complete basket of pieces each. And what was left over was picked up. Twelve baskets of broken pieces. Do you think they remembered that? As each one of them carried a basket of bread, the surplus of what they thought was insufficient. There's a humbling lesson there. God does not need Your giftedness to accomplish great things. That is a belief that has sidelined more Christians Over the two millennia since Pentecost, than maybe any other belief. You see, we believe that we're not gifted enough, that we don't have enough resources. And therefore we don't act. I have a friend and a a mentor, man I greatly esteem. In fact, he is just now retiring from a career in ministry in Exeter, New Hampshire, when I was first ordained. Two men had a great influence on me, Doug Doman, who preached at my installation service here, been my prayer partner for over 20 years, 25 years now. And Steve McGee. And Stephen McGee, about halfway through his ministry, started saying something that rings in my ears. Give God your weaknesses. You see, God uses people even in the area of their weaknesses. Out of everything that he knew and was good at, what was Moses the worst at? Talking! He stammered, he stuttered. We don't know the exact details, but he wasn't good at speaking. What did God use him for? Speaking, communicating. Not only on behalf of the living God and the people of God to Pharaoh, but on behalf of the God of Mount Sinai to the people of Israel. God uses us even when we are weakest. It is by our weakness that God's strength is displayed And we want to do everything we can to stay as far as possible from those areas where we are weak. And we want to say, well, this is a great ministry for somebody else with more gifts. And let me assure you that if God gave you the burden to see an opportunity, you certainly have the ability to stand in the gap and begin the ministry. God turns insufficient resources into a great surplus, and Jesus makes it clear that that is who he is. And he also uses skeptical saints to perform mighty acts. I want you to think about these apostles and remember, as I pointed out earlier, this miracle is for the apostles' benefit. They are the ones who are to learn something here. We don't even know for sure that the crowds being fed, as it's described in Luke, were even aware that a miracle had taken place. Think about that. All they know is that they each got a piece of bread or fish or both. It's the apostles who were stunned at the power and the compassion of the living God and convicted of who Jesus was. They begin by seeing the need in the desert and saying, send them away. Send the people away. We can't meet their needs Then when they're invited to Jesus by Jesus to feed them themselves, they say, no, we can't do that. We don't have enough. We couldn't even buy it if we wanted to. And another one of the gospels, Philip the Apostle, is very quick to calculate even how much money it would cost. We can't do that. We don't have enough. And then Jesus has them sit down. And I want you to think about the fact that up to that point when Jesus makes them participate in his great miracle. by having the people sit down in groups of about 50 and in distributing. There is not an inkling, there is not a hint of those apostles thinking, Oh, yeah, that's a great idea. Let's get right on board with that. In fact, if we know anything about the disciples, how slow they are to believe, in fact, in Mark's gospel right after this healing, after this feeding takes place, Jesus rebukes the apostles for being slow to believe. They're skeptical. Like you and me, they are so infected by worldly thinking that they see tremendous needs, consider their few resources, think it's impossible, and beg off from participation. How many times do I do that? How many times do you do that? And Jesus will take people like you and me with all of our fear and our suspicions and our skepticism. And he'll say, you do this. And we start to do it. And before we know it We are a part of God doing something that only God can do. I want you to really think about those twelve apostles. And I want you to consider how did twelve apostles pass out seven pieces of food? Some of those apostles would have been like, you want to break me off a part of your bread because I didn't get a loaf? And Philip and Andrew took the fish. And so here they are sitting in front of, you know, maybe fifty some people, and there's mm co how many fifties go into five thousand? Anybody? You're a bunch of mathematicians. That was pretty quick. Some of you ought to think about working for NSA. Imagine that first apostle thinking, okay, I got half of a loaf of bread here, and I got these fifty people, and then those fifty people, and then those fifty people, and imagine what they thought as they are with all their skepticism, corralled by the living Savior, into handing out that bread and thinking, wait a minute. That loop seems to be getting bigger. Wait a minute. How's there a piece of loop over there now God uses us despite our weak faith. God uses us despite our fears. And when I think about who Jesus is, these lessons stay close to my heart. He does impossibly glorious things through frail human vessels. And Jesus reveals himself this way to his apostles after they thought they had really done an amazing thing, which they had. And how humbling a lesson it would be that those apostles who had just gone out two by two and advanced the kingdom We're shown that you haven't even scratched the surface of what Jesus the Savior is able to do. Tighten your seat belt, kids. Can you hear Jesus saying that? I'm going to show you something amazing. And how easy it would have been then for these twelve throughout the course of their ministry to face martyrdom and brutal death itself. Which every one of them experienced. Great suffering. Because they knew that God was a God who took impossible needs and made glorious opportunities. The God was a God who with profoundly inadequate resources could create a massive surplus that God used even those with small and flagging and weak faiths to do strong and mighty acts. Because it is not your faith, it is God's power. It is not your resources, it is God's will. It is not the circumstance It is God Himself that dictates ultimately who we are and what we do in His name And after these apostles see Jesus Christ do this ministry in this way Peter is able to speak for them and say, You are the Christ of God. What about me? What about you? Are we reminded and encouraged to think that Jesus is sufficient for the great needs that surround us, whether they are in our marriages, our homes, our communities, our church. The world? Are we willing to give God your worst or your weakest? Are you willing to serve God even in the area where you have the least resources because you see the need and you're on the site? Are you willing to open your mouth and trust that the Spirit Himself will provide the words? Are you willing to be a radical disciple to rise to the occasion? Of a wilderness full of people that are hungry and weary, with nowhere to go and nothing to eat, because I can't think of a more apt description of America today. And are you willing to help people find a seat where they have an opportunity to receive the bread of heaven itself? And hear the words of the Savior teaching good, true, sometimes hard, but always faithful and loving words, that they might have peace with God. And lastly, dear friends, do you know who Jesus is? I want you to think about your circumstances and how they're impossible, your resources and how they are so few. I want you to think about your faith and how it might be so tiny as to be indiscernible. And I want you to hear Jesus say, have a seat. And eat this. Take this truth deep within yourself. Jesus is the Son of God. Who came to give his life for sinners, that by repentance of sin and belief in him who died to pay the penalty for your sins, you can have life. And let your soul be fed on such a gospel as that. You will hear it from no other place than the church, and the Christians who are part of it. Almighty God, we give you thanks for this day. Lord, forgive us for the times we have let overwhelming circumstances. Insufficient resources and our own skepticism prevent us from being a part of great and glorious things that you would do through us. Lord, help us to acknowledge your greatness, your love, your compassion, your Power even to use us to do great things. And oh God, help us to be bold. Help us to be men and women of God. Help us to be children who know who our Father is. And help us to be humbly obedient and utterly optimistic. Whenever we cast the seed of the gospel on the ground and water it with our prayers, because you, O God, are an awesome God. We pray these things in Christ's precious name. Amen.