Father, we come to you as your beloved children, who are the recipients of that deep, deep love that we have just sung in honor and in need of. Um what we need that love. It is all we need, but we desperately need it. And we are grateful when we recognize that you have lavished that love upon us. And so we come this morning to hear your word to us. To learn, to worship, to meet with you, to bask in that deep, deep love. And Lord Jesus, to see ourselves. To recognize who we are, to recognize what we believe about ourselves, and to hear you tell us who we really are. And to recognize the calling that we have to live in light of who you have made us to be. In your name we pray. Amen. Before I read the passage, let me go back again to that question. Who defines you? We're 21st century Americans, and so largely we we operate with the default view that we define ourselves. Especially those of us who are adults. Those of us who are adults believe that there may be real pressure to change, to shape, and to conform us. In fact, Paul says in Romans twelve two, especially in the Philips translations, do not let the world squeeze you into its mold. So there's already an antithesis that's operating for us as Christians that says there's us There's who we are, and there's the world who wants to squeeze and shape us. And so we want to operate as independent individuals. For those of you who are kids, especially you younger kids, one of the things the Scripture tells you in the commandments is that you're to honor your father and mother. That your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God gives you. And so in some ways it's very true that God says to you in your youth, But your parents in some ways define who you are. But let me let me step back from that for a second because it's not that your parents define who you are, although it feels like that. It feels like they're telling you who you're supposed to be. But the reality is that God has given your parents the role of taking his definition of you. And helping you to live in light of that definition. So in some ways it feels like your parents define you, but really the true answer that we have to wrestle with is that God defines us. And so we've been looking at a series of sermons, this is the second message in that series, looking at who we are in Christ. And the very, very central role that our unity not only with Christ But with the body, plays in that identity. And so today we're looking at Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 6. And let me read the passage. Paul says, I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to the hope, the one hope that belongs to your call. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all For us, there's a really difficult battle that rages There's a battle that rages between who we are and who we want to be seen to be. Um This week there has been a revelation. A very public figure, John Edwards, presidential candidate, who has been forced in some ways, but has come out and said that indeed he has been living a double life. That he has presented himself as a candidate As a man of morality and a man of integrity, a man who has been supporting his wife in her battle with cancer. And this week on Friday, he acknowledged that he has been a man of infidelity. A man who has had an affair, a man who has broken his covenant with his wife. Unless we want to throw stones At those in another part of our culture, if we are politically conservative, we certainly join with John Edwards in his plea for morality. We have no ground. We have no ground as evangelicals to cast stones. Just think of Ted Haggard. Think of Jimmy Swagger. Think of Jim Baker. Think of the myriad of public figures who have presented one image and lived a different reality. And brothers and sisters, if if you were to be followed 24-7 by a camera, and if you were even more to be able to be followed by something that could read your mind and and see what thoughts you think behind your eyes, You'd be revealed as well. I would be revealed But in this passage, Paul says this. He says, I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. Alan has done an excellent job in preaching through Ephesians, and he's brought out very clearly what that phrase walkworthy means. It means to live in equilibrium with who you are. Paul is taking the first three chapters of Ephesians that talk about who we are in Christ. And he's moving now into another part of his epistle where he's talking about, so how does that affect the way that you live? If this really is who you are, how does it shape you? And so what he's talking about when he says walk worthy really is to live in balance with who you are. To eliminate the image, to eliminate the deception, to eliminate the false thinking. And so I want to ask you a question this morning as you sit here, and that is this. How does the way that you live, how does the way that you've lived this last week How does the way that you've lived this morning tell you who you think you are? It's important enough I want to take a moment and let you just sit and think. But I want you to think about how you have lived this week and what that says when you examine it about who you really believe that you are. You have to have two points for motion. Paul's going to tell us who we are in Christ, but we have to know who we are in our own minds to be able to become more conformed to the image of Christ. If all you have is one point and you have no way of knowing where you are, you can't move. So take a moment and think about how the way that you've lived just this week reveals to yourself who you believe you are. As you get started in that, I want you to take that. Your assignment for this this week is to continue to think about that question. But I want you to think about it with some particular emphasis. I want you to think about how have you responded in relationships this week. Let's say that somebody has corrected you. It's probably not an unusual circumstance to have someone correct you, maybe mildly, maybe harshly. How do you respond to correction? How do you respond to instruction? Children, how when your parents tell you that you've done something less than perfect, or that you need to do something over again, or that you've done something wrong, how do you respond? Those of you who work, have you received correction? Have you received a comment that says that you've done less than stellar work? How do you respond? How do you respond with your finances? How do you respond when you reach a financial challenge Are you safe and secure? Does your father own the cattle on a thousand hills? And can you be confident that he'll take care of you? Or do you have to find some way to make these finances work? How do you respond to compliments? I really struggle with this one I desperately want compliments. I love it when somebody tells me that I've done a great job. And in fact, sometimes I'll I'll I'll try and orchestrate circumstances so that somebody has a reason to tell me that I've done a great job. And if they don't do it naturally, I'll even fish for it. Because I love compliments. But brothers and sisters, what that reveals about me is this. He reveals that I need someone else's affirmation, besides my own, and besides Christ's. I need people to tell me that I'm worthy. And that is an act that is counter to my identity. It's an act that says, my security in Christ isn't enough. I want more. How do you respond to losses? How do you respond to interruptions? I've been in some conversations this week with people who, when interrupted, become angry. Because they don't deserve to be interrupted. Doesn't the person interrupting them know that they're busy? Doesn't the person interrupting them know that they're doing something important? How dare you? Who do you think you are? Well, that's the question. Who do you think you are? Jesus tells us who we are. Jesus tells us because Jesus, we're told in Scripture, is the one who created us. The very first thing we need to know about who we are is that we are created, not ultimate beings. I am made by another. I belong to another. And I am I am his. I'm not only created, but I'm fallen. Chapter 4, verse 2 talks about something that's really a little bit hard to see just in verse 2. But what it says is this. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love. The word that's translated, gentleness, is a remarkable word. It is the word prautes, which is the same word that's translated in Matthew 5 as blessed are the meek, or blessed are the gentle, for theirs they shall inherit the earth. That word is used in the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, to translate a Hebrew term that really means those without land. And if you follow the the derivation derivation of the word, what you see is this. Gentle is the mindset that comes because of who these people are. They don't have anything. In Israel, in Old Testament Israel, it was a culture defined by the possession of land. If you recall, there was a distribution of land as the twelve tribes came in. And and there's a unique aspect of it because the the Levitical tribe, the Levites, didn't receive land. But the tribes received the land, and it was so precious and so important and so clearly a part of their inheritance that there was a system called the Jubilee. So that if I, as an Israelite, sold land to another Israelite, I really leased it. Because at the end of seven years, that land would be returned to my family. It was so important that the people keep the land that you couldn't permanently sell it to another Israelite. The gentle are those who have no land. They are the disinherited, the dispossessed. And because they have such a low station, they, because of their humbling, are gentle. They're meek. They have no position of pride Brothers and sisters, we're told in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1 that outside of Christ, you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. We're dead. We're powerless. We are without inheritance. And Paul reminds us of that by calling us to humility and gentleness, patience, bearing with one another in love. But in Christ we are new creatures. Chapter one, verse seven In Him we have redemption through His blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of His grace. Which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose which he set forth in Christ, as a plan For the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. Brothers and sisters in Christ, we are new creatures who have been lavished with grace. And and that that new life has both a future connotation Because we know, we know for clear and certain calling that we have a future in heaven. We're going home. Those of us who are in Christ know that this is not our home, for we're not citizens of this world. Paul tells us that we're citizens of heaven, from which we eagerly await the Savior. And so there's clearly a future aspect. to that calling, to that new identity. But there's a present aspect as well. We're called to live now the reality of our life in Christ. And that's what Paul's getting to in the rest of his passage. What does that life in Christ look like? Who are we? Well, we are people who are one body. with all believers who belong to Christ. We talked last week about the prayer that Jesus prayed as he went to the Garden of Gethsemane, the prayer he prayed for the disciples, where he prayed for you and me. Those who will believe because of the word of the disciples, that we might be one. As he's going to his Gethsemane, as he's going to face the wrath of God, both in the Garden of Gethsemane and on the cross, he's praying for us. And the one thing that he prays is that we would recognize who we are in Christ, that we are one body. And now Paul carries that further as he goes in this epistle and talks about the fact that there is one body. If you look at verse 4, there is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope that belongs to your call. Brothers and sisters, we're one. We're first one with Jesus, and we talked about that last week as well. That that deep, deep love is amazing. It's ours. He loves us. He has united us first and foremost to himself. He's given us a new identity. He's given us a home. But in doing that, he's called us to live now the reality of our unity with one another. Across time, across geography, every person in Christ belongs to one body. shares one spirit, has one hope of their calling And so I want to look now, briefly, at what will we look like if we live this way? What does it look like for you this week to walk worthy of the calling that you have received? There's two points I want to make here, and the first of which is that people we will be a people who live in light of our recognition That we are essentially, essentially, of the essence of who we are. Inescapably, we are one. Because of the work God has done to redeem us and to bring us into the body. Community then is central to how we live. So as you look at that question and how does the way you live reveal to you who you believe you are, one of the things I want you to look at is what place does community have in your life? What place does community have in your life? As you think of your family, For those of you who who live in a home with with a group of people, that that to some degree is your family. For those of you for whom that is a biological family, it's very clearly you have a body that you are one with. You also live in an environment where you rub shoulders with people either in school or or in a tutorial? or in work or in associations in a neighborhood, there are people who live around you. What role does community play for you and particularly Particularly, what role does the body of Christ as a focus of community play for you? Because you know that you're one with everyone in Christ. What role does that play? If you live in a neighborhood where there are believers who think differently than you do, but they're in Christ, what role does that community play? Do you see yourself as one with them? What relationship do you have with people from this body? Not that this is the only place that you have that community, not that this may be the the the main place that you have that community, although I hope that it is. But what role does community with believers from CPC play in your life? We're united because God has drawn us to Himself. And we've looked at that. But let's look at verses four through six. And I want you to see that that the position of this is critical. Because Paul has just said Walk in a manner worthy of your calling. And the one thing that he focuses on as he begins to explain to us what that calling is is our unity in Christ. He begins, let me start at verse 2, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love. Eager, zealous, focused, to maintain the oneness, that that term that's translated unity there is actually the the essence of one. It it it's the Greek noun one with the ness. Behind it in Tota. It is the idea of not simply unity, but oneness, the essential identity. Eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. The word bond is intriguing as well, because Paul begins this in verse 1 by talking about the fact that he's a prisoner. And the word that he uses for bond is that thing which binds. It's really the chains. It's the chains. If he talks about the chains of peace, This is not some glue that may or may not hold. This is what makes Paul a prisoner. This is the handcuffs, maintaining the unity of the Spirit in the handcuffs of peace. There is one body, one spirit, one hope that belongs to your call One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father who is over all and through all and in all. Brothers and sisters, this is incredibly strong. This is amazing. Because what Paul is saying is this you can't escape. I'm dealing with a number of different situations regularly with conflict. I don't know why ministry seems to my ministry seems to be shaped in so many ways by conflict. Maybe I should take a lesson and look at myself. But I'm dealing with people who are in conflict right now and I'm serving as a mediator. And they don't trust each other. They've gotten to the point where you you could almost say in in several of these cases that they don't like each other. In some cases they're apathetic towards each other and they just they don't care anymore. But the reality of the matter is these are Christians. And what I want to help them to do is to see that one God and Father leads them, shapes them, fills them, defines them. And does the same for the people with whom they're in conflict. That there is a future that's coming where they together, with one accord, and we'll look at this in two weeks. will glorify the God and Father who is over all and through all and in all in each of them Our calling, our calling, is to be one with Christ and one with each other. And that has very particular, practical, profound implications for how you live this week It so shapes our view of ministry here at CPC that we've created home fellowship groups and Bible studies and communities where we want you to be able to have an opportunity, if you don't already have a community, to find one. To the degree that on the 24th and the 31st we're going to have group representatives downstairs and we're going to try and have a party where we'll have an opportunity for you to talk with people and say, Do I fit? But brothers and sisters, whether you follow through with finding a community or not, you are one with the body in Christ. The second point I want to make about this is that we are then meek or gentle people who love each other. Who love each other because we recognize what God is doing in those around us as well as in us. Who love each other and eagerly guard, preserve, protect, keep. The unity that does exist because of the work of the Spirit in the bonds of peace. And that can be really hard for us. It can be really hard because we're busy people. We don't have time to get to know the people around us. We're busy with our jobs, we're busy with our hobbies, we're busy with our families, we're busy with We're busy with our family obligations, we're busy with associations, we're busy with all sorts of different stuff. And what God is saying to us is that this is a priority I can't tell you what to do. I can't tell you how God is calling you to work that priority out in your life. But I can I must tell you. That God says to you that this is a priority because it is how He defines who you are. It's the one thing that Jesus prayed for the disciples as he went to Gethsemane. It's the first thing that Paul talks about when he speaks about who we are in Christ. It is the calling that He gives us to live as one body, as He continues to teach in this chapter, that we're to use our gifts in ministry to one another so that the body of Christ may be complete and built up. It's also tough, not simply because of the practical implications of time and priority, but because relationships are hard work. Relationships at times can be incredibly dangerous because you need to be vulnerable, you need to know each other, you need to give and receive safety with each other. You need to recognize that God is at work in the people you're relating to. It's not yours to make them better. It's yours to love them. And love will long for them to be better, but it's not your responsibility, it's not in your control to change them. And so consequently, when you're loving people who aren't perfect, and you can't make them perfect, and you honestly look and recognize you're not perfect yourself. You find yourself hurting. There's also joy. There's tremendous joy in that connection, in that intimacy, in that shared experience. But that joy is only found when you're willing to risk the loss. And so, how do you do that? Well, we go back to chapter 4, verse 1. Walk in a manner worthy of the calling which you have received. Brothers and sisters, this is who you are. It's not who you have to make yourself. It's not how you shape yourself. It's not what you do. It's simply discovering who God has already created you to be. And it's following him. It's following him in relationship with others because that's who he has defined you to be. And it's following him because he's the one who has redeemed you, who loves you, and who gives you grace. So that you can be the man, the woman, the young man, the young woman that he calls you to be. And that's the ultimate issue here. Will you follow him? Will you walk worthy? Will you live your identity in Christ in practical and tangible ways? Because the reality is Jesus says in John 17, 21 and 23 that if we live this reality, That if we live the unity that we have with one another in Christ, that the world will believe that the Father sent the Son. That the world will know that the Father sent the Son and loves us as He loves the Son. So brothers and sisters, I urge you to think again, how does the way that you live reveal to you who you believe you are? Do you believe what Jesus says about yourself? Does your life reveal that you are living the life that He's created you to live? And if not, then repent. Repent and believe and live worthy because living worthy will shake a watching world Our unity in Christ will blow the minds of the people who live divided. It will blow the minds of the people who find that they protect themselves. It will blow the minds of the people who can't understand. Deep, abiding community. But even more importantly, it'll honor Jesus And it will give you integrity. Because, brothers and sisters, this is who you are. Let's pray. Father, it's really mind-boggling to think that you have loved us enough to send your son. For you have so loved the world that you sent your only son that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And you have defined us. You have made known to us who we are through the scriptures, through the words of Christ, through the words of the apostles. You made known to us who we are. Lord Jesus, make those worlds, those words and truths real in our hearts and our minds. Change us. Give us the grace to live the identity that you have given us. And I pray, Lord Jesus, that the result would be first and foremost that you will be honored, that you will take pleasure in our obedience. And I pray that you will accomplish all of your purposes, including reaching the world through the work that we do to love you, to follow you, and to obey. In your precious name we pray. Amen.