I want to thank you guys who have prayed for the General Assembly, for Alan, for Wayne Coke, and for myself having gone. That was a really significant time. I will be putting together a report that I'll put into the pastor's blog on the webpage. So um you can be able to look forward to that. I I I I'd be glad to answer whatever questions I can as we go, but I want to try and make use of time and so you'll get you'll get a good report at some point. Technology. It's really ironic because technology is a part of what I'm going to talk about is as I talk about my experience at General Assembly. Thank you for your prayers. But but as I began to look at this passage, one of the things that struck me was um was a life experience that I had as I went to General Assembly. For those of you who know me, I I have some aficionado Uh well no, I I have a great appreciation is a better better way of saying I have a great appreciation for technology, e even when it fumbles and fails. And so I've had a cell phone for a number of years. And I made the characteristic mistake as I got to the airport to go to General Assembly, and that was I took it out of my pocket. And I put it in the console. And so An Ann and Daniel were driving me to the airport and as we got out of the car, got the suitcases, got the the briefcase all the things that we needed to do to get checked in, to get in line, go to security. As as soon as I got to security and and was emptying my pockets, there was this one really important thing that was not there. And it was my cell phone. Now I had I had arranged to be in contact with people in Virginia that I was dealing with an issue. I needed to be in contact with Ann because she was going to meet me in in Portland after I had been in Tacoma. And so I had my computer and I had email, but I didn't have a cell phone. And I couldn't make easy contact with any of these people, so I had to rely on on Dan Clifford, who was on a committee with me for cell phone But I had to figure out a way in order to be in contact with my family to make sure that we had all the details straight. And so knowing that my kids are on the computer a lot but never use email. Knowing that my wife hates technology, I did something that would have been unthinkable for me before I went to General Assembly, and that was I joined Facebook. Thank you. I know who my friends are. For those of you who don't know Facebook, Facebook is a relational web presence that allows you to be in contact with people. And so I could know when my son Daniel or my son Timmy was on the computer. And I could I could instant message them. And so I could be in contact and send them notices that I knew that they'd get because I know how often they're on the computer. But I I I could not have done that if I'd simply used email. And so I I was very impressed with the number of people who in our congregation are on Facebook. We know each other. And we're in contact, and some of you, I'm amazed at what you can put on the web. It's really cool. But as I was thinking of John 17, there's an aspect of Facebook that really became a stark contrast for me. And I don't know if you if you know, but but when you sign on, you create a profile. And that profile asks you to deal with observations about who you are in various areas of life. So, you know, I mean obviously you have your name, you have your gender, you have your age, then you have your political views, and you have your religious views, and you have you have your relational interests, and you have all sorts of different stuff And as I went through filling my profile out, one I was very careful about what I did and didn't address. There are certain things I'm just not going to talk about on the web. You guys will have to find out about me other ways. But as I began to fill those things out, I began to notice in myself an attitude that said, okay, so who's like me that I'll let in? And who's not like me that I just want to keep out? Because everybody who comes, you either invite them to be your friend or they invite you to be their friend, and you have to confirm or ignore. And so you have this sense of who am I going to let into my circle and who am I going to keep out? The reason that's important for this particular passage is because Jesus is talking about something that unites us. And we can easily move into this passage thinking about how to approach it with a way to divine. So let me read the passage and then I'll open us in prayer and we'll we'll look at this passage. It's John chapter 17, verse 20. There's a lot. This prayer begins in chapter 17, verse 1. It's an incredible prayer. I encourage you this week to read it daily. Read this prayer. Read John 17 over and over again just to get a sense of what Jesus is praying for. But I want to deal in this message with chapter 17, verses 20 through 26. So let me read it. Jesus is uh has been praying for the disciples who are with him currently, and then he says, This, I do not ask for these only. But also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you That they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. I in them, and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am. To see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you I know you. And these know that you have sent me. I have made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known That the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them. Let's pray. Jesus, I am amazed at your love. I am amazed at what you have done to redeem us. That you have loved us and desire us to be with you, to be where you are, to see and to experience your glory. And you have not left us as individuals to come, but you have united us as a body. Brothers and sisters in the faith. Brothers and sisters in Christ. The body, the bride of Christ. And so, Jesus, we asked this morning that you would flood us with your spirit. That we might be aware of the calling that you give us, that we might be aware of what it looks like to live our union with Christ and with his bride. And that we, Jesus, might be a people who so represent you to the world in our union and in our love, that you bring the world to believe. You bring the world to know that the Father has sent you and that He has loved us and that He has loved you. We pray this, Jesus, in your precious, glorious name. Amen. Like I said, there's a lot of things that we could look at in this passage, and I'm going to focus this on three particular points this morning. The first point is this. With whom have we become one? With whom have we become one? The second point is, how have we become one with them? And the third point is what happens because we are one and live out our identity, our union in Christ. So the first point is this. With whom have we become one? And I didn't put it in your outline. I want you all, if you have a pen or pencil or some writing utensil, to write down the very first point of point one is this. We have become united. We have become one with God. Listen to what it says. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through your word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I am in you, that they also may be in us. He says later on, I desire that they also whom you have given to me may be with me. And he talks about at the end, I in them. If we don't recognize that that what Jesus has done in his redemption is to bring us into union with God, into union with the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, w we shouldn't go any further in this study because everything about This prayer is predicated on the fact that we are in Christ. We're in Christ. So the very first thing that we have to understand is we look at Who we have become one with. It's God. We're in Christ. Being in Christ, I want to make I make a really important point here We use the word Jesus and we use the word Christ loosely. We we are a culture that's familiar with the trappings of Christianity. And a lot of people will talk about knowing Jesus, and what they do is they know a Jesus of their own creation. And so if you look in this, you'll notice that it says But also for those who will believe in me through their word. Brothers and sisters, that's us. We believe in Jesus because of the testimony that is continued from the time of Christ through the church until now, both in Scripture. But also through the testimony of believers. And what Jesus is saying here is that the disciples' mandate was to bring the testimony of Jesus to the world. And so, as we look at this, one of the most important components of this study is recognizing that Jesus is a discreet individual who speaks for himself. And we are in him. We're in him not because of certain statements we make or because of certain certain ways that we think. We're in him because of what he says Through the the prophet Ezekiel in chapter 36 of the book of Ezekiel, I will take away your heart of stone. I will put in you a heart of flesh. I'll wash you with clean water and you'll be clean. I'll put my spirit on you and move you to keep my commands and my decrees. There is a redemptive act that Jesus accomplishes. That redemptive act that's accomplished by Christ is applied to the believer by the Holy Spirit. And there is a transformation that takes place. where someone is brought into a new life in Christ. Jesus speaks of it when he speaks to Nicodemus and says a man must be born again. So what we're talking about here is those people who are in Christ because of that redemptive act accomplished and applied. And so when you come to Christ, I want you to think of a triangle. You have the pinnacle and you have the foundation And and and we the body of Christ are people who are all individually connected to the pinnacle of the triangle. As we grow in that relationship and grow in that intimacy with Christ who's the pinnacle of that triangle, We draw closer to each other. We experience that union, that life together that marks the body of Christ. And so Not only are we in Christ, not only are we united with Christ, we are united with the body, the bride, the church. And that church covers geography. We had a dedication this, or not a dedication, we had a commissioning this morning where we we were praying for the people who are going to go on the Japan Upward Mission Project. Now, they're going to go to a different culture. They're going to go halfway around the world. They're going to be with people they've never met before, live in a culture that they don't understand, hear a language that most of them don't understand And and yet they're going to be with believers. They're going home to family. And they'll work together with those believers in ministry to the Japanese people. And the unity that they will express, Americans coming to serve the Japanese church, is going to be a powerful testimony. Because they are united together in Christ. They're united together through the word of the disciples. And and I want to go back to that point about Jesus again. I want to reiterate. that it is critically important that when we communicate our testimony, we're not talking about some nebulous Jesus. We're talking about Jesus, who identified himself, who lived two thousand plus years ago, who is the Son of God, made flesh, God and man together in one person, who speaks for himself throughout Scripture. And so it is critically important that you know Jesus as he is. And you battle that tendency to know Jesus as you want him to be. We all have that. You need continuously to be feeding on the word To be able to know who Christ is as he communicates himself. He's an individual who speaks for himself. And as we worship him, we give him the respect of listening and of believing. As we come to this group of people who are united to Christ, one of the things that I've come to understand is that this is a bigger group of people than I'm typically aware of. And it's a bigger group of people than I'm I'm usually comfortable with. And and each of you can think about that, and I'm going to ask in a minute for you to do that when you're home this week. But there there are people who name Christ that are really different than me. When I've gone on TexMex, there are people who love Jesus that speak a different language. They eat different kinds of food, they live in a different part of the world, and and and it's an adjustment for me. I love hot food, but I don't love food as hot as they love hot food. And I don't love hot temperatures And so there's a lot of things about embracing them in their culture and loving Jesus together that's a stretch for me. And those are just small things. I work with a group of churches and religious bodies here in our county who are dealing with people who are homeless and hungry. And there are some of those groups where the individuals really have a very clear articulation of faith in the same Jesus that I know through Scripture. And I can work with them without hesitation. There are differences in how we worship. If I went to their church, I'd probably feel a little different. If they came here, they'd probably feel a little different. But there's a uniting factor of loving Jesus and being propelled into ministry together that just unites us. But there are other religious bodies that are there that don't really have a faith in in Jesus as He's revealed Himself. And so while with one group I'm doing ministry, with another group, in a sense I'm doing evangelism. Because I have opportunities to speak of Jesus, not simply as how I want to interpret him, but as how he speaks of himself. And he gives great opportunities to be talking to people who are in churches where they may not hear. Scripture clearly taught. To be able to hear Scripture and to see more clearly who Jesus really is. But that's difficult. It's difficult. It's much more it's much more comfortable for me simply to be with people I know who live the way that I live, who think the way that I think, who who want to worship the way that I worship, and I don't have to stretch. But that's not what this passage is calling us to. This passage speaks of a universal church. It speaks of the unity of every person in every part of the world throughout all of time in Christ. And the calling that we have is to manifest unity. It is a real and a visible unity that smacks the world in the face. Jesus says That they may be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us. So that the world may believe that you sent me. If this is an invisible spiritual unity, the world won't know This is a visible, real unity that goes through the difficult work of resolving conflicts, of facing issues, and of being honestly unified. To the degree that it surprises the world and it presents Jesus in the same way that a few chapters before, the same evening, Jesus says this A new command I give to you that you love one another. As I have loved you. By this all men will know you are my disciples, if you have love one for another. And it's not a private feeling. It's a manifested relationship. And it points to the union that we have in Christ. That he's pointing to in his prayer. We're called to be so united, so unified, so focused together, not on what divides us, but on what unites us. On Christ and His work in our lives, and sharing that with people who are different than we are, that the world is astounded. And in fact, in chapter, in verse 23 I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me. Twice. Jesus talks in his passage about the impact of our unity on the world It is breaking down divisions. It is working through issues. It is having the mindset that says, what brings us together? And not dealing with the differences. Not to the degree that we deal with the the common factors. There there are differences. There are differences in every relationship you have, but you either focus on those things that unite you and work through the differences, or you focus on those things that divide you and you take the safer out of distance. Jesus is calling us to connect. Jesus is calling us to connect with people in your community, people in the congregation, people in your home fellowship group, people in your family. that you may have difficulties with, and to manifest the unity that you have in Christ. So how do we become one? We become one, we're told in verse 20, I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. We are united with Christ by faith. Jesus has come, He has lived a perfect life, He has died a sacrificial death, He's risen to give us new life that that redemptive experience of of a of a new life in Jesus that both Jesus and Ezekiel have talked about has taken place. So we're in Christ Being in Christ, we are now in the body. It's really not a difficult thing, but it's it's a simple thing, but it's a hard thing. Because it is an issue of of honestly living life and honestly dealing with differences. John 112, Jesus says, But as many as receive him, to them he gives the right to become sons of God. Even those who believe in his name. So the issue is when you come to Jesus, you come to his bride. And and it's not just us here. It's not just the churches in Colombia. It's not just it's not just the Reformed churches in Colombia. It's the church geographical and it's the church chronological. It's all time and all places. And we're called to be united. But what happens if we do live our identity as one body? There's a verse here that's just astounding to me. Verse 24. Father I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am. Maybe with me where I am. Jesus longs for our presence Jesus wants you to be with him. It's really easy to think about that, and to think about that in a context of Christianity, and to think of that in a context of biblical truth, and to let the immensity of that pass you by. The God of creation, the sovereign redeemer who sacrificed for you, Who came and faced the humiliation of religious leaders judging God wants to be with you and wants you to be with him. Brothers and sisters, we have the gift of the gospel. We have the gift of union with Christ. We have the gift of being in the household of God. And it goes on. Not only does he want us to be with him where he is, he wants us to see his glory, to see the glory that the Father has given him, because the Father has loved him from before the foundation of the world. Jesus not only wants us to have some sense of being in his presence, Jesus wants us in intimacy with him, to see his glory. He's talking about the wedding feast There is clearly a present application of this because we're united with Christ now. But what he's pointing to is that glorious moment where the wedding feast in heaven of Christ the bridegroom and the church his bride, consume consummating that union in the wedding feast He's talking about living with us in connected, deep harmony and intimacy, not just being there as guests. The Redeemer wants us. The Redeemer wants us to know him in detail. But he wants us. It's not just you and him, and everybody else is sort of on their own. It's his bride. It's all of us. And we will be part of his glory. The fact that we are there, every tribe, every tongue, every nation, every people speaking together in their own identities, that unifying glory of Jesus. That's what he's giving to us. And frankly, when we get to heaven, there won't be any difficulties to work out. It will simply be peace and worship and manifest glory of Jesus. And we taste that now. We'll experience it fully then. That awaits us. I hope that energizes you. Jesus and the Father are glorified. Listen to this, so that the world may believe that you sent me. When we live in unity, the world is struck. And Jesus' prayer is that being struck, they will believe And whatever that means, that they will believe that the Father has sent the Son. Then it goes further on, so that the world may know that you sent me. And loved them. Our living out our identity as one body in Christ Demonstrates that the Father loves us. And he continues that you loved them. One moment. Even has you loved me That you love them even as you loved me. This is no partial love. This is no toleration. The love that God has for us is the same love that He has for the Son. We're not only united with the Savior, the bridegroom, we're united with the Father and the Spirit, God together. Another issue, and we're going to look at this more next week, is that this is who we are And when we live different than we live if we live if we live disunited, if we live fragmented, we deny our very identity. So when you decide that it's easier to live with people who are like you, and it's easier for you to live with people who won't challenge you, and easier for you to live with people who won't stretch you. But who are Christians? When you decide to narrow that sphere and not to focus on the fact that being in Christ together unites us, you deny your very identity. Paul talks in Ephesians 4. 1 about pleading with us to live worthy in equilibrium, in harmony, and in balance with the calling that we've received. And next week we're going to look at that, and we're going to look at what he says about that calling. He spends several verses simply talking about the fact that we are to pursue the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. We are to live out our unity with the body. The night that Jesus is betrayed on the way to the Garden of Gethsemane, where he's about to spend time praying to the Father for comfort. Jesus prays to the Father with the disciples this priestly prayer and it's all about the unity of the body. Which is a continuation of his ministry and his message to the world. This is profoundly important. And I just want to close as we look at this, We're going back to verse 24 because one of the things that happens when we live out our identity as one body in Christ. In a practical, visible, real way before the world, with one another, Jesus' desire is satisfied. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. Brothers and sisters, Jesus is the one who has saved us. He is the one who is worthy of every sacrifice. Nothing we can give him is too great. And he's the one whose final desire expressed to his father as he goes to the Garden of Gethsemane, as he goes to being arrested, as he goes to being tried, and as he goes to being crucified. His desire is that we will be with him where he is, fully beholding his glory. That's a glory that we contribute to as we live out our identity, our union with the body. Let me close this in prayer. Jesus, it is easy to read these words. It is easy to think about them. It is easy to analyze them and understand cognitively how I need to act. But it's really difficult. It's really difficult when I'm with people who challenge me. It's really difficult when I'm with people who annoy me, with people who are different than I am, that I can't understand. But with whom I share you. And so, Father, I pray that you would stretch us. That we would recognize that we have this. Amazing power that unites us. There is this call that we have to be one with the body that you have redeemed. And I pray, Lord Jesus, that the result of that would be that we would we would recognize this is probably one of the most clear places where we need grace in order to live the life the gospel calls us to live. Lord Jesus, it's so easy to be different. It's so easy to focus on differences. It's so easy to just want to be comfortable. But I want to honor you. I believe my brothers and sisters here want to honor you. And so we come to you. We come to you in this table, and we pray, Lord Jesus, that you would powerfully work through your word. Through your sacraments, through fellowship, through light-minded believers who can encourage us to recognize that we have the power of the gospel to give us the ability to obey the gospel. And Lord Jesus, I pray that we would be a body that manifests your honor and your glory so that as the world looks at us and recognizes that we go beyond what is comfortable, that they'll be. drawn to recognize that you have done a deep work. In your precious name we pray. Amen.