Thank you. Glory of the cross, to know Christ at the foot of the cross, to know him and him crucified. Thank you. Um by the way, don't forget I could tell you I could not tell you this and you'll all be at middle hour next week, but next week is when you put your clocks ahead. So Don't forget, remind yourself in the bulletin on that. I was told by that by somebody going out the door and said, you better remind them. So there you go As I go on in life, there is one simple lesson that I am beginning to get a hold of. And it is this. So many of my problems and anxieties Would be reduced if I could simply be aware of Jesus Let me repeat that. So many of my problems, my anxieties would be significantly reduced if I would learn to simply be aware. of Jesus. I don't mean Jesus as some magic charm, something to conjure up. You just think of Jesus and problems go away. I'm not saying that. I'm saying that if I were to simply be aware of his power and his love and his presence with me. That it is the fact that I go through so many difficulties and I don't factor him in. I'm not aware of him And I'm thinking more and more, why is it that I do that? You know, when Paul in Ephesians 3 prayed to know Christ, he prayed particularly that he would know two things. He prayed that he would know his power and his love. And that makes all the difference To know his power and his love for me, and that is displayed at the cross. Now back in January I kicked off the missions conference with two messages on John chapter ten, you recall. The first one was from John 10, 14 and 15. I am the good shepherd, I know my sheep, my sheep know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. We saw there that Jesus knows you. You see it there four times. He knows you. He knows your name. He knows your DNA. He knows your weaknesses. He knows your temptations. He knows your longings. He knows your love for him. He knows you. And he lays down his life not just in general, but for the sheep, for you in particular. And then the next week we looked at verses verse 16, where he says, I have other sheep that are not of this sheep pen. I must bring them also. They too will listen to my voice, and there shall be one flock and one shepherd. We saw that Jesus is compelled to seek these other sheep, to bring them in. We saw for the next five messages that I didn't preach were ones brought from various people from different parts of the world, showing the heart of Jesus. his bringing in the other sheep and what he is doing and how you're involved in the um procedure of bringing those sheep into the pen so that As Tito displayed, there will be at that last day from every tribe and nation and tongue around the throne the sheep that have the one shepherd, Jesus, who is their refuge. So whatever God was speaking to you about, and I know that he spoke through a number of the speakers to a number of you in particular ways, don't lose it. Keep thinking about it. Keep asking God what He wants you to do with the precious truths and the challenges you got from that conference But now, as we look forward to Easter in just three weeks, I would like to return to John chapter 10 one more time. And look at verses 17 and 18, the end of Jesus' discourse there. In order to see something of his power and of his love. That has frankly overwhelmed me as I've thought about it again. And I hope and pray will speak to your heart too. John 10, 17 and 18. Four simple sentences. Jesus says, the reason that my Father loves me is because I lay down my life only to take it up again. No one is able to take it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This command I received from my Father. Now, Jesus has said four or five times, verse eleven, verse fifteen, verse seventeen, twice really in verse eighteen. That he voluntarily lays down his life for a sheep But he even goes on further. He says, No one can take my life from me. It's not that I just lay down my life like the soldier who throws himself on the grenade to save his buddies around and sacrifices his own life. Jesus is saying something far more staggering here. He is saying, nobody can take my life from me. I voluntarily lay down my life. I have authority to do that. There is not a person in this room or a person in the world that can say, nobody is going to tell me when I die. I determine when I die how I die, and I will lay down my life when I decide to. That's what Jesus is saying. I have authority to lay down my life at the point when I determine. No one takes it from me. In fact, he makes three rather staggering assertions here, you see, in a bulletin outline. Number one, he will decide when and how he dies. That's what he's saying. Secondly he's saying in these verses, when that time comes, he will lay down his life, he will not be killed. He will lay it down voluntarily. And three, he will decide to take it up again. I want to look at those points and I want to show you, work through with you the incredible fulfillment of those assertions. And I want to do it under three points, but in the first point, the first two points really, I want to show how he does that in the events leading up to his death and at his death In twelve instances, twelve ways that Jesus fulfilled what he says there. And so in looking at that, the ways that Jesus could have avoided death. But chose not to, to the point when he came and laid down his life, to show you that in doing that, he irrevocably proved his power and his love for you. He could say, What more can I do to prove my power and my love that's sufficient for you, whatever your need, whatever you're going through, whatever difficulty, what else can I do? And you say, Well, how about answering my prayer? You say, why is it that it seems like prayer sometimes is rather just seems like chance sometimes. I mean one prayer I pray and he answers that. Great. Another prayer I pray and he doesn't seem to answer that. And Why is it that he doesn't answer what I have prayed for him to give me a mate? Why is it that he hasn't answered the prayer I've asked him to change my spouse and to improve our marriage? Why is it that he hasn't answered the prayer of that affliction that plagues me that I continue to suffer under? Why hasn't he answered the prayer of changing the hearts of my kids and bringing them to Jesus To want to walk with him. Why are all these things that seem so good? Why doesn't he answer those things? And you know what? I I I can't tell you the answer to that. I don't know But what I do know is that he shows in the instances we're going to go through here now that it's not because he doesn't care or that he's not able to. He has a superior purpose in what he is doing that calls you to look at his character and trust him. Be aware of Jesus. What are the instances? Well, in the weeks that are going up to Passover, in that time when Jesus would die. The Bible tells us in John chapter 11 is one example. By the way, as I go through these examples, I'm going to urge you that if you want to prepare for Meditating on Good Friday and Easter this year. You might take these instances and just take one of the I put the scriptures there in the outline for you to look up. Take one a day and just meditate on them and think about Jesus to become more aware of them. But I'm just going to run through them. Okay, first situation The hostilities between Jesus and the Jewish leaders is increasing exponentially, to the point where finally the high priest says, We are going to arrest him and we are going to kill him. He makes a public statement. It says better for one to die than that the whole nation should perish. And John says that at that point Jesus withdrew. He distanced himself. In fact, he withdrew to a little village of Ephraim. And people began to wonder, is Jesus going to come to the Passover? Because it looks like there'll be a clash and it wouldn't be a very good idea, and so the many of them are thinking he'll wisely stay away from Passover this year. But he doesn't. Jesus chooses to go to Passover, knowing what's awaiting And he doesn't go quietly or privately, because when he comes up remember Steve said last week that you go up to Jerusalem, so John says when Jesus went up to the city. The people got wind of it and they began to gather and and here comes the one, this the son of David, is this the Messiah? And they pull palm branches and they strew them on the path and they shout Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna! And the crowd gathers and they praise him. And Jesus does not forbid it. He does not discourage it in the slightest. In fact, he says, if they didn't do that, The very stones would cry out. And the Jewish leaders are further infuriated. They say the whole world has gone after him. Put a stop to this. And Jesus encourages it because it is appropriate praise. He comes into the city and does he say, I've got to keep a low profile because things are getting pretty tense now? No, he does just the opposite. He goes into the temple and he cleanses the temple of the money changers. He then comes to the Pharisees and in a public meeting he denounces their hypocrisy. He humiliates them. Why? To irritate them? No He's trying to reach their hearts and warn them of their hypocrisy and their spiritual blindness. But the effect, of course, is that it further infuriates them. Things are at a fever pitch, and people are recognizing that the only reason that Jesus is safe is because the crowds are around him. And the Jewish leaders know. That if they try to arrest Jesus and lay hands on him, there'll be a riot. And so Luke three times points out to us that as long as Jesus was in the crowds, he was safe. And that is why, brothers and sisters, the Jewish leaders went to Judas and gave them 30 pieces of silver, because the sole purpose was to show us how to get our hands on them in private. Show us how we can get to him when he's not surrounded by the crowds. Jesus could have stayed in the crowds and gotten through Passover. He chose not to. Not only that, but he knew, of course, that Judas was the instrument to reveal that. And so on that supper That last supper, John is close to him, and John says, when Jesus uh announces to them that one of you is going to betray me to the Jewish leaders, John says, Lord, who is it? And Jesus says, the one when I dip the bread and I give it to a person, that's the one. Dips it and he gives it to Judas. And he says, what you're going to do, get on with it. Do it quickly. He encourages Judas on in the mission. It's the only opportunity. If it doesn't happen in these next few hours, it's not going to happen. And Jesus tells him, go do it. Go do it because in this meal, what I am giving to you now is a representation of the fact that I am choosing to go and lay down my life. As the sacrificial lamb for you, my sheep. And that's why tonight we will gather around the table. To celebrate the Lord's Supper, remembering that Jesus chose to give Himself for us. So Judas goes out and he gets the soldiers, a couple hundred of them, they come and arrest Jesus. And again, John makes the point, he could have just walked away. He chose to stay. He's not a victim taken in their grasp helplessly. You know how you know that? Because when they arrest him, what does Jesus do? He says, who'd you come after? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. And he says, I am he. What's John say they do? They all fall back onto the ground. The majesty of his presence and his authority is so compelling they can't stand before it. They sort of scrape themselves together and they kind of assemble their dignity a little bit and they come up and he says, Who is it that you seek for? Jesus of Nazareth. And they fall back on the ground again. Now in Luke chapter 4 When Jesus had quoted from Isaiah 61, you remember in Nazareth, he had said that I am the one here come to fulfill that prophecy And the Jewish leaders back at that point were infuriated. And what'd they do? They wanted to stone him. And Luke tells us he majestically walked away. They escaped from it. Could have done the same thing there in the garden. He chose to become their prisoner. So they take them to Annas and then to Caiaphas, and they have this little trial, and it's really kind of humorous if it wasn't so terribly, terribly tragic. But you see them there, they haven't thought this thing through And so now they gotta pull a case together. So they start getting some witnesses that they con codger up, cobble up and say, you know, well, come on, let's get a case. Why why how can we bring a charge that will get him executed? And they start saying he said this and that thing, and they uh contradict one another and the case is all falling apart until the high priest finally out of Total frustration just looks at Jesus and and says, Tell us whether you're the Son of God. You're my last hope. I mean, I you know I can't build any case here And Jesus says, Not only, you're right in saying I'm the Son of God, but the next time you see me, it will be coming on the clouds of heaven to judge the earth. Whoa. You see, it's a simple statement of truth. They can't make the case, and in the simple statement of his deity He gives them the charge they're looking for. Didn't have to do that. He did it As a testimony to his majesty and his dignity. And because they refuse to acknowledge it's the truth, it becomes a charge for blasphemy in their eyes. So they take him the next morning to Pilate and they say, Here we have this malefactor, and we want you to execute him, and you know what are the charges? And they say this and they say that Jesus at that point could have protested the illegal proceedings. Very simple. I mean, a number of things had already been done illegally. For instance You cannot under Jewish law you cannot arrest somebody without giving a charge. They hadn't even made up the charge when they arrested him. They just took him into custody. That's illegal They had a mock trial at the priesthouse by night. It is illegal to have a trial at night. And so they held an illegal trial where they had false witnesses. And then when the false witnesses fell apart, they cross-examined Jesus to try to get him to intimidate himself. That's illegal. Jewish law said that they must make the charge, they must make the witnesses state and support the charge, then you cross-examine the victim for him to defend or not Jesus willingly goes illegally arrested, makes his own charge for a case that is Full of total injustice. He never says a word to Pilate. Pilate would have been sympathetic. He would have been glad to say it. Whole thing's illegal. Throw it out. He doesn't Another thing the gospel points out is that all Jesus had to do was delay the proceedings, and he would have been off. Why is that? Because the next eight days were Passover, it was illegal to execute anybody during Passover. So unless they do it before sundown on that Friday, Jesus walks. Because there's no way after eight days that they would have been able to do anything. Everybody would have known. Now, at this point, the Jews are anxious. They take them early in the morning, they want to get this thing done. And what does Pilate do? Pilate says, oh, hey, you're from Galilee? Well, you know what? Herod's from Galilee. That means you're under his jurisdiction. Why don't you take him to Herod? Wants to be rid of the thing. Buy some time. Jesus goes to Herod, and Herod gives all this shenanigans about, you know, do this and do that. We've heard all these miracles, do all that. And the Bible says Jesus answered them not a word. Why didn't he answer him? I can offer you three reasons. First of all, it's it's an assault on his dignity to cr cast pearls before a swine. He says, you don't do that, and Herod's not serious, he's not interested, and so Jesus is gonna not going to Bring dignity to something that's ridiculous by speaking to it. Secondly, I think he knew that the best way to reach Herod's heart was to let his foolishness just ring in his own ears without a response. But the third reason is he doesn't want to delay the trial. You see, if Jesus had spoken to Herod and he'd given some stuff to work with and they had delayed things, The morning would have gone into the afternoon by the time they got back to Pilate would have been too late and he would not have died. Jesus is cooperating with this ridiculous fiasco to get on with it He says not a word, and so they bring him back to Pilate, and it's still morning. Now he's back in Pilate's court again. Pilate brings the charges. um begins to work with him on that and then uh Jesus at that point and by the way um I missed it again missed it in the first time when they arrested Jesus Not only could he have walked simply because he in his authority, like Luke 4, could have walked out of the scene. But Matthew tells us that when Peter tries to come to his aid, remember he chops off the servant of the high priest's ear. as uh as a display uh of an impulsive display of rescue, Jesus says, Peter, put up your sword. Don't you know That I could call upon my Father and I would have twelve legions of angels here to deliver me You know how many 12 legions of angels is? That's 72,000 angels against a couple of hundred Roman guards. And I picture at that moment the 72,000 angels are straining at the gates of heaven. Just say the word, Jesus. We're at your side. You're free. They don't fully comprehend all of the plan of redemption. They're straining to rescue him. Jesus refuses to call upon him. He voluntarily remains apparently powerless. Brought into the trial, brought before Pilate. And then again, Pilate in bringing the charges to him, the charges themselves are ridiculous. Pilate knows it. Jesus knows it. But he never protests. What's he being up? What's he put up for? An insurrectionist. This man is troubling the people. He's going to carry out an insurrection. You look at Jesus, you think, mm-hmm, does this guy look like he's going to carry out an insurrection? I don't buy it. Oh well, you know, he's a rival king to Caesar. We're loyal to Caesar. So we don't want him to, you know, get a rebellion here as a as a rival king. Pilate knows that this is all spurious. It has no basis to it. You can almost hear him saying to Jesus, Come on, Jesus, work with me. Give me something here Defend yourself, say something. And he refuses to say anything in his defense. All he does is appeal to Pilate for his own heart, in his own soul. Jesus does not bring anything up that will deliver him out of the injustice of that trial because Jesus is determined To suffer under the perfect justice of God, the punishment that you and I deserve He chooses at every point because he loves you, because he refuses to give you up, because he knows this is the only way that you will not suffer eternity apart from God. He refuses to do anything. But move toward death, lay down his life to die for his sheep. And so they bring him to the cross. And at the cross, they don't kill him. He lays down his life. How do you know that? You know it because there's primarily three ways that a person dies with crucifixion. Sometimes a person crucified would be hanging out in the sun for days. And they would die of exposure, or with that, dehydration. But when a man died of crucifixion, within hours there was only one cause of death. Suffocation. You can no longer lift up your body on the nails so that your diaphragm expels the air in your lungs and you're able to take in new air. You simply sag down And you cannot breathe, and you die of suffocation. All four Gospels make the point: Jesus did not die of suffocation. You look at Matthew chapter twenty Matthew chapter twenty-seven and verse fifty. When Jesus had cried out again in a loud voice He gave up his spirit. To cry out in a loud voice, you need air You need a breath. It shows that you are still breathing. You are not suffocating. It was a loud voice, not something he whispered in the last gasp. Mark chapter 15 verse 37 with a loud cry, Jesus breathed his last. Luke 23, 46, Jesus called out with a loud voice, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And when he had said this, he breathed his last. And then John. John, who had recorded the words, No one takes my life from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. What does John say? When he had received the drink, Jesus said, to telespy It's a word which means it is finished, done, accomplished, perfected. All has been done. It is finished. With that, he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Jesus, at that point, with a loud cry of victory, Is announcing that all that he has intended, the sacrifice has been received. He is now at this point laying down his life for the sheep, for you. For me, is there anything that you could go through where you would doubt his love or power Is there anything that doesn't make sense to you in your life? And you pray about it and you say, But Jesus, where are you? And I don't understand. Why do you let this happen? And Jesus says, Look, my child. Look at what I did. Choice after choice after choice. Sovereign disposal of my life. You and I dread death No one finds death more abhorrent than Jesus. He faced it and he laid down his life rather than give you up. And the final point is he said, I have authority to take it up again. And so three days later, In the joint decision with the Father and the counsels of eternity, Jesus takes up his life again. We'll look at that in three weeks. But this morning I simply want to bring back to you the thought that I started with. The basis of so many of your problems and my problems is that you're not aware of Jesus. You're not aware of this shepherd who chose to lay down his life sovereignly. To accomplish by his sacrifice the freedom from death and hell that only that could do for you Brothers and sisters, think about that. In the days to come. Meditate on this. Be aware of Jesus. And if you have never come to rest in and rely upon that one who offers Jesus, I invite you to come to Jesus now. To see that this Jesus is the only one, his sacrifice, the only sacrifice that could suffice to deliver you from the wrath of a righteous God. I plead with you. As I look in my own heart, see Jesus as he is, offering himself to you today. That same shepherd that invites you to rest in him Come to him, come to him, come to him now. Let's pray Oh Lord Jesus, open our eyes. We sit and we hear this, and Lord, I pray that you would You would work in our imaginations to think of this historical record, the Jesus who went to the Passover who went voluntarily, no compulsion except that longing to obey the Father and to glorify him by presenting a people, us, the sheep. who will gather at the throne in that last day. That you, in the strength of your character, cleanse the temple, denounce the hypocrites. You allowed Judas to go and to betray you. You would not allow the case out of the foolishness to fall apart, but you gave them the charges. You did not protest the illegalities. You walked with the soldiers, them thinking they had a prisoner, you simply voluntarily refusing to call upon 72,000 angels and going into custody to suffer the indignities, the spitting, and the mocking. So that you would before sundown go to the cross and accomplish our salvation. How can we not love you? How can we not trust you? How can we not rest in your sufficiency? Ah Lord, stir our hearts. Stir our hearts right now to make a connection between those things that divide us from you. And the offer that you make to be our Savior right at this moment. Lord Jesus, we want to see you. We need to see you. We worship you for what you have done, that when you laid down your life, it truly was finished. There is nothing we can add or need to add. To be right with God, to be accepted, to be cherished and loved for all eternity. Give us eyes to see your great love and your great power, your authority. You as our shepherd Lord, whatever the issues for us, drive them away with the eyes of faith that see Jesus as he really is, we pray. In the name of that Jesus.