There is no time of the year that I love preaching God's Word and feel the privilege of that than the weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas. When we break from the normal study of whatever book or topic that I happen to be in, to simply focus on Jesus and the hope of his coming. To be reminded of the history and of the hope of those who are awaiting his first coming, and then to renew through that our longing for his return. Christmas, as you know, is not so much a day as a season. I find that I'm more and more aware of that as I get older. It's a season, a journey, in which I travel to take So that I might once again fall in love with the one who has come, who has come for me in the flesh. That at Christmas time I remember that God sent his son to step across the stars into Bethlehem and then to Jerusalem for me. Since 1979, we have been going through 50 messianic prophecies in the Old Testament that I have selected. We have covered 17 of them so far. I better get cracking. I think I'm only about a quarter of a mile of the way through my ministry here Last year we took a break even and uh looked at the meaning of Messiah. And so now this year we return to the Old Testament. We begin now to ascend what I believe to be some of the holiest ground in all of the landscape between Genesis and Malachi. Four poems, four songs in the book of Isaiah that are traditionally called the servant's songs. They're called that because each of these focuses on Messiah as the servant of the Lord, who would be the hope of Israel and the Messiah of the world. And as Tom already indicated, it's going to take a few years to cover these, two years just for Isaiah 42. Not to full years of course, but just during a couple of weeks be uh between Thanksgiving and Christmas I believe that you will see that these songs are major faith builders. They are tremendous songs to build our faith. How's your faith this morning? When you think of the commitment to live for Jesus Christ in your life. Are there times when you wonder if he's really true? If he really is who the Bible says he is? Has he really risen from the dead and is all powerful available to you for the needs and the difficulties in your life? Do you really believe him this morning for all that he says he is and can do for you? One way I find in my own life of examining that is to ask myself, how eager am I this Christmas season? to take every opportunity to talk to other people about Jesus because Christmas time at least reminds them of something vaguely religious and I can use that opportunity to talk about who Jesus is and what he can do in their lives. Am I convinced that Jesus is the thing that my friends, neighbors, coworkers need more than anything else? How's your faith this morning? Well, I hope that you will see as we go through these songs and just begin it this morning, kind of an introduction. That Jesus supernaturally and uniquely fulfilled the specific prophecies that we have here. And that in fact, if Jesus is not the Messiah, The world could never have another Messiah. If Jesus has not fulfilled the specific prophecies That run from Isaiah 42 to 53, then there is no one else who possibly can. And the Bible is untrue. There is therefore no revelation that will give meaning and purpose and make sense out of your life. The only alternatives are that this is supernatural prophecy, and Jesus supernaturally, uniquely fulfilled it. Or that none of it is true. Those are the alternatives. Where do you stand in your own judgment about that this morning? So I want to begin this year with two points by way of introduction to these songs that we'll be looking at in the years to come. Isaiah chapter 42 is the first of them, and I want to begin by looking at simply that first phrase of that first song in Isaiah chapter 42, verse 1. Here is my servant. The whole verse, here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him, and he will bring justice to the nations. I want to focus on the theme that runs through these songs of that first phrase, here is my servant. Now I want to ask two points, two questions. Two points. You see in your bulletin outline. First of all, what are these songs of the servant? And then, secondly, who is the servant that is so central to God's plan indicated here. First of all, what then are the songs? What are they? If you have not read them, I would strongly encourage that you read them. You see them listed there in your bulletin outline under that first point one A. And I want to say two things about these songs. First of all, that they are separate. That is, even though they are embedded in Isaiah's general message, these songs are disappointed Distinct from Isaiah's general uh the theme and the message that he is giving throughout his book. They are separate from it. In each case, they're a separate song which begins With some dramatic statement, such as, Here is my servant whom I uphold. They all refer to the servant or my servant. And you will see that as you look through these songs, they describe someone who is absolutely distinct and unique. Someone who is so unique, so far above any other Old Testament character, far above Abraham, Moses. David, Solomon. And they are this person that is spoken of is an absolute contradiction In his uniqueness, he's not only exalted beyond any other character that had been seen in the Old Testament to this point. But this person is one who is so contradictory in his absolute humiliation as well as his unfathomable exaltation that many of the rabbis concluded that in fact there had to be two messiahs. No one person could ever fulfill all these prophecies because they're so contradictory in their nature. Besides being separate, though, from Isaiah's message, they are also integrated into the rest of his message. They're integrated in. What I mean by that is that while they begin with some dramatic statement such as, here is my servant, And everyone knows, all scholars agree, where these songs begin. It's one of the few things Bible scholars agree on. They all look at them and they say, yep, there's four of them, and here's where they begin. But if you ask Bible scholars where do they end, you will get a lot of disagreement. Some say it ends at this verse, another man will say it ends at this verse, another scholar will say Well, I think it ends here, but then there's some connecting links with the rest of the text, and it kind of goes on and flows through here. So that there's uh a much more difficulty in actually seeing where they end simply because they are so integrated into Isaiah's general message. They are an important part of his overall message of comfort and hope to a people who are about to be Destroyed by the invading Babylonians as the instrument of God's own judgment against his people. And I want to notice in passing in this how kind God is Here is Israel and Judah in this particular case that so richly deserved God's wiping them off the face of the earth And in fact, he exiles them, as you know from Bible history, brings them into Babylon for 70 years as captives But on the eve of his doing this, as Isaiah is writing, God in his kindness gives them a hope. Hope is absolutely vital to your life, isn't it? I mean, you can put up with almost anything as long as you still have hope. As long as there's still the sense that God has not abandoned me, maybe you feel like his hand is heavy on you right now. But as long as you know he hasn't abandoned you, that there's a hope, there's a purpose for what he's doing, he's going to accomplish something through this, there will be a rescue. by his own personal intervention, his care for you in the end, then you're able to bear it. And that is exactly what Isaiah 40-66 are all about. This part of Isaiah's prophecy is the comfort and hope that his people need as they are about to go through some very deep waters. And so this is very relevant to you and to me. Whatever you're going through, God gives this to you to build your faith that there is one, His servant, whom He has provided. As a deliverer for you in your need. Well then, who is the servant that is so central to God's plan? The simple answer to that is simply he is the Messiah, Jesus. Now not everyone agrees with that Next week I want to establish that Isaiah could only mean the Messiah who could only be Jesus in his own intention and writing And I want to show the supernaturalness of that. I would like to also show how we can use this evangelistically. particularly with our Jewish friends and neighbors, to show them that the things that they have been taught in synagogue and Hebrew school concerning the rabbi's interpretation of who the servant is. Cannot be true. And that only Jesus could in fact not only fulfill what Isaiah is writing about, but Isaiah must in fact have someone like Jesus in mind when he wrote that. Now, because I can't really do that in a sermon, it's more an interaction kind of thing, what I'm going to do is something a little unique. uh I'm going to offer a one-week elective back in the storage closet next week, middle hour. Any of you who want to see how to use the servant songs evangelistically, both with Jewish people and as well as with anybody, any secular materialist who simply says, I don't believe there is any supernatural prophecy, and you want to see how you can demonstrate to them something of the supernaturalness of this then we'll meet middle hour in the closet next week. And I know that uh the classes are still running and that means you will need to get a friend, a spouse, or somebody to get the notes of what you would want But I don't know of any other way to try and deal with this, so that's the best I can offer. Just giving you a heads up in advance. Now, today I want to look at this from the position of those of us who accept the New Testament as God's word. And I believe it's very significant that when the early church began to grapple after the resurrection and after Pentecost with who Jesus is. And they began to think through the implications of the resurrection. That the first term that they used that was prominent in their thinking to describe Jesus was the term servant. Four times in Acts chapter 3 and 4, right after Pentecost, you have Jesus referred to as the servant in Acts chapter 3, verse 13. Peter in Acts 3. 13 says, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus. In Acts 3. 26, when God raised up his servant, he sent him first to you to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways. Chapter 4 Verse 27 and 30, in the prayer of the disciples after they had been uh persecuted, they begin by exalting God, praising him, good habit, and beginning of prayer, especially when you're in difficult situation to remind yourself of who God is. And what do they say? Verse 27 Indeed, Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles, the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant Jesus whom you anointed, that is, made Messiah. Verse 30, stretch out your hand, therefore, Lord, to heal and to perform miraculous signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant, Jesus. I don't know about you, but I know when I was struggling with my own faith and who Jesus was and whether the Bible was true, one of the things that troubled me is as I'd read these terms And I was reading guys that were saying, you see, in the primitive church, nobody had the concept that Jesus was God. They really saw him as a servant. He was one who was simply a man sent by God as his servant. And you have evidence of that. Because the early church prominently here refers to him as servant. It was later on they began to develop the idea that he was God and all the rest of that. But you see, that totally misses the historical point, which is that when the church first began to grapple with who Jesus was, And they were just reaching for clues and understanding in prophecy to understand what the prophets were saying. The first thing that their minds turned to were these four servants songs of Isaiah. And how did those songs refer to the exalted King of kings and Lord of Lords who was going to bring justice to the nations, be a light to the Gentiles, who was going to rule all kingdoms? It was his servant. And so this term servant, far from being a term which speaks only of the humiliation of Jesus speaks of him uniquely as the Messiah whom God had pictured through the prophecies of Isaiah. And so as the New Testament developed, you have increasingly this idea of who Jesus is explained through the servant songs. For instance, in Matthew chapter 12, when Matthew's trying to come to terms with how Jesus, Lord of Lords, could be so gentle. And when he would heal, he would tell people, don't go and spread this around. Matthew saying, why would he do this? And he reaches back to Isaiah chapter 42 for the answer. And so if you look in Matthew chapter 12 in verse 15, Matthew says, aware of this, that the Pharisees were plotting to kill him, Jesus withdrew from that place. Many followed him. He healed all their sick, warning them not to tell who he was. This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah, chapter 42, now, quoting from verses 1 to 4. Here is my servant, whom I have chosen, the one that I love in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him, and he will proclaim justice to the nations. He will not quarrel or cry out. No one will hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break. And a smoldering wick he will not snuff out until he leads justice to victory. And in his name the nations will put their hope. And Matthew is saying, the only way you can understand what Jesus is doing is in terms of the contradictory nature of the servant. who is not going to call attention to himself. He's not going to bring forth his victory through brute force, but through quiet gentleness of his regal sovereign character. He is going to serve. He's going to come not to be served, but to serve and to bring about the victory. And so you see, throughout the New Testament, in understanding who Jesus is, John 12 quotes Isaiah 53 to explain their unbelief. 1 Peter 2 verses 20 to 25 describing how you and I should react when we are unjustly treated in suffering, he pulls from Isaiah 53, and the servant in Jesus' response. When Paul is grappling with that all-important question of why this gospel of a Jewish Messiah is going to the nations for the one who's going to be king and lord of all the world In Acts chapter 13, he quotes from Isaiah 42 and Isaiah 49 that this Messiah, the servant, is going to be a light to the nations. In Philippians 2, he describes Jesus in his incarnation as the one who came in the form of a servant, who would then be the one before whom every knee would bow and every tongue confessed that he is Lord. The idea of the songs of the servant. In Romans 10 and 15, the idea again of the gospel going to the nations. Is given in terms of Isaiah 52, how beautiful are the feet of him who preaches the glad tidings of peace. When he speaks of of substitution for sin in Romans chapter 5 and the second Adam who comes to replace the first Adam who brought sin, the second Adam bringing life through his being the representative of his people. It's from Isaiah chapter 53 that he quotes. But more importantly than all of this Is the fact that you see there, see, Jesus understood his own life and ministry in terms of these songs. Did you ever wonder how Jesus came to understand who he was and what he came to do? I think sometimes we don't think about that a lot and we think, well, I guess God just told him But did you ever stop to think that the Gospels do not talk about God verbally communicating with Jesus in some audible way? In fact, the only two times that you have God speaking audibly in Jesus' life, he doesn't speak to him, he speaks about him. To the baptism and his transfiguration. And what are the words that he speaks? Isaiah 42, verse 1. This, and he, and he combines that with Psalm 2. 7. This is my beloved son, Psalm 27, 278. In whom I delight, in whom I am well pleased. You see the echoes of Isaiah 42. Here is my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom I delight. How did Jesus then understand who he was? I believe that it was primarily, if not entirely, by the reading of Scripture. That Jesus would read these songs, and as he meditated on these songs, they would describe to him who he was and what he was going to do. So that when on that occasion the two disciples are squabbling and they're saying, Who's going to be the big deal in the kingdom? And you remember Jesus turns to him and says, You don't know what you're asking here for the Son of Man, you know, and he talks about who was going to follow me should be a servant and one's gonna really be big in the kingdom, is going to be a slave Four, he says, and in the next statement, he brilliantly sums up all four songs in one sentence. For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. There is no statement that so sums up the four songs of the servant as that one. That was Jesus' understanding of himself derived from those songs. And then you remember he goes out, and a couple of blind beggars are screaming and yelling and carrying on because they're desperate for sight, and they've heard that this Jesus who can heal comes, and everybody's driving them away. Jesus has things to do. He's got to get to Jerusalem. He's important. Don't bother him. You guys go back to your business. You have no status. To get the attention of one who's as important as Jesus, and Jesus breaks through the crowd, and he goes to those beggars and he says, What do you want me to do for you? And he demonstrates that he is the servant of the Lord, ready to serve. When they come to the Lord's Supper, once again, the disciples are arguing right there at the table, knowing All the things that could happen. All of them could lose their lives. Their master is in jeopardy. And they're arguing again about who's going to be the biggest in the kingdom. And Jesus takes a towel and he washes their feet because he understands that he's the servant. Because he has meditated on these songs. And there is in him a holy conformity to exactly what God intends for him, as revealed by Scripture. In fact, you come to Luke chapter 22 in verse 37, and it's rather startling. Luke chapter 22, verse 37. He says to them after the supper um no yeah He's warning them, if you have a purse now take it, if you have a bag, and if you don't have a sword, then sell your cloak, buy one, because it is written. He's quoting here from the songs of the servant, Isaiah 53. He was numbered with the transgressors. And I tell you that this must be fulfilled in me. Yes, and what is written about me is reaching its fulfillment. Jesus had a sense of purpose that was formed by these songs. Can you imagine when Jesus arrived at this? I think of Jesus as a teenager. On the hills of Galilee, reading his Old Testament, reading the scrolls And meditating on the songs of the servant from Isaiah. Can you imagine how Jesus must have felt When he would read Isaiah 53, 3, he was despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows And familiar with suffering. Like one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Most teenagers are thinking about who they're gonna marry and what kind of business they'll set up and following in the pattern of their dad, who they'll internship with, what life is going to be like, the good things they have to look forward to, children, grandchildren Jesus reads, Just as there were many who were appalled at him, his appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man. And his form marred beyond human likeness. And he's thinking, that's me. That's me, the prophet's writing about. And although I'm not going to in any way dare to disobey my father Or displease him in any possible way. He goes on and reads Surely he took up our infirmities. And he looks at Mary and Joseph and his brothers and the people of Galilee. And he reasoned and he carried our sorrows, and yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. And he thinks there's no way in the world that they're going to understand what I'm doing for them. They'll think I'm afflicted by God and smitten. And they won't understand that I'm only doing this out of obedience to my Father and out of love for them. I don't believe that Jesus knew you and me by name at this point. I believe that his humanity can find him in that. But I wonder if there wasn't some dim awareness of his pre-incarnate existence whereby at that point he had you and me specifically in mind. And even though because of the constraints of his humanity, now he no longer knows you and me at this point. In his humanity, there's still the awareness that there are many sheep that I'm going to bring into my hold. There are many down through the ages, and they're depending on me They're depending on me to be faithful. They're depending on me, as Isaiah 42 says, to not be discouraged or to give up until I have accomplished all that I was sent for. Have you ever been misunderstood? Have you ever gone through something where you feel like this is something I need to do because I love someone or I care for them? And they're not going to understand it. Parents do that all the time, right? With kids? You're not gonna understand now why I'm doing this. It's for your good. You kids hear that all the time But someday you're going to thank me. Have you ever really done something heart-wrenching and knew that you'd be misunderstood? Even though you're doing it out of love. Jesus was never understood. His mind was Was wrapping around these servant songs and understanding the complexities and the contradictions And understanding that this was all going to happen in him. It must be fulfilled in me, he says in Luke 22, 37. And so finally, let me wrap it up by saying: notice these three final observations. How could Jesus make sense out of such a mission? It appears so full of contradictions. How could he be one who's going to rule the world and yet be a humble servant who doesn't assert himself? When his enemy is the demonic hosts of hell. How is he going to have his father delight in him on the one hand and yet crush him on the other? How is he going to be the one who will be rejected and despised by his own people? And yet rule the nations who will look to him and serve him and wait upon him. Now you and I can look and say, well, we understand how he could do that, but no one, no one at that time could. No rabbi ever conceived of a figure of Messiah that matched the picture of Jesus. No one. Best they could do would be to come up with two messiahs. And even then, far missing the mark. Because the contemporary expectations were mainly political. There was no notion of substitution for sin. And the erecting of a spiritual kingdom with new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness, a heart righteousness by the Spirit of God, would dwell throughout every citizen. No one imagined that. Jesus, in the brilliance of his supernatural mind, saw through to the exact purpose. And the profile of Messiah that Isaiah was describing. Worship him for such a supernatural mind no one has ever conceived. The servant songs with the accuracy and the brilliance of Jesus. But notice secondly, how could he aspire to do this? How could he, even if he if he decided, if he could see it, if he could say, I understand what these songs are saying, as no one else has, how could he aspire to fulfill it? It was beyond his control. How do you decide I am going to out of my obedience to God be his delight? But of course, all the people who claim to love him are going to hate me In fact, they will be out to kill me, they will crucify me, they will utterly reject me, and as a result of that, I will become king and lord of the universe. How do you engineer that? But Jesus did. Because with his father, there was a sovereignty in history that not only understood the pictures. But had the capacity to do what he pleased in fulfilling it. And so it is quoting the servant songs that the disciples say, You who with wicked hands Slew Jesus according to the determined will of God. Speaking of Isaiah 42, 49, 52, 53 And then finally, how would someone, by the way, those of you who like the blanks, the first one is supernatural mind. The second one is supernatural history, to trust your Bible and Jesus who is able to fulfill all supernatural prophecies. And thirdly, How would he possibly aspire to such suffering? Behold my servant, whom I uphold. My chosen one in whom I delight. And then he goes on to speak of how he will crush him. Jesus crushed for you and for me because he obeyed and because he loved you. And love me, pathetically, ungrateful creatures like you and me. And yet, as he read these songs, he said, Yes, I will do it. Because I love them. And I want to bring you and you and you into my fold as my own. And I will go through whatever it takes to do that. Supernatural love. Oh, may your heart be gripped To love him in return. Let's pray. Lord our God, grip us with a sense of the supernaturalness of your mind, of your power. And of your love that we see in these songs. That as we look for your return, as those who look for your first coming We look with hearts that are overwhelmed with gratitude and worship and trust. Lord, we want to trust you and love you more. Give us minds to understand what these songs are saying, and who you were to fulfill them. In Jesus name, Amen