Thank you so much, you guys ministering that to us. That's an example, I think, of a string quartet like that, of a joy that is not the hand clapping, bubbly joy, but there's a fullness almost like transporting you in the fullness of spirit with that kind of uh Just wafting us through melody into another realm. Just beautiful Well let me ask you, what is your level of joy this morning? You know, say on a scale of one to ten We're zero to ten. Where would you put it? You know, three, eight, five. You know, I mean really, think about That's not a rhetorical question. Write it down. Get in your mind. What what would you say? How how easily can you smile this morning or laugh? Would you describe your heart as light, heavy? And again, I'm not just talking about a bubbliness. I'm talking about joy. Now um I can think of a number of reasons as we go into 2007 why you might say, yeah, as I look at this next year And I think about whether I expect to have joy in two thousand seven, whether I expect to enjoy two thousand seven, why Some reasons why uh that could be a challenge. Um number of us concerned about um more troops in Iraq divides the nation, effect on economy, more deaths, casualties. What's happening there? Deeply troubling. Um the tremendous um efforts and resistance. Or um I think of uh on the other hand a number of um articles I've seen talking about optimism for the economy in 2007. a high degree of liquidity, whatever that means, saying, you know, that um things are gonna probably go well. Stock market continues to break records and it's gonna do good. And then this little article in Time magazine says, well, let's just throw this in, that um economically the situation is very parallel to 1914. in terms of the healthy economy and why it was healthy and what was going on. And then one terrorist act in a Muslim nation Brought on a world war and tanked the economy. Very fragile. Or another article I read It said that uh President Ahmadinejad from Iran expects the world to come to a conclusion in 2007. He expects the return of the 13th Imam. And that will herald in the bringing of the Islamic State of peace and justice and the end of history as we know it. The return of the 13th Imam must be preceded by chaos. Chaos will hasten that coming. He expects a worldwide conflagration, and when you put that together with his determination to gain nuclear capability as quickly as possible. And the realization that there are absolutely no reasons to deter him from using those capabilities against Israel in the United States uh you sort of get in mind what he has in mind. And uh, you know, you talk about unstable times So, that's just global. Then there's all your own personal issues and my personal issues. Your fears, your anxieties, your pressures, your disappointments. Now let me posit something to you for a moment. Just imagine for a moment That you were able to converse with Jesus about 2007. Jesus is standing here, and you were to be able to say to him, Lord, you know all the instability in the world Lord, you know the things in my life. You know my disappointments, my frustrations, my confusions, my complaints, my hopes, all those things. And Lord, what's this year going to be like? Now what do you imagine Jesus saying? How do you imagine him looking at you at that point? Do you imagine him saying, well yeah, but just suck it up, stop complaining, trust me, and let's move on. Or do you possibly imagine that Jesus could look at you kindly, with softness in his eye, and say, My child I want you to enjoy 2007. Nah, that's for the prosperity gospel, folks. That's not that's not Christian. No. Listen, I want to remind you of something as we move into this year. The darkest night in human history. The night that the Son of Man and the Son of God was betrayed. Mocked, tortured, and killed. On that night he met with his disciples and he instructed them at length They were confused. They were very anxious. They thought that they might be seeing the end of all their hopes. Jesus was going to lead them. What did this mean? What were they going to do? What did the future hold? And it was in that context that Jesus spoke the words of John 15, 11. I have told you this so that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be complete. Imagine Jesus saying that at a time like that. It's amazing. Does that fit your view of him? Does that fit with what Dick said last week from Psalm 77 The struggles, the cries? God, have you forgotten to be merciful? God, have your promises failed? God, where are you? Where are you in all this mess? God, what's going on? How do you fit this with what he said there? Remember last fall when we were studying the Beatitudes, I pointed out that every Beatitude begins with happy. And that's the beginning of Jesus' sermon. He wants you to be happy. Do you believe that? Do you believe that for 2007? In your life Personally. What did Jesus mean when he said, These things, this I have told you, so that my joy might be in you And that your joy might be full. I want to round out the three messages for the new year with this thought. Three observations about this verse. First point, Jesus speaks for the purpose of giving me and you joy. He speaks for the purpose of giving me you joy. These things I have told you so that my joy may be in you. Now what are these things? First of all, you notice if you have NIV, it says this. But in the Greek it is plural. It is these things. What are these things? Well, the discourse goes all the way back to chapter 13, where he washed their feet and began to talk to them about some very important matters. But you come to the end of chapter 14, and that's apparently the end of the upper room discourse, because at that point he says, let's leave, and the rest of it's apparently on the way to Gethsemane. So probably although all these things from chapter thirteen and fourteen are included, most particularly I think Jesus is referring By these things to what he says in verses one to ten just before verse eleven of chapter fifteen. And I think there are at least four things that he's likely referring to when he says, These things I have told you, so that my joy might be in you and your joy would be full First of all, notice in verses 1 to 4 the warning of your need and my need to draw my life ever from Him as a branch from the vine. I am the true vine, Jesus says. My father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit. Well, every branch that does bear fruit he prunes so that it will be even more fruitful. You are already clean because of the word I've spoken to you. Remain in me, and I will remain in you. That's an intimate connection. No branch can bear fruit by itself, it must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. You and I have a gravitational pull toward independence As much as we know I need Jesus, every day we wake up independent And as Tim said in his messages on humility back last fall, every morning I need to remind myself, to shape myself, to say, God, I need your grace to live this day. We think that we can do it on our own. There's this gravitational pull toward coasting. And moving from a conscious sense of my need for the life of Christ moment by moment It's like the guy who said, Lord, I think that I'm doing pretty well today. I haven't gossiped. I haven't lied I haven't lost it. I haven't even lost my temper. But I'm about to get out of bed now. And I think I'm going to need your grace. Heavy duty. We need to remind ourselves every morning, Lord, I need to draw from your life. Jesus says that's the way to joy. The remembrance that your life is drawn for me, that you don't live independently. Seeking to live independently will always lose your joy. And so he says, remember, I'm divine. Be of good cheer. You're not on your own. You're not going to live this year in your own strength. Without me, you can do nothing. But you have me. You're a branch. I'm the vine. That's good news. These things I've told you, so that my joy would be in you. I think he's also referring to what he says in verses five and eight. Where he talks about the promise that if you do remain in him, you will bear much fruit. There's a an inevitable connection I am the vine, you are the branches. If a man remains in me, and I in him, he will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. Verse eight, This is to my father's glory that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples. Jesus is pointing out there that what we talked about in the first of the three messages, Ezekiel 36, it's God who changes your heart. You don't just say, here's some things I want to do in 2007. I'll change my behavior and hope that my heart will change. God has to change your heart. The fruit that he's talking about there is the fruit of the Spirit. You need to be in connection to Him, with Him, in order that He will bear that fruit. If you were to be able to make the changes, then to you would be the glory. I've been able to do it. I've disciplined myself. I've decided, and I was able to change, and I don't lose my temper anymore But because you and I know that you're incapable, and I'm incapable of that, he says, this is to my Father's glory that you bear much fruit. Because without me you can do nothing. And that gives you joy. Be able to say, Lord I know I can't change. I know you need to change my heart. But you know, you've said that you're the vine, I'm the branch, I'm connected to you, and you will do that If a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit. He will do that work in you. Continue consciously connected to him this year And he will change your heart. He will change your behaviors by the power of the Spirit. That brings joy. I think he's also referring to what he says there in verse 7 about prayer. He says, there, if you remain in me, and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be given you. Now that's not an automatic, you know, just name it and claim it. What he's saying, I think, is if my words remain in you and they begin to control your desires, you increase your confidence in me. Because you begin to enlarge in your understanding of who I am, and you begin to desire the things that are on my heart, you begin to pray with more authority and with more confidence. I'd like to see God work in my prayer life more in 2007. What about you? He wants his words to take hold, take root in your heart. So that this year you're able to pray with more confidence. You're able to see Him working in your prayer life to encourage your faith You see, if you do, what happens? Your joy. Jesus' joy enlarges in you. I told you this so that my joy will be in you, and that your joy will be made complete. Let's set our hearts to know more about laying hold of God's promises and his character through prayer, so that our joy will increase. In this next year. I think he's also referring, I think quite clearly, in verses 9 and 10 to the assurance of his infinite love for us. The invitation to rest in that unchanging love. These are the two verses just before verse 11. As the Father has loved me, so I have loved you. Now remain in my love. If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my Father's commands, and I remain in his love. The Father loves me, and so as he has loved me, so I love you The word remain there means to abide, to live in, to take your dwelling, to rest in The joy of knowing that you are loved by Jesus just as he is loved by the Father. Do you see the comparison? No wavering. Nothing that shapes that. It's constant. It abides. And it gives you joy. Because what else really matters? You know, I don't need your approval. I don't need their approval. And you don't Because Jesus loves you as the Father loves him. And that's fixed. That's constant And so that brings you joy because it's like Dick was talking about, you know, we have these two silos. The things that are all what we believe as Christians, and the way our life is. And it's a matter of bringing them together. Whatever your life is, whatever's going on, whatever's going to happen in 2007, in your family, in National. National and international conflicts. The fact is, do you believe God loved Jesus perfectly forever? And that's the measure of Jesus' love for you in 2007. And if you believe that, it makes all the difference in the world, doesn't it? And Jesus has demonstrated that love to you by his death for you on the cross. He's made the ultimate final sacrifice for you to prove and demonstrate his love. And so you rest in that love. You live in that love, he's saying, remain in it. This is not talking about the bubbly joy of a personality that's naturally optimistic. This is talking about Jesus' own joy. Second point. The joy he gives is his own joy. So that my joy may be in you. You see that? He's not talking about improving your joy, he's talking about imparting his joy. And that makes all the difference. It's not about personality. It's not about natural buoyancy or optimism or those kind of things. This is talking about what you have That causes you to be able to sing through tears. My joy in you. Wouldn't you like to have that I'd like to have that. I'd like to know more what that means. What characterizes it? Well, a number of things, but I think there are at least three that Jesus refers to here in this context. The first, the obvious one connected to what we just said is what he says in verses 9 and 10, as the Father has loved me. Jesus' joy was first and foremost from his relationship with his father. He constantly was aware of the eternal, infinite love of his father for him. He knows that the father always loves him and always hears him. I remember back in the 80s an Olympic gold medalist in diving was Greg Luganus. and um got a number of gold medals. I remember an interviewer asking him at one point, um, when you're standing there on the high dive ready to take a dive. What goes through your mind? He said, you really want to know. It's I may do a good dive or I may do a bad dive But my mom's still going to love me. You know, a person that has the sense that I have a father Who's going to love me whether I mess up in 2007 or whether I am able to do things that I would like to attempt for him is a different kind of person. I hope that Steve McMahon has something of that sort of feeling this morning after the Ravens game yesterday, and that his mom still loves him. Because Jesus has proven once and for all his love for you. And you live out of that love. It remains constant. Secondly, Jesus' joy is related to his obedience to the Father. You notice he says in verse 10, If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my father's commands and remain in his love. Now that's not talking about works. You know, it's not undercutting what I just said, but you know, yeah, I have a little asterisk there. If you obey all his commands, then he'll love you. What it's talking about is this kind of cyclical pattern. The Father loves me. I delight in that love, and I obey his commands. And as I obey his commands, I'm more aware of his love. And this grows and deepens. Jesus said his delight was in obeying the Father. His delight was in the Father, and that was communicated, translated in a delight in obeying the Father. Now once again I'll refer to what is in our family considered one of the greatest movies of all time, Princess Bride, is still only one of only three movies that we own. And uh you know people always ask afterwards what the other two are. I'll tell you the door if you have to know. But that is a classic. And um at the beginning of the movie, I know a number of you have seen it, a number of us have seen it many times, and at the beginning of the movie, Buttercup is described as having this servant, form boy, that works for her. And she's always ordering them around. Get this, fetch that, do this, do that. You remember, whenever she tells him what to do, how does he respond? As you wish One day she asked him to fetch a picture which is over her head, and so he has to move in real close and he gets the picture and it looks right in her eyes and he says, As you wish. And suddenly she realizes that all this time, when he has said, as you wish, what he's really saying is, I love you. And she realizes that she loves him. And then we cut to all the, you know, we've got to get into the kissing stuff now, and all, you know, and they move on. But there's a profound point there For when God speaks to you in his word, my child, this is my will for you. This is what I want you to do. The heart of love. Responds as you wish. My joy is to do your wish. Because I love you So your response to God as you wish is the way that you tell him, I love you. Now, it's at this point I want to just call attention to what I think is one of a major problem in contemporary evangelicalism. And it is, we've taken this doctrine of grace that Jesus is for us, he desires our joy, and we've made that an excuse for very self-centered thinking. You know, it's all about me. Jesus just wants me to have joy. Whatever I want to do, he's saying to me, as you wish. That's his job. You see, it's because of that that we become very narrow, shriveled kinds of Christians Who miss the bigger picture of who God is and what he's about? Do you know that a majority, fifty-six percent actually, That's a majority of people attending evangelical churches in a survey that Barna did agree with the statement The primary reason for existence is personal satisfaction and fulfillment. My joy. God's job is to satisfy my needs and my desires, which, ironically, robs me of my joy. Because Jesus' joy was in pleasing the Father. And if your desire, if your goal, your intention in 2007 Is to depend on pleasing yourself and employing God in that endeavor, you will find yourself chasing illusions. Now let me say this carefully. Joy is neither in duty-driven obedience nor in self-centered disobedience. But in a redirected heart that sees Jesus and sees him so clearly that you love him And you seek to do his will, saying at his bidding, as you wish, I love you. Let me say it again. Your joy in 2007 is neither in duty-driven obedience nor in self-centered disobedience. But in a redirected heart that sees Jesus and loves him so much that you seek his will so that you can respond as you wish. Thirdly, there is the joy of his completed work. That's his joy that he wants to be in you. The joy of his completed work. His joy in that perfect work that you share in. In chapter 17, in verse 4, he says, In his prayer to the Father, I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work that you gave me to do. That's a statement of deep satisfaction. It was an impossible task. And I have accomplished it. Chapter 19, verse 30, his last words on the cross. When he had received the drink, Jesus said, It is finished. And with that he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. I've accomplished what was impossible perfectly. There is nothing that you or I can add to that work. And you think just for a moment of the delight and the joy that the cults experience this morning saying, we did something impossible He took out the ravens. That is nothing. Compared to the joy of Jesus Christ. Hebrews 12. 2 says, For the joy that was set before me endured the cross, despising the shame, set down a at the right hand of the throne of God. The joy set before him is having you and me with him as a result of that. So that he says in John 17, 24, Father, I l I desire that they be with me to behold my glory, to enter into that. joy to share it with me. What a joy is that! What satisfaction, what delight, what infinite celebration Of the completed, finished, perfect work of Jesus Christ for you and me. Jesus says, I've told you about this so that my joy will be in you, and that your joy Would be full. Third point, finally, then. His joy in me makes my joy full and complete. His joy in you makes your joy full and complete. I have told you this, these things, so that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be complete. The word could also be translated, may be filled. The idea is the filling of a container. It's the same kind of idea that you have in Psalm 23 Where the psalmist talks about walking through the valley of the shadow of death, and then in the presence of enemies he says, You've prepared a table, you've set it before me, my cup Overflows. My cup is full. It's complete. It's overflowing with joy. It's as much as I can contain No, I believe that one of the delights of heaven is going to be an increased capacity for joy. We have such a small capacity for joy now. You think of the oceans of the delights of Jesus Christ. And I view my capacity as kind of like a cup like this, you know. There it is. You know, I kind of dip it in and I say, Lord, I I long for my cup to be overflowing. And and Jesus says, My I've told you these things So that you put your silos together, so that you begin to see what my love is like that is steady and fixed and proven for you, that you begin to understand what it means to draw your life from me and not from your own independent resources. You begin to understand what it is to pray with the confidence of a son, of a daughter of God, that you begin to experience the endurance of my love. And your cup is full. But I believe that he wants to increase our capacity. So I picture 2007 as saying, Lord, give me a bigger cup. You said that your cup would be complete, would be filled. Now, Lord, in heaven, I believe that my cup will be expanding infinitely through eternity. So my prayer for 2007 is my cup will move from this to this. What about you? You want to join me? In praying that you will know more of the joy of Jesus Christ, that you'll thirst and long for that so much that you'll be willing To the first thing of each day to say, the first thing I'm going to do is not to check my voicemail or my email or my cell phone to turn it on But I'm going to turn off my electronic devices as you do in a meeting, because I want quiet with my Jesus. I want nothing to distract because the first job of each day is to establish my joy in him. For him to fill my cup and to enlarge my cup. To say, Lord Jesus, I want to put together all that you've said, all that you've promised, I want to enter into that. I read once in a sermon by Charles Spurgeon about the joy of Christ, where he talks about Spurgeon by nature was real up and down and he was kind of depressed in many occasions, in fact said that he couldn't describe something. of the horrors of the depressions that he felt. And he said, there was a time when he said, God saw the void of my heart and he poured his love into me so that it was thirty years ago and I still treasure. The wonder of that memory. God came and he met me, and he's done it on other occasions. Have you ever had that? Have you ever had an encounter with Jesus Christ when your heart is broken before him and you pour yourself out before him? And he meets you to such an extent that you don't know what time it is, how time transpires. All you know is the fullness of his love at that moment. And it's sufficient. I've had glimpses, glimpses of those times in my life. And I long for more of them. I long to know that more in 2007. What about you? Do you want to join me in seeking Jesus Christ and his joy? When people look at Columbia Presbyterian, what kind of people do they see us? They say, you know, there's a people that they're serious about their faith. And those people are busy. And those people are responsible. But when people think of us, do they think of a joyful people? Did I say, there's a people who have some kind of a zest and a thirst for life that I envy Now I must tell you that when I came into vacation Bible school last summer, my first thought was, it's like a big party in here. I mean, I don't know what they're teaching the kids But I'll tell you, if I was an unbeliever, I'd be thinking, How do I get to join the party? When you come to upward basketball It's not just kids dribbling around making baskets. You know, there is a joy that is communicating the coaches and the referees, the atmosphere, the testimonies What about us? What about your life? What about my life? It's nice that we're serious about our faith, that we're busy But are we joyful? And the joy is not our joy improved, it is Jesus' joy imparted to you in 2007. Join me, brothers and sisters, in the quest. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, we ask you that you would show us these things. Lord, that our hearts would enter into them, would meditate on them, that we would study and consider what is it that you want to impart to us Because Lord Jesus, we we thirst for that joy. We're tired of our living by duty. We're living out of this is what I I need to do and I'll remain faithful and busy and the rest of that. Lord, uh faithfulness is certainly important But you told us on the darkest night of human history that you want us to know your joy. And so we pray, Lord. That you would impart by your grace, by your mercy, by your love and your tenderness to each of us a thirst, a desire to set aside the distractions that rob us of knowing that joy. that we would see Jesus more clearly. So that as we hear you speak and draw us to follow you, our hearts respond, Lord Jesus, as you wish. We love you, and it is our joy to serve you. Amen.