Well again, good morning. That song, Ancient Words, such a beautiful song. It might surprise me to know that that this, but that is my mother's favorite song. And uh you'd think it would be an old hymn from her youth, but no, it's it's that song If you have your Bibles with you this morning, turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 4. Every summer, as, well, I think I shared with some of you, every summer I usually Step away from whatever book we're preaching through during the academic year and do a summer series. This past summer it was Philemon And now that this summer is over and we're at Labor Day weekend and our kids are back in school, we're back in the series on Luke. And we're starting at a key Transition point in the Gospel of Luke and in the ministry of Jesus Christ. Up until this point, and if you were here uh starting in January, we looked at the ministry of Jesus Christ as it developed from uh the the birth narratives for John the Baptist and for Jesus, the birth itself, the early childhood scene. And then the baptism and temptation of Jesus. And where we begin now is the beginning of the public ministry of Jesus. And we're going to be looking at the first half. of the description of Christ's ministry in Nazareth, his hometown. So again, open your Bibles to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 4. Join me in prayer before we read this. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. And Lord, we pray that you would bless it to us. Lord, we thank you that, Lord, as we will be reminded today, you have exalted your word over all things but your name itself. And Lord, help us to deal with your word accordingly. Lord, help us to love it. Help us to study it. Help us to learn it. Help us to apply it. Lord, in every way, make us a people who come to know you better. Through a deep and an intentional reflection on your word. And oh Lord, bless this ministry of your word to us. And Father, the preaching that follows, inasmuch as it is faithful to this word that you've given us, bless that as well, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter four, beginning with verse fourteen, the Word of God. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and the report about him went out through all the surrounding country, and he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all. And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read. And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. This ends the reading of God's word. Well, I I plan my sermon series is way ahead, and I have an outline in my office. In fact, currently it's on my desk where I have a summary of all of the texts and the major themes in all the texts of everything I'll preach up until Advent. So through November. I haven't figured out what I'm going to do for Advent yet, but I do have a couple of ideas. Um I'll figure that out in the next month or so. This sermon text really troubled me because I Technically speaking, I would want to preach all the way through verse 30. That's one unit of text, what we would call in our seminary classes, for those of you who are seminary students at Metro Baltimore, a pericope. That's one unit, and I'm kind of artificially breaking it in two. And I'm breaking it in two for a very specific reason. I'm going to preach this morning on a theme which is really a secondary theme to this text itself, but an essential theme in the world we live in. It's been noted by people who are considered experts in modern-day evangelical cultural history. That today we don't have a crisis with respect to the inspiration of Scripture. We have a crisis with respect to the authority of Scripture. Christians, by and large, today, and you can read this in the commentaries, you get from Al Moller from the Baptist perspective, or even from people in our own denomination. The question isn't does the Bible say that? The question is, is it relevant? See, it's not a question of what did God say? It's a question of, does it matter to me? And that's an issue that has come up in many of my visits with people in my office as a pastor. Starting 25 years ago in a small dairy town in Vermont, continuing through 16 years in suburban LA Skrull, Calabasas, out on the west coast. And even in eight months here. The idea that does it matter? And so when we come to this text as a pastor, as a preacher, I have to consider the fact that this is one of two texts. where we see Jesus' attitude towards and work with the scriptures. And it shines a spotlight on The way he valued and the way he submitted himself to Scripture, which in many respects is a model to us. Not the least, because he who was the very Word of God made flesh, the Gospel of John chapter 1. handled the Word of God as if it was precious and to be valued and to be lifted up And if that's true of him, how much more so is that true of preachers like me, of saints like you? Jesus uses the Word of God in a way that gives us a model in which we consider the Word of God superior to preaching And if you're one that likes to fill in blanks, that's your first blank. Superior. I'm a very old-fashioned guy in many, many respects. I like to wear a suit and tie. And I although I'm not gonna say there's anything essentially wrong with it, you will never see me wearing skinny jeans and a black t-shirt. Never gonna happen One of the very old-fashioned things that I do in ministry is I follow the old model of John Calvin and the Protestant Reformation, and we have what is called a prayer for illumination. That's that prayer before I read the scriptures, saying, Lord, bless the reading of your word. And then I read the word of God without comment. Without editorial insertion, then I say this ends the reading of God's Word And then I allow for what I hope is a somewhat pregnant pause, and then I start my comments. And that approach to the Word of God is one that was very self-consciously embraced by the Protestant reformers and how the Word of God would be handled and preached in the vernacular. The vernacular kids, that word that means that it's preached in the language that you speak and understand. Just like you heard Corey Tvet earlier talk about how wonderful it is to be able to teach people how to speak English so they can participate in the in the culture. Imagine if you were living in 1400 A. D. , so back up the clock, you know, centuries, hundreds of years ago. And imagine coming to church, and let's suppose that you speak English, because you grow up somewhere in uh Old York in England, and uh and the priest comes up and stands up and starts preaching to you in Latin. And you don't speak Latin. How much would that benefit you? Probably not much. So when the Protestant reformers came, one of their great emphases was to put the Bible. In the language people actually spoke. But they never made the Bible just another instance of a spoken language. The Bible was always utterly different in the way it was treated, in the way it was read, the way it was handled. And that was very self-consciously modeled in part on what we read here. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Word made flesh, he goes into the synagogue. And he's handed the scroll of the prophet Isaiah, and he takes that scroll and he stands up to read it. And once he's done reading, he rolls up the scroll, hands it back, and sits down. Posture and position and timing in some respects don't mean as much to us as they did in the ancient world. But this synagogue tradition, which was born in the communities of faith of God's people during and after the Babylonian exile, put the absolute primacy on the Word of God. You stand up to read it, and if you were in an old synagogue and even hearing Jesus himself preach, the sermon was delivered sitting down. The word of God is read standing up. The visual that is given is that the word of God is supreme. That is the declaration. The sermon is the echo. The word of God is what should be heralded first and loudest and clearest. The preaching should be our laborious, painstaking attempt to illuminate it and apply it in our context. Now, this is something that happens in churches a lot. When I go on vacation and we go to different churches, we'll go to a church and the preacher will stand up. And oftentimes there's no prayer. And that's not a hill I would die on. And I don't know that I'd die on this hill either, but I sure would be uncomfortable on it. You can't really tell at any given point when the scripture is read. It's kind of woven into the sermon. Have you ever heard that? Where this this you're not entirely sure where the scripture began and ended, or if the scripture just illustrated the sermon, rather the sermon illustrating and illuminating the scripture I think it's essential for us, as we consider handling the Word of God the way Jesus did, to take note of this beginning of his public ministry. And it's as if the Holy Spirit, in giving this account of the life and ministry of Jesus Christ, wants to make it clear to the church, generations and centuries removed from the time of Jesus and the apostles, that this is how Jesus handled the word. He stood up to read it and he sat down to preach. He read it first and as a distinctly separate act preached it second. We have, how many of you are familiar with the phrase elements of worship? Only a couple. We we gotta okay. Elements of worship. This is parts of worship, elements of worship. Very important in understanding Reformed and Protestant, especially Presbyterian worship and liturgy. We believe there are certain parts or elements of worship. Like Singing, prayer, the sacraments. And then we have two very separate elements of worship in all of our constitutional and theological documents about worship. The reading of Scripture is one element, and the preaching is a separate element. They're different. They're connected, but they're different. And I want you to ask yourself, which one do you think is more important? The reading of God's Word or the preaching? Just sit on that question for a moment. Because if I had to choose Between reading you God's word publicly and preaching a sermon, you would hear nothing from me but the word of God read. The Word of God is supreme. You might say, well, what about part surely parts of it are less relevant than others now, parts of it maybe not so supreme. The other text in which we see Jesus interacting with his ministry in relation to Scripture Is at the beginning of his ministry as it's recording in the Gospel of Matthew, in Matthew chapter 5, beginning in verse 17, in the Sermon on the Mount, right after the Beatitudes. He says as if to make it clear, if you want to follow me, this is what your life is going to look like. He immediately pivots and says, don't think for a minute. That I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. Not one jot or tittle will fall away. I have come to fulfill them. The Word of God in all of its glorious and minute detail is inspired, inerrant, and helpful, useful to us. I'd mentioned earlier in my prayer a text that I think of very often. It's in Psalm 138. In Psalm 138 We read this. I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart. Before the gods I sing your praise. I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness. For you have exalted above all things your name. And your word. And what's remarkable about that text is David Is saying that he gives thanks for the steadfast love of God because God has made his name and his word untouchable by anything that happens below them. And think about how, were it not for the fact that God has exalted his name and his word above all things, We would not have that utterly reliable, heavenly, permanent, inviolable testimony of who God is and what he's done. See, you have in the Word of God such a foundation for your faith, because God has said, those things I have declared and by my Spirit have given my church through prophet and apostle alike. Are so high in an absolute order of being that the only thing higher than the Scriptures, the Word of God, is God Himself. Do you think of the Bible that way? Do you think of the Word of God that way? Jesus conducted his public ministry. Standing to read it, sitting to preach it. And if he who shows us God the countenance of God shining forth in the person of Jesus Christ, if he who is The living sermon, the declaration of God's glory and mercy and justice, all in one, sat down to preach the scriptures. How much more so should we sit down before the Word of God and let it stand? It is superior to his preaching and it's distinct from his preaching. That's the second word. It's distinct from his preaching, and this is of vital importance to us as we live our lives, whether we deliver sermons or or listen to sermons. The preaching is different from the reading because he hands the scroll back, he sits down, and he began to say, that's the beginning of his teaching, his preaching. Why is this important? Consider what happens in Berea. And here we see why it's important to have a distinction in our minds between the scriptures and the preaching of the scriptures. In Acts chapter 17, we read about Paul and Silas traveling about. And Paul and Cyrus in verse 10 of Acts 17 are sent away by night to Berea. And when they arrived, they went into the Jewish synagogue. Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica. They received the word with all eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see if these things were so. If you confuse the preaching of some great preacher or some local preacher, whether that's me or whether that's someone you tune into on the radio or whose sermons you read in books, Unless you distinguish categorically their preaching from the scriptures, you cannot evaluate the sermons by the scriptures. If you conflate the two together, you can't use the one to determine if the other is true. I'll use an example on my my good friend John Calvin. Never met him, but I sure do like him. If I think John Calvin's work is equal to the Scriptures, I can't use the Scriptures to critique John Calvin If you think for a minute that a preacher, whether one of uh local, chronologically limited influence like me, or someone as great as Charles Spurgeon himself, speaks alongside of Scripture, You can never be a noble Berean. The scriptures are distinct from the sermons that follow One of the ways that I have labored in 30 years of ministry to make this crystal clear is in my prayer for illumination, I separately ask for blessing on the reading. of the word and blessing on the preaching of it. Because too often we so interweave the two that we look at it all as if it's the ministry of the word. There's a sense in which that's true. But God help us if we ever forget the fact that there's a sense in which it's not true. The word of God is so important to you. And it is so superior to the best sermon I will ever preach in my ministry. It should command your attention. It should spur your devotion to God in ways that sermons assist. but merely echo. The Word of God is superior to preaching, and it's distinct from preaching And it is determinative of preaching. And I really was unhappy in my office with that word determinative. So if any of you can think of a better one, let me know. The Word of God informs the sermon. The sermon doesn't merely use the Word of God. Look at this description of the sermon, and I love these descriptions of the sermon. We know a lot about what preaching should be based upon the way the Holy Spirit in Scripture chooses to summarize or describe what Jesus did in preaching. For example, Jesus' sermons are most famously summarized with the phrase, and Jesus proclaimed or taught or went about preaching, repent, or repent and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand or is near. Right? That's the preaching of Jesus. If you had to summarize his sermons in general, that's what he preached. Repent and believe Now it might be fairly asked, does that summarize my sermons? If you were to step back and say, if you had to in a seminary class write Write a paper describing the preaching of your pastor. Would it say, well, he preaches sermons that can fairly be described as repent and believe, because God and Christ has come and his kingdom is being established? Or would it be something different? Those are questions that keep me up at night. Here, the one-word summary of this, what Jesus began to teach, was this. Today, this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. Today, this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. In many ways, completely compatible with repent and believe, because the kingdom is at hand, the kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Because we see this description in Isaiah of what the messianic king will bring when he comes and establishes his kingdom. But notice that Jesus says, this scripture is fulfilled. This scripture and its relevance for this moment today. is what we know about the preaching of Jesus at the beginning of his ministry. The subject of his sermon Was the promises of God inscribed in Scripture, utterly inviable? And the purpose of his preaching was that we might respond correctly today. To what God has said in His Word. When we think about preaching, when we think about the Bible, we think about our quiet times, Ponder deeply the supremacy, not of preaching, but of the Word of God. Preaching is of absolute importance. But dear Christian, your Bibles I would dare to say are of more importance. Don't imagine for a moment that your best and deepest insights into what God has to speak to your soul will come through preachers or theologians. Whether it's anyone living today or one of the greats like John Owen or Martin Luther Dare to come before the living God and be that great psalmist who meditates daily on his word who has communion personally with your God. And when you formulate your thoughts and you teach other people what God has said, Be sure that you are standing when you recite the scriptures and sitting when you comment upon it. Be certain that you Like the Apostle Paul to the Corinthians, delineate between what you know God has said and what you think is good advice. We live in difficult times. And as people have said, the question for Christians today is not simply the inspiration or the accuracy of the text of Scripture. The question is, does it really even matter? There's a new book that's hit the presses, and it's about sexuality. And the shocking statement has been made by one of the Most well-known New Testament scholars who's written on this over the last 30 years, he's come out with a book in which he has fleshed out this theology. He said the claims about divinely inspired experiences that contradict the witness of Scripture Should be admitted to normative status in the church only after sustained and agonizing scrutiny by a consensus of the faithful. Did you hear that? This is by a professor at Fuller Seminary. That if people claim to have an experience And they claimed that it was beautiful and good and true. It should only be accepted as what God is doing now today. After careful scrutiny and consideration, a consensus of the faithful, whoever they are, decide that, yeah, that's your experience is more important than scripture. And this Is a harbinger of not only where the church has moved to, but what it's moving towards even faster. At the end of the day, dear Christian This exalts the reader above the word. And this says that Your lived experience is more important than God's declarative statement. This means that there is no single fixed place in the entire universe where you can expect to have an anchor for your soul. Because if God's word is not firmly established, if it is not exalted above all things, including my deepest and warmest experiences, I become imprisoned by my feelings about my reality in this moment. And that's why it's so important for us to notice as the Church of Jesus Christ, the bride of the Savior, as those who would walk in the footsteps of the man from Galilee. Stand up when you read scripture and sit down when you apply it. Don't make scripture a footnote. Don't make it a proof text. Don't make it something that has to sort of accommodate your biography. Let the scriptures be that absolutely sacred, utterly divine, completely normative rule for your life. It is what God's Word says about us, not what we say about it that matters. Before I ask you some questions for application, I'll show you something that Samuel Clemens, otherwise known as Mark Twain, said about the Bible. He said, it's not what I don't understand in the Bible that bothers me. It's what I do understand in the Bible that bothers me. And there are things in the Bible that sometimes trouble us, that we don't understand Dare to accept that as the word of the living God. And understand that there is a reason why we publish this and say holy Bible. And there's a reason why on my business card it doesn't say holy Birkus And if it is true, dear friend, that I am not wholly, utterly sanctified. Though God sees me that way in Christ, you and I both know that in the progress of my living I still struggle with sin because I am not yet in detail holy as I will be in heaven in my experience. Therefore, it stands to reason that should I encounter a holy text, I'm going to get agitated from time to time. Expect that you will read things in the Bible that will make you say, huh. Not sure how I feel about that. Because if you are not holy and the Bible is holy, that's a guaranteed event. I would even dare to say this to you, dear Christian. If nothing in the Bible troubles you at all, you probably haven't read it. I am deeply troubled that some people that I know and love dearly are going to be in health But it is absolutely the case. That's an example. My holiness in Christ has not yet seeped into the mare of my bones such that I can appreciate. the holiness of God to the point where that is right. We as Christians might find ourselves troubled about many things the Bible says. But let the Bible be the Word of God, because therein you will find peace and hope and life. Once you eat away at the corners and drag it from God's lofty position just beneath his name and put it beneath your name, You have turned this book into a comic, a Sunday funny, the list of ingredients on the cereal box. And you will soon enough be without hope in the world. But the good news. Jesus Himself in His ministry to you came and elevated the scriptures as high as they could possibly be elevated. Because he, the Lord of glory, He, the creator and sustainer of the universe, according to Hebrews and Colossians, he, the word of God himself, stood up to read it and sat down to preach it. And so think about how the Bible relates to your ministry. Do you ever know better than the Bible? You know, differently than the Bible? Parts of the Bible that you think, well, we're not going to worry about that part. Give heed to how you read. Do we need to be more intentional about going to the scriptures first and holding its teaching the highest? Or do we basically get all of our ideas formed by whatever passes for pop psychology or the latest Wall Street or Madison Avenue type Hollywood values? And then say, oh yeah, and look at this. Coincidentally, that sort of has something to do with what this obscure proverb says. Let's go. Make it your point to search the scriptures. Let us resolve our issues first here and benefit from God's common grace in other disciplines. But the scriptures are first and highest. And lastly, dear friend, I would ask you in closing, have you been exposed to the ministry of God's Word? Next week we're going to be doing a deep dive into the content of that short short sermon and its reception in Nazareth. And this is the great dilemma in cutting this sermon into two because this is really part one. Part two next week is going to look long and hard at what Jesus meant when he said the blind can see. Now I'm I'm legally blind. But let me tell you, in a greater sense, I can see. The gospel is preached to the poor. Well, the poor are always with us, Jesus said, and they didn't all of a sudden become monetarily or fiscally rich What Jesus offers, which is signaled and illustrated by him meeting us in all of our needs, is that that greatest of all needs, not the small illustrations of it along the way, but the greatest need. The bankruptcy, the poverty, the blindness of our souls is utterly addressed, and it's Jesus who has come to fulfill. And this Jesus says today, this scripture is fulfilled. And so for you who feel yourself spiritually blind, Morally bankrupt, poor, broken down, lonely, cast aside. Jesus Christ has said in his first public sermon recorded in the scriptures, Today, God's promise to totally redress all of the elements of your brokenness has been fulfilled. What a thought. And can you believe that sermon? Preached by that Savior After the service today, there's going to be folks in the corner who would love to talk with you about this Jesus. Who understands what these scriptures teach so clearly, and held what it said so highly, and came to fulfill it for you, that your sins might be paid for. That you might be forgiven and received into the family of your God. Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. Lord, we ask that you would forgive us for ways in which we have. made your scriptures another book on our shelf. The ways we have put all kinds of asterisks on the pages, thinking, well yeah, but this is what we're thinking today. But this is our situation today, or this is what's relevant today. Lord, we pray that we would be described as your church in its first centuries. Help us, Lord, to be to the eyes of the world, men and women of your book, who know you. And hold your scriptures to be exalted above all things other than your name itself, exalted above human wisdom. Exalted above creation, exalted above our experience. And Lord, we pray that you would help us to hear and to respond to your word in a way that is fitting for your children. Lord, may it be to us light and hope, and even mercy in its sternness, and comfort, Lord, in its direction. In every way, O God Almighty, speak to us through your word. And Lord, we always pray, bless the preaching too. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.