To the first service, um that uh the interaction between the person who's bringing the lesson and the uh person who is w leading worship is truly a a wonderful interaction. Um Tim I asked Tim to do a couple of songs, you haven't heard them yet, that matched the sort of the theme of the sermon. And when I heard what Tim had chosen for the beginning, it I felt like I do when I uh get my Christmas present from Debbie each year. She knows me so well and she finds something that wasn't on my list and gives it to me, and it's just a delight. That interaction, I hope, I mean it lifts my heart tremendously to see that the same Holy Spirit is leading us as we come to Him. and proclaim the word of God. And as we look at the words that people have written in these hymns, there are echoes with what I had planned to say. He who is the light. Should he be cast into the dark The summer morn that I've longed for and the the king of beauty without a veil is seen. Listen for those echoes as we go through, but thank you, Tim, for for doing uh that leading so well. This is a tremendous privilege, but also a great responsibility to open the Word of God and it gives me appreciation for what Alan does each week. It has taken a fair amount of preparation and preoccupation of my mind and my family says it's so so I'm there but I'm not there. So um it it is a joy to be here. I chose the text that Tim has read because I came upon it while I was preparing for middle hour classes in the Don't Waste Your Life series. and began to realize that there was a disconnect in my life between where I thought my faith was and my willingness to give up my life for Christ and where it really was from day to day. If you were at the December Lord's Supper, you heard the account that I gave of coming into Johns Hopkins Hospital in the morning, listening as I often do, I think it was to John Piper. who had a crescendo of his sermon uh was reaching loud amplitudes as I had to drive into the parking garage, roll down my window and swipe my ID through the name card. And there standing right next to the machine was one of the security guards. Now I don't know this man, and I don't see him from day to day, and yet my immediate impulse was to turn down the sound on Piper so that I wouldn't be embarrassed by this man hearing that I was listening to something religious. And yet I come and teach Sunday school. And am I ready to lay down my life for Christ? And then as we talked in that middle hour, we talked about, you know, why is it hard? Why isn't it easy and immediate and in fact just effusive coming out of us to share? share the gospel with people that we know who need Christ so much. Isn't it true that from day to day I ask myself, I don't really live, I don't I don't think and walk, and so I don't really believe that their life, their eternal destiny, hangs in the balance of whether they hear from me, perhaps, about Jesus. Peter, in the text that Tim read, faced a similar problem with his own estimation of his faith. And so we'll look at that in a minute. But do you remember two weeks ago Alan mentioned Sergeant Peralta? He's a Marine who smothered a grenade so that his comrades would live. And I went and looked him up on the website just to read more of the story. That kind of story never fails to thrill me. I subscribe to I think it was Tolkien that said that every story, every great story Thrills us because it's a reflection of the story of Christ's sacrifice for us, His rescuing us Now, I get excited about that and I like to talk about it, but I realize that not many of us will have opportunity to be martyrs this year. But you will face various trials in 2005. I see them every day at work. People in their 30s and 40s with little kids coming in with cancer. I see children born with birth defects. We will have marriages break up here in CPC perhaps. We will have families torn apart. We will have jobs lost. And we have to wonder, will we withstand that? Will our faith hold? So Peter, along with the disciples, had just heard Jesus say these disturbing words, I'm going away and you can't come. They had spent twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week for three years with this man, and they loved him. He had looked penetratingly into their soul. And knew them. They had seen him raise the dead. They had heard him teach with authority. He was their hope for everything. And now he was leaving, and they couldn't follow. And don't you love Peter with his impetuous response? What do you mean I can't follow you? I'm ready to lay down my life for you. If you look in the context of what had happened just that evening, just before this account, do you know what had happened? Judas had been sent out. Remember the scene Jesus says the one I dipped the bread in the cup will be the one who will betray me? John and the other disciples wondering, is it I that are going to betray you? And Judas goes out. Dramatic scene. And Peter saying, that's not me. I'm going to go and lay down my life for you. They knew that Jesus' call to them as disciples included the fact that they would have to take up their cross and follow him. They'd heard that many times. But Jesus knew that Peter wasn't ready. And he told him so. Tonight, before the cock crows, before a little servant girl. Like me rolling the window back up before security guard. You're going to deny that you even know me, Peter. Peter and the disciples had a problem. Jesus' prescription for that problem. I'm a doctor and so I have to talk about things I know about. Jesus' prescription for that problem was what follows. What did he say? Let's look at the Text. I think it's a second slide in on a text. Let not your hearts be troubled. It was surprising to me as I read the scripture through again. that these two accounts are put next to each other. I usually don't think of them as being connected. There's the scene where Jesus tells Peter that he's going to deny him, and that's sort of the end, and you have a sermon about that. And then there are these words that are among the most comforting in the Bible. Let not your hearts be troubled, those words that we internalize into ourselves and take comfort in. You trust in God, trust also in me. And then here's the prescription. He points them towards heaven. In my father's house are many mansions. If it weren't so, I would have told you, and I wouldn't have told you that I'm going to prepare a place for you, that where I am, you can be with me also. Now I put on your bulletin outline a chair, a picture of a chair, and people who have been in my middle school or high school class know why the chair is there, right? A chair in my thought is a good word picture for something that we trust, where our faith is placed So if you brought me a chair and told me to sit on it, I would look at the chair first. Might do this really quickly, but I'd look at the chair and see how strong it was. Do I really trust that chair? Will it hold me? And if I wasn't sure, I might test it a little bit. Might put some weight on it. If I wanted you to think that it was a great chair and I was really going to trust it, I might pretend to sit on it And after a few minutes my legs would tighten up, my face would get red. You know that I was not trusting that chair. But someday we're going to be weak and tired and perhaps stumbling and fall, and we're going to fall on a chair. And will we trust Jesus' prescription, the hope of heaven? So we're going to use that analogy as we go through the rest of this message to think about how we incorporate the hope of heaven into our lives. Now, Hope of Heaven has a bad rap in our culture, doesn't it? Marx called it the opiate of the masses. It was the thing that would calm down and mollify and keep in their place the underclasses so that the privileged could not have a revolt against them. You've heard the pejorative pie in the sky, by and by, that's all this hope of heaven is. Or she's so heavenly minded she's of no earthly good. Lennon, and we're talking about John Lennon, wrote a song, Imagine. Those of you with some gray will remember. Imagine there's no heaven. And why did he want us to imagine there's no heaven? Because in Lenin's theology, we would be better citizens of earth if we were just living for today. Now I hope as we think about what Jesus tells us about heaven, you'll see that we will be the best citizens of earth if we live for heaven, for a hope of heaven. Every culture has some concept of heaven. C. S. Lewis capitalized on that idea by calling heaven the song that you were born remembering. Think about that. What does that mean? The song that you were born remembering, something so intrinsic to who we are that everybody has that longing. The summer morn I've longed for, our hymn said. The idea of heaven, though, is also presented not just in C. S. Lewis, but also in the Bible. as being placed in our minds. In Ecclesiastes, it says, God has put in the hearts of men eternity. It's God that has put that longing into us. It's important, though, that we clearly define terms. When we talk about heaven, it's not equivalent to talk about nirvana. I'm not talking about gladiators, Elysian Fields. Sorry, gladiator fans. I'm not talking about where the Muslim martyrs think they're going to go and have many virgins for their work for Allah. It's important that we look at the content of what the Bible tells us about heaven and we look at the basis of our hope of heaven as we go forward. The media likes to portray heaven as an ethereal place, floating clouds, winged harpists. Even popular Christian culture tends to focus on the living creatures and the elders casting their crowns before the throne and calling out Phrases to God. And while that's true, that is what we'll do, it may seem a little boring to some people I've heard that in high school class a little bit. It's boring. I like what's gonna happen now. I want to live my life first. the the rewards of what we have in life, especially if you're just anticipating them, are much more immediate and much more solid and much more attractive in some ways. And so we'll think about heaven when we're old and tired. Well, Jesus clearly says, that's absolutely wrong thinking, the joys of heaven are the real ones. You're being dis And those of us who have been around the block a few times start to realize that those things that we think of as being wonderful only satisfy for a little time. And then we get tired of them, don't we? I'm a scientist and I'm regularly fascinated as I learned something new about how God made the world This is what the psalmist had in mind when he wrote, How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast are the sum of them. Were I to number them, they would outnumber the grains of sand. It's true that we'll still be finite creatures in heaven, and we'll still have an infinite God who has vast, innumerable thoughts, and he will fascinate us every moment. But the first thing that we have to know about heaven as we examine the chair. By the way, that's the first blank. I'm not good at this blank thing. The first blank is examine the chair. We're looking at what heaven's about so we know if we want to even try to sit in this chair. The first thing that we have to recognize as we examine the chair is that we don't know very much about heaven from the scriptures. The Old Testament and Jewish tradition is pretty silent on this idea of eternal life in heaven. They held Yahweh, God, in such a scene that they wouldn't speak his name, and his dwelling place was also high and unknowable. And that's as it should be, for we're th three-dimensional creatures stuck in the fourth dimension of time and we can't heaven is outside of our realm of experience. We can't understand it. And yet, um Paul does tell us, starts to tell us something about heaven. He continues with the words of awe. He wrote to the Corinthians, I know a man in Christ who was, fourteen years ago, caught up to the third heaven. Okay, let's hear it. What was it like? He heard inexpressible things that man is not permitted to tell. We don't know very much, but it's inexpressible things. And he is the one who wrote the familiar words, no eye has seen No ear has heard, and no mind has ever conceived the glorious things that have been prepared for those who believe. So we don't know much about it, but it's not our mind that conceives of it. It's his mind. And it's going to be glorious. The most graphic description of heaven is in found in the book of Revelation. John writes: I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. husband. The wall of the city was made of jasper, and the city of pure gold, as pure as glass. The foundations of the city wall were decorated with every kind of precious stone. This is symbolic language. I don't know any gold that is as pure as glass, sort of clear gold, but it tells us that heaven is a place of great aesthetic beauty and lasting value. So we know that much. But what did Jesus tell us about heaven? From the text in the in the middle section, we we know the first thing about it, and perhaps the most important thing. Where I am going, you can be with me. That's the next blank. Jesus said that we can be with him in heaven. Revelation goes on to say, I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them, and be their God. That might echo in your mind with an event that happened in Israel's history right after the golden calf incident. Remember the Israelites while Moses was on the mountain had made a golden calf, and when he came down he was angry and ground the calf up and made them drink it in the water. And God said he was going to wipe out the people and make Moses into a great nation. And Moses negotiated for their lives. before the Lord. But then the Lord said, Okay, okay, here's the New Deal. You can go up into Canaan with these people. I'll give them success. They'll have everything that they need. You'll be able to ca drive the people out of the out of the land. but I'm not going with you. And what did Moses say? No way. If you don't go with us, we're not going. Moses knew that he needed God living with them, like we're going to have in heaven. This is the thing that David was thinking about when he wrote these beautiful words in the Psalm. One thing I ask of the Lord, and this is what I seek. that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to seek him in his temple. It's what Moses wanted when he asked to see God's face. And you remember he was told, you can't see my face and live. I'll show you my back parts. But that made me think as I was preparing, what is this about seeing someone's face? Why is that so important We talk about FaceTime, having FaceTime with somebody, a face-to-face encounter. I like to send emails. I get a lot of work done. I some days a hundred emails, but I I still use them. But there are some things I won't say by email. And it's because when I say it or when I hear it, I want to see your face. I want to know what's going on. Because the face is the window into the depth of our heart. We see emotion, we see meaning, we see uh whether people are paying attention. So many things in face-to-face encounters. And that's what Paul was hoping for when he said Now we see in a mirror dimly, but then we will see face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, even as I am fully known. Well, perhaps to appreciate what this is about, because it's all kind of intellectual, it's a useful thing to think about what is the opposite of having God's face. for eternity. God is the source of everything that's beautiful, everything that's light, everything that's good, all kindness, all gentleness. If we don't have God's face, we're told that when we're cast out into the utter darkness, the dark place that Jesus went for us, we'll have none of those things. It's hard to imagine. The best I could come up with was you wake up and find that you are living among the orcs. Now if you don't know what an orc is, you can ask somebody younger than yourself and probably be able to tell you. Uh but j just to be able to keep going, i they're the dark uh demon-like creatures that inhabit the dark places of Middle Earth in Tolkien's trilogy. And they're horrible creatures. They They would eat each other. They are clawing, they're ugly, they're hideous. But it's worse than that. Not only do you wake up among the orcs, but you are an orc. All the good things about you, anything that you think about yourself and say, I'm a pretty good person, is gone. All kindness, all gentleness. All that's left is anger and hatred and jealousy and meanness of spirit. The times that you walk out and say, I can't believe I was that low. That's what you'll be like, apart from God. Well, in some sense, this idea of being in heaven then is intensely personal And individual. But it would be wrong, I think, to think only that way. The book of Revelation has another beautiful picture of being in heaven. It talks about God giving us a new name. Remember the passage, I will give him who perseveres a white stone with a new name written on the stone, which no one knows except him who who receives it. No one knows the name that God's going to call you except you who receive it. But if you think that heaven is a place where you're going to take your stone with your name on it and go into your mansion and close the doors, and I hope those walls between the mansion are pretty thick because good walls make good neighbors I think you've missed Jesus' point at the beginning of the passage that Tim read. What did he say just before the encounter with Peter? A new commandment I give you, that you love one another as I have loved you. Love one another. Jesus expected our view of eternity to be one where there are lots of one another. Anselm, who was the Archbishop of Canterbury in the eleventh century, wrote this. If any other whom you love as you love yourself, could possess the same blessedness. That's heaven, eternal life. If any other could possess eternal life, it would double your joy, because you would rejoice no less for her than for yourself. But if two or three or many more have the same joy, everyone shall rejoice for each other, each of the others as for himself. If then the heart of man will scarce contain the joy over his own great good, how shall it contain so many and so great? Joys. Isn't that a beautiful picture? It's the impetus we have, I think, for evangelism When you see something that you really think is wonderful, what do you do? It might be a beautiful sunrise or a sunset, it might be a picture, or you might hear something that's that is just wonderful. Or you might see a play in a football game and you say, uh you go into the next room, come and see this. You gotta see the instant replay. This is great. Our enjoyment of that thing is only fulfilled when we enjoy it with somebody else who enjoys it too. It's a good barometer for my heart when I come to worship to think about this. Why do we have corporate worship? Why do we worship together as a group? Why can't we just do it at home? Well, it's an anticipation of heaven. And when I look at somebody two rows or three rows ahead of me and they are transported in joy. If I'm right in the spirit, it lifts my heart too. That's what heaven will be like. That's what Anselm is talking about, I think. Well, we know, as Tim has pointed attention to in some of the songs, that heaven will be a wedding feast. It'll be a time of beauty. and wonder, but it'll be a group activity. We are the bride of Christ corporately. And whatever that means, this wedding feast picture, it means that there'll be close companionship And wonderful, wonderful entertainment. We'll enjoy being together in a party. So we'll be with Jesus. That's the first blank. But the next one is that we will be like him. We will be like him when we arrive at eternal life. First John says, Dear friends, now we are children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known, but we know that when he appears we will be like him, for we will see him as he is. So think about the orcs again. You wake up from that bad dream and you look around you and there's light and the and the family is together and you say, this is great. But that's common grace. We all enjoy that common grace of good things on earth. Someday All of that good will only be found with Christ in heaven. And we will be like Jesus. We'll be able to love without any jealousy. We'll be able to rejoice with those who rejoice without even a hint of envy, which usually creeps in somewhere there. We'll be able to enjoy something without greed or covetousness to possess that something. Our thoughts will be noble and loving and good and strong like his. And when we're like him, the next blank is we'll be able to reign with him. We will reign. We will rule over the world with him. Paul says this, but Jesus also hints at it at the end of the parable of the talents. You remember the people who the man who invested talents and made twenty more was greeted with these words that I long to hear. Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful with a few things. Now I will put you in charge of many things. Come and enter your master's happiness. Paul tells us that we will judge the earth. Don't you know? That the saints will judge the world, and later he says, in the book of 1 Corinthians, you will judge angels. This is hardly boring stuff. There'll be a lot to do in heaven. So we've looked at the chair, and I hope you found that it's attractive in some way. That you'd like to try to sit on it. Why do we need to test the chair? Why do we have to find out how strong it is? Jesus knew that our lack of trust in that chair, our lack of trust in his provision for us, our lack, our desire to make sure we had what was ours would be the basis of all our sin against one another. All of our greed, all of our jealousy, all of our anger and hatred towards one another is because I'm worried about my mansion. And in the same way he knew that our lack of faith in his provision would be the basis for all of our idolatry. Our concern about money, our concern about acclaim or pleasure is all based on worrying and not knowing that we have a better possession in heaven. If there is no hope of heaven, then earth has to be our total satisfaction. Hence, you only go around once in life, you've got to grab for all the gusto you can get. So at work, I hear people who are worried about eating at all the best restaurants. They want to go on all the great vacations. I still got to get to Australia before I die. Got to get there. They want to have the biggest house they can own. We're worried about whether we date and attract and marry the most attractive person we can get. And we're worried about our health. People come and you know they don't want to die young and they don't want to get Alzheimer's. So there's vitamins and there's exercise and there's diet and there's this and this and this. For something that's going down, folks. You're not going to keep this body forever. Isn't it misplaced concern? And if we put all of that weight on what we have, it tends to smother and strangle it. If my family is my one best chance, my spouse my one best chance to be happy on earth and she's not making it for me. I'm speaking I'm speaking in a worldly way now. I got a bail. Then I get maybe a second chance. Astounding how many second marriages there are out there on this basis. This it's my last chance to be happy What pressure we put on things. Jesus knew that if we properly judged where our hope was and where our treasure lies, where our possession lies, we could be generous. and peaceful and contented and bold and good and strong. That's why we need to test the chair now while we live. So how do we take this prescription? How do we test the chair? The first blank in the next is that we have to recognize first that we can only think about heaven in Christ. At the end of the passage that Tim read, Jesus spoke these words, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. Jesus came and took our condemnation. If we didn't have his precious blood covering us, our face-to-face encounter with God would be very short-lived, and we would be cast out immediately. Only because Christ's record covers us like a beautiful wedding gown can we stand before the judgment seat of God. So we can only think about heaven in the context of Christ's Work on our behalf. But he asks us to think about it frequently. That's the next blank. We think about it frequently in day-to-day activities, in everyday life. Every time you make a financial decision, you have an opportunity to test the chair. Jesus said, Don't store up for yourselves treasures on earth, but store up treasures in heaven where moths and rust. will not destroy, and thieves don't break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Another passage spells out even more. Use your wealth to buy friends for yourself, he says. So that when it's gone, you will be welcomed into eternal dwellings. There's that hope of heaven again, over and over again in the scriptures. So we invest our money in missionaries all over the world. We give money to build buildings. We build buildings here and in Japan and in Sandtown and around because We know where our possessions lie. Jesus said to the rich young ruler, Remember this encounter? And he came and said, What do I need to do to inherit eternal life? Well, you follow the commandments. They got through that. One thing you lack, if you want to be perfect, if you want to be complete, if you want to have done everything, go sell all your possessions and give your money to the poor Then you will have reward in heaven. Then come and follow me. And that rich young man didn't stay to test the chair. Sadly, he left. Debbie and I had um agreed a month or so ago to put a check in the basket for the habitat house. And uh as I we talked about the amount and we agreed what we were gonna do, and I'm the one who writes the check, so I brought a check and It was still blank and it was an opportunity to test the chair. Did we have money? Starts going through my mind. What about Rachel's college tuition and you know, is this we really have enough? Uh and because I was preparing for this, I said, I um you're testing the chair. And as I wrote that check and put it in the basket, it was good to have that thought in my mind. Tu So that's an example of how you can use this day to day in financial things, but also in all of our social interactions. What does Jesus tell us about banquets, parties that we have? Who do you have over? When you give a luncheon or a dinner, don't invite your friends, your rich neighbors, your family, because they'll be able to invite you back and you'll have already had your reward. But when you give a banquet, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed. Although they cannot repay you, here it is again, you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous. This hope of heaven even helps us love our enemies. The men at the House of Corrections down in Jesse are interested in this one. Can you imagine living in a place where people know that you're a Christian and so they get in your face all day long and try to trip you up? They are just plain nasty to these guys. And so this passage is meaningful to them in Luke chapter six. Love your enemies. Do good to them and lend to them without expecting to get anything back. The Then your reward will be great. Indeed, the hope of heaven is enough to help us face persecution and opposition. This is an advanced test, one that you try after you've tried some of the easy ones, perhaps. But if we stand up, not just leaving the window down on the tape player, but stand up and make a stand for Jesus, we're going to face opposition. People don't like that. in this in this society and you will be derided. You might lose your job. I still remember very clearly when Ben Carson, who's a Seventh-day Adventist believer at at Hopkins took a stand against abortion because of his faith. This was years ago. And he was derided, both in print and in the hallways. People made fun of him. The Bible says, Jesus said, Blessed are you when men revile you and persecute you and utter all sorts of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets before you. And in the book of Hebrews it says, You joyfully accepted the plundering of your property because you knew you had a better possession and a lasting one That knowledge of better possession and lasting one ought to be enough to help me keep the sound up and the window down. My car Well, so far this testing of the chair may seem to you like human accomplishment, like something that you do. And if I've presented it that way, I've made a mistake. I forgot to tell you about the active agent in the prescription. And that is the Holy Spirit. We take this test prayerfully, next blank. Remember the man whose son had seizures and he came and Jesus said if you have faith he can be well and he said, I do have faith, but But help my unbelief. Later at that same discourse, the night that he was betrayed, Jesus said, I will ask the Father, and he will give you another counselor to be with you forever, the Spirit of truth. He will teach you all things and remind you of everything I have said. In Romans, Paul puts application to that. He says, We groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for the adoption as sons. The redemption of our bodies. What's that? The redemption of our bodies. That's heaven. So we groan inwardly as we wait for that, but we don't even know how to pray, he says. We don't know what we ought to pray for, but the Spirit intercedes for us with groans that words cannot express. So we sit on the chair prayerfully. And that indwelling of the Holy Spirit is a dynamic process. It changes us. And we begin to own the chair. That's the last blank. We own this chair. It's our favorite. One that we're gonna sit on. Because now it's ours. Did you know that you can have eternal life now? I sort of missed this little theological point. Eternal life starts when a believer believes. Jesus said this later in his prayer that evening. This is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you've sent. That's eternal life to know God. The beginning is now. That's what Mary wanted when Jesus had to say to Martha, Mary's sitting at his feet listening, Mary has chosen what is best. To be with me, and it won't be taken from her. It's what Moses wanted, and he got it when he went into the tent of meeting, and he came out with a face that glowed, and so the Israelites said, Put a veil on it, Moses. We can't stand the promise, the the brightness of your face. But you can have that now. In Second Corinthians, one of my favorite verses. We who with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory are being transformed. Right now, you're being made like him. We're being transformed into his likeness with ever-increasing glory. That's the dynamic process. Now, for some of you, there may be some people here that the last thing I said that made sense was the part about being so heavenly-minded that you're of no earthly good. And if you're in that category, that's great. I'm glad you're here. The important question for you is not whether being heavenly minded makes us earthly good or not. We could debate that for a long time. What matters is whether this is true. Is there going to come a time when we're either in heaven with Jesus or cast out into utter darkness? I submit to you that that claim is based on a historical fact. This Jesus who came. and suffered and died for us, rose again from the dead. He conquered sin and death. Truth claim. Do you believe it? If you do, instead of being cast out when you stand before God's face, you'll be welcomed in. One of my favorite accounts, and I'll close with this, is the account of the encounter between Jesus and a woman who had been bleeding for twelve years. You remember this story? It's in Luke chapter 8. This woman was an unclean woman because in Leviticus it says if you're bleeding when you're having your menstrual flow, you're unclean. And so she was unclean and she was poor. She was poor because she had spent all her money on doctors and they hadn't been able to help her. That's not the reason this is my favorite story. But they hadn't been able to help her, and so she had a need. She wanted to be well, but she did not want a face-to-face with Jesus. She didn't want to have to encounter him So she infiltrates into the crowd and touches his cloak. And a remarkable thing happened, unparalleled in the rest of the gospels. Jesus said, Who touched me? The disciples say, well, what do you mean who touched you? We're in a crowd, we're going to Jairus' house to raise his daughter. There are people all around. You're being jostled. What do you mean? Ah, no. Somebody, somebody touched me. Well this woman knew she couldn't get away, and what did she think? She came trembling and fell at his feet. What could she expect here a woman Unclean, outcast, poor, had the audacity to come and touch the teacher's garment while he's on his way to the synagogue ruler's house. And her theology wasn't even very good. It was sort of magical, wasn't it? If I could just touch his garment, I'll be well. She might expect admonishment at least. being cursed, having her illness back again or worse? And what does she get? Look at it this afternoon in Luke chapter 8. Jesus, I think, has her stand up and looks her in the eye and he says, daughter. In my NIV notes it says that that word that he uses for her there, it's the only time in the scriptures that he uses that word. It's her new name. Daughter, your faith has made you well. Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. If you are one of those who's wondering about the encounter with Jesus, I urge you to come to him and fall. Fall at Jesus' feet. And for Christian brothers and sisters, perhaps this afternoon, take 15, 20 minutes. Think first about that picture of being an orc. And then think about your encounter, your face time with Jesus. What will he say to you when he looks into your eyes? What will his new name for you be? What will he acclaim or commend in you? Well done, good and faithful servant. How will you feel? Will you get to that place in your hearts this afternoon? Bask in the chair. Sit in it. Let the Holy Spirit sweep over you and begin to show you in a mirror dimly what you long for for all eternity. Dance with Jesus, sing to him, cling to him, fly to Jesus and live. Let's pray Lord God, we've only had a moment to scratch the surface of this great doctrine, this teaching of heaven that you gave us as a prescription. Taken through the Holy Spirit to live lives that anticipate eternity with you and begin now. We long to know you and see you face to face. Lord, ignite in our hearts love for you. For those who don't know you, I pray that the Holy Spirit would not let them go, that this picture of eternity would stick, and that they would come to you and touch the hem of your garment. Lord bless us now as we go forth from this place, for we love you, Jesus. Amen. Thank you again, Wayne.