Good morning. Once again, if you have a Bible, open it to Ezekiel chapter 16. And if you don't have a Bible, we do, and they're in the back on the rack. And if you would like to get one, it would really be helpful for you to be able to see the passages as I read them. We're not going to spend time going verse by verse and looking at at phrases and thoughts so much as looking at at passages. And so If if you could have that before you, it would be very helpful. Let me open us in prayer. Emmanuel, you who are God with us, we come to you. Lord Jesus, we direct our attention to you, for it is you we are here to meet. And we ask that you would show us more of yourself. Show us yourself more clearly. Help us to see you, cause us to see you that we might love you. And Father, we ask that you would open this passage to us that we might understand your word, that we might know your truth, and that you would give us a growing love for you. We need your supernatural work in our lives for that to happen. And so we ask, Spirit, that you would work in us that which we cannot accomplish. And that you would cause us to love you well. In your name we pray, Jesus. Amen. Last week we looked at Ezekiel chapter 16 from the bride's perspective, from the perspective of the unfaithful wife. The point that struck me most clearly from that passage that I think is a deep truth that we need to wrestle with is that the bride is more concerned about comfort than kingdom. This week we look at how God speaks of himself in this passage and what he says of his actions and his intent. As he deals with a warped relationship with his wife, his people. There are three things that I think this passage points out that God does. And I want us to be able to see them clearly. The first of which is that God rescues the dying. And we'll look at that in a moment. But God also rebukes the wicked. God speaks truth to his bride. And the third thing that God does is that he renews the covenant. So God does not merely speak the truth, but God acts redemptively. So let's look at what God does in rescuing the dying. If you look in chapter 16 and in verse four, which and this Bible is on page five ninety-seven. So if you're using our Bible I mean five ninety five, just look at page five ninety five In verse 4, he says, On the day you were born, your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to make you clean. Nor were you rubbed with salt or wrapped in cloths. No one looked on you with pity or had compassion enough to do any of these things for you. Rather, you were thrown out into the open field, for on the day you were born, you were despised. Now I made a mistake in putting your outline together, and it's my fault, and I ask you to correct it. In the first point, God rescues the dying. I say we. And I make that pronoun a first-person pronoun plural that is true, but I want you to see that what the passage is saying is related to Jerusalem. And as we are part of Jerusalem, it certainly is true of us, but I want you to keep that pronoun third person. So if you would replace that with she and her and she, I think that will help keep our focus. God rescues the dying. Jerusalem isn't simply sick. Jerusalem isn't merely recovering from a wound. She's not weakened. She's dying. The picture that God uses is infanticide. What happened was this baby was so unwanted by her parents that they didn't offer her the basic respect. Of taking care of her at birth, they simply left her in a field to die. I don't know how many of you have had the privilege of being by a newborn child. Certainly most of you parents have had that opportunity. But a newborn child is is is is a weak, helpless, needy individual And to think to think that someone could leave their child in the wilderness without the basic human dignity of even being cleansed is amazing But Jerusalem was abandoned to the wilderness. She was alone. And she was very soon to die. She doesn't simply need a little help. Sometimes I think of my relationship with God, and I think of how I relate to Him. And I might think that I'm sick. Need medicine. The thing that came to my mind as I was thinking of this is perhaps I have a syndrome such as diabetes. And if I don't get some periodic care, I'll die And so I go through crises, and when I'm in a crisis, I need God's attention, I need his help, I need his intervention, I want his presence in my life so that I can get better and be on my own again. Jerusalem isn't diabetic. Jerusalem is on life support. And if the machine doesn't put air in her lungs, she does not take her next breath. Brothers and sisters, the people of God are not merely in need, we're dying. And if God doesn't give us life, we're dead. So let's look at verse 6. Then I passed by and I saw you kicking about in your blood. And as you lay there in your blood, I said to you, live, and I made you grow like a plant of the field. You grew up and developed and became the most beautiful of jewels. He continues, later I passed by, and when I looked at you and saw that you were old enough for love, I spread the corner of my garment over you and covered your nakedness. I gave you my solemn oath and entered into a covenant with you, declares the Sovereign Lord, and you became mine. I bathed you with water and washed the blood from you and put ointments on you. I clothed you with an embroidered dress and put leather sandals on you. I dressed you in fine linen and covered you with costly garments. I adorned you with jewelry. I put bracelets on your arms and a necklace around your neck, and I put a ring in your nose and earrings in your ears and a beautiful crown on your head. So you were adorned with gold and silver, your clothes were of fine linen and costly fabric, and embroidered cloth. Your food was very fine flour, honey and olive oil. You became very beautiful and rose. to be a queen. Last week we talked about the fact that Jerusalem did what came naturally. She lived as God gave her life. She received his gifts She accepted his love and God gave her her best God gave her clothes, God gave her food, God gave her jewelry, God gave her Himself. He married her. He established covenant with her. We talked about the fact that covering her nakedness with his garment was an act of marriage, and it says there that he made covenant with her. She became his. God rescued the dying. He gave her life, and he gave her good. He gives her and gave her her best. But God rebukes the wicked. In verse 15, we read that this bride who was lavished with love turns. But you trusted in your beauty and used your fame to become a prostitute. You lavished your favors on anyone who passed by, and your beauty became his. Now, why would someone turn from a groom who loved her so well? Why? She received life. She received care. She received material blessings. And she turned. I can tell you why I turn. I can tell you what leads to me being just like Jerusalem. It goes back to that thought that God gives me my best. And the fact that I frequently don't believe it. Have you ever uttered the thought, God, you can do better? Have you ever had a need that you believe God should meet? But he hasn't? Jerusalem wanted more. Jerusalem enjoyed all that God gave her, but she wanted more. God, you can do better. And you, just having you, you're not enough. I need more. Jerusalem turned to Canaanite gods She turned to Baal for rain and for food. She wanted greater security than God gave her. She knew what she wanted. She knew what she had. And there were other lovers who would promise her what she wanted So she turned to them. This particular passage speaks of detestable practices. You may notice periodically that I skip phrases or verses. The point is so clearly made that we don't need to focus. on the language in terms of some of the details that are here because this is probably the most vulgar language I found in the Bible. It speaks of murder. It speaks of marital infidelity. It speaks of selfishness and greed. And it speaks in very honest terms. Jerusalem turned from her groom. She turned from her husband. She rejected him and found him wanting. And while I might look at this and might think, how could you do this? I do this. When I believe God has withheld what He owes me. When I believe God has overlooked a need that He could satisfy, when I believe that God has not done what a loving groom would do. When I deny that he's given me my best. And I know so many needs that he could satisfy and has not, at least not yet. And so the battle for me is: will I believe that you are a loving God who has given me my best and wait and plead and believe? Or will I believe that my need is so great that you're not important enough to keep? God, if you will not give me this, you're negotiable. God gives Ezekiel the analogy to use to describe his relationship with Jerusalem of marriage. And I believe that's a wonderful picture here because God speaking of his marriage to us, to Jerusalem, And God speaking of the infidelity we have demonstrated is the one ground, one of the two grounds the New Testament gives for the dissolution of marriage covenant. God is within his rights to break covenant with us. God is within his rights to sever relationship because of our sin. But what does God do? God demonstrates grace and truth. He walks that wondrous fine balance that I find so difficult between an unwillingness to exist in a warped relationship. And a desire not to end the relationship. God speaks truth. He speaks truth to Israel, to Jerusalem, and says, here's who you are, here's what you've done. Here is your heart. It's broken. Our marriage is a tragedy. I I don't know about you. I don't know whether you find it easy to live with that kind of integrity in relationship. But I am my mother's son. Jerusalem is my mother. I am part of the people of God, and I am bred from her stock. And I am one who clings to comfort more than kingdom So that when I'm in a broken relationship, or I'm in a warped relationship, or I'm in a relationship that needs attention, my first inclination is: do I really have to look? Do I need to see that we're not relating well? Whether it's my children or my wife or my friends or brothers and sisters in Christ? Am I in a place with you? But is the relationship God calls us to have. And if I am in that relationship and it's warped and it needs attention. Will I will I see? It's much more comfortable just to ignore It's much more comfortable just to pretend. But God refuses to pretend. He says, look at how we relate. Look at what you've done. Look at who you are. Now if I get to that point in relationship, frequently what comes following look at what's going on is it's over. If you're my friend and it's too painful to be your friend, I am always going to be tempted to simply give you space to euphemism for breaking it off. God has every right simply to say, it's over. God has every right to simply say, you have broken covenant, and we no longer are married. But instead God says, look at who you are. Look at who you are Look at Jeremiah chapter 2. Tom just read it. But this is a very clear picture of the decline of relationship. Listen to how it begins. God speaking to his bride says to her, I remember the devotion of your youth. How as a bride you loved me. And followed me through the desert. Israel followed God where there was no water and there was no food She followed him and loved him. She went where he went and stayed where he stayed. Israel was holy to the Lord. The first fruits of his harvest, all who devoured her were held guilty, and disaster overtook them. There's an intimacy in that relationship that is glorious. But look at what God says. What fault did your fathers find in me that they strayed so far from me? That they followed worthless idols and became worthless themselves. They did not ask where is the Lord who brought us up out of Egypt. He goes on to say that the priests did not ask, where is the Lord? They wanted more and they wandered away. Brothers and sisters, we want more, and we wander away. So God does what is necessary for Jerusalem. Turn to chapter ten of Ezekiel. When I finally realized what this passenger was saying years ago, it shocked me. But beginning in verse 3, Ezekiel describes a vision that God gave him that is profound. Now the cherubim were standing on the south side of the temple when the man went in, and the clouds filled the inner court. Then the glory of the Lord rose from above the cherubim and moved to the threshold of the temple. The cloud filled the temple, and the court was full of the radiance of the glory of the Lord. God moved from the Holy of Holies To the threshold of the temple. He continues. Verse eighteen Then the glory of the Lord departed from over the threshold of the temple and stopped above the cherubim. While I watched the cherubim spread their wings and rose from the ground, and as they went, the wheels went with them. They stopped at the entrance to the east gate of the Lord's house, and the glory of God was above them. God left the temple, and he went to the east gate, the east gate of the city of Jerusalem. And he was preparing to leave the city itself. Chapter 11, verse 22. Then the cherubim with the wheels beside them spread their wings, and the glory of the God of Israel was above them. The glory of the Lord went up from within the city and stopped above the mountain east of it. Then the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the exile in Babylonia in the vision given me by the Spirit, in the vision given me by the Spirit of God. God left Jerusalem. God began that separation, which would show Jerusalem her need for him. God spoke the truth about their relationship. God spoke the truth about Jerusalem's rejection, adultery, infidelity, abandonment. And he was within his rights. But God did not speak that truth in order to sever relationship permanently. God said You are mine. And we read in chapter sixteen, verse sixty. Yet I will remember the covenant I made with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish an everlasting covenant with you. He goes on to talk about the nature of that restored relationship and our dealing with the reality and our experience of our sin. But God says, I will renew covenant with you. This is not punishment. God is not punishing Jerusalem as he leaves. God is disciplining her. Because God is not willing for this relationship to continue worked, but he will not end it. God has a dream for intimacy. God has a dream where his bride and he will connect and love. And God is willing to do whatever it takes to bring that to pass. So in Jeremiah chapter two, God says to us, and I like the New American Standard Translation better. The sense is clearer, I think, when it says, Therefore I will yet contend with you. And with your children's children will I contend. What God is saying is, in spite of the fact that you have abandoned me, that you have rejected me, that you have left me behind in the dust, I will not leave you. I will not let you go. He knew that when he said in Deuteronomy thirty-one, I will never leave you nor forsake you. And even though he sends Jerusalem into exile, he does not leave her. God renews his covenant We talked last week about the fact that we do what comes naturally and that to live with kingdom thoughts and to think kingdom thoughts and to live a kingdom lifestyle requires supernatural power. We cannot go there on our own. God in renewing the covenant gives that supernatural power to Jerusalem. We see that as we see history unfold. And if you look at Nehemiah chapter 1. You see the fulfillment of what God intended in the exile. Look at Nehemiah's prayer beginning in verse 5. O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant of love with those who love him and obey his commands. Let your ear be attentive and your eyes open to hear the prayer your servant is praying before you day and night. For your servants, the people of Israel. I confess the sins we Israelites, including myself and my father's house, have committed against you. We have acted very wickedly towards you. We have not obeyed the commands, decrees, and laws you gave your servant Moses. Remember the instruction you gave your servant Moses, saying, if you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the nations. But if you return to me and obey my commands, then even if your exiled people are at the farthest horizon, I will gather them from there and bring them to the place I have chosen as a dwelling for my name. They are your servants and your people, whom you redeemed by your great strength and your mighty hand. O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of this your servant. And to the prayer of your servants who delight in revering your name. Give your servant success today by granting him favor in the presence of this man. I was a cupbearer to the king. Nehemiah is where God wants us to be. Nehemiah understood the sin. Nehemiah understood the exile and the lesson. And Nehemiah came back to worship our groom. So God gives that relationship renewed. God brings us to the restored experience of our relationship with Him. How? Well God gives Emmanuel. Tom read from Isaiah chapter nine The people walking in darkness have seen a great light. On those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy, they rejoice before you, as people rejoice at the harvest, as men rejoice when dividing the plunder. For as in the day of Midian's defeat, you have shattered the yoke that burdens them. The bar across their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor. Every warrior's boot used in battle and every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning, will be fuel for the fire for to us. A child is born. To us, a son is given. And the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called wonderful counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness. From that time on and forever, the zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. How does he give us that supernatural power? Well, he gives us the babe in the manger. That's what we celebrate this season. He gives us the babe in the manger, that gift of all gifts. So that whether it's a large monitor that you buy at Best Buy on Black Friday, Or whether it's a gift that you get from people who know you well and love you, or whether it's that desire of yours that is unmet, there is no gift parallel to the babe in the manger. For you see that babe in the manger grows up to be the Savior on the cross, who pays the debt of our sin. Who is so unwilling to let us go that he goes to the cross and bears the wrath of his Father because he bears our sin. But he's not merely the Savior on the cross. He's the groom at the feast. He is our groom. He bids us come. He meets every need, breaks every barrier, and brings us home. So that we celebrate the wedding feast that is the consummation of all we are created to enjoy So what about this season? What now? I think we have to look at our hearts. We have to recognize that we are Jerusalem who looks at God and says, You could do better. You can give me more. I haven't got it all yet. And what you've given just isn't enough. You need to love me better And when we see that that is our heart, we repent. We repent. We declare our need for his supernatural power to believe And we love him. O God, awesome and mighty creator and sustainer of the universe. Whose boundaries we cannot see or touch, we cannot experience or understand. You hold them in the palm of your hand And we accuse you. We condemn you. We reject you. We weigh you and find you wanting. How ridiculous. God, we come to you and repent I confess my unbelief. I confess that frequently I can see those things so much more easily that you have not given me than the things of you. I don't see you clearly. If I did, I could not, I could not condemn you. I could not reject you. I could not find you wanting. So I ask, Lord Jesus, that you will make yourself clear That as we celebrate Christmas, we will see you in your glory. We will see you in your power, in your majesty, in your love. You who will not speak a lie And we'll not be content with a relationship that is worked, but will not abandon us. We come asking for you to give us that rich gift of intimacy. Lord Jesus, be our focus. Give us the grace to worship you with full and contempt. Hearts. And Lord, we ask, we ask that through our worship you will be honored and glorified and magnified and delighted. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen.