Good morning. Let me welcome you to this live stream of our worship service here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. We're glad to welcome you in your homes. in community groups, wherever you have chosen to view this video. We come together to worship our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. who came as a missionary on mission to seek and save the lost, to rescue us from our sin. If you had a bulletin, which you don't this morning, the bulletin verse refers to that. It's taken from Isaiah 49, and in it it reflects the intimacy of Jesus saving us says behold I have engraved you on the palm of my hands so this savior this Jesus who came to find and rescue you has reconciled you to the Father and has made it possible for the Holy Spirit to indwell you. So while we gather today by video live stream, in compliance with Governor Hogan's request that we not gather in person, We are gathering as a people called together to be the people of God. And that is the focus of our call to worship, which is taken from Isaiah chapter 43. Listen to the word of the Lord. Fear not, for I am with you. I will bring your offspring from the east and from the west I will gather you up. I will say to the north, give up. And to the south, do not withhold. Bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the end of the earth Everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made, bring out the people who are blind, yet have eyes. Who are deaf, yet have ears. All the nations gather together and the peoples assemble. We gather this morning both to hear the word proclaimed, but also to pray. The President has requested that this be a day of prayer, and we are happy to comply. We join with each other here at CPC, with other churches in the community that are also live streaming, with Christians around the world, to call on the name of the Lord and ask that He Who would dwell among us. Let's do that now together. Let's pray. Great God, you called us from every corner, a people for your glory. We gather in spirit together, if not physically, all who are called by your name, sons and daughters, from every nation. We know that we were once blind and yet now we see. We were once deaf, but now we hear your voice. And we are so thankful that you know each of us intimately by our name, that you cannot and will not forget us because we are engraved on the very palms of your hand. So we gather not in fear because you are our God. We trust you. Let that trust be a visible means of glory to you. this day, this week, this season of trial in our country and in the world. Let our love for you and for one another this morning and through the week to come be a testimony of your love for us. And we thank you for that in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So this morning we won't have music, so we will continue on with our order of worship. Let me welcome you again if you're just tuning in. I'm Wayne Cope, one of the ruling elders here and leading the liturgy here at Columbia Presbyterian Church this morning. Dan Iverson, known to most of you, our guest preacher, has chosen a text from Matthew, the story of Zacchaeus, one of my favorite stories. And one of the most remarkable parts of that story, I think, is how did Jesus know Zacchaeus' name? Why did he go and find him particularly? Maybe Dan will speak to that. But it tells of the remarkable intimacy of this man who came to seek an individual man and save him. When I looked for a Old Testament reading to complement that, my mind went right away to one of my favorite Psalms, Psalm 139. 139 has been a comfort to me in many occasions through my life, and maybe for you also. It speaks of the intimacy that God has for his servant. Listen now to the word of the Lord taken from Psalm 139. O Lord, you have searched me and you know me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my laying down, and you are acquainted with all my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it altogether. You hem me in, behind and before, you lay your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It's high. I cannot attain it. Where shall I go from your spirit, or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me. And your right hand shall hold me. If I say, surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night Even the darkness is not dark to you. The night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. For you formed my inward parts, you knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in the secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there were none of them. This is the word of the Lord. So as is our usual liturgy, we take the scripture that we've just read and use it to lead us to the throne of grace. In a prayer of confession, we need to confess in order to realign ourselves, to come into a restoration of intimacy with our Lord And there's a vertical component to that, restoration with God, and a horizontal component, restoration with one another. So as we go now to the time of prayer or confession, I'll lead in both of those dimensions. And leave times of silence for you to join in prayer. Let's pray together. Father God, we have just read about how you know us better than we know ourselves. Before a word is on my lips, you know it completely. And for the reader who is searching deep inside, that is fearful. And so we seek for darkness. To hide ourselves like Adam and Eve covering our sin. Where can I go to get away from your spirit? And the answer, there is no place. For even the darkness is not dark to you. We confess that under your watchful eye we squirm. Because when you see us deep down inside and know the words that we speak before we speak them, such knowledge is too wonderful for us. We're ashamed, fearful, seeking darkness. We run for cover. We're tempted to lie. We're tempted To rationalize. Lord, we confess our sins to you that have separated us from you even this week. Lord, help us to see the beauty, the love, the intimacy of being so completely known. For we, as you tell us, are fearfully and wonderfully made, the way that you've made us. But God, we recognize that we're a people called from every corner of the world together. That when you speak to us in Scripture so often the you is plural and not singular We may forget that your love is love for your people. And each of us, together, is written on your hand. The scripture might say, our names are engraved on your hand. And so we're called to love one another, and we confess now that we too often our concern for our own safety, our own well-being, to the exclusion of others That we are self-centered by nature. So forgive us, Lord, for forgetting to love others as you have loved us. Lord Jesus, overwhelm us now with that love that knows our name, with that love that calls us together. With certain joy to love one another, that we might be a people loving to your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Our assurance of pardon is taken again from Isaiah 43, the same passage in which the call to worship was derived, and now at the beginning of that chapter, Psalm 43, verses 1 and 2. But now, thus says the Lord, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel, fear not. For I have redeemed you. I have called you by name, you are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through fire, you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. And verse 3, for I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. Good morning, CPC family. It is with great thanksgiving that we have the opportunity to gather together today even though it is through technology which a week ago we didn't have and didn't think we could do. But we are grateful that we can join together this morning as we worship the Lord together. But even as we gather this morning, I'm also reminded just how important the family of the body of Christ really is. As we walked into the building this morning to prepare for the live stream, I'm reminded how much I miss your laughter, your faces, seeing you greet one another. And as we get to worship together and we hear each other's voices giving praise to our God, you are missed. And we look forward to the day when we will be able to gather together in one room. in praise of our God, because we know that He is our strength and He has brought healing. But while we are apart, let us pray that the Lord would not only work in us, a greater love and dependence on him, but he would also work in us a greater love for one another. And I want to take this opportunity as we have gathered, we also will recognize that maybe not only are Our regular attenders, our members are present with us on the live stream. Perhaps you're visiting this live stream or found us through someone else's recommendation. We want to welcome you. as well as we've gathered together virtually here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. I want to take this opportunity this morning to pray a brief prayer as we continue in our service. And this prayer is adapted from Psalm 91, and it is a prayer written by David Taylor. I found it this week as I prepared for this morning's service. So please pray with me together. O Lord, you are our refuge, and you are the refuge of the poor and needy. We ask that you would save us from the pestilence that stalks in the darkness and the plague that destroys at midday. Be our son and shield. Be our fortress. Be our comfort this day. May we not fear any evil, but rather trust in your might to save and your wisdom to guide. So that we might rest always in the shadow of the Almighty. In the name of the Lord Jesus, the one who heals all our diseases. Amen. It is the Lord who has met us. It is the Lord who is gathered with us. It is the Lord who is with you as you gathered with your families Or by yourself sitting in front of a computer screen. We give thanks that the Spirit is with us wherever we are. And it is the Spirit that is guiding us in this service And it is in the name of the Lord that we take the opportunity this morning to greet and to welcome back to the pulpit here at CPC someone who is very familiar to us. Pastor Dan Iverson, Carol, is also here with us today. And Dan is, of course, the MTW Director for Japan. And he has uh come and prepared to deliver the word this morning in season. And may the Lord bless his preaching and may the Lord work in you the message which he has prepared for us today. Dan, please come. Thank you, Randy. It's so good to be with you all. I guess ten of us here this morning. Uh at least we didn't have trouble. Finding a place to park, right, Carol? Uh it's uh a joy. We came all the way from Japan to bring the message and uh and no one came. But we're so glad to to be here. We are so thankful for Columbia Presbyterian Church, our home church that sent us to Japan. When you sent us thirty-three years ago, we looked like this picture here of we had uh Five kids. We came back with nine. Now we look like this, if you can see the picture. We've had many more. Six spouses and twenty-nine grandchildren and our our daughter Sara Beth who was about six months old when we came here to be an intern out of seminary. Uh she was a baby and right now, pray for her, she's on a flight from Chittagong to Dhaka to Istanbul, to Dulles, with six kids while Eric closes down things in in uh in Bangladesh. So please pray for Sarabeth. That's pretty hard what she's doing today to arrive tonight. We pray. So sorry, she's there because of our text today. They're doing what they do because of the promise and what Jesus tells us that the Son of Man came to seek and to save. the loss. Having all these kids when they were little it was uh you know, Carol and I joked that we would be on the edge of the bed at two AM with a feverish baby, you know, uh praying. Children are a blessing, children are a blessing, you know, and and now they're grown, family reunion, we see that We see our children, our grandchildren, we say, wow, children are a blessing. This is easy. But we see our children and their spouses chanting to each other, children are a blessing, because it's not easy. But is a blessing and we're so grateful for you sending us uh to Japan, you know, and then sending the Colburns and and Linda Carner and To be such partners with us all these years. You sent us to this city, Tokyo, Metro Tokyo, an incredible city. 36 million people if you can imagine. That's six times the size of Maryland. Six million people, you know? It's like Maryland, uh Delaware, West Virginia, DC Uh Virginia, North Carolina is only thirty million people. This is our city you sent us to. Why? Because Jesus came to seek and to save. the lost. That's our text today. We want to look at this. Turn in your Bibles, please, to Luke 19 and be reading verses 1 through 10. Uh you sent us because of the truth of this text, and it was slow and hard, the language was tough, we were so discouraged, we came back to you after the first four years, had seen virtually no fruit. uh had an office in the house next door and we were discouraged and you encouraged us, prayed for us, sent us back and that next year in a city the size of Colombia that had zero churches. I looked this morning. Colombia has m more than sixty churches. Many good gospel proclaiming churches in our city with no the suburb of Tokyo with no church at all. A friend of mine says the Some people want to start the coolest church in town. What's really cool is to start the only church in town. We had the great privilege to go start the only church telling the good news of Jesus. in the suburb of Tokyo. So thank you for sending us. You guys are such partners with Carol and with me and our whole team this 33 years. So let's hear God's word Luke chapter 19 verses 1 through 10. He entered Jericho and was passing through, and behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich. And he was seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not, because he was small in stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house today. So he hurried and came down and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all grumbled, He has gone in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord. The half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said to him Today, salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. That's our text. That's the mission statement of Jesus and ours too. Can we say that together again? Those here, say it. Say it after me. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. Yes, say it at home. Let's pray together. Lord, we do pray that you'll help us from this wonderful passage of your word to know more about your saving us, that you on mission for us. And Lord, you call us to go on mission with you for this lost world. Bless our time together. We pray. It's hard to do this. I feel it's hard to speak to just the The camera, I pray you'd help me, help all of us as we listen to to hear you speak to us, to know more of your love, your seeking and saving us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Have you heard of this guy, Commander of Sheida? He was the leader of the attack on Pearl Harbor. He he woke up that morning on his aircraft carrier. And in December 7th, U. S. time, 1941, praying to his eight million gods that the ships would be in the harbor, that he could kill. Many Americans that that he hated the Americans wanted to kill many and he did. They killed. He and his 300 planes that he left killed uh more uh than two thousand Americans that day. This guy was an American airman in the Army Air Corps before the days of the Air Force, and he when he got that news that morning in California, he broke his coffee cup against the wall. And he was so angry, I want to go kill Japanese people. And he volunteered for a secret mission. Turned out to be the Doolittle Raid uh Army Air Corps like Air Force bombers taking off from American aircraft carriers to attack Japan just months after Pearl Harbor. It was amazing And and he wanted to kill many Japanese people and they did. And the plan was for them to crash land in China to be rescued by the Chinese underground fighting uh the Japanese occupation, brut the brutal Japanese occupation, that Jake was captured by Japanese soldiers and he was uh he was brutalized for uh in his Nanking China uh uh jail cell. But in that jail cell, this hater of Japanese people. He he got a Bible. They let him have a Bible. Amazing. And as he's reading the story of the cross, as he's reading the story of the cross, he sees he reads, Father, forgive them for I know not what they do. And Jake was just moved by this and he and converted there. No one telling him the gospel. Jake comes to Christ. uh in in the jail cell. And he and there he believes in Jesus and he begins to grow. He tries to love his guards. I do you think he loved them perfectly? I'm sure he didn't. But he he grew in loving those guards who were his captors. And he said in his heart, his God, the Holy Spirit, no one discipling him, worked in his heart, said, Lord, if I ever get out of here, and many didn't, fewer than even the Nazi prison camps. got out of there. He said he said to he prayed to the Lord, if I get out of here, I want to go be a missionary in guess what country. Japan. How counterintuitive is this? But he is a as a new creation in Christ. This is what God does. Jesus came on mission for him in that Nanking jail cell, worked in his heart. as a new creation to want to go on mission for Jesus, even to the country that was brutalizing him. Why? Luke 19, 10. Our main text today, though we'll look at the whole passage, for the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. Jesus is on mission to find lost people. Like Zacchaeus, like DeShazar, like commander of Cheetah. And guess what happened? Jake went to Tokyo as a missionary. One day someone knocked on his door Wanted to know about this Jesus and guess who it was? Commander of Cheetah. And Commander of Cheetah came to Christ and became an evangelist And became a friend of Jake. These two here reading the Bible. Hey, if these two brothers trying to kill each other's countrymen could be brothers in Christ, I think our our struggles of unity and stuff. Hey, we the gospel will help us get through that, right? This is this is great. People like Pachita saved because of Jesus seeking out. People like me, proud, self-righteous, Pharisee, me And I'm not just a Pharisee, younger brother, older brother, all mixed together like you. But Jesus came to seek and to save the law. In fact, his name, Jesus. means to save. Right? The angel says to to Joseph, you shall name him Jesus, because he will save his people from their sin. That's the meaning of his name. He comes, he makes us new. And then he puts us on mission with him for the sake of this lost world. So let's look at this Zacchaeus story, Jesus on mission for us. Why did Jesus come? He came to seek and to save the lost. Let's look at verse 2. We see Jesus. We see this guy, Zacchaeus. He's rich. Are riches ever enough? Obviously they weren't enough for Zacchaeus. He's longing for something. He's a grown man climbing up a tree to see Jesus. Because riches are never enough. Sometimes I ask people, do you think the suicide rate in Japan is notorious for high suicide rate? The suicide rate in Japan was higher when it was poor after World War II. And dirt poor, bombed out, you know, it was so, so hard. Or Now that Japan is one of the richest countries in the world. Second or third, you know, depending on how you measure it, you know. And and and people say, Oh yes, uh I'm I'm sure it was higher before. No. Again, counterintuitive, but it it this is this shows this high higher suicide rate now that Japan is so much richer, shows us like with Zacchaeus. That none of the riches will not satisfy. They will not meet the deepest the deepest needs of our heart. Think of the stock market decline the last week. And even though we have so much in our country, way more than ten years ago and fifty years ago. How it's it's so easy to to worry and fret and to think that those things matter. And and they don't. There's something bigger than money. that make that fulfills and fills us and makes us truly joyful. And I use that illustration about Japan uh and the after World War Two and uh and now uh there was a a A a poor man, actually a homeless man, who kind of mowed the answer back to me. Which do you think had the highest suicide rate? And what do you think he said He said, when Japan was poor. Because in his mind, his problem was that I need to be richer and then I'll be happy and fulfilled. And how about that rich person? What do they think? They just need more of what they have and and we know it doesn't work true abundance as Jesus said in John 10, 10, I came. that they might have life and might have it abundantly. We see that Zacchaeus is also powerful. Verse 2 says he has a high position. He's the chief tax collector. He must have been very happy and fulfilled. He's the chief. Evidently not. He's lost in his sin and self-centeredness. Promotion, position can be an idol. We think if I get that next step, I'll be satisfied. I'll be fulfilled. Have you? Has your selfishness and sin and the things you pursue, has it ever been ultimately fulfilling? It's not. I think of myself, my struggles. One of my counterfeit gods was as a Marine, you know, my story is mercenary to missionary c career marine, I thought. until God led us to seminary and then to the mission field and and uh was a recon marine and I I just you know the the idea of success in the Marine Corps I was a Christian I knew Christ But it was the the idols of my heart to be uh successful, it was su it was so powerful on me. So was Zacchaeus. Was he satisfied? by his wealth and powerful position. No. We see in verse three, he's seeking to see Jesus. He's searching for something. Maybe you today, the ten of us here, or Uh and all of us, we we do, we struggle with these things in ministry, right Randy? You know, to to be successful pastor. For me in Japan, those first years, no fruit. It was so slow. It was good for my heart. To see, you know, is my hope in Jesus and my satisfaction in him not being successful in my work We see that money, security, comfort, power, position, promotion, looks, none of those things they will not satisfy. You know, we're having the Olympics this summer in Tokyo. We hope, you know. Uh uh maybe we'll have Olympics with no fans watching, who knows yet? But the last time the Olympics we had them in nineteen sixty four in Tokyo. famous marathon runner. Boy, everyone expected him to be number one. Kokichi, the pressure of the country was on him, the pressure from himself to be number one marathoner in the world. And you know, hey If you were the third best looking person in the world, if you were the third richest, the third best preacher, the third best at whatever you do, whatever is your tendency toward a counterfeit God, you know. Uh oh, hey Dan. Third would be enough. Well, he came in third, not first. And do you know what he did? He took his own life. Third in the world. And he took his own life. Well, how if he had been second, do you think he would have been fulfilled? Or first? But no, it's never enough, as we see with rich, powerful Zacchaeus. I wish someone could have told Kokichi about the true bread of life and the Savior of the world, Jesus, who came to seek and save the law. There's lost there's nothing wrong with sports and the good things we do. Our talents, our son Micah is uh tomorrow night, is gonna be on uh The Voice, the NBC show tomorrow night. And uh You know, and as he went through all the the screaming for it and singing for it, you know, at first it was, yeah, I hope I can make it to this next level, you know, and we prayed for him. Do you think it was the hardest? for him. I worried the most about him. Do you think at the beginning of all that funnel now he's gonna be on national TV tomorrow night, you know, uh do you think it was maybe the most dangerous for his heart? Or at least me as a father worrying about him, knowing my own heart, when he was at the beginning of the process or when he's narrowed down to eighty people out of tens of thousands that started. What do you think? Oh surely. Once he's really, you know, being successful, it won't be as hard on his heart if he doesn't make it. No. It's it's so dangerous, isn't it? It's never enough. They gave a sneak preview yesterday and our our family iPhone chat is buzzing with Mike is on TV, you know. You can see him on YouTube. 500,000 hits, a million hits. Oh, maybe he'll make two million well this morning it's two point five million, you know. I don't know what it is right now. Now all you people watching at home don't hey you tell me if the viewer numbers go down, you know If you don't go look to see him, wait till after worship, regular principle of worship, right? And and uh but go. But but yeah, I I pray for Micah. What a great opportunity he has. And yet Will it ever be enough? No. We need Jesus as Zacchaeus seeking Jesus. Jesus came to seek and to save. the loss. We see in verse five when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said, now we see Jesus going after Zacchaeus like the worship leader said Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house today. Isn't this great? We see Jesus going after Zacchaeus. All the other people there. He he he zones in on Zacchaeus. Are we moved today that Jesus came and sought us? Can you save yourself? You know the story of Jessica Buchanan captured in 2011 by Somalia land pirates. Every two days they moved her demanding a $40 million uh ransom, she young American, thirty, thirty-two year old, serving the people in Somalia, brutalized, no hope. 93 days in captivity, surrounded by her brutalizing evil guards constantly And she desperately needed saving, like you, and like me, and like Zacchaeus. And in the middle of the night, pitch black night, she had lost all hope, thought she was gonna die. In the middle of the night, pitch black Black Knight, of course. I was a recon Marine. I like this story. And all of a sudden, chaos breaks loose in the camp and she's thinking, oh no. Another group is coming to take me. I can't do this. I can't go thro through this again. And and she pins herself on her only possession to her name, her camping mat that they that she had and carried with her every day, every day that they moved every two days. And all of a sudden the chaos stops and she's pinned down to the mass. She feels a man's hands on her back and and she's fighting against it. Just imagine ninety three days, brutalized young lady and thinking, what's gonna happen? Who are these bad guys that got me? And all of a sudden she hears, Jessica, Buchanan, we're taking you home in perfect American English. And she looks up and it's a sealed team six guy. She didn't know that yet. You know, and this American SEAL team six guy, he starts to try to throw her on his back to run toward the landing zone to be rescued. And she said, hey, SEAL Team 6 guy, it's okay. I got this. I can save myself. Anybody think she said that? No, no, she cannot save herself. My gosh, he you know they three the the guys they put they formed a perimeter when they thought it was dangerous and three of them put their bodies over her to rescue her You know, that what and we think, you know, that's that what a great story. We have a better story. They flew from America, parachuted in, marched through the night secretly to rescue her. And our Savior, Jesus, came from heaven, born as a baby, took the lowest place, died on the cross for our sins. to rescue us who could not save ourselves, right? This is what Jesus has done. And we and also, you know Uh uh hopefully we're moved by that, our rescue, but I think is we often get used to it, don't we? And we we love a story like that, but our story's better. And like with Zacchaeus, look, Jesus calls him by name, it says in verse 5. This is another thing that should move us. Worship leader, you you uh Alluded to this, right? That like John 10, 3, he calls his own sheep by name and he leads them out. Particular atonement, this great doctrine. that it it should it should move us. He called me by name. If you believe in Jesus and trust him, is it because you're smarter than other people? More moral than other people, just a better person, lucky? No, it's because he called you by Name. He came and he sought you know Jesus calls Achaeus by name. Is that precious to you? And isn't it dangerous? We get used to these Truth. Actually if you go look on you Google, uh after you Google Micah after worship, Google Jessica Buchanan and listen to her story on sixty minutes is a good one, twenty minutes worth when she could finally talk about it. And one of the things she says that was so moving to her was that SEAL Team 6 guy, he called me by name. And then she finds out the president knew her name and said, go rescue her. Hey, our story is better. The the the king of the universe calls us by name. And then we see he takes our shame Look, you know, verse 7 shows the love of Jesus and why Zacchaeus is so changed in verse 8. Because in verse 7 we see when the crowd, when they saw it, They all grumble. He has gone to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. Now think about this. Zacchaeus is watching Jesus. And Jesus chooses him, the bad guy that everybody hates because he's a crook, tax collector, that met crook, you know, supposed to take a thousand dollars, he takes two thousand. And Jesus calls him by name and goes to his house, and the crowd is, you know, the Jesus is identifying with this evil, bad guy. Jesus just gets, you know, Jesus loves him and goes with him. And Zacchaeus sees that. Think about that. How much more us do we know about Jesus taking our shame? On the cross, he took my shame, my guilt. He who knew no sin became sin for us. Are are we again are we moved by that? How could that not move me? You know, I think the the the the three Seals, Jessica Buchanan said they put their three bodies over me to take whatever might come to me, a bullet or whatever. And hey, it's a great story. I'm moved by that. But really I should be infinitely more moved in my heart by what Jesus has done for me, that he died on the cross for me. He took my guilt. And shame of a pastor friend said, how could I not? Why do I get so used to this, this gospel? Don't we? People here, don't we get used to it? We sing about it? We talk about it. You say, Lord, one of our biggest sins maybe is to is we get used to this gospel of what Jesus has done for us. And we see Zacchaeus' response in verse 8. There has to be a response, right, to such grace. His repentance in verse 8. We see him. He says, he stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I've defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. Yeah, well, half to the poor. What one of the fruits Of being changed by Jesus is we become generous. We say, Yeah, I want to respond and make things right. It's a fruit of the gospel. There has to be a result. It's like Jesus, like the next slide, the mission statement of Jesus, this verse 10, becomes our mission statement, you know? that we see this tax collector, this bad sinner, he said, I want to go, I'm gonna go to the to the uh the people I defrauded and give them fourfold of what I took Imagine Zacchaeus, this evil guy. Everybody hated him. He goes to their houses. They see him. Imagine when he shows up at the door, you know. And uh And so I'm here to give you fourfold of what I took from you. What a chance. He's different. He's new. He has to say something about it. Right? We see the uh in John four the the uh the woman at the well. When she meets Jesus, who sought her and saves her, what does she do? She tells the whole village and brings them back. See, this is what happens to us. Jesus on mission for us, but then he puts us on mission with him. As we're new creations in Christ, we want to tell other people. Like 2 Corinthians 5. 17, you know, we're new in Christ. If anyone is in Christ, therefore, if anyone's in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed. The way, behold, the new has come. New for what? Just new for sanctification? Just new for growth and grace? That's always the way I looked at this verse. I did not think about it in terms of new on mission. New, new, really can't covenant child, but really came to faith. with Carol at college, began to grow as a Christian. This verse, new in cry, I wanted to be sexually pure. I wanted to to know Christ. I wanted to to to live a a a life that was pleasing to God. But when you look at the context Verse 18 says, right? Not just that we're, all this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. knew in Christ to be part of his mission with him. And verse 19 is the same. That is Christ. that in Christ God was reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them. Would you read it with me? And entrusting to us the message of reconciliation. This hope we believe. Let scripture interpret Scripture. New in Christ, verse 17, verse 18 and 19. New to be part of reconciling the world. Yes or no? Yeah, this is this is of course new in sacrification, new in other things. But here, but here, this is, how did I miss this all these years? Yes, reconciling the world to himself. Japan, place that, you know, our daughter leaving, husband staying in Bangladesh, and she's flying back with kids. Why? Because this is what we do. All of it, our call is different to rescue Columbia, to be part of loving and reaching this city that needs this love of Jesus Christ. And reaching lost nations of the world. You know, I really want to encourage Columbia Presbyterian Church. I see this tendency. There's some of I I'm asking a lot of people as I churches as I go, how many of you in this PCA church have come? to Christ and been baptized as an adult in this church. And I had a bunch of our churches, no one raises their hand. Not one person. Hundred people, two hundred people. has come to Christ and been baptized uh as an adult believer in that church. And one of the things about Columbia Presbyterian Church, we always see people coming to faith in our city. Praise the Lord. You know, not be proud, be thankful. This is w m on mission for our city. But one of the things I see is we know we're on six month home assignment visiting a lot of churches, that we we we have seen a lot of our church. They they care about foreign missions. Let's give money to reach the world, but maybe not doing such a good job in our own city to love and reach the Lord. You know, we see the other thing as well. See some churches now really on fire to reach their city But not thinking about the nations and the world. God calls us to, which is it, to both. It's concurrent. Acts 1 8, you know, the our Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, the uttermost parts of the earth of the earth. Yeah, and pray we continue to do that. Those of you listening, that God is calling us to do both. To reach places like our city, suburb of Tokyo, that you sent us to start a church in a city the size of Columbia, suburb of Tokyo, with no church. And how many places around the world are like that, huh? You know Wow, I'm su being in America this six months, we go back, Lord willing, next month, a lot of things are up in the air. Um But I'm amazed how many Christians I meet here. Last weekend, Carol and I were at a uh uh a uh mission conference in Charlotte She stayed, we split our forces. She stayed there. I flew up to Northern Virginia to to speak, preach in one of our churches in Springfield. And I get to Springfield, flew into Dulles. The Uber driver was a Christian, a real brother in Christ. You know, I I go into McDonald's to get some food and there's a guy with a Bible open reading the Bible. And and this is within hours of each other, you know. And then and in that McDonald's, when I went to the restroom, heard music. I said, that sounds like Christian music. And I went over and it was a Christian worship band in a McDonald's, you know, and it wasn't a Chick-fil-A, you know. In the Washington DC area, you know, you know. And I I was just thinking, wow Praise the Lord. Much you know, you guys think how maybe how lost America I come back and I say, wow. You know, Isaiah 43 read today. Got back from Japan, went to a barbershop. Don't be mean to me. Why do you would you go to a barbershop? You know, and I and and there's a guy reading Isaiah 43. Not Isaiah 53 like the Philippians. Isaiah 43. He's a brand new Christian. He's a barber. Cut my hair. We have great time. In in in Japan, that has happened to me maybe ten times in 33 years Now you need to hear that. You guys listening need to hear. As we seek to reach our city, we've also got to care. about the world like Jesus does he came to seek and to save the lost for places where like our country maybe a half a percent gospel believing Christians if that And one percent who profess any kind of some kind of uh profession of faith in Jesus Christ, you know With our giving, with our going. You know, you know, you guys have supported us so faithfully sending us to Japan. You know there are people, can't say their names, who were members here when we were here as I was an elder and an intern, and y'all sent us to Japan. There are people who went to other churches, you know, because they moved or they live in other states now. Several who have never missed a month. In 33 years supporting us in Japan. Are they part of our work? You bet. See, God calls some of us to go. But all of us to be part of it, of reaching Colombia and reaching the world. Do you think it was only those twenty seals? How many of you out there Maybe none here were military people. Any here? One. Okay. So two of us. How many was it only twenty seals who rescued Jessica Buchanan? The fifteen or twenty, however many it was. How many you think it was? A thousand, two thousand? See people who fill who who fixed the airplanes, who who packed the parachutes, who you know, the the the radar the uh satellite guys who fa who tracked her for every two days that they moved her in the desert where they could go right to her and get her And that's a good illustration, isn't it? Of of who we are as the church. That we're all in this together to reach our city. Because just the way Jesus came. To seek and to save us. We say, here I am, Jesus. How are you calling me to be a part of this? I modeling this is so important. I know my I appreciate my dad so much. I know Randy, you know my dad, that he uh as a teenager watching him he my dad and my mom had this young guy who was really struggling with drugs, bad background. Took him into our home, loved him, discipled him, fed him, poured into him. They did this all the time. Because he's been rescued. And then the guy steals our family's money and runs away, you know Would my father have been just to get the police and put him in jail? Yes. But he goes and finds him, brings him back to our house, continues to love him. He hid our family's money a little better after that, right? Where did my father learn to do that? From Jesus, who came and sought him. a self-righteous, proud sinner like we all are, who needs Jesus. And he did it. And it affects our kids as they see mom and dad and grandma and grandpa not just singing. All for Jesus, but they say all for all for Jesus, but I I don't really see much that seems to be in linement in alignment with what you're saying, but in response to what he has done for us We say, Jesus, what are you calling me to do? My age, my station, my gifts, old, young, all of us, to go be a part of this. In in Japan, they uh after the tsunami. A young girl from Park City's Presbyterian Church in in uh Dallas, Texas, came on one of the team. More than 500 people. You guys sent people too. to come and help us up in Fukushima, Ishinomaki, after twenty thousand people were killed, Japan was devastated. This young girl, she's in a truck With uh with Ochan, who was part of our staff. He'd come to Christ through singing, soul gospel music, you know, had never opened a Bible in his life, had never been in a church in his life, came to faith in Jesus. And was and he quit his job and was helping us take teams up north, you know. And this young gal from Park City's Presbyterian Church says, so oh John, what do you want to do with your life? He says I came to Christ through singing uh gospel music at I Wanna Go to Jackson, Mississippi to seminary at RTS. where I can sing gospel music with a real thing, you know? And uh and he and she said, how are you ever gonna pay for that? And he says I have no idea, didn't speak English well at all, you know. And she said, I want to give you ten thousand dollars so you can go do that And she said, a relative of mine has died. They left me $100,000. And her mommy and daddy taught her to give her money in a biblical way from when she was little. And she gave ten thousand dollars. Was the first one to give, so he could go. He graduated. was ordained in the PCA Mississippi Valley Presbytery in December. I got to go and preach for his ordination service in a African American and white PCA church in Jackson, Mississippi. and hear that gospel group with him and his wife being a part of it singing, what a great, but that girl, all of us are part of this, you see How God is leading us to be a part of it. You know, the you think of the opportunities before us now with the with the coronavirus and everything, but you know, I don't know what we can do. I know after the tsunami Because, you know, there were some missionaries fled to Osaka, you know, and I and maybe that's what they should have done. You know We said, how can Lord how what can we do? We remember listening to that message by Tim Keller on after uh during the Roman Empire and the plagues that took place and And how Christians served and stayed, and all of us have to pray and decide how we're going to do that, you know? But how do we how do we do that? I know God's going to use this. I think you you put out the uh that message from our team in Tokyo, how God is using the third week yesterday of shutdown there More people, people coming to homes that have never been to worship in their life to listen. How might God use this situation as we seek to reach the world for the good news of Jesus Christ? I started with a story of Commander of Cheetah and his change and how he became an evangelist. God saved him because Jesus came to seek and to save the lost. You know, there was a young girl who was a part of his coming to know Christ. A young girl who Jesus had saved, and she became part of being no she went on a mission with Jesus. her mom and dad were her family were missionaries and I think there's a picture of the family here. We're missionaries in uh in To in uh Yokohama, right below Tokyo, Japan, and as the war drums were beating And it was getting dangerous for Americans to live into in Japan. Her family fled to Philippines to continue as missionaries Like all of our nine kids, her she was sent to America to go to college and she's there and she gets the word that is Japan immediately after Pearl Harbor invaded the Philippines also. And trying to kill Americans, her family fled to the mountains. The Japanese soldiers found her found her family and they killed her mom and dad. And she gets the word in America. And she's just, of course, imagine, you know, the heartbrokenness and and uh but she knew Jesus And the word comes down, she hears it advertised, we need Americans who speak Japanese, who can serve in the hospitals. of the prisoner, Japanese prisoners of war who were wounded and in our hospitals. And guess who volunteers? Peggy. To go serve the people who killed her parents. You think she loved them perfectly? I don't think she did. But she evidently loved them and served them. Why? Because she's new in Christ. Because Jesus came to seek and save her. And she saw that modeled by her mom and dad, and she loves these soldiers. And guess who one of the soldiers was? It was Commander Fachida's mechanic. And and and you know after the war, he goes back to Japan, he finds his commander Fachida, who led the attack on Pearl Harbor, killed more than 2,000 Americans, and And he tells his commander about Peggy. And commander of Cheetah, when he got that little pamphlet in Tokyo, walking on a city street. That told about Jake DeShazar, from hate to love. He went and knocked on that door and met Jake DeShazar. This is what Jesus does. on mission for us. May the Lord move us with that. And on mission with him to love our neighbor. Maybe today for you it's to it to like Jessica Buchanan and say Rescue me. Maybe today is that day for you. Say, Jesus, I've tried everything else. Rescue me. Or maybe today say, Jesus, forgive me. I have not been moved. By your rescue of me. I want to be on mission with you for our city and for our world that needs this gospel so much. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you. We praise you that you have come and rescued us. We bless your name. Thank you for this good news. Lord, may we all indeed joyfully receive your rescue. Save us. We cannot save ourselves. And Lord, we do pray you'll help us to know how we can serve those around us in our neighborhood, in our city, and in the world. with the the time you've given us, the gifts you've given us, the resources you've given us for the glory of your great name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen receive the benediction from the Lord in two languages, in Japanese and in English. Serei no sashi majjuaringa anatangata subite totomani arimazioni. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ The love of God the Father and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all, and may it overflow to Columbia, to Maryland, and to the ends of the earth. Amen. Randy is gonna bring a few uh announcements. Thank you, Dan. It has been an enormous blessing to have Dan bring the word to us today. And so I have a few announcements for us, as is our typical practice, some important announcements, particularly We would encourage you to hear these announcements as we want to reduce the number of email communications that we send. We want you to be as informed as we possibly can during this time. So a couple of things that we just want to make you aware of. Many of you will have received the email over the last night or last few hours, and in the event that you haven't checked your email, we are celebrating with uh Pastor John and his fiance Paige as they look towards their wedding day. We also are celebrating what God is doing in their lives and providentially leading them to Charleston, where John will be serving as assistant pastor at a church, PCA church in downtown Charleston. While we are saddened and we do not want them to leave, we also recognize God's provision for them during this time. And we want you to be aware of that. And so in the event that you haven't read that email, please check that email today. So as a part of some of the housekeeping items that we have to do, uh even though we're all discombobulated and all the things that we have to do, uh, to make sure that John uh is properly transferred We will have to hold a congregational meeting on Sunday, March 29th. How we're going to do that yet, we have not quite figured that out, but we are in the process of figuring out that strategy. Because we have to do that to keep everything in line with the steps that John has to take, which is consistent with our Book of Church Order in the PCA. So we will be calling a congregational meeting for Sunday, March 29th. The means by which we'll do that we'll be releasing in the next week or so. And it is for expressly the purpose so that the congregation can vote to dissolve the relationship between John as associate pastor here, so that then frees him up to transfer his credentials. to the Low Country Presbytery in the PCA. As a part of that, we want to encourage you to be praying for John and Paige during this time. and as we pray for them. And uh we also want you to be aware that he'll continue to be serving here as pastor until the end of May. But of course we also know he'll be very busy in May with getting married and honeymoon. even though that might just be to a Dunkin' Donuts down the street. That being said, we also want you to be aware of a couple of other items. Given the fact that we can't meet in person, we do have the mechanism for you to give online. It feels a little odd for me to remind you of this, but obviously, ministry is not going to be discontinued here. We are obviously going to have all essential personnel hands on deck and we're going to be doing a lot of work. We're going to be visiting, we're going to be meeting, we're going to be counseling, we're going to be caring as the Lord enables us to. So we want to encourage you. to continue to give faithfully as the Lord enables you to through our online portal where you can do that. Also, I want to take this personal moment to just give a word of thanks. to a number of people. First, for the man behind the camera, who you cannot see, Jeff Jordan for his expertise, uh his equipment, and his experience that he's brought to bear with live stream. And he sent an email to us this week. We didn't know that it was going to be needed quite this soon, but we want to give him a personal word of thanks. for his professionalism for making today happen. Thank you, Jeff, for your leadership in this. We're also grateful for Dan Iverson and Carol for being able to be here with us. Preaching, serving. So we want to be very grateful for you in serving the very first sermon to be streamed here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. So Dan is continuing to lead the way. So Dan, thank you for that. Dr. Wayne Coach. Wayne, we want to thank you. for uh litur being serving as liturgist this morning. Thank you for uh your leading us in praying and preparation for today, as well as you serve as a physician during this time. So thank you, Wayne. Also want to say thank you for Christopher Robinson for his ability to enable all the sound and all working with the tech team here. Thank you, Christopher, for bringing your expertise. And of course, the ever-present help, uh Eric Johnston, for your tireless work this week with all of our equipment needs, doing errands, getting everything ready, pulling us together. Eric, your work and service to this church is truly Priceless. John, thank you for doing all the work you've done, making all the phone calls, making sure you've notified students for the letter writing and everything that you've done. as you prepare and you lead us as God is leading you and Paige during this time of transition. But finally, I want to say a um A sincere thank you to my brother P. D. Mayfield, because today would not be happening were it not for his leadership. I can't tell you how much we've we've sent texts and emails and everything that is happening today has been because of his tireless work. And I want to say a personal thank you to Pastor P. D for leading us in serving this congregation in countless ways this week. So thank you, P. D. And finally, I just want to say a brief word as we close today. Obviously, we are all in uncharted territory. We're learning as we go. And we want to thank you for your emails, for your text, for the ways in which you've been praying for us as a pastoral team, for the session, for the deaconate. For the ways in which you have stepped up and been ready to step up as the need arises. But we also want to take a great, great moment to remember that This country and we have been through greater times of suffering. But this is an opportunity where we can gather together as the body of Christ. to encourage one another as we have opportunity according to God's Word to give an encouraging word to one another, to pray for one another It is also a reminder that we, as the body of Christ, also exist in a particular time and place, which is the United States. And so I want to read to you just a brief word, as someone wrote this week. We see people blaming political leaders, nations, races. and scapegoating them for a microscopic and diabolical enemy of humanity, which no one made and which no one wants. And I couldn't more heartily agree. And so it is important for us to take this time to choose to walk in humility and dependence on the Lord Jesus Christ. without judgment of others, but ready to serve one another. And it is with that in mind that I want all of us today, as normally we would close the service with a charge, I want to close the service today with a blessing, particularly a blessing to those who are leading and in various forms of leadership whether it be our political leaders, our business leaders, and of course our first responders and those who are serving in medicine in various ways. It is a blessing that is taken from a book called To Bless the Space Between Us. We'll make this available this week as a link on our website. It is written by John O'Donohue, and he's written one of the many blessings that he's written is for those who hold power. And I would like to read this brief blessing today as we close our service. And I have adapted it to our circumstances that we find ourselves in. May the gift of leadership awaken you as a vocation. May you keep mindful of the providence that calls you to serve. As high over the mountains the eagle spreads its wings, may your perspective be larger than the view from the foothills. When the way is flat and dull in times of gray endurance, may your imagination continue to evoke horizons. When illness spreads in times of disease, may you be blessed to help us find a cure. May you have the wisdom to read the time clearly and know when the seed of change will flourish. In your heart, may there be a sanctuary of quiet, for the stillness where clarity is born. May your work be infused with passion and creativity and have the wisdom to balance compassion and challenge. In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, may the Lord bless you and keep you as you gather today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for joining us. We look forward to joining with you very soon. The Lord bless you. Thank you.