Good morning. Well let me try that one more time. Good morning. Oh, that's much better. Thank you. Let me open us in prayer. Jesus, we do pray, as we have just sung, that you would search our hearts, that you would know us, and that you would show us ourselves. And that in doing that, Lord Jesus, that you would show us yourself and that you would work powerfully this morning to transform us and to mobilize us. Lord Jesus, we do pray that we would see you more clearly. And that you would take away our anxious thoughts, that you would take away our distractions. And that would be a good thing. That you would satisfy us with yourself. In your name we pray. Amen. I watched a scene recently that I want to share with you. I've seen it several times, but I want you to picture a family walking along a tree-lined path. It's a overcast, somewhat windy summer day. And on the left is is uh a hillside that drops down to the ocean. On the right is a beautifully manicured grassy field. And the family consists of an elderly gentleman and his wife, and their son, his wife, three daughters, and a son. And the elderly gentleman is obviously somewhat disturbed. He's walking along the path somewhat ahead of the rest of the family, and at one point he just veers off to the right. and walks on to the grassy field. He walks up to a gravestone and falls down. And his wife rushes up to him, she's obviously concerned for him, and he's just emotionally wrought. After a period of time, he gains his composure, he walks further, and he finds a particular tombstone. And he kneels down. And he talks to the man buried there, and this is what he says. My family is with me today. They wanted to come with me, but I didn't know how I would feel coming back here. Every day I think about what you said to me on the bridge that day. I tried to live the best life I could. I hope that was enough. I hope that at least in your eyes I've earned what all of you did for me. His wife walks up and she looks confused. And with tears in his eyes, he turns to her. And he says to her, Tell me, I've led a good life Tell me. I'm a good man. That question is a fundamental question for all of us. And the question that it raises is, do I measure up We want desperately to measure up. It is a driving force in our lives so that we like this man will find people who we can ask. In hopes that they'll say, yes, you've been a good man or a good woman. Yes, you've led a good life. Yes, you measure up. It's something so powerful for us that we will constantly look around and compare ourselves. We will look for people to be just a little bit worse than we are. Because we want to feel confident, we want to feel successful, we want to feel like we measure up. We want desperately to believe that we're okay. To the degree that, I'm sure for you, you can think back to times where people have looked at you and have done what Peter talks about in verse 16. Let me read verse sixteen for you. Keeping a clear conscience so that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame. For you kids, I'm sure that there are people in your neighborhood or with whom you you relate if you go to school, it may be in the school setting, who will make fun of you. Who will laugh at you because you do good. Goody two shoes. You're being a goody-goody. For those of you who work, you will have the competition at times of people who want to perform better than you do. And if you get an award, they'll trivialize it. Or if you do something right that threatens them, they'll shame you for it. You may find it in your neighborhood. There's always this sense in the springtime of a competition on whose yard looks best. You may find your neighbors telling you that although your flowers are gorgeous, you chose the wrong ones. There's always a competition because we want to measure up. And we will do what it takes to believe and to convince ourselves that we do. But I want you to look at this passage this morning. I realize that as we look at the end of chapter three, there's a lot of things here. And we won't cover them all. But there's a really incredible, glorious truth that Peter wants us to hear. And so while Peter's talking about Jesus in the Spirit bringing a message to spirits in prison, And that may be a great study. Please don't look at your study Bible and check the notes and follow the passages today, because I want you to stay with me. There is something, oh, so much more precious to look at. The three points that I think Peter wants us to see from this passage first are, Jesus makes us measure up. The second point is what Jesus does in order to accomplish that work of making us measure up. And the third point is what does that new life in Jesus as we measure up look like? How are we to live? And it all begins in verse 15, which is prior to this passage, where Peter says, In your heart set apart Christ as Lord. I spoke in the last messages that I did on this text, trying to make clear to you that what Peter's calling us to do is to see more of Jesus. He wants us to see Jesus clearly. What's happening in this passage is he's showing us who Jesus is. He's unpacking, he's explaining what it is he wants us to see. And so as we look at at verses 17 through 22, we have to keep in mind Verse 15. But what he's doing is he's showing us Jesus. So let me read the passage. If you are using the Bibles from the back If you didn't bring one and you want to have one in front of you, I really recommend that. I'd love for you to see the passage in its context. But if you don't have your own Bible, they're back there. And if you don't know where this is, it's on page eight fifty-eight and eight fifty-nine. But let me read the passage. It is better if it is God's will to suffer for doing good than for evil. For Christ died for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. He was put to death in the body, but made alive by the Spirit. Through whom also he went and preached to the spirits in prison, who disobeyed long ago when God waited patiently in the days of Noah while the ark was being built. In it only a few people, eight and all, were saved through the water. And this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you also. Not the removal of dirt from the body, but the pledge of a good conscience towards God. It saves you by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at God's right hand with angels, authorities, and powers in submission to Him. The answer to the question of whether or not I measure up is yes. In Christ, I measure up. In Christ you measure up, and in Christ we have a new home. Jesus causes us to measure up. That's what this passage is saying, is that we have new life in Jesus. In fact, I want to say to you that in one sense, Jesus' sole purpose for taking on human nature was to lead us to God. Now, for those of you who are thinking, well, what about the glory of God of Jesus? What about his purpose to magnify himself by coming and saving a people for himself? Yes, that's true. But if we look at his relationship with us, the sole purpose Of Jesus' taking upon himself humanity was to restore us to relationship with him. And the other goals, which may be even more foundational, Of glorifying himself only come because he accomplished that goal. Jesus came to save. And Jesus came to save us. That's why he came. Look at verse 18. For Christ died for sins once for all. The righteous for the unrighteous to bring you to God. To bring you to God. His purpose is to save us and to relate to us I want to go back and just have you focus on that one thought. Jesus' purpose for taking on human nature is to save us. It is so easy to pass that by. It is so easy to say, well, yeah. I was talking to somebody last night, we were out at a mall in Northern Virginia, and I was sharing the points of my message, and this person is a very mature believer. And I was totally dumbfounded when as I mentioned the points, she said, yeah. We take so for granted what Jesus has done. It isn't the treasure in our minds that it is in reality. Can you believe that Jesus died to save you? We're wrestling with the question of do I measure up? And Jesus says, Yes. You measure up. You are right in my eyes. Because I have done what's necessary to make you measure up. And as you're sitting here this morning and you're thinking, well Okay. I measure up. I believe that the truth of the matter is that Jesus did die to save me and that he has paid the debt of my sin and he has taken away the power of my sin. But I still feel wretched. I know my heart. I know what I did yesterday, and frankly, I know what I did this morning. So I know I don't measure up. Do you know what you're saying at that point? You're saying Jesus is a liar You're saying you have to measure up in your own strength. Please stop and hear what Peter says. Jesus has made you to measure up. The second point Peter makes is how Jesus accomplished that. Jesus suffered in our place to pay the debt we deserve for our sins. Yes. I know my sin. And frankly, if if you're a person who knows yourself at all, you know your sin. You know what you've done that is an insult to Jesus. You know what you've done that dishonors him. You know what you've done that repudiates his glory We're going to deal with that. We're going to get to that. We're going to look at that in the third point. But what I want you to hear right now is that Jesus has dealt with it. It's done. It's gone. It is not yours to own. It is not yours to be afraid of. It is not yours to remember. Jesus has paid the debt. And you are free. Verse eighteen, Peter says, For Christ died for sins once for all. The righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. He was put to death in the body, but made alive in the spirit. We don't have time to look at the amazing sacrifice that Jesus has offered, but we're going to sing a song after this sermon. That it is something a song that had been sung for over a thousand years in the church, and it focuses on that sacred head, now wounded. It focuses on Jesus and his sacrifice for us. Please, as you sing that song, remember what Jesus has done for you. See Him See the amazing love he has for you. It's abundantly clear here in his word. It's abundantly clear here in this very passage. The righteous has died for the unrighteous. Jesus has set aside his position and his standing to rescue you. And if you see him, you will receive him. In John one twelve John writes, yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, which is what receiving him is. It's seeing and believing him. He is who he says he is, he's done what he says he's done, he loves us the way he says he loves us. To those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Being in Christ means I have a new family. It means I have a new home. It means I have a new identity. And in Philippians 3, Paul talks about that new life. He says that because we're in Christ, And we have that new life, now our citizenship is in heaven. And we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like his glorious body. A time is coming where you will not sin. Ever again. And it's called glory. The time is coming when you will be at home perfectly fit for the presence of God In the consummation, in the new heavens, in the new earth. But Jesus has purchased for you a new identity. He has purchased for you a new home. He's purchased for you a new family. And so the third point that Peter raises is that we have new life. And I want you to see that your new life in Christ, our new life in Christ, really is new. And this is where we're going to go back to that issue of then why do I still sing? If I have a new identity in Christ and I have a new clean, righteous status, why do I still sin? Years back, Ann and I were going through a discipleship course called Sonship. We were going through it by phone with a guy up in Philadelphia. And in one of the sessions we were talking together, and I happened to bemoan the fact that I'm tired of fighting a particular besetting sin. I was feeling actually pretty pious at the moment, thinking, yeah, it's really it's really cool that when I think about this sin that I battled with for so long, that I'm I'm I'm really disgusted by it. And I'm also so tired of fighting this battle. Which I thought was pretty cool. Fighting it hard enough to get tired. And so I happened to make the offhand comment to Richard. I will be so glad when I don't struggle with this anymore. When God gives me victory And without missing a beat, Richard, as he's so apt to do, just shocked me. Because he did respond. But I really expected him to say, me too. I will be so glad when glory finally comes and I don't have to wrestle with this any longer. But what he said was, Oh, so you want to be God? And I was thrown for a loop. I I I I honestly in my heart can't imagine how he drew the connection that At that instant, I couldn't recall and figure out how I went from a pious, sin-hating Christian to Speaking the very lies of Satan himself. And I said to Richard, I'm completely lost. You're gonna have to straighten me out. And he did. He did. Because what he shared with me was profound. What he said was: if you can save yourself. What need do you have for Jesus? And even as he said that, I had to stop and scratch my head and think for a few minutes. Because I'm still in my own mind, in my heart, wrapped up with the truth that I am called to hate and to fight sin. And I really am. And I'm really tired of this battle. But as Richard and I talked, he unpacked that for me. He explained what he meant, and what he meant was just on target. Because The danger for a Christian isn't so much that we fail to hate our sin. The danger for the Christian is that we fail to hate our self-righteousness. We fail to hate our self-salvation, measuring up in our own right Being good enough so that Jesus' death may have been necessary to bring me to this point, but I'll take it from here. Thank you very much And that is an assault against the very nature and character of my relationship with Jesus If that's the case, I don't need him anymore. And I'm capable of standing on my own two feet. One of the most significant gifts Jesus has given to me. One of the most significant gifts Jesus has given to me is that I need him. And he meets that need. Now you may think that what I'm saying is a bit out there. But let's look at the passage. Peter goes on in talking about our new life, and he says that baptism symbolizes our entry into Christ and our new life. As we live this new life, it's initiated through baptism. It is the entry sacrament into the kingdom. In verse 21, Peter is speaking of the water of the flood, and he says, And this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you also. But Peter isn't saying that the act of baptizing with water saves you. We know that's the case because of what he continues to say. He says. In verse 21, not the removal of dirt from the body, but the pledge of a good conscience toward God. It saves you by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We have a good conscience. We have an amazingly good conscience. But it's not because we don't sin. And it's not because the sins that we confess Jesus takes away and they're forgiven. We have a good conscience because Jesus was raised from the dead. In your Bible, if you have the New International Version, it's going to use the word in English pledge. It's going to say But the pledge of a good conscience towards God. The Greek word there has a range of meanings. One of the meanings really is a pledge But if you interpret it this way and you read it as the NIV presents it, it really sounds like what's happening is that God has saved us, and now we promise from that position of salvation to measure up. And brothers and sisters, I believe that's the exact opposite of what Peter's saying. The other meaning that word can have is to appeal, to ask for. And if you have the New American Standard Version, when you read the Bible, it will say, but an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. I haven't checked what the ESB says. I'm assuming that that's what you've got. Which which of the two versions of it say? Appeal. Appeal. Okay. I believe that's what Peter's trying to say. I believe that what Peter is saying is that We have come to Christ. He has died once for all to save us. And now, on the basis of what he has done for us, we have the opportunity and are called To ask God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And the importance of that is this. We are not coming to God with a good conscience because what we do is recognize that we have been saved, and now we live in in In harmony with that salvation, and we do what is right and don't do what is wrong, which is the way the NIV sounds. What Peter's saying is that Jesus has saved us and Jesus keeps us. We plead with God the Father for a good conscience on the basis of the completed work of Christ. Frankly, if if we try to measure up because we do well I believe we insult Jesus. Now that doesn't mean, and please don't take from that that I mean that good works are unimportant. Good works are critical. But good works are not a part of being made right with God, and it's not a part of staying right with God. Galatians 5 says, It is for freedom that you have been called, only do not turn that opportunity at freedom into an opportunity for the flesh. We are free to love Jesus because we do not have to be afraid if we fail, we're in trouble. We do not have to be afraid that if we fail, Jesus is going to judge us and tell us that we blew it. We do have to be afraid that if we believe we can measure up in our own strength, we have denied Christ. Because he says, you can't. That's why I came. Now let's go back to how that works itself out in our day-to-day existence. Because I think it's critical. If what Peter is saying is true, if what Peter is saying to us is accurate, It's absolutely stunning. Because what it says is I can set aside the question of whether I measure up. I have the verdict already. Jesus says yes. I don't have to be plagued by that. And when I find myself wrestling with that question, I can recognize that I'm in I'm I'm coming to the boundaries. Of idolatry. And I'm coming to the boundaries of self-righteousness. And I'm coming to the boundaries of self-salvation And I should stop. I should repent. I should turn from that attitude and look to Jesus. Because what Jesus calls me to is to see him, to see what he's done to save me, to be absolutely astounded by his work and his love. I think it's yes. Okay, let's get back here. Let's look at Jesus again. To be absolutely astounded at who Jesus is and what he's done, his love for me, and my sure and secure position in him. From which the law is a glorious guide. Because what it tells me is that the one who loves me so profoundly and so deeply and so securely is thrilled. When I speak my love to him in obedience. And the gospel frees me To speak my love to him in obedience. To let my light shine before men in such a way that they'll glorify the Father in heaven. Let that sink in We have the privilege of loving Jesus and revealing Him to a dark and desperate world. And when you come and think you should obey the law for the purposes of measuring up, and so that you feel more secure. You've cast it all to the side. Now, let me be honest with you and mention to you that I do that regularly I'll find myself in love with Jesus, seeing who He is, and sharing that with the people around me, both through words and through deeds in other ways. And somewhere in the process, somewhere in the process, it gets shifted, it gets warped, it becomes ugly. And I find that I'm not thinking so much now about Jesus and about how glorious He is and the wonder of who he is and His love for me. I'm thinking, whoa, that was pretty cool. I wasn't sure I could do that. I am a good guy. You know what? I don't see a lot of people doing that. And I have slipped to the jaws of hell. Because I have taken, my sinful heart has taken, a glorious act of love. And twisted it. And made it something that I find my life in And I need at that point to repent of my self-righteousness, and to repent of my self-salvation, and to repent of my arrogance. By the way, that was the besetting sin that I was talking with Richard about. I really wanted to get rid of my arrogance Don't ever pray that God would rid you of arrogance. It's debilitating. It's a very painful process. And it is nowhere near started. But Jesus is too good. Jesus is too beautiful. Jesus is too glorious to cast aside His love is so amazing. If you want to see the hope, if you want to see the change that Jesus intends to work in you, the issue is to see Jesus. Don't look at your life, don't look at your change, don't look at your hope, look at Jesus. Because the instant you look at that change and make that the focus, you fall into that self-salvation. And you begin to try and perpetuate the work that Jesus is doing in your own strength. But gloriously, amazingly, Jesus has a solution even for that. And he calls us to repent. In repentance and rest is your salvation, and quietness and trust is your strength. Jesus knows where we're going to go. Jesus loves us to the uttermost. And so as we come into those periods of self-righteousness and arrogance and self-salvation, Jesus says, Let me show you who you are. Let me unveil your heart. He does it so graciously and so lovingly that it's not debilitating. It's painful. But he's there with you every moment, speaking to you of the cross, and reminding you of his love, and saying to you, even for this I died. So Peter says we have a good conscience Peter reminds us that Jesus has paid the debt, he's removed the sin, and we can trust. So Look with me here at our conscience isn't satisfied by our behavior. That's what I've been talking about in my extended discourse A conscience isn't satisfied by our behavior, but because of Christ's work to redeem and transform us. We see that because, again, the source of that good conscience isn't our behavior in Christ. It is Jesus' resurrection. Our good conscience is what we receive as an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So we are saved by our union with Christ on the basis of his completed work, and we're secure in that relationship with him because his work is once for all. Which again also goes back at that issue that points us. back to the work of Christ, not to our own. Because in the beginning in verse 18, Peter says, Christ died for sins once for all Brothers and sisters, you cannot add. You cannot detract. The job is done. The bill is paid. The debt is eliminated. And Jesus has done it all for you. There is no need for further sacrifice beyond what Jesus has already sacrificed for you to measure up. And so what I want to leave you with at the end of this message is this. In Christ, we measure up. Period. Now if you're not in Christ, you've got some issues to deal with. If you want to talk, I'd be glad to talk with you. But the truth of the matter is, for all of those of you who have done what John says, but as many as received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become the children of God. That new life is there. It has been acquired. It's yours in Christ. And you measure up. There is no longer a need to question. So as you come to the point where you realize you have taken those acts of love for Jesus and warped them, As you wrestle with identifying patterns in your life of self-righteousness and of self-salvation, repent. Repent. Because Jesus has paid the debt. You cannot and must not add to that. What you can do is to see Him to experience the hope and to love him in obedience to the law. One of the concerns that people have mentioned to me about the danger of really understanding the gospel thoroughly is that you might move into a view that the law has no value. And there's a danger of that. Paul says in Romans 6, as he's talking about the truth of the gospel, he says, What then? Shall we sin all the more that grace may abound? If Jesus is going to cover the debt of my sin, should I make his sacrifice all the better because I sin all the more? Is my behavior so insignificant and so unimportant? Except to show the power of the gospel that perhaps what I ought to do is just throw myself into sin. Well, there's two things to say about that. Paul says one, he says, may it never be You can't love Jesus and sin without thought and guilt and pain. Because it dishonors Jesus. But your obedience doesn't save you. Your obedience doesn't cause Jesus to love you more. The truth of the matter is, Jesus recognizes that your sin is a destructive force in your life, and he wants to free you from that. He loves you so much he will not merely save you for heaven and leave you in your sin. He loves you enough to save you for heaven and from the miseries of sin. And so as you see Jesus, the law becomes a glorious, glorious thing that tells you who you're created to be and how you can love Him well. So look to Jesus. Look to Jesus. Recognize that wondrous gift He's given you, the freedom to love Him. And the work that he's doing to transform you. And look to the fruit of hope. And look to the fruit of the Spirit, because Jesus is at work and he never fails. Let's pray. Jesus, we cannot see you unless you show yourself to us. And I know that in large part where you show yourself to us is in the Word. And in brothers and sisters who can bring the Word to bear on our hearts and our lives. And in the spirit at work to convict and to comfort. And in the events of our lives, as we see them through the filter of Scripture. Lord Jesus, we want to see you more comfort. clearly. We want deeper, richer, more glorious intimacy with you. To love you well. To know your astounding love for us. Jesus, we want, we want to be men and women filled with hope. Who are able and eager to give an answer when anyone asks us about the hope that you have given to us. And we long, Lord Jesus, to remember and to believe what you have said about us that we now measure up in you. You. So comfort us. Give us a great experience of that freedom of the gospel to know your work in us and your power to transform and your power to mobilize us. So that we can take the glorious truth you've given to us to those who yet need it. And Jesus, I pray that you would delight in what you have accomplish it and through us. In your precious name we pray. Amen.