Meditation on Thanksgiving from Revelation 14. Three messages then one revelation we've had. Seems appropriate Especially after looking at the graphic portrayal of persecution of God's people in Revelation six. To now look at the celebration of the victory of Christ in Revelation 14 at the great Thanksgiving party in heaven. Es Now first uh before we look at it, let me remind you again, um, hang on, remind you again of the context Remember that the book of Revelation, chapters 1 to 13, are the progressive disclosure Of the ultimate sources of all evil and pain in your life and in the world. Do you remember that in Revelation chapter 12 we saw when we were studying this the great rebellion of Satan and his angels? Do you remember how we saw there in verse 7 that there was war in heaven? Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back But he was not strong enough, and they lost their place in heaven. The great dragon was hurled down, that ancient serpent called the devil or Satan who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled to the earth, and his angels with him. And verse 17, the dragon was enraged at the woman, that is the church. and went off to make war against the rest of her offspring, those who obey God's commandments and hold to the testimony of Jesus. So we've already looked at the first point A, if you're looking in your outline. Um excuse me. Um skip something here. Uh in that's that's chapter twelve, then chapter thirteen Do you remember that he more fully than describes the agents of Satan? And uh the uh angels that are on his side, the evil angels, and he describes what uh they've been called the unholy trinity. In verses one to ten of chapter thirteen, you have the beast from the sea Which represents persecution to intimidate God's people. And then in verses 10 to 18 you have the beast from the earth, which represents false religion to deceive God's people. And then you have later on in the book The third, the harlot of Babylon, which represents materialism, to seduce God's people. So you have intimidation. Deception and seduction, those three enemies of your soul and mind. And after he has uh gone through this, uh To describe what is in fact the source of that uh diabolical warfare that you will be involved in this week. I'm involved in, and times it seems like uh Satan wins a skirmish or two, as in the case of our brother Bert, who was so overcome with pain that he acted destructively on that Or other times when it seems like God's people are just merely hanging on, that um after you see that You realize that God knows that in order for you and for me to hang on, you need more than faith You need more than faith in the gospel and his promises. You need hope. And so from chapter fourteen on to the end of the book of Revelation, after having disclosed the grim reality of the ultimate sources of evil John now begins to focus a bit more and more on the hope that you and I have by giving us glimpses of heaven. And so that's why the book's called Revelation, because it's revealing to you what you can't see with your physical eye. The ultimate source of evil, the ultimate victory of the Lord Jesus Christ. And brothers and sisters, I believe that right now there are a number of you, like myself, who really need to see this hope. After what we've experienced as a congregation and our grief with the Waskis. And also, for situations in some of your own lives personally, you need to see hope. And so that's what I want to focus on this morning. I want to take you to Revelation chapter 14. And I want for us to look at the picture That after this grim and terrifying reality of chapter 13, the two beasts, The camera now pans from the earth back up to heaven and gives us a glimpse of what's going on there. And what you see is a picture of the heavenly thanksgiving. So let's look at God's Word now, chapter 14 of Revelation, the first five verses. Then I looked, and there before me was the Lamb, standing on Mount Zion, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his father's name written on their foreheads. And I heard a sound from heaven, like the roar of rushing waters. Like a loud peal of thunder. The sound I heard was like that of harpists playing their harps, and they sang a new song before the throne, before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the hundred and forty-four thousand who had been redeemed from the earth. These are those who did not defile themselves with women, for they kept themselves pure. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They were purchased from among men and offered as first fruits to God and the Lamb. No lie was found in their mouths. They are blameless So of the uh bullet and outline that you have there, point A, is the context of the scene. We've already looked at that, verses 12 and 13. What a sharp contrast. Between the evil, the foreboding, the threatening, and this picture of thanksgiving in Revelation. Notice also B, the second thing, the location of this scene. Notice that John says that the lamb is standing on Mount Zion. With him the hundred and forty-four thousand. And then you see in verse uh two, I heard a sound from heaven. So this is taking place on Mount Zion, the New Jerusalem, place of the dwelling of the Lamb with his people. It's taking place in heaven. the place of the great rest after the war is over? And what's going on there? Are these people sitting around on fluffy pink clouds? kind of being bored silly there at rest, but you know, not a whole lot to do, but it's peaceful. Well, no, in fact uh there's quite a bit going on It's very interesting that John focuses in this picture on the sound. He focuses on what he heard. You notice there? And uh what is it that he hears? Well he hears something that is like no earthly sound. And he struggles and he strains to try to describe to you in language that makes sense to us. what that sound was like. And he uses three images. Notice what they are. First of all, he said the sound was like roaring waters uh the kind of sound of roaring waters that you hear a bit in the distance and is getting closer. Now I've told you about one of the most thrilling sounds that I've ever heard To get it, you uh drive from New York State across the Peace Bridge into Ontario, and then you drive up the Niagara Parkway. As you go up the Niagara Parkway, you uh it's a beautiful, peaceful river. Grand Island is off to your right. It's all a parkway, many places to stop and have picnics As you move along there for a few miles, you notice that the current begins to pick up. And uh as you get to the end of Grand Island, you come to a bend, and as you come around that bend You perceive two things that cause your heart to start racing. One is that you see this large cloud, but it's not up in the sky, it's there kind of on the horizon. It's down at ground level, a couple miles ahead, but it's quite visible. It's like a thick, dense mist that's whirling up And then as you get a little closer, a couple miles away, you begin to hear this sound. And it's a sound that's a bit disorienting because it's not like any sound you've ever heard before. It's this deep rumbling. And as you get closer, you begin to feel that the earth is shaking with this. And that's what it's like to come to the brink of Niagara Falls. It's absolutely breathtaking. Now John uses that kind of an image, you see. He says, I heard this roar of rushing water. In fact, he says This isn't just something in the distance. This is really loud. In fact, he says it's like a peal of thunder. Now for most of us, a close peal of thunder is about the loudest thing we ever hear. Unless you've been to a Grateful Dead concert. But aside from that, it's going to be probably about the loudest thing you'll experience. Not many of you have been to those concerts, I can tell by the lack of response to that. You you wear earplugs plugs to get through, you know. Uh but i it it sort of sounds like heaven is scary. And so uh you say, John, uh, you know, heaven doesn't sound too appealing. Uh sounds like kind of a scary place. He says, Well no, no, no. He says li It's it's not just like that. He said, let me let me try again. He says, it's it it was like the sound of harpists playing their harps. It was musical. It wasn't just this cacophony of scary sound. It w it was it was melodious. Now, I don't know if you've ever heard harps, but um in Ireland harps are quite big, Celtic harps. In fact, uh Belfast has a harp orchestra. And if you've ever heard not just, you know, one or two harps, I have a number of harp CDs, but if you've ever heard a harp orchestra It is a beautiful thing. It is not scary. It is soothing. It's delightful. It lifts your spirits. In fact, I figured I can't describe it so Here's what harps sound like, you know? Now, this is just thirty or forty harks and don't fast. And imagine hundreds and thousands. Notice that it's a happen. We're singing the victory of Jesus. This is not something somber. Harps play what lifts your spirits. Imagine this multiplied over and over, louder and louder. Did you get caught up in that? John says it it wasn't just music. It was a song. I heard them singing. And they were singing a new song. A song that only the 144,000 could sing. Now who is it that's Who is it that he's hearing there? Who's making all this noise that John's hearing? Well again he describes them in three ways He says that first of all it's the 144,000 redeemed from the earth. Now, Well, that's not literally saying there's a hundred and forty-four thousand Christians that are going to make it to heaven, you know. You gotta kinda squeeze in to only a hundred and forty three thousand nine hundred and twenty four and a few less. That's not what he's saying. If you go back to chapter seven, you get a clue about what this is, in chapter seven, verses four to eight John talks about the 144,000 that are sealed. Then he says that these are from the 12 tribes of Israel, and he talks about each twice tribe contributing exactly 12,000 And obviously this is symbolic because then when he gets to verse 9, he says, in fact it was a multitude that nobody could number. So what it is describing is If you think of 144,000, what is it? It's 12 times 12, 12 Old Testament tribes, 12 disciples. It's the Old Testament church. It's the New Testament church. Brought together, that's 144, but then you take that times 10 times 10 times 10, 10 cubed. In other words, 10 trinitized, that is 10 perfect. 10 multiplied in perfection and completion. And so what do you have here? It's just simply a number depicting the perfected completion of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. These are all of God's people that he has brought together from all the ages. And here they are now coming to sing. He describes them secondly as the faithful ones. Notice in verse 4, these are those who did not defile themselves with women, for they kept themselves pure. That's not saying the church is made up of single men. It is saying that As uh throughout the scriptures, often the church is described as the bride of Christ, God's uh chosen bride, and that she's to keep herself pure. And so you have this idea of uh spiritual adultery. Idolatry with the world being a spiritual adultery. Remember in chapter 2 of Revelation, after the letter to the Ephesians, he talks about thyatyron. He says, I have this against you, you've committed spiritual adultery. with the prophetess Jezebel. It's spiritual, it's symbolic language he's talking about there. You see this in chapter 17, for instance. You just go over a page there He says there one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came to me and he said, Come and I'll show you the punishment of the great prostitute. This is that third member of the unholy trinity. who sits on many waters, with her, the kings of the earth committed adultery, and the inhabitants of the earth were intoxicated. with the wines of her adulteries. Remember, this is the harlot that seduces with materialism. She's the one who seeks to get your affections in your pain in all of the difficulties of life and substitute for the Lord Jesus Christ something which will be a quick fix. And boy, I'll tell you, do you begin to see when it comes into November the ads and the magazines? I mean now it's not just the ads that say all the stuff you need to buy to make you happy. Now you have all these articles. that I've been noticing on the latest techie toys and uh I mean, you know, these are page after page of all here's the latest inventions of stuff that you gotta have this year. You know, great gifts. that you know, you look at it and you think, somehow I think I could live without that. I didn't know such a thing existed and kind of interesting, but you know And then you begin to think about it and if you see enough of 'em, you begin to think, you know, uh maybe that'd be nice to have it. Yeah, I think I could justify, you know, and on and on and on. Pretty soon you know you gotta have it, you know, or At least of all the hundreds of things, you're gonna at least invest in five percent of them for your friends and family and the rest or you buy something, you say, if you don't want it, I'll take it. You know. It's our affections being just taken, it's ironically at this time of the year, rather than thinking on spiritual things more, it's the time we're most materialistic And what John is describing here is a people whose affections have not been seduced. They're saying there's something more enduring, there's something that captures my heart, as much as I enjoy these things, and there's a lot of things to enjoy. But he says, my heart has been captured by a vision of something that is causing these people to sing their hearts out. To have this party that is so boisterous that John says, you know, he can barely stand for all the sound of this thing because it's so rowdy. These are the pure ones. And then thirdly, he describes them as the blameless ones. They're the hundred and forty-four thousand, they're the faithful, and they're the blameless. And this idea of uh the blameless is in chapter uh fourteen verse five where he says, uh no lie was found in their mouths. They are blameless. And uh That uh blamelessness is exemplified by the fact that there's no deceit. Do you ever think about that? What it what it will mean that in heaven there's no deceit. You know it means that you can take everybody at their word and never second guess them. Can you imagine? Hearing people and never having to wonder if you can trust what they said. No lies and no locks. Utter safety and security. No deceit. They're blameless. And the picture there is the fulfillment of what we read in Ephesians chapter 5. Remember where you read that the Lord Jesus loved his church? And he washed her, and he's going to present her without stain or wrinkle or any blemish. Holy and what? Blameless. And John says, now I see her, and there she is. There's no spot, there's no stain. She's totally blameless. There's no deceit. She is thoroughly pure. Now, they're singing. They're singing the song of the great thanksgiving. Why do they sing? Why are they singing their blooming hearts out like this? Well, there's three reasons that he gives, and uh take the second one first. It's because they're aware of his mercy and his grace They see that they're blameless, but they realize that that blamelessness is not intrinsic. It's not that they were blameless on earth and as a reward God brought them to heaven. Nobody here has any such hope. If you're at all in touch with your heart, you know that you're not blameless. But what he says is that these are the hundred and forty-four thousand who sing, and nobody you notice can learn the song except them. Because these are those who were redeemed, he says, from the earth. In uh verse four, he describes that they are those, uh excuse me, in verse um Yeah, verse 4, he describes that they were purchased, purchased from among men. So there's some of Earth's people. They are a privileged group who have the Lamb's name and the Father's name on their foreheads because in their lostness, in their hopelessness, He redeemed them. He paid the price of the blood of his own son in order to take their sin, to substitute himself for them. So that they would be blameless and have the blameless record of Jesus Himself, who trades that record with you. Now, do you have that? Can you understand what it means to see yourself In all of your filthiness, in all of your shame, and then to understand that you have not only been declared blameless. But at this point they have been made blameless. You see, you and I um Don't really grasp mercy and grace, do we? I mean we're always by gravitational pull going back to the law. I mean when you woke up this morning, did you say God, I I just thank you that you brought me through another night, another week. I didn't deserve to have your mercies and your blessing And and Lord, if I was left to myself, I'd just want to sit here and read the paper and I wouldn't get up to want to worship you. But you put in my heart a love for you, and that's not part of me, Lord. You've you've given me a desire to worship you, and I want to worship and So then when we come here and Tim says, Now let's have an open time of Thanksgiving and so you know you you just you're thinking of fifty or sixty things that you're just so thankful for and you just say, Look, I wanna I wanna you know if people are just stumbling over you shouting left and right and you know, what are we doing? We're sitting there we're thinking, you know, I don't know. Is there anything I can think about? You know, I g you know. Yeah, I'm thankful. Healthy and got this and I got. You know, we're so self-centered. We pout because God hasn't given us something that we recently asked for. And so we we mute his mercies to where we have to kind of talk ourselves into, yeah, God's merciful, yeah, he's graceful, yeah, I see it. Now, can you imagine what it will be like to, with every fiber of your being, be thoroughly convinced of his mercy and of his grace? And to be overwhelmed with it. That's why they sing their hearts out, you see. Now notice Go back to the first one now. It's also because they see him. Verse 1, I looked and there before me was the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with him Or the 144,000. Do you ever dream about what your first glimpse of Jesus will be like? What will it be like that first time that you see him face to face in his unveiled glory? Now, you and I can't bear to look at the sun. Which is just an average-sized star, 93 million miles away. If you look at it for more in a few seconds, you'll have permanent eye damage. What will it be like to behold the uncreated effulgence, face to face, the splendor and the brilliance, not simply brilliance? But a multifaceted splendor and majesty to perceive his character in all his perfections The glory, the creativity, the loveliness, to be able to see him and behold him. And John says, to see him is to worship him, and it's to worship him with every fiber of your being. This is why they're singing with all their might. And they're singing a song because they are worshiping him who after you see the beast from the sea and the beast from the land and the harlot. He's conquered them. The hero has come and he's destroyed them. He's banished them forever. You are safe. You are home. There is no more threat. There is nothing but to be in his presence. And you notice in verse 4, it says that they follow the Lamb wherever he goes. Have you ever known somebody that you just wanted to be with all the time? You say, yeah, I married them. And now they say, I'm going to be working tonight, so I'm not going to be home for dinner. You say, oh good, I have a free night. What happened? Can you imagine a person that you will never tire to be with? You will never want to be out of his presence. That person will be so enthralling to you. That as you are with him, wherever he goes, and by the way, I think that means he's going somewhere. We're not just sitting there. We're before the throne, but he's moving, he's taking us, he's saying, Let me take you, you know, as Lewis says on higher in deeper. Let me show you another world. Let me take you on to this discovery of my created, of my creativity, that you might explore it with me. And so these are coming and but what's more important than anything else is that they are with him. He has his rightful place in all of their lives And then finally notice the third thing is that their love is without any distraction or sin. We sing, I want to love you more. I know, Lord, that I don't love you the way I ought to love you. Lord, help me to love you more. Help me to be less distracted. I'm distracted even when I read my Bible. I'm even distracted in prayer. There there will be no distractions. There you will feel no tension between what you ought to feel and what you do feel. No tension between shoulds and ours. No tension between how you ought to be toward him and what you are, because you will be spontaneously, thoroughly enthralled with his being. Everything about you will respond to him. Every fiber of your being is tuned in to who he is and the centrality of his being. He will have his rightful place at every moment. And you will simply thirst to know him more and more and more. And you will discover more. And you will never be distracted from that discovery. But maybe you say, but what about this constant noise? You know, I mean, I think my teenagers will love it, but What about, you know, some of us that might like some rest and some peace and maybe some quiet occasionally? Well, don't worry. I think one thing is very clear in Scripture about heaven is that there's variety. There will not be anything that wears on us There will be those times, I think, of the joyous magnitude of praise that is overwhelming. There will be times, I believe, when it's quiet and peaceful and soft and delightful. What I think John is seeking to represent here is simply the exuberance of the praise and the thanksgiving at that place. So, what are some lessons for us? As you come into Thanksgiving week, let me offer to you just a couple of things. First of all, I hope that you can see in this picture uh that you can appreciate the Christ-centered preoccupation of heaven. The point is not that the heaven is an eternal church service, I don't think it is, but rather That praise there will simply be the air that we breathe every moment, all the time. There will be no distinction of now we're going to worship. It will simply be constant worship and adoration, an expression of that. Because he will have, as I said, his rightful place in your thinking and in my thinking. We will be enthralled with him every moment. And we will be perceiving and delighting in his beauty and his love and his majesty in the worlds that we discover with him. Notice secondly that John intends for you and for me to appreciate what I said, the enthusiasm of there in Thanksgiving And when you picture this scene, and and really, again, I I urge you, Revelation more than anything else, but all the scriptures meant to be read with your imagination You cannot understand. It's just sad when you read these commentaries on Revelation or analyzing it to death until you finally feel like it's somebody who's just trying to analyze uh you know, the Mona Lisa and what she was smiling about rather than just kind of enjoying and appreciating the beauty of something. Uh Revelation is sensual. Use your imagination to enter in. Feel the enthusiasm. And then from that, you and I need to repent of our lack of enthusiasm. You know, our half-hearted Thanksgiving Where you go around the table on Thanksgiving afternoon and you say, Oh, it's Thanksgiving. Why don't we stop before we plow into the turkey and everybody's, you know, got their forks poised. Oh wait, Thanksgiving. Let's say a couple things that we're thankful for. You know, and again we have to pause and say, Well, you know, I got to another year. I still have my job, or I got this, or I got that, you know, and we and we think of these things and we're thankful and we know we ought to be thankful, but somehow down deep We're we feel bad that we gotta kind of work at it. Let me offer to you a couple suggestions Think of your thanksgiving in two parts. One is what the Puritans used to call providential mercies That is, think of those things that you have, that you did not have any choice over, that God has simply placed you in. Like when you were born Like where you were born, like the fact that in our congregation we've had a number of illnesses and uh physical problems that a generation ago would have been incurable. Which would have caused death and now have been in some cases not even that major operations To think of how blessed you are that you were not born in a country where there was no gospel, or in a Muslim country, particularly as a woman Where you would have not heard the gospel or had the opportunity for it. Or many other situations you can think, Lord, I didn't choose this But I'm simply blessed in the circumstances that you've placed me in. And then think in terms of the gospel The fact that you were born in a place and you've been in some circumstance in your life, and you are right here, and you have been in other circumstances, I'm sure, in a place where you heard the gospel. And that God presented that gospel to you through somebody that cared for you or some providential orderings that he gave you the gospel. And then he spoke in your heart and placed that seed of belief that you believed and trusted Christ, and your life was radically changed. And if you never experience that, that you'll look at that and you will say, you know, this is a song that only the hundred and forty-four thousand can sing. And I don't have that song. And I want to have that song. And I invite you to come to Jesus Christ this morning, that you sing that song with us. That you know what it means. To be forgiven, to be given a new life, to have his name and his father's name placed on your forehead. Because that shows you the gospel in the present That you are owned and you are protected. A mark. The mark of the beast meant you belong to the beast. The mark of the lamb The mark of the Father means you are owned by the Father, and therefore you're protected by the Father, and His presence is with you. And every day you can turn to Him Every day you have him available to speak to, to cry out to, to know that he is there to hear you, not to give you every women desire. Not to give you what you want, but to give you what you would want if you knew everything there is to know. And to be able to then look to the future. With that hope. When you look at Revelation 14, I hope you'll look at it again this afternoon and read it over again with your full imagination engage. I want you to, in your mind's eye, take a telescope. And I want you to kind of zero in on that crowd. And there they are. There's myriads of them, thousands and millions. Around the throne, there they are on Mount Zion, and they're all gathered before the Lamb. And you keep moving in and you look with this computer-guided telescope that shows you something very important. You know what it is You're in that crowd. The picture that John had of Revelation 14 includes you if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning. And there back there somewhere in that whole crowd, you're looking in and and there I am. There I am, and I'm singing my heart out. I'm singing along with the rest of them. No more distractions in my life. I am blameless. I have his mark. I am exalting in him. I am thrilling to his presence. I never want to be apart from him. I never will be apart from him. And as you rejoice, may that rejoicing provide for you the first fruits in your heart this week. of the kind of hope that produces the kind of joy that produces what Dan Alander calls as playful risks. The ability to live fully because you know you've read the last chapter, you know who wins, you know where you'll be, and you can tune up right now for the great celebration there is to come. Amen. It'll be a lot better than that on that day. Let's pray. So our Father, our amens are so weak and our hearts are so cold, but we thrilled to think of that day When we shall be in that crowd, gathered around the Lamb, undistracted, fully engaged with your radiance and your beauty Singing our hearts out, delighting and exulting in the Lamb who was slain from the foundation of the world for us, that we will be there blameless Pull of the reality of all that has been fulfilled, no more hope, but hope realized. Lord, may we live this week. In all of the pain and the disappointments and the seductions of this world, in the light of that hope. In Jesus' name. Amen.