Exodus chapter 20, verse 13, the sixth commandment says, You shall not murder. I don't think that I would get an argument from anyone here. were I to say that murder is wrong and we must legislate against it. It's not a question of personal opinion or personal convictions. It's not a matter of private right. It's simply something that is wrong and it's something that we must legislate to prevent, even for one's husband or one's wife, or one's child. It's absolutely wrong. It must be punished. It must be prevented with all the power of the state. It must be prevented because we're unique image-bearers of God. And yet, meanwhile, one and a half million unborn children are aborted every year in this country. That's 4,000 a day One every twenty seconds. In some cities now there are more abortions than there are live births per year. This disregard for human life seems to be increasing in a number of areas. Those of you who read the Washington Insight, the January issue, noticed an example of that. In 1981, the Surgeon General issued a finding that drinking alcohol by a pregnant woman drinking alcohol increases the risks of birth defects to her child. So the New York City Council decided to pass an ordinance that would require a warning to be posted in public places that sold alcohol, warning women about that. The response was a letter from Barbara Rockman, president of the New York City chapter of the National Organization for Women. in which she urged the mayor to veto that ordinance because she said it discriminated against women as a class, and she also objected to, quote, protecting the unborn at the expense of women's freedom. Mayor Koch himself said that he was deeply shocked at that response. Yet while we as Christians. personally find abortion to be a bully because of it murdering unborn children We're overlooked, and aren't we, very often, to seek to have those convictions enforced publicly, to have them enforced by legislative enactment. We're often intimidated, aren't we, by the secularized war. Just uh last week uh I received the very first phone call from the Columbia Flyer concerning the announcement of my sermon topic that I have received in five years. Five years in putting those things in. Mostly Consistently, we've missed a few. But for five years we've put in basically what we're going to be discussing that Sunday And uh very often it's changed, even to the point where you barely recognize what you submitted, and then something comes out and you sort of try to guess what was yours, you know, and you see Columbia Press and you say, Well yeah, that was the one And there was something there that reminds me of what I submitted. But this time, for the very first time, I received a call from the player. And a person said, um, we're calling about your announcement that you have in for uh this next Sunday. Uh we can't print that And I said, uh, well why not? And she said, well, we four can't take a policy stand on abortion. Now that was the first time I had known the flyer didn't take any stance on things. But that wasn't the issue. I I said that I I'm I'm confused here because uh How is reporting what I'm going to speak on as a position of our church, you're taking any kind of a stand? And she said, well, it's too long. And then I said, well let's work on that. And so we adjusted a couple of things. And I like to say, in all fairness, that what we agreed upon is exactly what they put in. She did not back down from anything that we then agreed to put in there. But it reminded me of how often we as Christians can be intimidated by the statement that we can't take a public stand on that. That's your opinion. That's what you believe. That's fine. But don't ask us to enforce it. Don't make that something that's normative for other people You see, you can hold your position as much as you want. And Oz Guinness says in his latest book, The Grave Digger File, that that is becoming the death of the church today. And so I want for us to be re-sensitized again to the issues that are before us this day. Because we're becoming desensitized by the language that we read in the press, in many places. To understand exactly what is going on when babies are aborted. You think, for instance, of the statement of Dr. Robert Frist. Now Dr. Robert Christ is a Kansas abortion practitioner and a member of the National Abortion Federation. And he testified in federal court and said this recently, quote I never have any intention of trying to protect the fetus if it can be saved. The abortion patient has a right not only to be rid of the growth called a fetus in her body. but also a right to a dead fetus. Do you notice how he refers to the unborn child? It's a groove called a fetus. Subhuman terms in order to desensitize us to what is in fact going on We'll take the statement of Michael Dennis, a New York attorney in a deprivation of pregnancy case, in which he said, I don't think a human life begins until a baby is born. Until then, it's not a human being. It's just a part of another human being. It's a part of the mother. And as long as it's a part of her body, she should have the right of disposal. Disposal of the growth. Now then, with all this kind of speech that we hear are these kind of terms to desensitize us, I think we need to look again at the scripture. And ask ourselves the question, does the scripture speak to when life begins and becomes an image bearer of God? At what point does life become human? Does a person become fully a person who bears God's image? Well now, let me say right out: the scripture never speaks of that question. It never directly answers that question. When it speaks of life, it speaks of life as people. It doesn't speak of any point. And so we can't answer that question directly. So I remove it to a second question. Does the Bible ever speak of fetuses? Does it ever talk about unborn babies Well, there is one case in the scripture where the Bible dwells on with special attention an unborn child and what he's like and his activity. It's the case of John the Baptist. And so I'd like for us to consider that now. And I'd like for us to consider What the Bible says about John the Baptist, it talks about him in the moon more than any other Bible character before they're born in the moon. Let me say that this was something I had planned to handle in our series on Luke in December of 86, but I decided I couldn't wait. that it really needed to be presented today because of what we're doing. So you see sometimes I'm flexible enough to change my plans what I speak on here. In that book, you remember in December, in verses 23 to 25, And so now I would like to pick up reading God's Word with verse 26 and read down to verse 45 then. Follow in your Bibles with me then from Luke chapter 1, verse 26 to 45. Let's give the attention to God's word that his word deserves. In the sixth month, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, the town of Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph. A descendant of David. The virgin's game was Mary. Gabriel went to her and said, Readings, you who are highly favored, the Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of reading this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will do a child and give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be? Mary asked the angel, since I'm a virgin. And the angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age. She who is said to be barren is in her sixth month. For nothing is impossible with God I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered. May it be to me as you have said. And then the angel left her. At that time, Mary got ready and hurried to a town in the hill country of Judah, where she entered Zachariah's home and greeted Elizabeth. When Elizabeth heard Mary's reading, the baby leaked in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. In our voice she exclaimed, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the child that you have bear. Why am I so favored that the mother of my Lord should come to me As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby of my home leaped for joy. Blessed is she who has believed that what the Lord has said to her will be accomplished. So in God's word that we'll consider this morning, what I want to do now is to submit to you four bits of evidence from this passage, four proofs. That John the Baptist was fully a person, a human being, an image-bearer of God before he was born. I would like, therefore, to buy this resensitize us to the modern Holocaust that's going on in the murder of one and a half million babies every year. First of all, notice what he is called. He's called a baby. In verse 41 and verse 45 And notice that Elizabeth says when Elizabeth says when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby leaped in her womb. And then verse 44, as soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, Elizabeth says, The baby in my womb leaped for joy. The Greek word there, dephos, that's used, is a word used by Josephus and a number of Greek secular writers. It's commonly used to refer both to unborn and to born children. The word makes no distinction. They did not have separate words for this. And so what they used to refer to a child before it was born was the same word used to refer to the child after it was born. No distinction was made. Now that's rather interesting, and it's an interesting example, I think, of where a religious stance can override one's mind and the objective facts. Because we know that people in that culture knew very little about the activity of babies in the womb. They had nothing of the observation techniques that we have today. And yet they call them babies. Today, with the amazing amount of research that has gone on in the last few years, we now know that a baby begins a talk beat just three weeks after it's conceived. We know that a baby now has a face and a neck by the fifth to the eighth week developed, that its nervous and muscle system is so developed by the sixth week that it can initiate movements on its own. But its ears and eyes and nose are developed by the 11th to the 12th week, so that only further growth is necessary to mature those But the baby is even able to survive with a great deal of help outside the womb as early as the 20th week. And we look at Matthew Plants as an amazing example of what can be done for a baby that is born so very, very early, so far before full term. And yet with all of our knowledge of what a baby can do and what a baby can know and how a baby can respond, we make distinctions. And we call them growths. We call them masses of tissue. But we've refer to them as fetuses as if that somehow depersonalizes them. And then we call them babies after they're born. And it's a rather ironic distinction, it seems to me, that this culture referred to them as babies before or after. But we make such marked distinctions the more we know how uniform is the development before and after. And so a mosaic says, it's a baby in my room that's leaping. He's a baby, and he's leaping at the sound of your coming. The second thing to notice is that he leaped in response to Mary's coming. He leaped in response to Mary's coming. Again, verse 41. When Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby leaped in her womb. Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. Verse 44. She says, As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, The baby in my womb leaped for joy. We now know that babies in the womb can hear things that are going on outside. But that's not simply what you have here. You don't simply have a baby leaping in response to some stimulus. to pain or to pleasure. It's not simply sucking its thumb in response to some something that's going on. All the things that we already know that babies can do. This baby is responding to the presence of a person. That's something that a person does. This John, John in the womb here now, is responding to the fact that Mary has come. She's in his presence. And that becomes more evident that it's a sign of a person when you go on to the third point, that the reason he meeted was because of joy. The reason he leaves was because of joy, and so we see him feeling emotion. It reminds us of Genesis 25, verse 22, where you remember Jacob and Esau were in the womb. And the Bible tells us that they strove and struggle together. You talk about signal rivalry. And Well, maybe you feel like if your kids had been twins, they would have been struggling in the womb too, because they've been struggling ever since they got out of the womb together. But you see in that remarkable passage that Jacob and Esau actually struggled in the womb, as a prophetic indication. Of the struggle that would go on outside. And so you see here also the feeling of emotion. You see in John a joy that's described. The word is the same word used in chapter 6, verse 23, where Jesus speaks of that joy as the joy that we feel when we think of our reward in heaven. And so John felt joy. He felt a human emotion, a spiritual delight, not simply pleasure. See? It's not simply physical pleasure that he's feeling It is a spiritual delight at the presence of his Savior. That's what you have pictured here, and you need to fully appreciate that. You need also to see, by the way, that that is an indication, not a proof. But an indication that Jesus, who is in Mary's womb, at this point perhaps only a couple of weeks pregnant, that Jesus is considered to be a person to the extent that when his presence Comes into the room. John feels joy at the presence of his Savior. And so you have here an implication But Jesus too is fully human at this point in his own life in the moon. Because John feels that joy. A joy of worship and delight at the presence of the Savior. There's an interpersonal relationship going on. Then fourthly and finally, you see, it's the last evidence that John was filled with the Holy Spirit. John was filled with the Holy Spirit. Look back at verse 15. Remember when the angel prophesied to Zechariah in the temple about the coming birth of John, he said in verse 15 that he'll be great in the sight of the Lord. He's never to take wine or other fermented drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from birth. That's in the New International Version you see that there is a A footnote which reads that literally, you see, it is saying, or from his mother's womb. Literally what the Greek reads there is that he will be filled with a spirit from his mother's womb. It's the word womb that is used there. And so it is not, I believe, simply saying that from the time he is born, he'll be filled with the Holy Spirit We didn't connect that with verse 41. But when Elizabeth heard Mary's coming, the baby leaped in the womb, and Elizabeth was at that point filled with the Holy Spirit. I believe that that's the connection. John being filled with the Spirit leaps in the womb. This was the prophecy of the angel, and that because John can't communicate very well at this point. He's still all growing to it. And so he can't say very much. All he can do is weep. But then the Spirit fills Elizabeth to translate what that joy meant. And so then she built with the Spirit articulates the joy of the coming of the Savior. And so what you have here is an indication, I would say a conclusive indication, that John is fully a person at this point because the Holy Spirit only fills people. The Holy Spirit only fills redeemed image-bearers of God. And since God is filled with the Spirit, From or in his mother's womb. John, therefore, is fully a person. In fact, not only is he an image-bearer of God, but he's a redeemed person at this point. John is a Christian. And John is a believer because the Spirit of God only fills believers. And if you don't know Jesus Christ this morning, there's no way that the Spirit of God will fill you. But the work of Jesus Christ on the cross and his resurrection is being applied at this point to John's life And so John here is being filled with the Spirit. And as one who is filled with the Spirit, he falls down before his Savior and he leaps for joy. Jesus, because he is Savior, and John's Savior in particular, is able to fill John with his Spirit. And let me just say at this point that I know that in a group of this size, But it's not at all unlikely that there are more than one, or at least one of you out there, who yourself has had an abortion. Perhaps you had that before you came to know Jesus Christ. Perhaps you've had that since you came to know Jesus Christ. And I want to state absolutely unequivocally now that abortion, as heinous a sin as it is, is not the unforgivable sin. It is murdered. But Jesus Christ has come to save murderers. Jesus Christ has come to deliver and to fill with his spirit those of us who have killed by hatred, by abortion, or in any other way. And so I want you to hear loud and clear on the basis of God's Word, if in fact you have been in that situation If you find yourself now in deep remorse, feeling guilt over what you did at some point in the past, I want you to know that there is full and free forgiveness in Jesus Christ. And that as he fills you with his spirit, as you come to him and you confess that sin along with every other sin, if you come to him for his forgiveness and for his life-transforming power, he will fill you with his spirit. As he filled on to the Spirit, and you'll know that guilt taken away and your life transformed. Whether you've committed that sin or any other sin, I declare to you forgiveness in the name of Jesus Christ. based on his death. Because it's Jesus' Savior who's come here. It's because Jesus is the Savior of the Lord that John leaves the joy. And Luke is telling us, I believe, in this passage, that if John, simply a baby, not even yet born in the womb, leaped at the presence of Jesus for joy, how much more should you and I do? How much more should you and I, when we realize the presence of Jesus Christ is in our midst, should we leap for joy? Should we sing and should we shout, Jesus is here? He's my Savior, and He's filled me with the Spirit, and I have life everlasting because of Him. Should we rejoice in His presence? Having said that, what is our particular response to the teaching of God's Word in the light of our situation today? Well, as you see on the back of your book and the things that I've outlined, let me just preface those three things by a couple of other things I think first of all, we need to re-sensitize ourselves and be convinced of the fact that life in the womb is fully human. But because we see that John was referred to here without any distinction before he was born or after he was born, the Bible doesn't place in any place any such distinction. Because we see here that he was able to leap and to respond to the presence of a person, and to leap with joy in the response to his Savior as one who's filled with his spirit in worship. That we are convinced ourselves that all of life in the moon is human, fully human, and bare in God's image. And that we then, as God gives us opportunity, perhaps use this passage and this data to be able to share with someone else. Who maybe is a Christian or maybe is not, but respects the Bible, who says that I believe that the Bible has authority. That we could show them from this passage if they waiver in their own conviction, where they say, I still believe that it should be a woman's right to dispose of whatever is attached to her body in any ways that she decides, and that the government should not legislate against that. But we share with them a passage such as this to help them to see the value of a life that's still within the womb, a life that can worship and can be filled with the Holy Spirit. Unique as God's situation might have been, nevertheless, it is not that which God uh used, that God contradicted the laws of his nature That somehow God made John a human before birth, but nobody else is. Can we share with them the evidence from this passage? And then specifically, as you see before here now, But we consider our scheduled tomorrow and whether it would be possible for us to join. With others, to make our presence known in Washington, D. C. by that march, march to the Supreme Court and then to Congress. I believe that tomorrow is especially significant because in 1983, as you know, there were two further reversals to the pro-life movement. A further Supreme Court decision, which ratified again the decision of 1973. And also the defeat of the human life amendment. And so with these two blows, many people are saying, well, now the pro-lifers will realize what we have really said as a country. And they'll get on other business and they'll give up on this. And it's similar to the civil rights movement back in the fifties and the sixties. But after the initial struggles, and the country was saying, are these people really serious about this, or is this just some fad, some immediate thing that's just being produced by some rabble routers? And And tomorrow we're going to find out. Tomorrow we're going to find out, did that legislation and did that uh judicial decision of this last year discourage us to the point where we say, well, I guess we really can't bother with that anymore. We've lost. And all the evidence seems to be that the valley's going to be bigger than ever. But are they going to join with that in order to make sure that Washington sees that we really do mean business? And this is a very, very serious issue to us who hold life is precious and created by God, and those who bear his image. And we will not simply back off because of a couple of decisions that have been short term reversals. Secondly I would encourage you to consider supporting Bethany Christian services. I mentioned them particularly because a number of people in our congregation have had contact with them. We have benefited So very much who they're going to in case you're not familiar with that, Bethany Christian Services is an organization that has said that if we are going to seek to protect unborn life And we're going to seek to discourage abortion for those who still can legally do that. But we also have the obligation to take care of those kids and to provide homes for them. So Bethany Christian Services provides counseling as well as acting as an adoption agency to put kids in Christian homes. And this has provided a terrific service for many Christians. Some of you in this room have received from their services. Which I would suggest that we do seek to support them. Now, we have put them as a line item for this year in the budget just simply to call attention to them. It's a nominal hundred dollars. But it gets them on the budget, and I think that it would be a very good thing for us to support them and to do it through designating through the so that we as a church are aware that there's a number of people in our congregation that really believe this ought to be supported. Simply make the checkout to Columbia Presbyterian designate on it. They don't have to need Christian services. 100% of it will go to that. And then by doing that, it will be clear by the next year when we make the budget again, how much more of an emphasis should this be How interested are we in this as God's people? And then thirdly, I would suggest that you get a good pro-life newsletter to keep informed of what's going on. You say in your bulletin an insert that shows you the Christian Action Council card. The simplest way, of course, would be to simply send that in and get the information that they provide. There's the Howard County Right to Life newsletter, there's the National Right to Life newsletter, there's Maryland Right to Life newsletter. There's all kinds of newsletters that you can get on. This one is a good one, the Christian Action Council, because it's from a distinctly Christian perspective. And it is one that provides national perspective also in the lobbying. uh that's going on in Washington DC. Whether you use that one or any other one. Yet on, uh read it, and then be aware of what issues are coming up And how we can respond as Christians. And you see that last question that I put there, it's simply a question that I myself have. I wonder if perhaps God would want to raise someone up in our body. He would volunteer to keep us informed about issues on which we could take group action as concerned Christian citizens. Not A petition as a church, but as citizens, Christians, who are concerned with these moral issues. But one or perhaps two or three people acting as a committee would say, we'll dodge for the key issues. And when something comes up that has to do with Howard County, the state of Maryland, or a national issue, then we will monitor that and we'll let the body know. Now's the time to take action. There are so many issues going on today. Maybe some of you, as you hear this, you say, Boy, there are just so many issues, and life is so complex. So many things I ought to be involved in. And I just don't have time to keep up on this and write all my letters and find out all the issues. But if some people, a few people could help us, as saying we will watch the issues and we're particularly bargained, So that when something comes up where conservative action could make a difference, we'll let you know. But that could be of tremendous service to us as a body. Whatever is our action, Let's make sure that we're not desensitized as Christians to the destruction of life and the violation of the sixth commandment that we see about us, whether of human beings who are born or unborn. Because our faithfulness to Jesus Christ is intimately connected with our concern for this issue. Let's pray. Very God, we come to you this morning and thank you for our life. Lord, how we thank you. That our mothers decided to have us in most of our cases, Lord, it was illegal to do anything else. That we were protected by the law. Well, we realize, Lord, that people who are being conceived now are not so protected. And Lord, we wait for them. We really pray, Lord, that you would help us to feel their plight. That we would not be able to look upon that Holocaust in a detached and removed way. Lord help us to understand what it means. For such a life to be snuffed out every 20 seconds in our country. May we see as we look at the precious little life of John the Baptist? As we look at him, even before he was born, worshiping you, Lord Jesus, leaving for joy of your presence. Filled with your spirit as a redeemed sinner to come and to worship, to delight to you, being in your presence, all Lord, how precious his life was. And how precious every one that you create is to you. Lord, help us to be sensitive to this And then filled by your Spirit to take the appropriate action that you would have us in our faithfulness to our Lord Jesus to take. Whether today in Baltimore, tomorrow in DC, in responding to newsletters, and finding out the issues, and encouraging one another to keep aware. And to not let this die. We pray for our country. We pray for the future legislative decisions. Lord, we pray for the various bills that are considered and that are still strategies that your people are using. We pray for it also. uh for the judicial decisions that will come. We pray, Lord, for the Supreme Court. So many of those people are so old that there is uh Almost inevitably going to be a number of changes in the next five years. Lord, we pray that you would put onto that bench justices who have a regard for the sanctity of life. Who have beyond that a biblical regard for justice and mercy. But in particular, this morning we pray for a regard. For the sanctity of life and all the implications that flow from that. Lord, we pray these things as those who are under the authority of your word. We pray them in the name of Jesus. Amen.