If you have your Bibles, please open to Genesis chapter 50. If not, you will see it here on the screen. Our text this morning is Genesis chapter 50, verses 15 to 21. Genesis chapter fifty, verses fifty to fifteen to twenty-one. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, It may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him. So they sent a message to Joseph saying, Your father gave this command before he died. Say to Joseph, Please forgive the transgression of your brothers and their sin, because they did evil to you. And now please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father. Joseph wept when they spoke to him. His brothers also came and fell down before him and said, Behold, we are your servants. But Joseph said to them, Do not fear, for I am I in the place of God. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. So do not fear. I will provide for you and your little ones. Thus he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. Will you pray with me? By your Holy Spirit, we would pray, Father, take this word, this truth. And may you rework our lives to bring about reconciliation by and for the glory of God. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. This is perhaps, I don't know, perhaps Pastor Harris did this, this is perhaps the first sermon series of four weeks that is based on a pamphlet. You may not recognize the pamphlet. This is a trifold pamphlet printed by Peacemaker Ministries based on the work of Ken Sandy. And we're going to be covering these next four weeks the four G's of reconciliation. Glorify God is number one. Next week we will look at number two, which is get the log out of your own eye. The third is gently restore. And the fourth is go and be reconciled. Glorify God, get the log out of your own eye, gently restore, go and be reconciled. And for this text and for this point, glorify God, I was very convinced that what we needed Was the Scriptures opening up for us not the principles of reconciliation, but a story of reconciliation? I chose this text this morning, verses 15 to 21, because in a very succinct amount of space it summarizes what takes place between Genesis chapters 37 and 50. But what it does is it shows us a very basic reality It shows us the human tragedy of broken relationships because of sin. But what it shows us more is the glory of God in bringing about reconciliation. For His glory And so what you will see here in this story are some very normal, and I thank God that it's still in the Bible. Something so real to so many who are sitting here this morning. And so to look at it, you'll see the outline: family tragedy, a leader's rights, glory of God. Family tragedy. What I want you to see is summarized in this text, if you will, is a reference back to what are some very old bones. in the story of Jacob and his sons. These old bones are what we typically call when someone does something against us, we Keep those bones in a closet and we readily open it up when we need to And what is in this closet of Jacob's family is something that really explains the family tragedy that befell this family of God. These old bones really begin for us in very easy ways. When when the text says when Joseph Brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, It may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him. What is that referring to? It's referring all the way back to the consequences of sin, but those consequences were the result first of their father. If you're familiar at all with chapter 37 of Genesis, you'll note that in fact it was Jacob's sin. Jacob's favoritism towards his youngest son. Jacob later, much later on in years, had this youngest son, Joseph, born late in his life. Joseph became in very vivid ways Jacob's favorite son. And what that did was it injected into the family Favoritism. And when that favoritism became evident to Joseph's brothers, hatred became the disease. And what characterized the bones of this family was rivalry, deceit, and attempted murder. But on Joseph's side, we need to be careful. If you go back to Genesis chapter 37, you hear of the dreams that Joseph had. The dreams encompassed what was would be Joseph's vision for what he believed God was telling him that someday not only his brothers but his very father would bow down before him. And you, if you're familiar with the text, let me just tell you, it didn't go so well. And if we're honest, and how many of you have siblings? Raise your hands. Come on. Good night. Alright, so all right. So I'm just gonna ask you, were you if you're the youngest like me, it doesn't matter, okay? But okay. If you had a younger sibling and they simply came to you and said, Pretty much I'm going to rule over you, you know it's not going to go well. But here's the problem. Joseph is like me, a younger child who thinks he's the star of the family. And Joseph, quite frankly, was just a young punk. Because here's the reality. Though Joseph had these dreams, God did not tell him, hey, here's a good idea. Go tell your brothers about the dream. No, Joseph with such candor, with such brazen just Well, I'm just so full of me, walked up to his brothers and said, Hey guys, guess what? I'm gonna rule over you and you're gonna bow down in for before me His brothers already had hatred against him. And I will guarantee you, Joseph knew that. And yet he skips along and he tells them about his dreams. He follows them all the way to Dothan, which is a long way from where his father's house is. And you know what he told him when he got there? He was ready to tell him another dream. But they saw him coming The rest of the story is that he was sold into slavery. They went back I don't want to trip over that. They went back and told his father Jacob That in fact his son was dead. These are the old bones. The consequences of a father favoring the youngest over the others, and the hatred The pride of Joseph mixed together in a toxic mix that broke a family apart. But there's something else as well. There's shattered pieces. Here in this text, we have the summary. So when Joseph says here It says when Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, Now this is now here's the saturated pieces, after all that has happened. Now just prior to this text, we have Jacob passing away. We have Jacob being reunited with his son Joseph. We have Jacob blessing his other sons. And yet, despite all of that, despite God using Joseph to provide food for his family that was living in famine, despite all the things that Joseph had hoped. he could do by being used of the Heavenly Father now at a high-ranking position in Egypt, we still see the shattered pieces of the poison of those old bones. We see it here. His brothers, knowing that Jacob is dead, knowing that they have to go to Joseph, they're plotting. You see it, don't you? It may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we said to him. They're plotting. And then the text says something that's very interesting. Look at verse 16. It begins with the word so. Do you understand the consequence there? Almost every commentator worth their weight has noted that that word so is very important. Because it shows that what the brothers are about to say to Joseph, they're about to report to him a message from his father Jacob is actually a complete fabricated lie. Notice the flow of the text. So it may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him. So They sent a message to Joseph saying, Your father gave this command before he died. Say to Joseph, please forgive the transgression of your brothers. and their sin because they did evil to you. And now please forgive the transgression of the servants of God your Father. What's interesting is that if you simply go back a chapter or two, you see that Jacob actually had an extended private time with Joseph and Joseph's two sons. Nowhere in recorded scripture at this part of the story in this family is Jacob ever recorded as saying what his brothers are purporting he said. You see, his brothers are now afraid, and they're concocting a lie that they hope. Will perhaps draw mercy from Joseph. What's Joseph's response? He wept, it says. Joseph wept when they spoke to him. Now these same commentators wonder why is he weeping? Some have suggested, and I believe I believe they're exactly right, that the reason why Joseph is weeping is because he knows that his brothers are lying to him. He knows that emotionally what's going on there, the opportunity for reconciliation, the opportunity for his brothers to come in integrity and openness. Not fearing him, but haven't they seen what Joseph's purpose is? Haven't they seen that he actually intends to provide for them? They fear him. That is not what Joseph delights in. So he's weeping. He's weeping over the shattered pieces of his family. Now I recognize, I don't want to read too much into what's not there, but you wonder, is he weeping over the fact that he recognized his own pride and its role that it played in the shattering of his family? But don't you see such a basic thing? I doubt there is anyone in this room that cannot in some way, shape, or form, in your life relate to this kind of tragedy. Perhaps not on this scale. But do you see what is so beautiful about the scriptures? Do you see that this still remains in the Bible? And how glad I am. It's not full of perfect families. It's actually full of a lot more families probably that are like sitting here this morning who probably argued on their way to church rather than sung their way to church. The Bible is full of people who understand in very vivid color from their memories just how broken their families are because of sin. Can you relate to that? But what's beautiful about this is that God wants to use this family and this very short text to show us how he wants to demonstrate his glory in reconciliation. And here we see what happens next. A leader's rights. Notice what he says. After Joseph wept when they spoke to him, his brothers also came and fell down before him and said, Behold, we are your servants. Joseph said to them, Do not fear, for am I in the place of God See, the first leader's rites is the execution of power. Joseph is, for the lack of a better way of describing him, he is the prime minister of Egypt. who is serving over the entire political power structure of Egypt at the behest of Pharaoh. He has the power, and with that power, he also has the right to punish his brothers. His brothers sold him into slavery. They covered over their sin, lied to their father. He has the power, and he even has, I would argue, as we learn in the biblical right. And even the rights of the very country that he serves in to punish his brothers. I want you to consider that for just a moment. I want you to consider that in light of what one author, actually it's Ken Sandy, who wrote this about rights. What if Joseph had in fact used his power and the rights afforded to him because of his position to actually punish his brothers. Would that have healed the pieces? Would that have healed a broken family? No. It would have simply been that punishment. But Ken Sandy reflects on this when he says, even if you would be legally and morally justified in exercising a particular right, it may be not it may not be better to do so. One aspect of mercy is to show sympathy, kindness, and compassion towards someone who is in need of help, and this is key, whether Or not, they deserve it. One way to do this is to refrain from exercising legitimate rights and thus release the other from their obligations. The Bible is filled with examples of this kind of mercy A prime minister, a leader, had the right and the power to punish. But instead, he says, Do not fear. Am I in the place of God? And He shows mercy What would our nation look like? And let me argue, what would the body of Christ look like? If we chose mercy over the execution and the use of rights, how different would we look We live in a litigious society. And so oftentimes the church absorbs the culture. And while we may not be taking each other to court, So oftentimes with relationships, even among those who claim Christ, can look like punishment Instead of mercy. It chose to use perspective. Notice from the text again He says, Do not fear, for am I in the place of God. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. to bring it about that many people should be kept alive. The NIV actually reads, that many people should be saved. As they are today. So do not fear. I will provide for you and your little ones. Thus he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. You see, Joseph in that moment was using perspective, and that perspective is what one writer calls triangle. You see, we see this family in the midst of this triangle. And the perspective is this: God in his amazing grace. In amazing provision, in compassion, in mercy, did what? He showed compassion and mercy towards Joseph. He provided for Joseph, even when Joseph, you can imagine, when Joseph's Joseph was forgotten in prison by his two cellmates, that he hoped that if he helped them, they could help him get out of jail. They forgot him. Can you imagine the despair that he must have felt? Yes, I recognize trusting God, but you can trust God, but you can also be incredibly depressed. And yet, what he saw in that moment was God remembered him. He was remembered. He was provided for. And God established him in a way that he could never have imagined. Maybe imagined, but he couldn't see it. God had showed compassion and mercy towards him. So what Joseph had learned to do from chapters 37 to chapter 50 was to live by faith in the living God. But now he's learning here in this perspective to then make this other part of the triangle, to live by love with his neighbor, his family. See, Luther said, We live by faith in Christ, but we live by love with our neighbor. Why? And for what purpose? So that our neighbor, so that our family, so that those that we seek to reconcile with What live by faith also in the God who gave compassion and mercy? Do you see the triangle? Joseph responds to his brothers in mercy because he had been shown mercy. And now he turns to show that mercy and compassion and that same grace to his brothers in hopes of what? In hopes that they too will trust and glory in the God of grace and mercy. I also believe that Joseph wept because he's humbled. I legitimately believe that Joseph is now much later on in life, of course, and he's humbled by how God and his compassion and mercy have transformed him. But there's something interesting about reconciliation. It's interesting about the gospel, and this is just an aside free of charge. Here's the reality. The gospel can humble a human being. Reconciliation by way of God's grace can bring profound humility when we see it break out, but it can also be a source of pride. Do you see how merciful I've been? Do you see how God has used me in this reconciling act? Do you see how merciful and compassionate I've been? It's subtle. But the gospel can do that. Not because the gospel is inherently dual, but it's the fact that when the gospel works inside of sinful hearts, sinful hearts can respond in com in thanksgiving, but it can also respond in pride. But fortunately we do not see that here. But Joseph simply turns, and I love the way this passage sort of sums up when it says. Thus he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. The compassion of a merciful God is at work. But let me be clear that this passage is not about Joseph. It really is about the glory of God. You'll see in your outline, I want to show you here how the glory of God is really what is the goal of this text and behind the text. We see that in both sovereignty and salvation. Go back to the passage where you will see in verse 20. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. Such a simple phrase. So often part of the lexicon of Christian people, so much so that it becomes a cliche. But let may God by his Holy Spirit restore to us what is really behind that phrase, and that is the sovereignty of God. That what Joseph is saying here, that despite the evil that has been perpetrated against me despite the suffering that I have undergone, despite the loss, despite the distance from my beloved father, despite the brokenness in my relationship with my b brothers, despite the pride that I could see in my own heart, despite all of these things. What I can say is what you thought you were doing for your own selfish ends, God was actually sovereign even over your sinful choices. And what does sovereignty mean? Means he rules over it. It does not surprise him. God is not thwarted by any sinful human behavior. His will will be done. His purposes will never fail. Our sin can frustrate our experience of God's work, but it will never undo God's purposes, which are connected to His character. They are eternal. And they are good. God was sovereign over the sinful decisions, was ruling over even going to use the sinful decisions of his brothers. to make sure to show how God can take something which is so vile, so evil, and actually turn it to where Joseph would become. The leader of a great enemy country, but would be the source of food for his brothers. Here's the rub. Particularly in Presbyterian churches, we love that word sovereign. I want to talk to Christians here for a moment. How many of you pro uh don't raise your hands, but how many of us have not have at least used over the last five weeks multiple times? God is sovereign. We use that as the end of a sentence. It rolls off our tongues. May God, by His Spirit, restore to us this question. Do we really believe in the sovereignty of God, not when things go well, but when things go badly? The whole purpose of the text is to see that though this shattered family with broken bones and relationships, God in his sovereign glory and grace is bringing about reconciliation. Jonas E. Jon Joni Ericksentata writes this about the sovereignty of God. Sovereignty is a weighty thing to ascribe to the nature and character of God. Yet if we were not if he were not sovereign, he would not be God. The Bible is clear that God is in control of everything that happens. As Moses learned, when God gives a disability, he also gives us the means to deal with it. God does not delight in our afflictions, but when they are in His will for us, He delights in working everything out for the good and for His glory, whether He removes the affliction or not. If examining the sovereignty of God teaches us anything, it teaches us that real satisfaction comes not in understanding God's motives. But in understanding his character, in trusting in his promises, and in leaning on him and resting in him as the sovereign who knows what he is doing and does all things well. Joseph's affliction Joseph's suffering, Jacob's suffering, the brokenness in his family, does not delight God, but it is also not outside of his sovereign control. And it is not beyond his power to renew. This passage, yes, is about Joseph and his family. But it's really about God. But not just God's sovereignty, but God's salvation. And here's what I mean. What is so wonderful about this passage Is where it is. Chapter fifty. It's at the end of the book of beginnings. What was the beginning of Genesis? God created all things and called them very good. And he created man and woman. And what did they decide? I want to be my own God. And do you remember If you're familiar with the early chapters of Genesis, when God comes back to the garden, do you remember what happened to this husband and wife? They began the blame game. Well, this woman you put here with me, and she blamed Satan. And therein lies the root of the consequences of sin. First, a brokenness with God and a brokenness with each other. And there's not a human being who can hear my voice who does not know what I'm talking about. And yet, at the very last chapter of the book of Genesis, what do we see God doing? We see God doing two things. He's demonstrating that his salvation, his redemption is what he is about. that he is going to redeem the brokenness of sin and its consequences that were di illustrated at the beginning of this book of Genesis. traces its way throughout the book of Genesis, but here in the last chapter it and shows us not only that God is beginning and has been about the work of redeeming human beings broken by sin, he's doing another thing, and that is this. That the story of reconciliation is the story of God's salvation of a family that would become a nation. But watch this It would be the salvation of a family that would become a nation through what? Through a rejected son who suffered against persecution, though he was innocent, only to be humbled, but then to reach the exaltation of the leader of an enemy country, only to be used to save a family. That would become a nation. Do you see the pattern? You see, yes, it's about Joseph. But in reality, what God is showing us is that Joseph is pointing us to Jesus. And Jesus is everything that Joseph could not and was not, and yet it's the same pattern. The son of the most high God. Rejected by men, scorned by the Father, placed and humbled and persecuted and placed on a cross Only to be buried and then to be exalted, and is now sitting at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. And all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him, to one name, Jesus. And what does Jesus' name mean? He will save his what? His people from their sins. Do you see the pattern? It is about God's glory, the reconciling power of God. To demonstrate his glorious grace in reconciling a family But not just so the family can be reconciled and rejoice, but so that a family and relationships can be reconciled to give glory and to trust in the God who is the source and the power of grace. Let me finish with this illustration. You can put the last slide there. This was a letter, anonymous letter, written by a wife who is in deep turmoil. Extremely unhappy in her marriage, found herself driving around town dreaming about what it would be like to leave her family because she was so desperately unhappy. And to take rent of an apartment and just exist alone until she met the reconciling glory of God. And she wanted to write this letter anonymously to give it. To the pastor who led her to the glory to the glorious God. She writes this. I didn't believe God had brought us through so much to leave us in a relationship that was so empty. I wanted to continue to trust the Lord and to depend on him for hope. When I looked up hope in my Bible concordance, I found this verse. And hope does not disappoint us because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit whom he has given us. To me, this verse meant that by hoping in God for my future, I would not be disappointed. He would give me love for my husband. I could depend on him that is God. I was following his way, and therefore I could trust in him to meet my needs. And do you know what? Something absolutely amazing happened. I'm in love with my husband. I enjoy being with him. I appreciate his sense of humor. I depend on him as a friend. He's my favorite lunch date, and I find myself wanting to give him a hug and a kiss while he's watching television. Now that's redemption, right? The Lord has so turned around my feelings, I thank him almost every day that he didn't let me go my own way. I would have thrown away so much and never realized how God can work when I let him. The change in our family is truly a miracle. That letter was written to be given to those who had come in to see this pastor. This story of Joseph is written. Not to tempt us in thinking that we can be like Joseph, but to point us to the glory of God, who has sent his son rejected Yet glorified. And let me say: if you are longing for reconciliation in your relationships, it begins with the glory of God. But it begins by asking this question. If you have not experienced or know the glory of God and his grace and salvation, this morning should not pass you by. I invite anyone who does not know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior to know him this morning. Who loves you so much that he sent his son to die for you, to restore you to himself, that his grace might rewrite your life. If you have not known him or want to know more about him, please seek me out after the service. But I want to finish here praying that God would begin a work of reconciliation in this body, in your relationships, that he would demonstrate his glory in reconciliation. By the grace of a good and loving Father. Let's pray Lord, we want to know your glory this morning. The weight of your character of compassion and mercy. Father, I pray for any here this morning that do not know you. Who want to know the reconciling glory of God, I pray that by your Spirit draw them to yourself. That they would know your compassion and your mercy, that they would know as this wife testifies to how the change that you can bring through Jesus is nothing short of a miracle. And Father, I pray for those who do know you. As for those who do not, I pray that all of us would know the glory of your reconciling power with you also with one another. That we would seek to be reconciled with each other for your glory. That the world would see by our love that you have sent your Son Jesus to die. For our sins, that we might be saved. But more than saved, reconciled, living by faith In the God of our heavenly in the God of our Savior Jesus, but living by love with each other. Help us, we pray, by your power and your spirit, and your word. In Jesus' name, Amen.