Good morning. I pulled a blue shirt out in solidarity and a blue folder With uh as a parent of two of our high schoolers, I'm very, very grateful to all the um adult uh supervision that they receive on Thursday night and down on the Potter's house on Sunday morning during middle hour and and this group that uh went up to Summit Lake. To hear God's word and to fellowship together. If you have a copy of the scriptures with you, I want to invite you to turn to the letter of James. It's near the uh end of the New Testament. And uh we're gonna read in just a moment from chapter one, from verse one. Through verse 18. So give your attention to God's word. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. To the twelve tribes in the dispersion. Greetings. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete. Lacking in nothing. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all, without reproach, and it will be given him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, let the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away, for the sun rises with its scorching heat. And withers the grass, its flowers falls, and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, He will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will, he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. God's word. I will tell you right up front, we're not going to cover all eighteen of those verses in detail. Been given the opportunity to preach over the next four weeks and want to preach from the book of James A letter that is very practical in its wisdom, very blunt, blunt force trauma is a phrase that's been associated with this letter, James Pullsnow Punches. And uh we look forward, I do anyway, after seeing the the word of God in this first uh chapter, what God may be pleased to do in and through us with this letter. God blessed me with an older brother growing up. Oh, sure it felt like a curse sometimes. I was the occasional filled the role of the occasional punching bag. And there was also those times after watching creature feature TV together, I had to navigate my way through a darkened upstairs from the basement. Not knowing at which closet door or nook or cranny in the house that Jeff had hidden himself, and he was going to jump out and try to elicit a girl's scream from the younger brother Tim. But for the most part, it was a blessing. Having an older brother, I recall one time when we were both teenagers. We were in the midst of several other teenagers. Participating in an activity that was neither legal nor healthy. And as my turn came, To participate in that activity that was neither legal nor healthy. I remember making eye contact with my older brother. And he shot me one of those guilt-inducing stares that our mom made famous as I was about to participate Uh Senator, I'm not I don't recall if I did participate at that moment. But in that moment, seeing my older brother I realized two things simultaneously. That shame induced sick feeling of knowing I had failed And the security of the love of an older brother who didn't think it necessary to mince words or to dance around a subject because his goal was never my fleeting momentary pleasure It was always a long range maturity We have an older brother in the book of James who doesn't mince words He lays it out. He presumes from the outset that his hearers are those who are grounded in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And we'll see throughout this letter at least the four weeks, Lord willing. That James presumes upon his hearer that they are resting in the finished work of Jesus for their salvation. This is not a works-based salvation letter, and we hope to show that through these messages. We have an older brother here in James. The writer of the letter of James is not James, the brother of John, the son of Thunder. It's not James, son of Alphaeus. This is James, the half-brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. There's enough evidence to uh substantiate that. Both Matthew and Mark make a record of Jesus' brothers, his family. In Galatians 2, James is referred to as one of the pillars of the church, but it uh it wasn't always that way. Now listen, just in this introduction, the man who is inspired by the Holy Spirit writing this letter for the hearers back there in the first century and for us today, he wasn't always Positive towards our Lord. In fact, John tells us that at one time Jesus' family didn't believe in him. John 7. In Mark 3, it records that his family thought that Jesus was out of his mind. Somewhere along the way, God opened James's eyes to who Jesus really was. And Paul records in First Corinthians 15 that the resurrected Jesus appeared to the disciples and then to Cephas, and then it says to Mary and to the brothers, to the family of Jesus. James had a personal encounter with Jesus, not as half brother, but as Lord and Savior. Acts 1 records that Mary and Jesus' family were in one accord with the disciples devoting themselves to prayer. And James was one of the men. Along with Peter, who stood at the Council of Jerusalem and firmly upheld the gospel of grace. When those Judaizers came to add to Christ's finished work. This is the author of our letter. This is our older brother. This is the one who doesn't mince words. He presumes that you want your faith to be genuine and real. If you've professed faith in Christ, James is making a A very sound assumption that you want that faith to be genuine and tested, and when it is tested to be found to be real. Because when we get to the end of our days, our only hope is that we make it there with our faith in Christ intact, focused on Jesus and Jesus alone for our salvation, his righteousness, not ours. So with that authority, with that abrupt authority sometimes delivered, James writes to us. He was the elder at the Jerusalem church. He was writing to a group who were the Jewish believers and probably intended for beyond the Jewish believers, but to the twelve tribes in the dispersion, in the diaspora Those who were scattered, those who were followers of Christ, but they were living in and among a world that is hostile to the things of God and his will and his will. Ring any bells with you? Followers of Jesus Christ in a world that hates Jesus and doesn't quite care for much for those who love Jesus either. Jesus, I think it's a very important thing to do. This letter to help the reader know whether or not the faith that they have is living, real, and saving faith. James's letter is very much in keeping with the way Jesus delivered the truth in the Sermon on the Mount. James uses God's law to not only highlight the standard of righteousness that is God's righteousness, but also to point to us the fact that we are lawbreakers Throughout this letter, and there's probably, I think, 22, I'll have to put it in a future uh outline for you connections that James makes directly to Matthew 5, 6, and 7 and the other places where the Sermon on the Mount are listed in the Gospels. James uses a paradoxical pastoring, just as Jesus did, raising the absolute high standard of righteousness, just so that we would realize we do not measure up. And be left with no other hope but Christ's righteousness on our behalf The paradoxes are throughout this letter, for example, James says that we must control our tongue in James 1 26, and yet then he reminds us in chapter 3 that no man can tame his tongue. You see the standard of God's law and your inability to keep God's law. James says that true religion in chapter one and verse twenty-seven involves being unstained by the world. And yet he points out in chapter four that when we envy and bitter and are embroiled in quarrels and fights, that it signifies that we are worldly and at enmity with God. James wants to make sure that if you read his letter, you don't walk away with a question about whether your faith is real. He covers a lot of ground, many topics, trials of life, and our response, what to do about being rich, what to do about being poor, favoritism. Partiality, the evidence of saving faith, the destructive power of words, worldliness, pride, long range planning, the practical nature of prayer, and a believer's response to illness, much To our sometimes chagrin, because he identifies who we are. Today I want to focus on the truth contained in this first portion. First chapter and about what it reveals to us about how true faith responds to adversity. I mean Alan going through the announcement mentions all these things that we're in upheaval about. That's just like logistic things. A building and staff transition and search committee that's working tirelessly to bring a team leader pastor to our midst. But there are internal things that bring adversity as well. James says Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect. and complete, lacking in nothing. In chapter five of the story of Job we read that man is born for trouble as sparks fly upward. It's a natural occurrence to have trouble as a human We say, no duh, Dudley. We feel it. Solomon assessed life as grievous In Ecclesiastes 2, all of man's days, his task is painful and grievous. Even at night his mind does not rest. The truth of God's word is bared out in our own lives. We know this stuff. If we didn't know it, then we know it when we watch the Princess Bride. Wesley, as the man in black, says to Princess Buttercup, Life is pain, Highness, and anyone who tells you different is selling something. We know all about pain. I want you to think back over the last week or month. Maybe you don't even have to go past yesterday. Was there anything that disrupted your sleep? Other than a high school retreat. Was there anything that consumed your thoughts? Perhaps there's a hardship that's just come upon you. Sickness has invaded your life or Through the life of a loved one. Perhaps the economy, your financial status, is so shaky right now that it is concerned to you that feels all consuming. Maybe there's a relationship that's extremely difficult, and your present circumstances don't seem to have a real end point to them. That you're able to see. Think on that thing. Have you got it? Count it all joy. James is not presenting us with some glib hallmark phraseology That we walk into uh an emergency room and whip out and lay down and depart quickly. Rather, the foundation for which, the grid through which we can see the maturing process that God is taking each one of us through. When you meet trials of various kinds, whether they be uh because of your own sin or because simply because we live in a sin fallen and tainted world, whether they come from external sources or maybe they burst forth from internal. When you meet trials of various kinds Count it as joy because God is at work. God is at work This isn't some kind of thing that we just glibly offer to one another. It's the foundation for believing in a sovereign and loving God. James knows that trials in this life are inevitable. We will encounter trials of various kinds. Jesus told his followers that in this world we will have tribulation. But he said, take heart, because I've overcome the world. Let me ask you another question. Do you spend more of your life trying to avoid trials than trying to respond to trials with faith? Think about it. Do you spend more of your energy trying to avoid trials, trying to set up life in such a way or avoid certain setting In such a way that you can manage or control the trials that come your way Or do you spend your energy exercising faith to meet trials of various kinds the way that God's word instructs us to? Maybe maybe we avoid trials or maybe we want to avoid trials because we know that it's gonna point to something Not pretty inside. I read this week that adversity introduces a person to himself. Adversity introduces a person to himself. In other words, when life jostles us, whatever's in there, wherever our hope is, whatever we're basing our peace or our confidence in. It comes spilling out. And it seems as if James It seems as if James is putting us down if we don't respond with joy immediately in the face of trial. How often have you immediately or naturally responded to trouble with joy? Let me free you up. Go ahead and answer never, or if you prefer, kid yourself and say rarely. James doesn't presume that this is your natural inclination. In fact, the word consider or count Hegeomai is a Greek word that means to render a judgment. It's to evaluate, to observe, to assess, to make an account of, and then to render a judgment on. See, do you see what James is saying is that when you encounter trials of various kinds, you should examine that trial And make a judgment and count that judgment then count that trial as a source of joy. I'm not talking about skipping and whistling a happy tune, the caricature of joy. I'm talking about a satisfaction of the soul that knows that God is sovereign. There's two ways that you can make the assessment. How do we count it all joy, James? With a proper theology is the first way, and I would suggest respectfully, in the body. A proper theology to know that God is sovereign, that God is not surprised by the trial that's come upon you. In fact, God has ordained it. So you can trust Him with it. To consider the truth that God is loving. One part of Scripture doesn't become false because we don't understand another part of Scripture. That God is sovereign, God is loving, that God is for you. Paul told the Roman Christians, if he before us, then who Can bring a charge against God's elect. That God is working in you, Paul told the church in Philippi. Do you not know that it is God who is at work within you to do his good will and pleasure? And understand proper theology that God does not waste pain See the cross for an example of that. God never wastes pain in the life of his followers. Do you believe that? James says, then count it all joy when you fall into trials of various kinds. Hebrews 12 makes a powerful reminder. Jesus considered the joy before him and he endured the cross, despising its shame, and is now seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Because he is seated at the right hand of the throne of God, our great high priest, embodied high priest, able to sympathize with us in our weaknesses, he is. able to help those of us who are now being tempted. Hebrews 2 18. Do you see how that works? Jesus knew what joy was, and he paid the price, so that you and I could fellowship with him in his sufferings when trials come our way. So we shouldn't run from trials. We shouldn't try to avoid trials. We shouldn't try to bring them on. Don't try to bring trials on. They're coming They're inevitable. So don't go out and make a mess for yourself. But when they come James says, make a judgment and count it all joy when you face trials of various kinds. This past week I had the privilege and I counted a privilege, not a pain or a chore, a privilege to be able to share with one of you. Who's struggling in a deep and profound way with sin that just got uncovered. And I was able to share Count it all joy in many, many words, and appoint them to the truth of Hebrews twelve For don't you know that this discipline that's come upon you is the sign that God loves you Because he disciplines those he loves as a dearly loved son. It was a privilege to be able to have the truth of God's word to stand upon and to offer him the only hope that he will ever need. James doesn't issue the command to count it all joy without the reminder of God's active sanctifying work. Isn't that great? Look at the rest of that first part. Count it joy when you meet trials of various kinds. Now we could just throw that out, leave it there. It's God's word. It's authoritative. We should do that. But James, in his older brother pastoral role, he practically says this, for don't you know The testing of your faith produces steadfastness and steadfastness. Let it have its full effect. Let God be God. Let Him work this out in your life. Don't fight against God so that you might be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. That's the whole point. The picture of that word steadfastness, I've used this before in several settings, but it's that picture you see of these guys and girls that work for the Weather Channel. Where's Pete? And they're down in Louisiana somewhere, and there's a hurricane in the Gulf, and they're standing braced outside on some porch. And they're making a newscast in the face of seventy-five or eighty-five mile an hour winds. That's the picture here of steadfastness. It's an active standing. It's an active standing against And James says that when trials come our way, various kinds from without and from within, as a result of your sin, or as a result of simply living in a sin-fallen world. God wants to produce steadfastness in you so that you will persevere through to the end of your days. That's a beautiful promise. So James says, let it have its full effect. Let it do what it's intended to do. The writer of Hebrews substantiates that. No discipline that comes your and my way is ever, ever pleasant, but always painful But in the end it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who are being trained by it. Hebrews 12. For those who give it its full effect. So that we might be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. You see what James is doing there? He's reminding His readers and us in turn, that God is in the midst of the trial and he's calling us to Christ. Trials are built or designed to connect us to Christ, our only hope. You remember last week when Dan reminded us from Paul's letter to the Corinthians? How Christ has now become for us our wisdom, our righteousness, our sanctification, our redemption. Christ is at work in us in the midst of trials. You see, we lack maturity. It's what my older brother wanted for me, maturity, not acting like a fool. That's not what floras do, Tim. We don't participate in those things that are legal and unhealthy, illegal and unhealthy. We don't do that. And James is saying the same thing. Listen, this is what a believer looks like. This is how a believer responds. This is what your faith should be producing in you. If you lack maturity, then give yourself over to the effect of trials. If you lack wisdom, And Christ has become for us our wisdom. James says, if you lack wisdom, let him ask God. If any of you lack wisdom I always think of this when I'm reading this very passage. He's not wanting us to look around in the crowd and say, uh, yeah. Okay, I I think you lack wisdom and and you and and you and you and you and you there's about seventeen. Why don't the people that lack wisdom? Why don't you all go over here and gather in the lack wisdom crowd James is saying, You lack wisdom, all of us Because we've not yet arrived. We're not complete. We are not where we should be in terms of our being conformed to Christ. And so he says If you lack wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, it will be given him. I want to spend some time on this verse. And I know we're running out of time and everything But look at God. If you're trying to figure out where Christ is in the letter of James, where the gospel is in the letter of James, it's all over. It's right here again. Paul told the Corinthians that Jesus Christ has become for us our wisdom. And James says, if you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Listen to the description of how God, of how God is described. See if you lack wisdom, ask for wisdom. Ask for Christ in the midst of your trial. Ask God to be with you in the midst of the trial. And God, who gives generously to all without reproach will give Christ. God who gives. He is a giving God. Never forget that love gives and God is love. Love gives Lust and all the caricatures of love take. But God gives. The God who gives, the God who gives generously, He delights in giving. The word here is literally simply. There's no strings attached to this giving. In the midst of trial, ask for Christ, ask for wisdom, ask for God's presence. The God who gives delights to give generously, simply, simplicity to all. All of us. Romans three, my favorite little verse, three twenty two B For there is no distinction. You know what 23 is, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. There's no distinction in our negative, and there's no distinction when God gives Christ to those in need. To all. No respecter of persons. You'll see this theme: no partiality in God, no partiality in the church. Throughout the letter of James, we're going to maybe preach on that very topic. Coming up. And then this last little phrase, listen, without reproach. God who gives generously to all without reproach. You know, the phrase without reproach there, it's the aspect of giving that belongs only to God. We don't give like this. Put yourself in a typical dining room at home with small children. Glass of milk, no sippy cup lid. Milk gets knocked because said child is playing with ball where they shouldn't be. Milk spills, goes everywhere. For the purpose of the illustration, go ahead and let it spill in your laptop. Child asked for milk following that. To give without reproach is to pour a glass of milk and to give it to that child without ever commenting on what they should do differently. Do you hear that? We don't give without reproach. We usually give with a three-page document that has Excellent. You want you want me to loan you some more money? Okay, well here it is. I'll give it to you, but I don't want you wasting it on stuff again But James says that when we lack wisdom, when we lack Christ in the midst of trials, God, you should ask. For wisdom. And God who gives generously to all without reproach will give it to you. That is just tremendous. God wants you to connect to Him in the midst of whatever you're going through. Our tendency is to not. There's a lot more in this passage. But let me close with verse twelve. Here's James, our older brother, knowing what we need to hear. His goal is our maturity. And he says, Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him When he has stood the test, I don't feel like I'm able to stand the test. I'm not adequate to the task. I can't do it. And James knows that. The Gospel Statement of James is found in chapter four, where he says, when you recognize that you can't live the Christian life by yourself, Chapter 4, verse 10 says, Humble yourselves then before the Lord, and he will lift you up. Christ has purchased our exaltation. Let me pray for us. Gracious God, help us to submit to you, to your word, to the instruction here. Lord Jesus Christ, to see you as the one who has accomplished all that was necessary. And Father, I pray that you'd draw us even closer now. Help us to be honest About our response to the trials that come our way. And Lord, give us grace to count it all joy. In Christ we pray. Amen.