You see the background of this morning speaker at our missions conference again the Lord's message to us. I commend to you, Brother Evolution, offer as the Lord's servant, to bring his word to us this morning. Do him well. Drop him, Evolution. It's a great honor and privilege to be honest by the Lord to the church to tell and bring the word of God. It's a big privilege and a great honor to speak on behalf of the King of Kings. And so a speaker this morning I would like for us to turn to Matthew twenty eight. of Matthew twenty eight. And we're looking at God reading from verse one through verse ten. Let us give attention to the reading of God's Word. And reading from the Revised Standard Version not because it's a superior translation, but it's because I bought this Bible for only three dollars. Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week. Magdalene and his other Mary went to see the sepulchre. And behold, there was a great earthquake. For an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled by the stone and sat upon him. His appearance was like white men and his raiment was. As snow. And for fear of him the gods trembled and became like dead men. But Muse said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified. He is not here for his reason. As he said, Come, see the place where he lay. Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he is raised them from the death and behold, he's going before you to gallery, there you will see them. So they departed people from the tomb with God and wanted to tell his disciples. And before Jesus met them and felt pale. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brethren to go to Galilee and there they will see me. Let us pray. Exalted and mighty God, we thank you for your resurrection hour. Father, we thank you for giving us life. And also providing thy word to be a lamp unto our feet. Father, we also recognize how many times we've taken with your word and have really many boys. And lack of study and depth and lack of reverence for you. Father, but we also know that your word will never return to you without accomplishing that which you send for. So we ask that you grant them to us the utterance that the system loyal word. of God. And also grant us a hearing that our spiritual split away so tightly in our hearts and cost it to best with motivate us to be in obedient unto this heavenly calling. For we pray in Jesus' name we come. I worked in uh Pennsylvania recently. That's about four months ago. So recent. And I just had uh a lecture there. He went out and so in the evening a lady knocked on the door. And I said, Oh, Doctor I don't say what's well, so it's not me. Can I take a message? He said, Oh I actually came to uh their wife. And I said I took and took a message. He said that I was going to find out whether she liked the message, the the the pudder that I sold her. And I said What sort of is that? He said, have you heard of Mary K? And I said, what's it about? So she started so excited. This is good. It gets this to your skin. It does that. And I said, can it really change like a lovely skin like mine? And she really believed the truth, so she started, you know, really getting me into that. But we should finish I asked her, Are you a Christian? She said, Yes. In fact the Bible says that God is a temple of the Holy Spirit and you have to buy this product and it' keep your body in good shape. So I looked at her quietly and said, Lady, are you not any truth about the Lord Jesus Christ as you are about Mary Kate Brother? She was quiet. The way this human responded is somehow and I suspect reflected of most of us. We're so infused about so many things. We we uh in the conversation we're supposed to be speaking well about our and that kind of thing. We are motivated. And anyway to sentient. To do good on your job. To speak well about your manager, else we will spoil you. But anyway reason it's because when we come to the gospel, when we see these faint, these terrible catalysts and humans, we can intimidate them. Because we don't have the proper motivation for preaching the gospel, for picking on preaching And this morning this test is going to encourage us. We have a motivation to be obedient unto our Lord Jesus Christ. He's provided the motivation for us, he's also provided the procedures for us. That is good. If there was any group of people that had to be very discouraged, we would agree with the disciples. Here were people who have left their jobs, their business, their homes. Peter told Jesus Christ. Then you left all and followed you. These men have left everything and then on that basis, five days, Jesus Christ what joke, that concussion of the dead blow, really knocked everything out of these people. They run away, they happen, they hate themselves, and the Bible says, for fear of the Jews. Saturday pass, Saturday, Sunday, and then we recognize that Pilates and the Jews passed. Actually placed the marloons on the sepulchre of Jesus Christ so he couldn't get out. So early morning, some women took a risk, one the risk of their own reputation. They took a risk. I mean you know when soldiers are really on the battlefield and this how many of you are soldiers? When soldiers are being in combat for so long, they are home, they can do anything. And here they are. True woman going to the tomb in the dark. Anything could have happened. But these women live. Why? Because of the motivation of love. They love Jesus. Not even just to see the lady. Because this is the man who has transformed their lives. A man who has cast out demons for many months and has limited their bodies. So the love of Christ doesn't end with death. So they decided, let's go and do just some honor to the bodies. So they went to the church. And the pastor continued, there was an angel there who descended from heaven and roll past stone and start upon it and then most terrier in the height of the marine corps that was there. And then the angel bypassed them. The angel bypassed them. They didn't care about their flight. And then turned onto the woman and said, Do not be afraid, for I know whom you're speaking. You're speaking Jesus who was crucified. Don't be afraid that you don't see the dead body here. Don't be afraid. Don't not be afraid. Then Jesus is risen. He's not here. He's written just as he said. And this was the greatest message that was brought to life. Somebody has trial over there. And that is the message. Go and tell his disciples. He is risen. He is present. He is not a one that death. Come, let me give you proof. If you want evidence, come and see the soul. Where he lay. Why is the body? He is not where he is raised when he's gone to Galilee. And the woman just responded with a message with a zeal of excitement. And they ran. How the disciples we are told. And then you know the story in Luke chapter 24, we are told when they got there, the disciples told us, Come on, we know we know Jesus said this. You people are just out of your mind. mind. They said they did not believe them for they thought it was an idle so now I'm not suggesting that we do like the women. Of course not. We want to go beyond the women and imitate the master who was Himself, a model evangelist, a model missionary. We want to imitate our Lord Jesus Christ. But the commission to the women is the same. It's only circumstantial difference. Jesus Christ commissioned all of us. If we have the Newness of life in us. We are obligated to go and tell the world. Emmanuel, Jesus is so listening among us. You want to look at my license. And sometimes I get into trouble, I can find the Bible. He uses my hands, he uses my mouth, he uses my whole being that wherever I am, people ought to see visa Because it says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good work and glorify you. Is that it? That they may glorify your father, who is in heaven. You are his workmanship. And everywhere you God, my friends, if you are a new creature in Jesus Christ, you are the one representative of our very Lord Jesus Christ. And you ought to be excited about that. So these men were excited. Motivation of love. That we take from our pastor that we have a better just a better motivation. We must take mission seriously, we must take evangelism seriously, because our Lord has Have a better reputation. You see we are in an age where people are obsessed with neural western. I remember one time when we speak in, you know, the Wolf Campbell. I mean that protagonist, writers, all about upset that he always appeared like their God. People are obsessed with that. But we Christians have a better Lord with a better reputation. He's not a He is not here for the risen as he served. He told his enemies. Destroy this temple and in three days I will live the death. I will the Son of Man will suffer and then be killed. But then after three days, you will be raised from the dead, or you rise again from the dead. In John chapter ten he says, I lay down my life and I take it again. I take it after. Our Lord has no problem. He has predicted his own death. He has predicted his own resurrection. And now all this excited, momentous day, Jesus Christ is telling us. I am true. When I told you I'm the way, the truth, and the life, I lend it. I am true. I am honest. I have a better reputation for being honest. I'm not a trickster. I'm not a deceiver. I'm not someone. Who will be never going to promise? You know these politicians. When they want your vote, they will do everything to convince you. But you let them get in power, you write to them, they will not apply you. They will never be a promise. It's not so our Lord. He is much less in his honesty. He's not out to deceive anyone. We have a better Lord. We have a Lord with a better reputation pertaining to his character. convicted of sin, he said. Let me quickly go on. Not only is our Lord known for his honesty and truth, but look with me also in this passage. He is not here. He is risen. He is risen. Our Lord has broken through all man made defenses. There is all kinds of Just to make sure you remember earlier the people said that is uh the uh in Matthew twenty seven, verse fifty three, said we remember how that imposter that's how they viewed him, said still alive. After three days I will rise again. Therefore, order the sepulchre to be made secure until the third they let his disciples go and heal him away and tell the people he's risen from the dead. And the last rod will be Worse than the first. So they did everything. They put that God there, they kept him there, hoping that Jesus Christ will walk in the grave. But not so. On that morning, my friend, after I don't believe for a moment that the angel as we find in verse two I don't believe that the angel rolled back the stone so Jesus can come out of the grave. I don't think even that it was the earthquake that rolled our Jesus that Our Lord Jesus die from the grave. No. He says, I make out my life and I take it up again. He walks by his own power. He walks from the death by his own accord. He triumphed over the good. Yes, you and I are afraid of death. Death is the greatest enemy of mankind since the diagnosis. Death has won triumph and victory over every human being. The glory is of the world. our blood and since there is a word, sad is not substantial thing. And there's no armor against death, against faith. Death made those icy hands on all things. And capture and come and come over that. And in that day we all are made equal. We are all afraid of the death. But here Jesus Christ, who has sought a matchless victory over death, he is arisen, and that is the Lord you have. Triumph and triumph until But this if you have such a Lord, is it too much to brag about him? Is it too much to tell people that they no longer have to die, there is Christ in Christ for them. Jesus won them victory, and then he will need It says in Revelation 1, verse 6, he says, I die. And I'm alive forevermore. Have you ever heard anyone say I die? Well, I had I had some people on the TV. They said they died. And some time ago, they were fellows, they were kings, they were princesses, and that kind of thing. Now we have confidence. No, that's not the kind of death we're talking about. Jesus said, I died. And I'm alive forevermore. Again, the key absolute authority over death we have on us who has won smackless victory over death. Nothing stands before him, you see. So if he is my Lord, nothing really can stand before him. My Lord said to me, or said in the word uh John, he said, A day is coming when he goes in the grave thou who hear his voice. will come out of the grave. He's able to awaken people from the dead. He's able to lose all bonds, no matter what the bonds are being alcoholic, any kind of bonds that people will raise up. Lord is able to melt it because the Bible says mountain mountain smelt like wax before. That is the Lord you have. He's inflatable in his character. And his power. So it's also what you have accomplished. He is not yet. He is risen. He's not a victim of circumstances. He is risen. I remember one time I was talking to these People and they were telling me uh people have believed a lie. You know, people don't like the resurrection of our Lord. They don't they hate it. You know, not that we disrespect it. Muslims hate it. In fact, the Muslims Will tell you that he was never been crucified. Only a new appearance was given unto them. And so we argue back and forth. But I thought about this. Well, let's take a roll-call right now among the dead. And I will begin by calling the name of Confucius. Confucius. And he will say, Here I am in the game. He is dead. Buddha, here I am. He will respond. Today he will respond among the dead. Well, call all these great men. Muhammad, here I am he will respond. But when you call the name of Jesus, be all with one according. I don't say, why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here. He is risen. Hallelujah. You can be saying I told you that we follow. He is risen. He is not among the dead. He is risen. This is the Lord we have. He has accomplished something that no other human beings have accomplished. You know? Jesus first defended his own bees and actually John chapter 5 gives an incredible testimony. If people say Jesus never said he was God, you will read John 5. He said, I tell is something more and you'll be angry some more. He says, I do the work of the Father. I also perform the work of resurrection and judgment. Now someone, if he's to be the judge of the whole world, my friends, he needs to have something better than their slotty bread. He better, he better have an infallible memory. Something that is able to recall my sins over sins that are hidden Things that are accomplished, he must be able to recall all without any effort. And Jesus said, On that day, I will recall all those things. I am going to be the just because it's the The Father has committed all judgment unto me so that people will honor the sand just as they honor the father. Thank God. That day, those trustworthy. Will meet him on that day. Those people who have been judged in the name of this great Lord Jesus Christ will meet him on that day. But I don't have to meet him as a judge. The God is an entire. Critical eye for uh uh just an eye for scrutinizing every detail. This God looks at my face, he sees everything, and yet in spite of all that he says, there is certainly. You because you are in Christ Jesus. I mean he's done this, it's covered in his blood. Is it too much? Is it too much? To take rest to tell people about such a laws. Let me tell you a story, I won't charge you for I left in Virginia. I was picking up a missionary in Virginia, uh Paul Trent. And lessons were given me perfectly, said go down fifty and then take sixty-fit and all So that was my first time uh not first time but second time of going to Virginia. So I got to Tiffany and then took 56 and then closed down the road. I wasn't speedy. And then I go to the ex of the exit, and lo and behold, you know these cars with some funny toy on the blue, blue and red toy. They stopped me in the corner and in our been listening to somebody on the radio. So I mean I was so excited about what I was hearing. You know stayed in the car for about fifteen minutes before this new slave came with an a form. I said, what's wrong? You say you are going to H O V third. So I said, what H O B He said how to penalty vehicle. I said, what does that mean? You should have had three people in your car. I wanted to tell him, don't didn't you see three people at the front of the front, the whole study. But I I couldn't do that. So I asked him how much? He said if you go if you don't go to court and all that is going to cost you fifty five dollars and I said I'll go to court. So I waited and a month later I went to court. I tell you that was a most scary experience. I mean the people in that court here were just like the people here. I mean as many as that and everybody was accused of some violation of some sort. So here I want something. It was a very eerie feeling. I mean, I am guilty and I I hated every policeman, any policeman here. I hated them. To watch them things there was one policeman. I said uh I have to feed a leader, please. What do I do? What's the procedure? And this guy wouldn't even look at me. So let me do resting the case. To cut a long story short, wait until about 11 o'clock, the case was called and the judge sitting on that bench. Mr. Arthur, you are guilty, you are accused of this. How do you please? I looked at him, I said, guilty of explanation. And I lied before him. I lied. He said, I've never been to Virginia before. And by the way, I live in Baltimore. and I saw this 53 because that's all I was looking for. So I got there and looked that he didn't give me a chance. If I had made a mistake, it never even gave me a chance. So the gentleman, of course if you're living in Baltimore We advertise it. You have no way of knowing it. I dismissed the case. I said I ran from the court. I ran away when he dismissed the case. But when I was going home, look at that. Here was this judge who didn't know me. about me. And my life is going to be set me free. Can we lie before that God on that day? My friends, if you are here and you are not covered by the blood of Jesus Christ, I'll challenge you. And you hide the fleet for refuge under him. He set us free. He has broken all bonds and all chains that have slayed us in the earth with Jesus Christ. But let's go on in this text. There is another motivation for being obedient unto our laws. No it's with me. When the dec when the angel told them to go and give this message that Message the good news that indeed Jesus Christ is not an imposter, Jesus Christ did not die as a martyr, but Jesus Christ is risen as the only Savior of the world. What is what they did? people ran. They ran, but uh it they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and with joy and ran to tell his disciples. The point I want to make with this verse. While they were going, Jesus met them. What we are learning from the lives of these people and from all of Scripture is that when I said we ought to be obedient, we ought to be excited because there is joy. in obedience. These people were going to see Jesus in Galilee. That's what the angel said. You will see him in Galilee. But when they obeyed the instructions and went in the process of obedience, guess what? And we met Jesus. Hallelujah. I said you're not going to enjoy the blessings of the Lord until you obey. There's no other way. There's no other way except we trust and obey. You never shout that messaging abandonment. The Bible had already promised that I will be with you. Even in the fire, I will be with you. God didn't tell them, Shazak Metak and Abednego, you stay back. No. They went into the fire. And it was each the fire but the wall with among them. And there was a testimony about um what about Ananias? Do you remember Ananias when the Lord said you go and Take care of Saul of Talatus and all that. When Ananias obeyed, guess what? He realized the father of the gospel. How can this matter be a Christian? And his first thing was to embrace him and says, Brother Saul. It was in obedience, that is experience, that joy. And these disciples are telling us indeed there is in obedience that we will need Jesus. I have so many testimonies I could have given. But let you think I'm some kind of great person, I will not give you. If you want to pay, I'll give you later. But there is something wrong. Notice what they did. This joy. Look at how they responded. We've already seen the motivation, the motivation of love, the motivation of the character and power of our Lord Jesus Christ. But now look at the response. If we know all this about our Lord, how do we respond? Two, the missionary task. Who Two, the challenge for evangelism. Look with David 8. So they drop their feet and said, Oh, God is a killed jaw. He really doesn't care for us. And look at what he's doing. Oh, what a dry. Is that what they did? They departed quickly from the tomb. They ran, the Bible says. And with fear and great joy. I don't have time to go. the whole concept of great joy. But notice when the angel brother said good news to the shepherds, the Bible says they left with what? Great joy. It's an intense emotion. Intense joy. But for the sake of time, I'm just driving at this point. Why in the world does Matthew have fear and grave God? Almost all commentators I've read seem to say these ladies were after. These ladies were were still not believers and therefore they had this fear. I it's a conjecture, it's not true. I was amazed that the first word that Jesus Christ uttered to them, just not do not be afraid. And I feel that combination tells us something about their response. There was an excitement. There was a heart involvement. These people were children. These people were overjoyed. And they ran and took hold of the message and delivered the message. Now I'm not suggesting for one moment that all of us become explorants. I am not. different personalities. I know that. I know that some of you, even if we step on you, you will talk. I know that. I know that. But I also I have also seen some of you are saying vulgar in the 19 inning when the orders were down by three parties. Two hours. Nine. And when I had married all of a sudden, he has one man. I screened some of you at the baseball game. What's the difference? It's heart involvement. Your heart was involved and once your heart gets engaged with whatever is your object of aberration, you just can't go down. What is the You are telling us how responsive what we get professional. I am a professional missionary. I was trained in the terminal. Hogwarts. I love that word when I learned. Hogwarts. Okay. We have entangled our hearts. The Apostle Paul said, When I came to you, I did not carry the elephants. I came doing the work of the Lord with what? With all humility and with tears. At 20, with all tears, was he scared that this was his first sermon and left from you know shaking in his boots? No. My heart was involved in this. And I want to challenge you. Let us be excited. Let us put our hearts. In the past, because our Lord Jesus Christ is worthy of our excitement. But I also know that why we get excited when we are living in an age where people, because of self-centeredness, You know how this uh the careless excitement it runs in all kinds of directions. No, the expression with fear and grave joy tells me that exuberance was hardly. It was harnessed. By an outward look. It was hardness by a look at the awesomeness of the task. It was no mean job. It was no mean task. It was a holy job, my friend. Because if we don't do that, we run in all kinds of directions and make a mess of the job. But my friends, these People are telling us our joy and our excitement must be not lucky-minded but must but must be controlled by an awareness of the nature of the task and the nature of the one who has called us. With fear and with great joy. Evangelism. Mission. It's not just something the church does. Only one missionary Is authentic, and that is Jesus Christ. He is the only international missionary who came from heaven and came to this corrupt world. If I require, I would never have come to the world. I would have used a good Would he have lived to give you the message? But Jesus Christ broke through all of it. He came into our world where we drink sin like water. We love the sin. That's our nature. We degrade him for. We are hostile. enemies to God and yet he came and humbled himself and robbed shoulders. That is the missionary. His task was the holy tongue. And if we have been born again and given the spirit of Christ by sense we ought to remember that the instance of evangelism is a holy task. There is no place for on the hand of cunning wings and frivolous. No, my friends, it is a holy task. A temp Representation of Jesus Christ. Yeah, don't have to wait for Alan to be around someday to be a nice, you know, person. Now, I like used to notice illustration, and Allah was committing For two minutes. Now that you all know me. Supposedly you didn't know me. You never met me anywhere. And then you came to the Columbia Mall. And he saw me with one of these girls, you know, dressed in the back of the car doing what everybody does, what would you have said about me? That isn't it? That's very free. You say that's that's normal, right? That's normal. Not that you're happy. That is the contact. Now, now that you know me, if you were to have come to the mall the same place and you would have seen me with another woman doing the same thing, what would you say? The first thing is to pick up the phone and That's the new growth. Come and see what he's doing. And you see, the mere presence, your mere presence, especially if I'm able to see you, when I see you, I will stop and I'll pretend as though I am listening to this woman. It's just your mere presence. But who are you? What can you do? All you can do is talk about me. You can do anything, but your presence is enough to let me do what is right, right? What about God? What about God? Who can spite you? Yes, even at that moment. The mere thought of God, this is the Reformation principle, the before and go, living in the presence of God. It's the Holy Castle, wherever we go. Just remember that our God is there. Once we do that, we look at people differently. We will not be ashamed. We will not be intimidated by their faces. We will be motivated by the love of our Lord Jesus Christ. And tell them the good news. Jesus Christ is ready. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, you have loved us with incredible love. But we who are no people have now been made a people of God. before you father thank you for this honor and privilege you've accorded us to be your personal representative to declare the praises of you who called us out of darkness into your master's life. who felt our coldness and our indifference and our floodness, O Lord. And we would ask that. You would work in our hearts to conform us to the image of your dear son, who said, My food is to do the work. will of him that sends it. Master, confirm us. Let the Holy Spirit challenge our heart and drive us. Let him set before us the glory of God in the face of Christ Jesus. That we might lift that great name. We might put Jesus Christ on the showcase, both here and abroad, that we might have a broader perspective. That indeed our Lord owns the whole wealth. And He ought to reign over all. well. Oh Father, give us no rest until we listen Jesus Christ, in whose name we preach with thanksgiving. Amen.