Just recently I received an email from a fellow believer. I'll leave their gender and age to your imagination. And what caught my attention first was the subject line. One word. Rough R-O-U-G-H. As I read the email, they went on to recount several events associated with this ongoing situation in their life It relates particular to one individual. They're trying to live by faith. They're trying to do the right thing. They're trying to follow God's way. It just seems that When things take a turn for the upward motion. Sin rears its ugly head and dashes any hope that they have of an encouraging outcome. And the subject line was particular in that as they recounted this event and their reaction to it and then their uh uh the emotion and the and the aftermath of of these Various encounters, and apathy has seems to have clouded over the author of the email, and they acknowledge that they have difficulty reading the Bible And even mustering the energy to pray. The rationale went something like this: I don't know if I'm mad at God. Or if I just don't have the time, or if I just don't care, or what. But I'm so tired. I just don't want to do it anymore. See, this person is hurt, and they're tired of hurting. And I wonder tonight, as we come to the table of the Lord As we come to these promises that are physically represented in the body and the blood of Jesus Christ given for sinners Like you and like me, in a weary world. We just heard Pastor Randy talk about the oppression, the persecution of that early church. Brand new church. They eyewitnesses of the resurrection, not 2,000 years removed, but eyewitnesses And the prayers for boldness and the prayers for a persevering grace and the prayers for energy to face another day. And that's where, if we're honest, right, that's where we live. It's the world in which we live. It's the world in which those of us that love God find ourselves in opposition to those who are hostile to God. When we hear of the mission fields, Cape Cod, Brazil, and Japan, and Oakland Mills, and Longreach, and Wild Lake, and Centennial. in River Hill. And we know what we have to deal with, right? Maybe some of you tonight So is there anything that God could offer us from his word? Is there anything that he could say to us to speak to that kind of despair? I'm not trying to be down or I'm trying to be a realist. Because if we're realists, we get to see that yes, indeed, there is something that God has to offer to us. Not only the word preached, but the word and sacrament. Jesus Christ has brought hope. He's brought peace. He's brought reconciling peace. And he's brought an exuberant joy. I'd like to tell you tonight, I'd like to read my reply to that person to say, see how this wise counsel just popped them out of that and now they're no longer sad and now they're really happy and they skip going to work or these other encounters. They whistle. There's a bluebird on their shoulder. It's the truth. It's actual. Everything is satisfactual But I can't tell you that. I haven't seen their reply to my reply, so I don't know what they think But it might go something like this. If you have a copy of the scripture, invite you to Psalm 79. I want to read one verse, but I'm going to kind of skip back and forth in several verses in this psalm. The Psalm of Lament, Psalm of Asaph. I want to read from 79 verse 9. The psalmist says this. This is, you know, the psalms are structured that starts with this uh prayer and lament and and and the crying out for God and then it gets to a pinnacle. It's either down here or it's up here, but there's a point at which the song takes a turn This is it. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name. Deliver us and atone for our sins. For your name's sake. Help us, O God, of our salvation, for the glory of your name. Deliver us and atone for our sins. For your name's sake. It's a Psalm of Lament written by Asaph, probably as he's seen the devastation brought against Jerusalem by the enemies of God. They've desecrated the temple. They've uh in fact you see in the first couple of three or four verses, the bodies, the dead bodies are literally scattered around the field, and the blood that has been shed is running like water. And he's seeing this scene. Jerusalem ransacked. People in exile. The name of God besmirched and scorned. Derided, laughed at. Their bodies have been left as food for the birds of the air, he says. Their blood's poured out like water. So many dead people that he says they can't even bury the bodies. There's real exposure to the fallen world here. There's a connection point for us. It's the world that we live in. Right? It's 2014, but this is the world we live in. Unless the Holy Spirit invades the heart, the heart is opposed to God. And so the psalmist, and seeing the wanton disregard for God and God's people, he cries out, How long, O Lord, will you be angry forever? Verse 5: How long, O Lord? Notice the psalmist doesn't cry out, Why is this happening, O Lord? He knows why it's happening. Because the world is hostile to God But there's a promise even in that lament. How long, O Lord? He knows that it's not forever. It's not forever. How long, O Lord? Will you be angry forever? Will your jealousy burn like fire? And then the psalmist Asaph goes on, pour out your anger on the nations. Do the things to vindicate the honor of your name. Stand up, Lord, be accounted for. Show them who you are. And as he's going through that, the prayer for vindication shifts, and he begins to realize as I pray for justice. I better cry out for mercy. And that's what happens as we approach the verse that we're looking at. Psalmist cries out for vindication. Pour out your wrath. On the nations that do not acknowledge you, on the kingdoms that do not call upon your name, those who do not trust in you, Lord, show them who you are. And then the change of perspective. Have mercy Do not remember against us our former iniquities. Let your compassion come speedily to meet us. We are brought low. Help us. Help us, O God, of our salvation. For the glory of your name, deliver us and atone for our sins. See, what happens in that heart is what happens in our hearts. That's one part of my reply to this in uh email author. Sometimes we read the word to get something out of it for ourselves. And I suggested respectfully, possibly try to read the word for the glory of God. God does all things for his own glory. Perhaps maybe he just wants to show you who he is again. Perhaps he wants to show you that he is in control over all things. Perhaps God wants to show you that one of the greatest things that you should be considering. Is that, like Gary mentioned earlier, our sins are forgiven. So ASAP realizes in this verse, I believe, three things quickly. He cries out from his position of need. He's gotten to the point now where The destruction is rampant. He's seen all of these things. The the the cry for uh for justice is going up. He knows that he cannot defeat the armies of the Lord And he realizes it's about a sinner crying out to a creator, a righteous creator. So from a position of need, Asaph says, help us, deliver us, forgive us. You see, the thing that's in view there is we need to be saved. from the penalty, the power, and the presence of sin. Quite simply put, that is our biggest problem The email author has problems. You've got problems. I've got problems. All Lord's children got problems. But the greatest need that we have is that there is a wrath coming for sin Unrepented sin is going to be dealt with in a way that penitent sinners will not be dealt with. So from a position of need, he sees his need. And there's only one source of help. That's why he cries to who? Our God, our Savior. God the omnipotent one, God the righteous one, God the Savior. So he sees from the position of need, he cries out Resting in the power of the name. That's the second point. God does all things for his own glory. You've heard it talked about often on when we do the children's catechism. Who made you? God. What else did God made? God made all things. Why did God make you and all things? For his own glory. God does all things for his own glory. That's why when we're commanded, whether we eat or drink or whatever we do, do all to the glory of God. Because if we're on the same wavelength as God Himself, we can rest assured that we are in His will. Do all for the glory of God. God does all things for His own glory and for the honor of His name. He does these things. That's what Asaph cries out. The power of the name. That's why we're commanded not to take the name of the Lord in vain. It's not just a curse word. It's those of us who claim to be Christians, those of us who claim that name, we're not supposed to act as if we're not That's taking it in vain. It's living in vain. I belong to the risen Savior. I've been cleansed by his shed blood. The Son of God was crushed for my iniquity. And when we live as if those statements aren't true, we take the name in vain. It's important to God the honor of his name. Asaf calls out to those two names, our God and our Savior. We've been going through Acts, as you well know I don't know if we'll spend all this time in Ephesians, but we've got some Acts sermons planned. And we've been in Acts and we've seen that at the end of Luke, Luke, the author of Acts, Jesus sits with those disciples and he says Forgiveness of sins and repentance will be preached in my name. First in Jerusalem and then to the othermost parts of the earth. And then as Acts picks up, we see the same thing happening. We see in Acts 2. 38, Peter says to that crowd gathered on the day of Pentecost, repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. What? For the forgiveness of your sins. Repentance and forgiveness of sins preached in the name. In Acts chapter 3, when Peter is standing before that uh council after that lame man is healed. He says to them, I tell you then, repent therefore and turn back. Repent. That your sins may be blotted out, repentance and forgiveness of sins. And we heard this morning from Acts 5:31 that God exalted him at the right hand. Leader, the founder, the champion of our faith and Savior to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. That's the message. Because our greatest need is not these problems that we have. The problems are there because of sin. The greatest need is to have a heart of repentance, which is a gift, and forgiveness of sins, which has been purchased by another. So Asaf cries out from his position of need, and he cries out in the power of the name, for your name's sake, Lord, for the sake of your name, for the glory of your name. And the third point is that Asaph remembers that he's crying out the promise, resting in the promise of the never-forsaking God. They sap prize to the covenant-making, covenant-keeping, faithful God. When he makes a promise, he will keep a promise We know nothing of that on this level. Sometimes we get it right. We make a promise, we keep a promise And it's a rare and wonderful thing, and we celebrate it. We should celebrate it more often. But when God makes a promise, he keeps a promise, and Asaph calls that to his reader's attention. There at the end of the Psalm verse 13, but we, your people, the sheep of your pasture, we will give thanks to you. Not just temporarily, not just now, not just in the moment. We will give thanks to you forever and from generation to generation and you can go ahead and Expand that from generation to generation to generation, we will recount your praise. We're gonna worship you, God, because you are the faithful one. When you make a promise about granting a heart of repentance and about giving the forgiveness of sins based on the shed blood of another, you will keep that promise. So that when we look at our situation Whatever it is that causes us to feel the emotion, whatever it is that causes us to feel like the need for deliverance is pressing in on every side. God calls us to his word. It's a very positive psalm, but it's a psalm of lament. How can that be? Because God has the answer. God has the solution. When the need to be delivered from sin presses in on us, Christ presents Himself as the Lamb who shed his blood to forgive us our sins. When the weight of living, like Randy mentioned this morning, when the weight of living like a pilgrim in a land of exile, in a hostile world, not a hospitable world out there. When the weight of living in that world presses in on us, Christ presents Himself as the solution to all who call upon the name. So we don't, like Randy mentioned this morning, we don't look to political leaders. We don't look to human leaders. We look to the leader. We look to the author and finisher of our faith. We look to the one who remembers his covenant eternally. And when he gathered with his disciples on the night in which he was betrayed, he remembers and he instructs us. To partake of this in remembrance of him. That's what we do tonight. We see that he's the God who saves. He's the God who saves. He's the God who grants repentance. And he's the God who forgives sins. And he did so Through the most precious promise ever given. This table is a picture of the best promise God ever made to man All who receive my Son by faith will be saved. You will not be put to shame. This blood will cover every one of your sins, past, present, and future. This body was given for you. His life lived because you're not righteous. But he is the righteous one. And we receive these elements tonight by faith. It's an act of worship. It's a step of faith. There is no visible manifestation of God here, but there is a picture of God that he has given to his church And regularly and recurring on a regular basis, we come and we sup at the table of the king. It's for you, sinner. It's for all those who have been baptized in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. It's for any and all who, by faith, have said to the watching world, I am unfit and unable to come to God on my own. If I am too It must be by the mercy of our God and Savior alone. It's the table for those who Feel keenly the weight of their sin. And they don't look to themselves to atone for their sin. They look away from themselves to Christ. This table is for believers. It's for you. It's for you to come and to fellowship with Christ as he strengthens you for tomorrow. This table is not for anyone who has not made that public statement of faith in Christ. It's a warning that the scriptures give us. You're not supposed to partake of this meal if that's not your testimony, if that's not your life, if that's not what you've committed yourself to. So, as we partake of this, as we pray in just a moment here, let's ask the Lord to work in our hearts to cause us, like Gary said, this is a meal of celebration. It's a freeing, celebrative, celebratory meal. We cannot do the Christian walk. We cannot defeat the enemy of God. We come to eat with the one and to partake of the one who has. Amen. Let me pray for us and we'll do just that. Our gracious God, we uh pray now that you would meet us by your Spirit. In a particular way for each of us, Lord, there are many in this room who long to fellowship with you By the Spirit tonight. And by faith they receive the bread and the and the wine, realizing that you have given yourself to them. Lord, we want to commit ourselves to live for you. So strengthen. Lord, there are many uh covenant children here with us as well. And they've not come to that point where they've made the public profession. So they participate In this service with us by observing what this is. And I pray, Lord, that you would make each and every one of their hearts long for that day when they can fellowship with you. And take of the bread and drink of the cup and realize Christ given for me and rejoice. Lord, I do pray for any who have heard the warning and they're going to refrain from partaking tonight. I pray that this would not be a night where they walk away confused. But this would be a night that after we have the closing that they would seek out someone or many and ask questions and then, Lord, come to you by faith, receiving, believing, and living in the grace that you provide. Lord, help us now to worship you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen.