Let's give our attention again to God's Word, that same passage that we considered last week. Matthew chapter 26, verses 17 to 25. On the first day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread The disciples came to Jesus and asked, Where do you want us to make preparations for you to eat the Passover? He replied, Go into the city to a certain man and tell him, the teacher says my appointed time is near. I am going to celebrate the Passover with my disciples at your house. So the disciples did as Jesus had directed them and prepared the Passover. When evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the twelve. And while they were eating, he said, I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me. They were very sad. They began to say to him one after the other, Surely not I, Lord. Jesus replied, The one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will betray me. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. But woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man! It would be better for him if he had not been born. Then Judas, the one who would betray him, said, Surely not I, Rabbi. Jesus answered, Yes, it is you. Sometime around the time that the angels were rejoicing over the birth of the one born in a manger in Bethlehem. And there was also rejoicing in the home of Simon of Kirah, twelve miles south of Hebron, in the hill country of Judea. The parents who had a little son named him Judas, Judas of Karyoth. Judas meaning praise of God or the confessor, as a hopeful designation that he would in fact turn out to be a man of God. And in fact, he did turn out to be a young fellow of unusual ability and keen spiritual interest. So much so that the Lord Jesus sincerely called him to be one of his twelve closest disciples. It's against all biblical evidence to think that Jesus chose Judas to be a traitor. Jesus consistently, through his ministry toward the end, warned Judas to turn from the way that he was moving. No, I think we have to believe that Jesus saw in Judas a sincere seeker after himself. And the Judas originally sought after Jesus with sincere motives. And so Judas arose to the inner circle of Christian leaders, not only of his own day. But of any day, he lived with Jesus Christ himself for three years. And he did that at considerable sacrifice to himself. He had to leave his home, he had to leave all his security and follow after Jesus. Surely he had noble motives in his original decision to follow Jesus Christ as Messiah. Surely he had considerable enthusiasm, religious, spiritual enthusiasm for the things of God. But he also had one problem. And that one problem was that he had an unbroken will That never submitted itself to Jesus Christ as Lord. He worked with, he laughed with the other disciples as a trusted equal. He preached the gospel with them. He cast out demons with them. He was so trusted by them that when one day they decided that they needed someone to keep the treasure. To keep the community pursed, they chose Judas. And so Judas was chosen as their treasurer. There were no suspicions by any of the others That Judas was any different from them. In fact, when Jesus says in the passage that we just read, I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me None of them suspect Judas any more than themselves. Judas is totally trusted. Among the twelve. In fact, the Bible indicates in John 13, 27 to 30, that when Jesus has told Judas that it's him. And then when Judas makes ready to go, Jesus says to him, What you do, do quickly. The other disciples hear that. And still they think that Judas is simply going out. To give something to the poor. No suspicion of him to the very end. It's kind of scary, isn't it? I don't know about to you But that's a profound observation to me. Because it says that right within this room There are some who could sing just moments ago, O sacred head thou wounded, and sing it in the most sincere In the most convincing way, as one who belongs to Jesus Christ, and yet in fact your heart be far from him Pretty scary, isn't it? Last week, it seems that God's Spirit, in an unusual way, used his word. For a number of you responded through this week. Responded in concern about your own relationship with Jesus Christ. In a healthy self-examination concerning the sin in your own life and what that meant, and whether, in fact, you did have a saving interest to Jesus Christ. And I was really glad to see that. I hope that some of you have gained since that time a more solid biblical assurance. But there may be some of you who felt like you escaped last week. You're a little uncomfortable for a few moments there. But yet You still have not submitted your own will to Jesus. You alone know who you are. I have no desire to rob any of you who truly belong to Jesus by faith of any of the peace of your assurance, no concern whatsoever. But I do think that every once in a while it is good for us to take an honest look at our hearts and to realize that we are not good people. That our hearts are basically the same heart as Judas. And unless Jesus Christ comes to change that heart You and I are capable of exactly the same things that he did. That you and I need to come again to realize we don't add Jesus and his word. To our own efforts to somehow cause that mixture to be acceptable to God. But apart from Jesus Christ, there is no good whatsoever in us. And that God would use that to cause us to cast ourselves on Him anew. Or perhaps for some of you to realize that you have never submitted your will to Jesus. You've continued to pretend that you know him. And you in fact have never come to know him. What was it that caused Judas's downfall? Consider with me, insert yourself. That you might find true peace this morning in Jesus Christ. And if you find that as you look, you think that perhaps you have been deceiving yourself, as Judas was. I want you to stop, and I want you to stop today. I don't want to go one more day with you in that confusion or in that possible position. That we would have, if the Lord Jesus were to come today, were to come right during this service, that there'd be some of you who'd be left behind and wouldn't go to be with him. I'm so serious about this that I'm not going to teach during the second hour this morning. I've arranged so that I can be totally free. And I'm going to be upstairs in room 203, C203. If you were to go out that door there where the upper exit sign is on this balcony and go right down the hall, right through the double doors. It's the third door on the right, just after those double doors. And if any of you this morning find the Spirit of God speaking to you to say, I want to make sure. For once in my life, I want to make sure, do I really know Jesus Christ? I plead with you and I encourage you with all my heart. Don't go to class. Don't leave. Don't go home. Don't go out for coffee. Don't do whatever you plan to do. Come, talk to me. If we need more elders, we'll get more elders. If we need other times, we'll get other times. But come to C-203 that we can make sure about your relationship with Jesus Christ. Eternity depends on it. But now what was it that caused Judas's downfall? I want us to see that he was not that different from you and me. What is it that caused him, with a heart that perhaps was not that much different from you or from me, to become so corroded after such sincere religious impulses? That he could actually betray Jesus Christ into the hands of murderers. What could do that? I think Judas is often misunderstood. And I want us to try and understand him, and in doing that, to understand our own hearts better this morning. Somewhere in the previous three years of Judas following Jesus as his master Judas' heart gradually became estranged from Jesus Christ. No doubt he had deeply admired Jesus. He had wanted to follow him. But he had a deeper love, a love for things, a love for wealth, a love to satisfy himself Now, that in itself doesn't distinguish Judas from you and from me. I don't know about you, but I struggle with my love for things. Who among us here in this room could claim that we are immune from the temptations of materialism? Who of us would claim that we don't find ourselves grasped By a love for things in a way that's very uncomfortable and sometimes comes between us and Jesus. That's not the difference. What's the difference? The difference was that Judas never admitted that it was wrong. Judas never confessed it. Judas never came to Jesus with the problem. Judas kept it a secret. And in keeping it at a secret, unwilling to admit that it was wrong, he began to rationalize it and began to convince himself that it was justifiable. You see, it's our secret sins that are our undoing. Those things that you're willing to confess into your small group or to your prayer partner or to your husband or your wife or to your best friend. Those things that you're willing to admit, this is a struggle in my life, it is wrong, I hate it, I wish I was rid of it, I don't understand why I'm not, I've been years a Christian and it still hangs on to me Those are not the things that divide you ultimately from the Lord. It's the things that you don't want anyone else to know about. And are unwilling to share as sins, and therefore find it easier and easier to rationalize within your own heart. It was the secret rationalizations of helping himself to the community purse that was Judas' undoing. John tells us that he used to pilfer the money out of the common purse. No doubt he told himself It's not really stealing. I mean after all, we all own it, don't we? Me as well as the rest of 'em. And don't I deserve a little extra compensation for the time and the trouble that I have to take in taking care of this? Surely I have a right to a little bit more. And after all, it's only a loan. I'll pay it back sometime. But he told no one else about it And each time he took a little bit more out of the purse, he found it a little easier to rationalize, a little easier to keep it a secret. A little easier to justify himself in what he was doing. And so the tension that began to build within Judas of living a secret life That turned into a life of duplicity, deception, and hypocrisy finally came to a climax at the Passover. Why? Because just six days before the Passover, Mary in Bethany had anointed Jesus with a very costly perfume as a lavish act of love and devotion to Jesus. And do you remember that it was on that occasion that Judas rudely objected to her doing that because he said that money could have been used, it could have been sold in the money used to give to the poor. And John says that Judas had no such concern for the poor. He just simply wanted more money in the treasury so he could take it for himself. And Jesus publicly rebuked Judas on that occasion. And he said, What she's done is a good thing. Leave her alone. The rebuke must have sung. And at that moment, Judas was faced with a decision. He had to decide immediately, would he fall down and confess and say finally, Lord, you have hit me right in my heart. I have been living a double life. I've been really wanting the money for myself. I've been greedy for things. And they've been more important to me than the poor or even you. And he would risk the humiliation in front of all the rest of the disciples in leveling and opening himself up as a needy sinner. He was faced with that possibility. He could have done that and been forgiven. But he didn't Instead, the rebuke alienated him from Jesus. He refused to admit his sins. The Bible tells us that that was the first time that Satan entered into him. At that point, Satan began to get a hold of his thinking. And it was shortly after that that Judas decided to sell Jesus for thirty pieces of silver. The psychological equivalent, I would say, in today's market of about $7,000 to $8,000. Fair amount of money. Too tempting for Judas to resist. What about your own life? Is there something that you've been rebuked by God's word or other Christians about? You find yourself not teachable? You're not willing to admit that that's a problem in your life. And you continue to rationalize and you continue to excuse. And so it has a tighter and tighter grip upon you. What was it that was going through Judas' mind when he betrayed Jesus? The innocent son of man who had done nothing but help and love him for the three years that they had been together. What could have been in his mind that he could betray him into the hand of murderers? I think that you and I overestimate what Judas was trying to do. My own guess, and it's not much more than an educated speculation, but my own guess in this is that Judas probably was thinking Jesus can take care of himself. I've seen him walk out of crowds of enemies before. No one can lay a hand on him if he doesn't want them to. He's able to take care of himself. And so to me, this is simply some easy money. Another subtle rationalization of the fact that I can get rich easier by just putting aside some scruples, and I can still call myself a follower of Jesus. But with that decision came a more profound psychological change. And I think what's more profound is that at that point Judas became more comfortable with the enemies of Jesus than with the disciples of Jesus. He could sit with those who hated Jesus and be comfortable with them. And a sure sign of advanced cancer of your soul Is when and if you begin to find yourself more comfortable with the enemies of Jesus Christ than with his followers or alone in his presence. What's the state of your own heart with regard to that test? That's where Judas began to slide down the slippery slope to destruction. And so, one thing I believe is for sure, he had no idea into whose hands he was playing at that moment. I don't believe he had any idea that he was at that point being a a tool, the main tool in the hands of Satan, in his attempts to destroy Jesus and God's kingdom. I believe he was still rationalizing what he was doing. And it's the same for you and for me. Only eternity is going to reveal the consequences of those little sins, those little actions that you and I rationalize. And say, I can do this now, and I know it's wrong, but I really want to do it. And after all, it's not going to matter. It's only between me and the Lord, and He'll forgive me. But it really won't matter. Judas had no idea of the significance of what he was doing. And you and I have no idea of the significance of the things that we do. But that's okay. Jesus says, simply trust me and obey me. Let me take care of which things are significant and which things are of little significance. Your job is simply to trust me and to obey me this week in everything that I call you to do. And so Judas, not having, not seeing, not understanding that, still rationalizing. I believe that we see that he was rationalizing, because when he comes to the Passover. He's able to sit with the other disciples. He's able to talk with them. He's able to act as if everything is normal. He's able to pretend that everything's okay, even in his interaction with Jesus. So much so that the other disciples who've known him, lived with him for three years, still don't notice that anything is different or wrong. And so when Jesus says, the one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will betray me The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him. But woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man. It would be better for him if he had not been born. Judas is still able innocently to ask in verse 25, surely not I, Rabbi. Oh, the evil of a deceptive heart. The capacity of your heart and my heart to pretend among other people That everything is okay between us and the Lord. While inside we are churning with guilt, with dis-ease With a sense of alienation, with a sense that there's an unreality about it all. And if God's Spirit is speaking to you this morning. Don't neglect that dis ease. Judas did. And so even after Jesus looks him right in the eye and says, Yes, it is you. He's able to not flinch or to break down. And that's his second moment of decision, as I said last week. That's the second time when he could have come clean, he could have bowed before Jesus, he could have broken, and he could have said, Lord, Jesus, I can't believe what I was about to do. I was about to go out and to betray you for less than $10,000. I was about to sell you. Lord Jesus, the greed of my own heart, it's gripping me. Free me from it. But he simply looks at him and he acts as if nothing is wrong. What deception What hypocrisy you and I are capable of once we begin to rationalize our secret sins. Is this the moment of decision for you? I mentioned last week that John tells us at that moment Satan entered into Judas and controlled him. Perhaps for you this morning, you realize that for weeks or months or years you've been playing, pretending that you're a Christian. And now you realize in a cold sweat that you really are without Jesus Christ. Where there's deep concern and doubt. In your own heart about whether or not you truly belong to Jesus and would go to be with him if he were to come today. You can't think about that while you're talking up in the balcony. These are serious things. And I want you to listen to God's word. The Lord to be speaking to any of us this morning, how do you know if you're truly a Christian? Some people have asked that since last Sunday. We can't go through all the ways. But I think we can sum it up simply by saying That there's two questions you can ask yourself. Are you sure in your mind what Jesus has done for you? Are you sure that his substitutionary death as a sacrifice for sin was for your sin? Are you clear in what Jesus has done for you? That you're trusting not yourself, but Him for forgiveness and a new life? Are you clear what He has done for you that you could never do for yourself? The second question that I would have you to ask Is are you clear on what Jesus has done in you? Are you clear on what He has done in your life? That He has changed your heart so that when the Bible speaks to you, you realize that rather than to want to rebel, you want to obey. That whatever the Bible says for you to start doing or to stop doing, your heart's desire Beyond your own ability, you realize I did not used to want to do that. But now God's Spirit has changed me so that even though I still struggle with the sin And even though some sins still seem to have mastery over me, I want to please my Lord. The Bible is the rule of my life as a policy. I break the policy. I'm inconsistent with it. But it's still the policy that Jesus is the Lord of my life, and that means that I obey the Bible. I trust him in what he says to do. I'm growing in that. I see God working. Before Christ I used to love things and use people. And now more and more I'm tending to use things and love people. And that's only the work of Jesus in my life. It's a struggle. But I'm seeing evidence of what Jesus is doing in me. I'm clear on what He's done for me. And I'm seeing what he is doing in me. That's what it comes down to. And if you can see that Praise Jesus Christ in your heart now. I pray that many of you are feeling a tremendous sense of relief that you have, in fact, the gift of eternal life through Jesus Christ. But if you have doubts, if you're still fooling around with this, if in fact this is something that you're very unsure about Don't ignore that. Be honest with yourself this morning. Don't be alienated. By the rebuke of Jesus in your own heart right now. Come and see me. Up in room C-203, right down the hall, second floor up there. Hurts to be honest, doesn't it? You may be feeling right now like your insides are being torn out as you struggle with whether you want to come talk to me or whether you want to really finally give your life over completely to Jesus Christ. But you also realize with that struggle that it's right for you to do that. In fact, you may be feeling that this would be the first right thing you've ever really done. And how good it would be to come clean with God for the first time in your life. Don't put that off. For if you do, Satan will get a tighter grip on your life. Like the coils of a python. He will grip you ever more tightly. As you exhale the wooings of the Spirit in your own heart now, you'll find it more difficult to take the next breath. For Satan will have a tighter control on your life. Remember the fellow that I mentioned last week, who pounded the ground in frustration and agony, for he had played with God for so many years. Don't put it off. The Bible says that Judas refused, and only hours later he came to see As Tom read earlier, I have sinned in that I have betrayed innocent blood. But it was too late. Even then, he didn't turn to Jesus Christ for forgiveness. But he turned to despair. He put a noose around his neck and he hanged himself. He committed suicide in his despair. The Bible tells us in John 13, 30 that when Judas betrayed Jesus when he went out from the Passover, it was night. One of the key themes in the book of John is the interplay between night and dark, excuse me, night and daylight, between light and darkness. That theme of the tension between light and darkness runs through the Gospel of John. And it's telling us that Judas at that point gave himself over fully to the powers of darkness. For eternity, so that it would have been better if he had never existed. And for you to put off the call of the Spirit and the wooings. Of his work in your life now would perhaps make it better for you, in the perspective of eternity, to have never existed. Than to have denied the forgiveness and the new life offered in Jesus Christ. But let me finish with the good news. And that is that the Bible tells us that Jesus is the light. Jesus still offers to you, none of you is an exception. For every one of you, there is the possibility of full forgiveness of your sin, to have a clear conscience and a new life. In which you could know the freedom that Jesus Christ alone can give you, the sweet peace of knowing that your sins are forgiven and that you have a place with Him for eternity. Jesus is the light. Come to him to be forgiven now, to know that you're cleansed. To know that your heart, like my heart, while it is so like Judas, is a heart that's been forgiven and changed by Jesus Christ. And therefore, that we'll be able to be with him and look upon his face and know that he accepts us because of the work of Jesus on our behalf. Don't put off what the Spirit is saying to you this morning. What is he saying to you now? Don't respond to me now. Let's respond to him together in prayer. In the quiets of our hearts individually. Let's pray.