Yes, please be seated. Well again, I'm Pastor Bob and welcome. Very glad you are all here this morning. If you have your Bibles with you, but I invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 6. I'll begin reading at verse 37. Please join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And Lord, as always, Lord, I am reminded of its truth and its beauty And of my very great need, every time I open it, for your spirit to be at work, opening my eyes that I might see wonderful things in your word and your law. And Father, we pray that this morning, as your word is read, you would be working in each of our hearts, that we might learn something of who you are and who we are, and how we should live before you with one another. And Father, we pray that you would lead us forth from here with joy and great peace, because you are a God of truth, of love. You are a God of grace and compassion, and you are a God who tells us all that we need to know that we can live in a way like you, creative, as a blessing. Full of joy and hope, spreading peace. Lord, bless the reading of your word to this end And Lord, in the preaching that follows, and as much as it is helpful and faithful to what you've said, Lord, we ask your blessing on the preaching. Lord, make it useful. And Lord, as memorable as need be in each one of our cases. We ask these blessings in Christ Jesus' name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 6, beginning with verse 37, the Word of God. Judge not And you will not be judged. Condemn not, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven. Give, and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap, for with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you. He also told them a parable. Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit? A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone, when he is fully trained, will be like his teacher. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, brother? Let me take out the speck that is in your eye, when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye. You hypocrite. First, take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck that is in your brother's eye. This ends the reading of God's word. So with an overabundance of fairness and justice to you, I'm going to let you know that this is going to be a long sermon. There's three parts to this passage that are all grouped together by our translation that we use. The editors have, I think, rightly seen that all three of these little vignettes or parables or teaching moments. are grouped together under the great theme of judging, judging not, presuming to lead others when you can't see. Not being able to see because you've got horrific logs in your eye, and yet being greatly concerned about little imperfections in the sight of others. All these things fit together under judging not and each one of these two verse sections really deserves a book of its own, let alone a sermon. But we're going to put them all together. So I hope you had a big breakfast. Judge not and you will be judged is one of those verses that is, I think, taken out of context and misapplied as much as any other in Scripture. It's as if that verse can be invoked to say that you shouldn't have any firm opinions about anything at all. And you shouldn't have anything to say about anything that touches on other people or society in any respects ever. And I want to encourage you to think that that is not what this text is saying. Let me give you a very simple proof of that. When the Apostle Paul, moved by the Holy Spirit, gives standards for officers, for elders, and for deacons in the church, he says things like, man must be temperate. Not given to much wine. He must not be a brawler. Well, at some point the church and you who elect your officers have to make a judgment. You have to say, is Bob Burkis someone who's likely to get into fist fights with people? You have to make that judgment. And if if for example you see my dear friend Gary Aaron's coming in here regularly, all bruised up. you'll know that I'm probably not a candidate for ministry. The only way I'm winning a fight is if someone stands really, really still under a bright light And doesn't hit back. So that one's not a problem with me. If I'm a fighter, I will be in a body cast. But in any event You get the idea? There are things you have to judge about. You have to be discerning. Judge for yourselves is something both the prophets and Jesus himself and the Apostle Paul will say. What does it mean then when in this context, in this place, in the Sermon on the Plain, Jesus says to the crowds, his disciples, people from Tyre and Sidon, people from Judea and Jerusalem, Jews, Gentiles, believers, unbelievers at that point, disciples, apostles newly minted, and he says to all of them, Judge not, lest you be judged. Condemn not lest you be condemned. Forgive. Again, notice Luke's penchant for sets of four. The third is forgive so you're forgiven and give so that you're given. Two negative and two positive. Don't condemn, don't judge. Give, forgive. And his whole point in all of those is that how you treat other people is how you will be treated. That's the principle. How you treat others is how you will be treated. All of these are given their great explanation by this simple, simple appeal to something they would experience or see every single day of their life. Very abruptly. Good measure. Pressed down. Shaken together. Running over. Those words just jump out of the dialogue or the presentation of Jesus here. There's no noun at the beginning of this sentence to suggest good measure of what? All becomes clear, will be put into your lap, for with the measure you use it will be measured back to you. There are so many things we take for granted today. Things like refrigerators. How often do you go to the grocery store? Anybody? Couple times a week. How many of you go to the grocery store every single day? You know, in the ancient world, every single day. In the ancient world, where stuff wasn't perishable, it was not at all uncommon for every day you would go and get flour. Or grain if you were going to grind it yourself. And the way you do that is they didn't have fancy shopping bags with cool logos on them as marketing strategies. Instead, you had your outer cloak or robe And when you went to the stall in the marketplace in the city where someone was selling their grain or their wheat or whatever you're buying, you would make what they called a lap. You would take your outer garments and make a basket of it, and they would pour into that, however much. grain you had bought. And then you'd take that home. And then you'd make your flour. And the grain will keep a long time. But the more you process it by turning it into flour or by baking it bread, every step in that process it becomes more perishable. That's why in some parts of the world the baking of bread was a daily activity for the homemaker. It was done every day. And going to the marketplace was a regular fundamental part of life. And creating a lap and having somebody pour into it was something you saw every single day of your life. Except for on Sabbaths when the markets were closed. Now what does this mean? With the measure you use, it will be measured back to you That means that if you are kind and forgiving and nonsensorious and not judgmental People are going to treat you in a way that is kind and forgiving, nonsensorious, and not judgmental. And there's nothing in this text right here to suggest that that is limited to the judgment to come. And rather, there's everything in our common experience to see that when we develop in some segment or arena of our life a reputation for being a forgiving. gracious decent kind person people will generally treat us accordingly and if we treat people in a way that is abrupt judgmental, harsh, unkind, unforgiving, inflexible, we will often find that people are similarly very, very guarded around us. And Jesus is impressing upon his disciples, his apostles. Remember, the disciples are the crowds that are following him, his apostles are the twelve he appointed, the crowds are all of those people that are there to see what all the to-do is about. And he's telling all of them how you live your life is very much an index of how you're going to be treated. That's an important thing to learn, just as people. Kids, it's important to learn that if you want friends, be friendly. And it can't be overstated that this simple rule of life is something that Jesus was concerned about. But his concern goes far deeper than that. And it's not just about what you are willing to commit to in your outward life, because in in respects of judging and in condemning people. Those are things that in that ancient context tended to be active, visible, noticeable attitudes. You wouldn't talk to somebody. Remember how Jesus scandalized his apostles when he spoke to the Samaritan at the well. You wouldn't associate with people. You wouldn't share a cup with them. You wouldn't touch certain people. Who you condemned and who you judged was very clear in the ancient world. And while we tend to keep our judgments and condemnations more interior in today's world, They still show up on our Facebook pages. They still show up in the inner dialogue between our head and our heart. They show up in our more intimate conversations. And we need to be aware that how we treat others is how we ourselves will be treated, and that is something that cannot be separated. From the idea that God Himself will treat us as we treated others. Consider what Jesus says when his disciples ask him to teach them how to pray. And he says in that prayer, designed to be a daily prayer Forgive us our sins, our debtors. Forgive us our debts, our trans, however you learned it, whether you're a good Puritan descendant or a Lutheran, trespasses or debtors, as we forgive others. See, right there we're invoking this principle. Lord, treat us the way we treat others. Do you really want to pray that Do you really want your Father in heaven to treat you the way you treat the people who sin against you? Jesus right here is explaining why that's a somewhat daunting, if not frightening, thing to pray. Because he's saying that you will be treated the way you treat others. Earlier in the service, Anthony Swan read that passage from the Gospel of Matthew about the wicked servant, who is forgiven 10,000 talents and talents for a unit of weight that would be worth millions of dollars. Denari is like a hundred denarii is like a couple bucks. And Jesus is saying here that if you won't forgive the hundred bucks, why in the world would you think you'd be forgiven the hundred thousand, ten million dollars represented by all those talents? One of the reasons we must do all that we can to by prayer and discipline cultivate a non-judgmental attitude is because of future rewards. Those future rewards are right to be understood as how we're treated in our neighborhoods, our families, our church. as well as how the Heavenly Father will treat us. And notice with abundance. Imagine if you're there to buy your quart of grain and you create your your lap basket out of your outer garment and it is overflowing. It's too much to carry. Jesus is saying is that you will be rewarded in abundance according to how you treat others. He also brings up something else. He brings another lens to view the issue of how you think about others. You know, whenever you're judging someone or condemning them, or when you're not forgiving them, and that's the subtle one, in a way you're trying to lead that person For example, when I don't forgive somebody, I'm thinking they need to learn a lesson here. Ever thought that? Yeah, I know you all are raising your hands in your heart. You're good Presbyterians. I know you have. You thought, well, I'm gonna just leave no, I'm just leave them sit in their misery. They they had that coming. Maybe they'll learn something. Or when you for when you judge someone, you're going to help them out, aren't you? You're going to do what you need to to make sure they understand that. Yeah, that's not cool. And Jesus talks about this in the in the middle of these three passages about judging others, he talks about a blind person leading a blind person. And let me tell you something, that doesn't end well. Last Presbytery meeting, uh Stephen Smalley, Bill Cianella, Bob Bierkus. Okay, one of these is the odd man out. It's Stephen Smalley. And Stephen Smalley's like a mother duckling. And now I know that I tend to move around very naturally and at ease and comfortably in a place that I know Take me to a shopping mall or a theme park or a presbytery meeting. Where presbytery meetings, let me tell you something about presbyters. And presbyters, if you're not presbyterian, that means pastors and ordained elders. So I'm going to bag on them for a moment. They do not respect the basic traffic rules where if you're moving forward, you stay to the right and you always put on a turn signal if you're going to turn. They're just walking all over that church. And I think Stephen Smalley, we were at the snack area, and my dear brother Stephen was like, hey Bob, can you uh take Bill for a minute? because I I don't know, Bill I I I I think they had the pastries out and Stephen saw something he liked. And so I take Bill, I'm like, I got this buddy I walked him directly into the communion table. The other day I was gonna walk Bill into my house, walked him directly into the rail to get on the steps Blind people can't lead blind people. It's really a bad idea. And when we presume to be leading other people around By our judgments, condemnation, guidance. We we need to be very careful. The end is you're going to both fall into a pit. And this next statement, a disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher. Jesus is in a sense referring to himself here. He's saying, look, the Son of Man came not to judge. W why do you think you can go around judging? J We're going to see the Sons of Thunder is the nickname that Jesus gives to of the dis the apostles, because the city to town doesn't receive Jesus, and they're like, should we call down thunder on it and destroy it? We ought not to judge because Jesus didn't he didn't come to judge. And yes, Jesus surfaces people's sins. but in a way that is designed to heal, to bring repentance, that life might be abundantly have We should regard ourselves as qualified at best merely when it comes to leading others. As your pastor, I am absolutely convinced That the most significant thing that I can do for anyone I shepherd is pray for them. And while I will offer advice if asked on a number of occasions, It's not my advice that's going to guide you. It's my prayers that God will Himself do something. Maybe through something I say, maybe despite something I say. But God is the guide. He is the true shepherd. And one of the ways we lay hold of that is by our commitment to lift one another up in prayer. That the judge who always does what is right, he is competent to apply censure There is a present inability that we should take to heart. There are future rewards we should take to heart. And lastly, there is a severe and a ringing indictment that we need to be aware of Whenever we think about judging others. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Now earlier I'd mentioned how Jesus uses an illustration that would have been an everyday occurrence, except for the Sabbath. You would have every day seen someone getting grain poured into their lap. Every day you would see this. And when you think about Jesus as the master preacher, and this is something I learned from the uh seminary president at Chesapeake, T. M. Moore, made this point in a homeletics class. I'll never forgot it. He said, brothers. The sermon illustrations of Jesus are always things that you see always. He talks about the flowers. You can almost see him gesturing the flowers of the field, the fox. The birds in the sky, the tree and its fruit, things that you are going to be surrounded with on the regular so that the Holy Spirit can remind you every time you see a bird. Oh yeah, Jesus said this. You see the fox, oh yeah. That's about how we were transitory and don't always have homes. Looking around at all of these illustrations of Jesus, they crop up all the time. Now, it would not have been a common place in the Palestine of Jesus' day to see logs laying around. It wouldn't have. Wood was a commodity. In its raw form, it would have been turned into something pretty quick. You didn't just see logs. If a tree fell down, it was turned into firewood, lickety split, or a chair. Or, as some translations put it, a beam. And I I wish there was a is Mark Shoger around? No? Oh oh Paul, you looks like you have a beam. Come on up here for a minute. Look at that. That, my friends, is a beam. You might think, how do I know that's a beam? That word beam, dokon in the Greek, is a word that Isn't translated properly log. Stand there and hold that. Better yet, Paul, hold this. We'll talk about that later. Now imagine for a moment That we wanted to find out what the word dokon meant. And we looked at how it is used. It could mean log, it could mean that. But it's also a word used in construction. Contexts. Houses in the day of Jesus were built out of brick or stone if you were wealthy. And And that is eight feet long. That's about the smallest a beam could be, based on what we know about house sizes. It could be 15 or 20 feet long. And it was suspended above the roof. And then there was a daub and waddle and a slowly built-up roof that was more adobe than the brick walls that could be dug through, like in the parable of Jesus and the paralytic. But those beams were exposed, and they were on the ceiling of every single house you would be in. You would see beams every day. How do I know that Dokan is the way we should take it? Well, in the generations leading up to the time of Jesus Christ, Jewish rabbis in Egypt decided they needed to translate the Old Testament. into Greek because people were forgetting how to speak Hebrew and everybody was speaking Greek. So they translated the Old Testament into Greek. We call that the Septuagint And in your English translations of Proverbs chapter 10, verse 18, it talks about how if you're lazy, your roof is going to fall in. When they translated the roof falling in into Greek, the generations prior to Jesus, they say your dokon will collapse, your beam will fall. Now, that beam is contrasted with a speck. And that word speck could be translated anything from like what we would consider a piece of sawdust all the way up to a twig. And so pitching for the middle there, it could be translated splinter also. That word was used for a splinter, something you get in your thumb. I got uh, Paul, can you hold up that toothpick? That's a big splinter. Now imagine for a moment give me this beam for a minute. Okay. Imagine Paul and I, because we're family, he's my brother-in-law. We we lucked out into marrying two Williams girls. Those Williams girls made some sketchy choices at one point in their life, but we're the happy beneficiaries, amen. Amen. Now, let's suppose Paul and I are going to have a brotherly trip and we decide, hey, let's let's walk the Appalachian Trails. And uh Paul says, yeah, let's do it, brother. But listen, we've got to travel light. It's a long trip, and I don't want to have to deal with leading you around if the sun goes down and we're not at our destination yet. So I say, okay, we'll travel light. And and I show up with this beam. And he shows up with that splinter. And the whole way I'm walking along the Appalachian Trail with him. I'm like, man, that guy's such a bum. I told him to travel light. I told him not to encumber himself with unnecessary objects. And look, he's got a toothpick It's funny, but now apply that to your marriage. Thank you, Paul. I want you to remember that beam. And if any of you are interested in a beam for a garden tie, talk to me later. I want you to remember that beam. Because I did a little bit of math. And to fill a space this big with toothpicks is about 2,000 toothpicks. 38 toothpicks end to end are the length of that beam. Math is not my strong suit, but that's 78,000 toothpicks would fit into that beam. Has there been a moment in your pastor's life when I have been offended or upset by the sin of somebody else and I have first stopped to consider the fact I'm 78,000 times worse than them? Do you think there's ever been a time in my married life, and I I think by the grace of God and the patience of Carrie, I have a pretty good marriage. Do you think there's ever been a time when I've said when she has annoyed me or I've had a censorious attitude or I've maybe I've been legitimately sinned against? I have do you think there's ever been a time when I thought Bob, your sins are 78,000 times worse than hers. Do you ever think there's been a moment in my life when that has been the predominant attitude affecting the tone of my voice? The expression on my face, the body language of my posture. You see, Jesus doesn't say first check to see if you have a beam in your eye. He says you do. And your attitude in judging others would be so different. If you were aware of and took ownership of the fact that you have sins that should be 78,000 times more grievous to you, then their sins are grievous to you. And if you as a disciple of Jesus Christ can embrace that in your heart, how different would be your conversations in which you're trying to point out someone else's sin? You would be like a cancer patient tenderly putting a band-aid on a paper cut instead of Your crass interpretation of John Knox thundering hell and damnation. I love John Knox, but that's the caricature. What if we dared to think like Jesus taught? What if we dared to judge not and to condemn not and to forgive and forgive as if we were blind and had logs in our eyes? Wouldn't our lives be full of far more prayer and far more tender, solicitous encouragements? Wouldn't be we have fewer ulcers and migraines, by the way? Not that those are the only things that cause migraines and ulcers. But they certainly can. Wouldn't we live in a way that was not hypocritical? One of the worst words in the New Testament. Wouldn't it be wonderful if as humble, wounded, and weary sinners, we were the kind of people that could actually take the speck out of someone else's eye? I've done a lot of marriage counseling over the course of almost 30 years of ministry. Pointing out the sins of your spouse almost never ends well. I'm saying that to you men and women. And I think this is in part the reason why. If you really want to get specks out of one another's eyes, Know and feel and embrace the log, the beam, the joist And Jesus used a beautiful illustration when he appealed to a ceiling, a roof joist, something you saw every day As you're laying down and wake up in the morning and the sun's light is first coming in, the one window that those houses usually had is one of the first things you would see. As you laid down on your bed in the waning light and you turned off the oil lamp by blowing it out or snuffing the wick, it's one of the last things you saw And you would have been reminded if you were a follower of Jesus who paid attention to his word. I am a sinner saved by grace And my sin is massive, but God's grace is amazing and abundant. And I am able to be abounding in grace for anybody who hurt me. Who upset me. What a difficult thing I'm going to very boldly ask you to pray for me. Pray for your pastor. That he would be mindful of the beam in his eye I'm going to pray for you that you would be mindful of the beam in your eye. Because this is the climax of these three short two-verse sermons of Jesus on judging. Know yourself. Know yourself the way I describe you, says God. And Jesus says Think about the beam. John Calvin is one of my favorite figures from church history. Little known fact about John Calvin. John Calvin had what theologians call a twofold knowledge And he broke this twofold knowledge down into a couple different categories. There are a couple different sets of two that all nested within one another, but one of the basic ones is knowledge of self and knowledge of God. And he describes at the beginning of his magisterial Institutes of the Christian Religion, one of the more influential Christian books written. He writes that we first descend within ourselves and become aware of our sin. And we realize we have no recourse but to call upon God for mercy. And that's kind of the breathing in and breathing out of the gospel. John Calvin ended his sermons very predictably. Some of you would have loved John Calvin's preaching because he didn't preach for a long time like a New England Puritan. And you always knew that his sermons were about to end, because in the French he would say, or nous nu prosphère neurons. He would always end by saying, and now, let us, including himself, Fall down before the majesty of our good God, asking Him to make us more mindful of our sins, that we might cling the more tightly to Jesus That was the point of Calvin's preaching. Three-quarters of his sermons, he ends almost verbatim what I just said. There's a little bit of variation. And the goal of a gospel ministry is to connect us with the idea of our sin and the idea of God's grace. with the idea of our need for forgiveness and the beauty of a forgiving God who in Christ says, let me carry the beam for you. Let me deal with your sin. And he doesn't give us in exchange a toothpick He gives us nothing but his glorious perfect righteousness. He doesn't say, I'll trade my little bit of sin for your lot of sin. He says, I will give you my righteous perfect record. You let me take care of your sin. That's how forgiving and amazing he is. And that too the saint should think about. When they lay down before they close their eyes. And they imagine those beams holding the roof up. And when they wake up and think the roof didn't fall in, there's joists up there. It would have been a more powerful sermon illustration if we still had open ceilings, but you all have sheetrock hiding all of it. And so I had my brother-in-law carry a beam up. Remember that. Remember that beam. Rejoice in your forgiveness. Be aware of your sinfulness. And do not judge. Amen. And if you're here this morning and you know that you are carrying a heavy beam, We're going to have people in this front corner of the church after the benediction, and they would love to pray with you. And I would urge you. To take care of that heavy, heavy weight that you are carrying. Jesus Himself in another place says, Come to me, you who are weak and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take your sin to Christ and say, Lord Jesus, I have heard you are the Son of God who died for sinners like me to free me from the weight and the guilt of my sin. Forgive me. Here I am. I would serve you. Make today the day you begin to see more clearly. Almighty God, we come to you in Christ's precious name, giving thanks and praise to you who modeled such a beautiful life. And not only did you model a beautiful life so that we might live beautifully, But Lord, you sacrificed yourself that we might have life at all. Lord Jesus, help us to know our sins. More and more as we walk with you, that we become humbler and humbler and more joyful and more joyful, knowing how great is the grace you've poured out upon us. You have lavished grace upon grace. It overflows our laps. Oh God Almighty, help us to be graciously overflowing towards one another. We ask these things in Christ's precious name. Amen.