Because that at that time was the foundations of the gospel. This morning I want to speak on justifications which I would suggest it is the very heart of the doctrine. But perhaps two things go through your mind and flash me when I say that I'm going to speak on justification. Well first of all you might think, well, justification, that's basic doctrine. So uh I know basically what he's trying to talk about. That's just the basic core of the gospel. I hope I'm not going to be bored with that. Well a second thing might go through your mind also and might say to yourself justification adjusts doctrine and doctrine is generally fly Uh I had kind of a rough week, um feeling a little dry spiritually. I had this I had something that was more practical and more helpful to me as a person I already know the Lord and could He give me something that would feed me rather than just an evangelistic message. Well, if those kind of things are going through your mind and I know from many groups that I've talked to about this kind of subject with those kind of things go do go through a number two plus mind. And I want to demonstrate from this talk that you're wrong on both counts. And then I'm simple about If four years ago somebody had said that they were going to speak to me about justification, then I would have said that's good and it's uh it's always important to be reminded of the basics, but I probably wouldn't have gotten too excited. Yet about three years ago, the Lord brought circumstances into my life in which he uh arranged to write a proceed across on justification And in my preparation for that class, all of a sudden I began to see justification in a whole new life as the very heart of the gospel, as the integration point of all that the Christian faith of the Bible. And God changed my life. He changed my life so radically that uh if the Lord began to open up The meaning of it, the significance of it, and its implications to me in various areas. I began to share this with a number of people. I shared it with the upstate universities, staff teams We began to discuss this and God began to give us a holy successful sense of justification by faith meant. What God's grace is is it revealed with that very central core of the gospel. He had a kind of a new revival in our message. And God refreshed us all. In fact, one fair person said certainly after that, for the first time in my life, I've really understood how the gospel is really the answer to people's problems. How in my counselor? How in everything that I do, preaching the gospel is really a great job. In fact, we began to redesign all of our statements, proceedings And what they incorporated, we integrated around this central concept of justification. Before you think that I've gotten off in a B-Gen and I've gotten into some sort of a cult here Let me remind you the justification by faith with the facial issue in the reformation. And yet in our days, justification has taken the back seat. A few Christians really think much about the means of justification. There's little teaching on it, and it's little a part of our thinking today And that's an amazing thing. It was amazing to me and to our first student as we began to talk about justification, what it meant, simply teaching scriptures. You're an audience some uh vision that God had given us up on a mountain top is a people christen and how God had begun to open us up to our lives and refractions Time after time, and two group after period, and church after church, people come to I never heard that before. I never understood that before I preached this in one church, a fellow came up to me, said just one in four years of Bible school, said in four years of Bible study at Sound Christian College he said I never once heard a message like that. And if I had heard that four years ago, he said it would have changed my life. He's like But what is it the same evolution is and just so basically? You think it's just in between basic things and you understand? If you think of that through, then I I want to illustrate my point. I have a couple of questions for you. You see them there on the board and outline. Two questions. to see how well we really understand the justification of the body. Now uh I um before I ask these questions you know can get uh that's stuff you're just in uh thinking about this in the last couple of days about how much this has uh become uh a back in the back seat of our thinking today. Just on Friday, I received this latest copy of the Evangelical Newsletter And on this uh they mention about uh in England uh the celebration of two hundred years of evangelical angliction And the fellow that they had seeks to that whole assembly, Reverend Jeff Luther, and 200 years of evangelical language in the region said he had four major fears to the church today One of those four major fears is the eclipse of justification by faith. So this is not something that's just a private opinion of mine And uh again I want to illustrate for you how much I think this has in fact regressed in our thinking. Do you think we know it? Let me see. The first question you see there on the bulletin On what ground or on what basis does God accept the person? I want you to commit to talk to an answer here. Whether you write it down, whether you circle one of those, uh, you see it's it's just two answers here Uh so even if you guess you got a fifty fifty chance, so it's not that hard of a proof. Uh you might be put out a whole lot. But uh commit yourself to an answer. On what basis, on what ground does God accept? Okay? A life is perfect, they do this, or these basic person. What is the basis? F one with your fingernail or commit one in your mind, just so you have committed yourself to an answer. You're not gonna have to tell it to anybody, I just want you to see Okay, second question. Do you believe that the grace of God in your heart is able to make you acceptable in the sight of God? Very simple. Very yes or B no. What do you think? Read yourself for one of you. You believe that the grace of God in your heart is able to make you acceptable in the sight of God. Well I've asked this question to other needs from other people and I've long ago learned not to uh ask for the answers to be made public. So I want you to I want you to see the reason I do that is because the answer is not the number one, B. Not faith in Christ. But it's a life of perfect obedience. You see, that's basic to the meaning of justification, the old way that God can betray a person acceptable is on the basis of a life of perfect obedience. In fact, a just life. Now before you uh think that maybe you got into the wrong room here this morning, let me put it on But that life of perfect obedience is Christ's life, not our life. But you see, we're justified on the basis of his perfect obedience, not our faith in him. Our thinking point is something that we do. And that's not the basis of our salvation. I'm going to try and say the the difference. That's not the same wording later on. But it's the life of Christ perfectly obedience is the only possible basis for our salvation. The circumstances, the circumquestions, you may have begun to jerk out now And the answer is not A, yes, but it's B, no. The grace of God is never able to make our hearts acceptable in the sight of God You see, if in fact you answered that question yes, well then you really are in the wrong way. You ought to be over in uh St. John's Roman Pass or in uh two oh one and two oh two. Classic medieval Roman Catholic gospel was that the grace of God in our hearts makes us acceptable before God The Reformation and the Reformers said no, it's the grace of God in Christ, never in our hearts we could make us acceptable to God. Our hearts could never be sufficiently acceptable to God by His grace working in us. Could it make us acceptable? It's only in Christ, objectively, totally in Him, and what He's done. It is the basis of our things of our acceptance of God. So again, I want to I want to emphasize, I'm not saying origins and I'm not making subtle theological distinctions These are extremely practical and crucial to our everyday living. Because you see the whole root issue here is concerning the basis of our salvation Is the basis of our salvation ultimately internal or external? That is, is the basis of our salvation what you and I are like or what someone else is like? To put it another way, is the basis, it's the foundation of our salvation subjective or is it objective? That is that the basis of our salvation is something that's usual or something that Christ has done. And it's nothing left for us. Justifications is not popular today. Primarily because of the great emphasis today on subjective experience. The experience today that we say, my experience of Jesus, how is it in Jesus himself And that's a star saw that this in the very part of the aspect. Today the focus in everything that we in so much that we read and so much that we see is my experience of life. rather than Christ himself. And because he is shifted in this way, there's miscumination of justification. And because of our Christians practic practice all kinds of subtle legalism We have we labor under guilt rather than under forgiveness. We miss the abundance of what God's grace here is. And generally we live in great spiritual impoverishment. And I would suggest a true revival will never really come to the case until we've reconscious the notion of what justification really move and implies You begin to explore this. That's why I want to be the first, because without that we'll never really understand. Ultimately, the very basic of God's forgiveness for us And this morning and over the next couple weeks, I want to draw out the implications so you can see how this is really the root, the very heart of what forgiveness is, and God's forgiveness for And without this anything we've talked about since January will really miss the point. But this one I want to primarily lay the foundation for. I want to draw one or two implications And I don't want to expand on these implications in the next couple of weeks. So let's begin then this morning by taking a look at the nature of justifications. First of all, then the nature of justifications is decisive and objective. The word justify means to declare righteous If loose is the word righteous or righteousness. In fact, the word justify would really be better stated, righteous. Because you say that's what it was. He maybe don't have that word, but I've never found it around and I'm not about to make it up now and change that book. But in fact that's what the word is. It's courageous apartment. It's simply the verb horn of the adjective righteous or the noun righteousness. You notice this in a passage like such as Isaiah chapter forty five, or scripture for this morning. So turn to chapter Isaiah chapter forty five. And notice In your Bible, the uh use of this word as we go through verses eighteen to twenty-five. Now If in this particular case you have an NIV, you're sort of out of luck. NIV and Millmark and Stand are very interesting translation. Sometimes one of them is more literal And other times the other one's more literal. And one sometimes one of them uses a word more consistently to give its meaning and that and other times the other one does. And it's just different ways of solving translating problems. In this particular case, Hilmark and Santa uses the word most consistently, so I'll be using that this morning. And it's a little harder to pick out from the NIV. So listen to what I'm reading as well as what you've seen if you have another translation. Thus says the Lord who created the heavens. He is the God who formed the earth and made it. He established it and did not create it a waste place, but formed it to be inhabited. I am the Lord and there is none else. I have not spoken in secret in some dark land. I did not say to the offspring of Jacob, keep me in a waste place I the Lord seek righteousness because all things little upwards. Gather yourselves and come Draw near together the fugitives of the nation. They have no knowledge to carry about their wooden idol and pray to what God is cannot pray. Declare and set forth your faith. Indeed, let them consult together who has announced it from of old, who has long since declared it. Is it not I, the Lord? And there is no other God besides you, a righteous God, and if there is none except you Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth. For I am God and there is no other. I have sworn by myself, the word has gone forth from my mouth in righteousness. And will my turn down. But to me every ease will die, and every tongue will swear on easy. They will say, of me, only in the Lord are righteousness. And strength. And will come to him, and all who were angry with him to be picked with him. And in the Lord, all the offspring of Israel will be justified and will belong. And notice there the word righteousness appears in that scripture three times, verses 19, 21, and 23. Excuse me, uh twenty-three and twenty-four, four times. God says in verse ninety, the God who peace, righteousness In verse 21, he's a righteous God. Verse 23, the words going forth from his mouth, in righteousness. Verse 24, only in the Lord is righteousness. And then verse 25, he offsprings revealed with his justified. So I want you to notice that that word in verse 25 is the same word that appears in all the other verses, except the verb formative. In the Lord all the offspring of Israel will be recruited. What the NIV has it will be sown rices Now, this word, you see, then to justify means to declare righteous. Now what is righteous or righteousness? A person in the biblical definition of righteousness, a person who is righteous, is one who has perfectly kept the law of God And therefore is innocent and acceptable to him. A person has perfectly kept God's law and therefore is innocent and acceptable to him. You see the point there is that the law of God is not some arbitrary list of things that God sat down one day and said, Now uh what kind of law can I make up to square people's point? Well that just like it'd be a lot of fun to do, so I'll make a law against that. And uh what that looks like that'd really be a lot of fun. They have to know two. And uh two something they'd never like to do, so I'll make a law that they have to do that. Sometimes people have kind of a view of God as the construction of the law. But you see that's not at all the way it is. The law is simply the reflection of God's nature Law is a very merciful thing. It's merciful, God is like. And so the person who is righteous is the one who keeps that law and therefore is like God And therefore he's innocent, he's acceptable to God. Before you see their point B, the word therefore to justify means to declare righteous or to acquit, to declare a person innocent. This is what I want you to notice. It's the predictive objective term. What do I mean by that? Notice three things about it. First of all then, it's a digital forensic term. Now the word forensic probably didn't have much meaning to most people until Quincy came on television. Then you all heard about forensic medicine. What's forensic medicine? It's legal medicines. It's language of a law courts because the word justify is a legal term It's a term that has to do with the law. In Deuteronomy chapter twenty-five and verse one, we're given the job district and of Israel's judges. So what are they supposed to do? In Deuteronomy 25, 1 we read if there's a dispute between a man, between men and a good court, and the judges decide their prince, what are they supposed to do? They're supposed to justify their righteous and condemn the wicked. What I want you to notice in these terms is that in every case, it is a liberal separation. It is not making the person anything different than he wants to feel. So what do the judges do? They don't make the righteous person to be righteous. They declare if in fact the person is just the righteous, their job is to simply declare it. If the guy is just if he's innocent, the judge goes he justifies. Justifying is if he legally declared what he is in fact before the law. If he is wicked, he condemned us. Doesn't it have anything to do with changing their state of their behavior? Notice that. It's objective, it is totally external to the person. Notice secondly that uh this works uh and one other point I might do is remember uh This legal terminology we saw uh a number of times when we went through our language of forgiveness. Remember in the Old Testament the word talak was the word that's meant to give a legal pardon. In the New Testament, the word assembly was to release a person from a legal obligation or to cancel a debt. So this legal terminology 28 descriptions And this word is the word of an author to justify, to declare righteousness. The second thing, anyway, notice is not only is it is it syllable, is it judicial That is so totally objective that it changes nothing, has no effect on the subjective state of the patients. It needs to be clear not to make I'll drive that home with a couple of examples in the finish scriptures. Clark at Proverbs seventeen verse fifteen. Proverbs seventeen fifteen, we read this. He who justifies the wicked And he who condemns the righteous, both of them alike are an abomination to the right. So I suggest to you that if that meant to make somebody righteous, that'd be a very praiseworthy thing. Certainly the Lord wouldn't say he who makes the person who is given to be righteous and he who condemns the righteous, that person is exclusive A person who had left the wicked person to be righteous could in fact be slow. But this is statement is here a person who pervertes justice He's changing the truth. He's a person who is wicked and this person is saying he's declaring legally that he's dead. That's what's an abomination about. The word means a legal declaration Not changing the person at all. Isaiah five twenty-three talks about things were wicked because they take lies and justify the wicked. Same kind of thing You see it's about so objective that in Luke 729, when the people heard Jesus speak, the response he read of the people give was to say justified God. Well again, I suggest you're not making God anything different than just. God is what he was all alone. They're simply declaring God to be just When they justify God, they're simply acknowledging his justice. They're declaring it. And the word justify means to declare, not to make. Okay? You see this in the concept between the biblical teaching on regeneration and justification. Notice the third point there. Regeneration is an act of God in us. In which he changes our hearts. Justification, in contrast to that, is a judgment of God with respect to us No change in our heart. But rather, no subjective change any more than a person who in a court is declared to be innocent rather than guilty is somehow changed in turn up. We found little declarations outside of the purchase by the gesture. Now Thirston's really appreciated Demasius what that word justify means. All of a sudden We're trust with a very profound problem. That has to do with the ground discussion. Because if we realize this, then we realize we have a profound question before And that is, how can a just God justify sinners? How can God justify the wisdom? Now before your mind just rambles on and says, well uh good as uh you know into quickly well hang back from it. Don't don't leave on too quickly Let's appreciate the problem for me. You see, that's not such a great problem for you and to me, because we fail to realize the gravity of things. We fail to realize just in fact how much of a problem sin is for God. We fail to realize that in fact sin is a an assault upon his very question and upon his majesty But in fact, if God were to allow one act of sin of rebellion to go unpunished in all the universe, he'd no longer be God. But the person who disobeys God and who get away with it would then say, Now I'm on the flame, you see. I can live my life the way I want. And say now I'm the one who's on the flame. But God, because he is not only a God of love that we say, well of course you can just overlook that. He's also a God of burning majesty and holiness and justice So this is a very profound problem. How is this God, who has declared himself for me who justifies the wicked, is an abomination? How is that God going to justify the wicked? How do I find a different time? We see that problem you talk to God. But in fact, God Himself had to enter heaven and give up everything that he had to call. Because he wouldn't give you up. And he wouldn't give me up. God himself had to give everything that he had to solve that problem. Well how did he do it? Remember? It's a legal problem. How is he going to forgive and justify the person who is in a legal state of guilt before him? Well we see here from the Old Testament, chapter forty-five of I. What did he say there? He says, you see, in verse 19 that he said, he sees that we've made Because in verse 29, not only does he speak righteousness, but he is righteous. That keeps great ethics of the character. He is a righteous child Verse twenty-three, the word gone forth from his mouth therefore in righteousness. And then in verse twenty-four, what about us There's the people who one day are going to come and they're going to say, Only in the Lord are righteousness and strength. And then in verse twenty-five, in the Lord all the offspring of Israel will be justified. Will be declared righteous and glorious. In the Lord is the righteousness. In the Lord the people will be justified, will be declared righteous You see, he's the fostering of Israel. Well Galatians 329 tells us that's the seed of Abraham by faith, that's you and me in Jesus Christ Before we read in the New Testament point A there that God sent his only son. He became a man, he was just Jesus was the just man. He was innocent. He totally reflected God's character in the way he treated people. But Jesus always treated people the way God treated. You want to know how God treats people? You look at Jesus. That's how he treats people. And Jesus reflected God's character perfectly, and therefore he was justified He would be one justified man. And then secondly the Bible tells us that he chose to take the curse you to you and to me for my own righteousness. You and I have again and again broken the law. But 2 Corinthians 521 tells us That God made him to do things. He will make things so that we might become one. The righteousness of God's will has in him. He made him to be sinned so that you and I might become the righteousness of God in him. Objectively. By being in Christ. Martin Luther called this the greatest thing. He said, Jesus and I have changed all that we have. Because what do I give to him? Well Jesus gives the real Bible and gives all that my polluted nature, my false motives, my cold heart, all the uh that uh feeling about me, all that turning against God, that self-candidate That pollution, that evil in me. That's what I give to Jesus. And he takes it. And what does he give me in expense? He gives me all the truth He gives me the inheritance of the kingdom of heaven. He gives me to sit at the right hand of the throne of the Lord. Why? Because he gives me healing righteousness His righteousness given to me in exchange for my unrighteousness given to him. And so therefore the basis, the only possible basis of the salvation, the ground of our righteousness, using Christ's righteousness. It's in that trade with him. And therefore you see the the uh summary on the back there. The ground of our justification, therefore, is in the representative law keeping and the redemptive mycest of Jesus Christ on our behalf. Notice? Because this is wholly outside of ourselves, it's wholly outside of our spirits for anything that we do I don't know if anything's beginning to break on me. But when I began to realize that, that was a life transforming thing. That made it the only basis of my acceptance of God. It's nothing that I do. But it was the perfect obedience of Jesus Christ that is given to me. We meant that the basis of my acceptance was not the grace of God in my heart, making accepted as a force of God. Anything that I could do, anything that had to do with behavior and with the grace of God in Christ In his law keeping, in his blood shedding on my behalf, totally outside of myself and totally in him Now, maybe a question is going through your mind here and you say but there is a subjective element to this. I mean after all, not everybody saves. Not everybody knows the Lord Jesus But there are people that uh Jesus uh Jesus has died and he has risen, but there are people who have no interest in that. Clearly I'm not saying that those people are automatically saved just because it's totally outside themselves. No, I'm not saying No question. That brings us to the same point. That's the mean subjective. If we don't bring in a subjective element And in order to live the Christian life in victory, we must keep the means and the ground separate. Notice it. The means of justification is by faith in Christ. That's not the ground, since the means. What do I mean by that? Well what I mean by the means is that we're not saved by faith. Simply speaking, you and I are not saved by faith. We're saved by Christ. No face. That is to say that faith is the instrument by which I lay hold a place The scriptures uses the terms that we are justified by faith, through faith, upon faith, but never does it term to be justified on a subject. or on the basis of faith. Let's illustrate what I mean by that. Let's suppose that should be glad of me today since we're all having our meal together this afternoon. uh a a band of terrorists come creeping into these interface sites and they're looking for somebody as a hostage and somehow they grabbed the wrong guy and they get new And they take me out and they take me as hostage for a ransom. They take me to some hidden place somewhere. And they announce to the congregation that we're gonna hold this guy here for a ransom of a million dollars. And now let's suppose that uh we feel like uh well we gotta have somebody who's gonna continue that scenes and forgiveness, but we're never gonna find out the answer for all these questions we've been asking about, uh what does it mean here and there You gotta get this guy out of there. And so you look at all your resources and uh you have a big fundraising campaign and finally somehow you get together a million dollars for my ransom and release And then you elect some representative to come and uh they let you know this case of a rendezvous where this place where this transfer is going to be affected. And uh one of you as a representative comes with that million dollars, and you take the million dollars and you give it to me. You give it to my captive. And I take that million dollars and I give it to my captors and then they release me. And if they let me out the Columbia Times and the Flyers all the in followers taking pictures and everybody coming And they said, well, tell us about this. What was it now that saved you, that released you? And I thought, ah, it was my hand that saved me. Well you see this guy came along and he gave me a million dollars and I took it with my hand and I gave it to that guy who was holding his pocket and because I gave it to him with my hand he let me go Well they break me up in the times in the fire all right, but not so much in terms of the release that was affected by the ransom, but what kind of a mut they let go You see, it's very clear. The person would say it's not a hand that releases you. It was a million dollars that releases you. That was the basis of the release. The hand is just making it that we can lay a hold of it. When you see as Christians, you and I perceive the work of Christ in our faith in exactly the same word. And when you and I begin to aim for our hands, on our face as it were By which we may hold a place and begin to think that it's the quality, the amount, the nature of our faith of faces. We begin to intercept We begin to look at ourselves and we begin to examine the quality of that faith. We become very disconcerting because we see how very solid it is. But we take our eyes off Jesus Christ. We take our eyes off the ransom of God. And as soon as we do that, that ransom becomes peaceful, innovative. And God doesn't receive his glory. The Lord Jesus has lost his rightful place and real systems have lost our death. And it's all because he conceived the dwelling from the means. So I want to illustrate just a couple applications in this this morning, and I've taken most of the time to lay the foundation and I was like, so we'll develop some more of the implications of that in various practical aspects of the But what I specifically want to do to start off. First of all, this means the application The justification, not regeneration, that is being born again with the heart of the gospel The gospel today, by and large, is communicated almost entirely as new in terms of being born again. The popular media has captured it, it's become almost a three-say, we've talked about everything being born again or even that's And it's kind of a test word. And Christians begin to think in terms of a gospel primarily of being born again. But the Scientist teaches that justification is the heart of the gospel, not the new birth. What does that mean? That's a shift in the heart of the foundation of the gospel. And so amazingness might certainly find speaking to a piece of this, but so that we might prepare in peace scenarios. So that we've been quite clear on what is the basic and ground of our salvation in Jesus Christ. What is it we stop ultimately that you are questioning? Lord is the God's question Is it your being born again? Is it the amount of sorrow that you've had for your sin? Is it in any way to do with the sincerity of your love for Jesus? If we look at what we have ground of salvation, the basis of the acceptance of God, is it the fact that we're trying to serve Jesus? We're trying to do this, we're trying to go God's way, plus what Jesus has come to. If it is, then we shift it from the very part of the gospel. Because the gospel says that your and my salvation is bound to depend on Jesus Christ plus nothing. There is nothing that you and I add to that. Our new voice or anything else is a basis of our acceptance. All of that is simply the application of the gospel to our lives. The only foundation, 100%, is what Jesus Christ is done. And this morning, if we talk to me anything else besides that, I plead with you, I implore you, examine these thoughts. And if it's not Jesus Christ plus nothing, feel that before the Lord. Be clear on them. Examine the scriptures and come before them and turn from all self-cust. Like the old works and the own experience, the only word Jesus Christ has done for you, and nothing else has The second thing that I want to say tend to the application of this. This is understand justification, therefore, means that all key things doctrine Of the Christian life tend to deny or even obliterate justification. What I mean by pre-age doctrine is Christianity are all deeds of a Christian life in which there is a crisis separation between new Christians who are simply desperatized and higher or deeper Christians living on a different plane. Some Christians say that the there are a group of Christians who accept Jesus as Savior. There are other Christians who accept Jesus as Lord. We're on a different plane with God. It's a different experience. But I deny just the truth. There are others who would say that dying for self puts me on a different plane with Jesus Christ. That denies justification. There are others who have said that there's a baptism of the spirit that is separate from the spirit for the conversion. That denies justification The problem you see is that in every one of these and many other things that we use in the Christian life, in which there is this closer separation What it is saying is the justification of simply an initiating step into the Christian life to get saved And then we go on to a higher blessing with God on the basis of something else. Sanctification, baptism, lordship. Something else that becomes optional concerning salvation. The new life is inevitable. Inevitably, that leads to the establishment of a new self-consciousness You always say you and I never, never reach a point in which our standing with God, our relationship with God For our walk with him. Do not rest completely and entirely on the righteousness of Jesus Christ and the forgiveness that comes through his righteousness alone. Never want any of our improvements of what God has done in our own lives. We totally obstruct this in the things that That can be the most green thing for a Christian to draw the heart. To realize that there is nothing that I can, need or must ask. So what Jesus Christ has done to establish my family with God. I never go beyond gossip of In fact, I would suggest to you that a very major part of justification is really an increasing realization of our need for justification. That is as I go on with the Lord, I realize that He opens up to me new areas of truth And of disobedience to him, I go on with an increasing realization of my dependence upon Christ's righteousness, of glorying in Christ's righteousness A glory in our acceptance to be sinning some trouble before God face on Christ's righteousness. A basking in that, a reveling in that righteousness, which is his and not mine, because it's given to me, but it's his righteousness that's been imputed to my account And I begin to realize how full and complete and perfect the grace of salvation that is a part of its family. And when I begin to realize that freedom, I begin to in my response to feel gratitude to the Lord, begin to have my motives straightened up by the Holy Spirit Since I serve God and love him and joy to him, it is what I wish. Rather than the means of improving my own standards. Either before God is a poor other creature Now notice I am not saying that Lordship is lying to ourselves, that the baptism of the Spirit is not a part of the Christian life. I am not telling that any of these things is something to be doing. In fact, that's exactly the case. That's the case is guaranteed them to every person. You see the whole I learning of justification use the justification relates to my position in these extent. of my daily living. So nonetheless, all we said the system life is nothing more or less than working out in my experience, that scientific species But it's already still being Jesus Christ. That justification. And the complaints of that is still literally The conclusion of working out in my experience becoming more consistent with what my position is included, maybe finding in this way fitness That's why it was my spirit becomes exactly the point of my faulty because philosophy You have to clear it to 308. It's the 58. It's literally like years and 50s in my 30s. If you feel in this life, you and I stand purbus and death of the truth. Very badly are standing as death of the truth. It's been given to us. You see you and I realize that we will continue to find our life to add to further right to work It will attack to add the justification by standing before God. What is it? The real life. It's the law life that God is That is the Una. It becomes that second vote of Lady C. And that vote that you reliance to use in with that Yeah, it is just the question, but then in order to really have that honor on you can start a sense you see, I've got this particular tactic relationship and it's based on whatever I have added. If that depends any point is there, it is MP after the thing. Because it eludes and it's turning and deep expression And our pleasure, standard and different alone. I remember one time my wife and I were talking about this. But did you go to talk about how God is peeling off in our lives below your earthly layer of liberty And I've been amazed at how profoundly literally we've been dead within that character. Without over the months and you could continue to be at L S the L. If you began to tell me You have a laugh. And then you know the problem is the thing doesn't say. It could be embarrassing because there's still things like you, but there's still something I do And I want to craft yourself a little bit later with this. Not the very technical time. There is lesson. It's because that's a thing. I don't need to be embarrassed by the repeat of my life. I don't be so embarrassed to be taken a bit. And only to be able to be easy. The moment comes into that position of realizing, the D and I can only receive a exist because it's great, because of an unspecific faith, the object that's outside of ourselves, and something is beautiful ourselves, the comments of that position. You come into that position at Paul says of Evelation sixty says that God forbid that I should build his glory in everything. Save the Christ of the Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the Lord is specified. I think that third thing we say the elevation of our fellowship and going to leave it and that week we said at the term point of time and a big out that lume has phones. The tone is the phrase by phone that you need to realize that our telephone is in fact based on the relativity, not in our human events, you know scale to the county. The tall specific that you have bring about this idea the fact that just the case the fact Because it's a collective year that our own family and that our family together. Then we come together tonight Like an old puppy. You come together to throw skills if it's hot body fell. If a savings that we have on that, if you use somebody up, there is something assailing the color you follow in their life. Don't do it coming in the body. It's easy to pay to give empty feet. Not a bad is done enough empty place. Be to give in the fact that it's easy to be called the Philippines. It will focus on really similar. And it will realize that the only thing, the only hope that we have is to look into keeping, is to medicine. Please, this lamentable person, this difficulty, this comic person This might lead to people, this verb available, with similar and third cuts to every day, with fraudulent leather This five people are rejected. This five people a little bit tired of the hungry and they're longer. This doctor of three points can you follow me? This spirit you love and called and won alone to the cross so to me? Justified? Yes. Not because I think my way, but because Jesus is innocent.