Part three of our series on the meaning of forgiveness. The student has been going now since January. We've come out of part three in which we deal with the parts of forgiveness. It's basic and justifications I got an interesting response from my open message, number of responses, more than usual responses On the one hand, some people have said that uh that message really opened up some windows to them that they had not seen before. It really helped them to understand uh really something of the uh height and the depth. of God's grace and what our salvation really is. And it's been exciting to them. And other people have uh responded uh just totally confused. I don't know what you're talking about. Um and uh it's just been something very hard to grasp. Well I'm really happy today that God has led to open windows and really understand more. of what the riches of price are. I'm not overly concerned for those of you who have been confused, not because I don't care what you confused, but because I sort of thought that might be true before we're spending three weeks. trying to hit it from different points of view. And I know that in some ways it's difficult for us to grasp. And so I'm going to be hitting that notion of what does it be commissioned, slightly disanignment of I But after Easter, if you have any uh message next week that I want to do it particularly uh for uh thinking of Christ and resolve And then uh pick it up again after that to consider uh from another slightly different answer. So if you're still welcome to hang on and hopefully the Lord will make that more and more clearly If you are to treat uh ten or fifteen that we think we still not be clear unless the Holy Spirit enables us to prove. Because this is difficult, I think it's a problem. So that we can do everything something. That's what God will give us instructions. If you depend on me to make things clear, we're going to be in bad trouble. The Lord's gotta make it clear to you. So let's take just a moment now. Solidly. To make crystal clear to us what he wants us to understand about Justification, displacation, what I like to say. That sounds a fascinating. Holy Spirit, you have given to us in your words the doctrine of justification. Lord is not fighting for me to try it. We need you to make success. Let's keep the reader. We find yourself. According to your time and seed. Something glad to the different paint of the fine is there that moment and certainly at least one thing and that is if you're getting the point and I'm not just saying the same old thing. I've really been glad to see whether you've been able to understand It or not, but I really am trying to open up some new windows and understanding the gospel in a way that often it is not being communicated to them. See, we live in a day of experience and what's called relational theology. The heart of the gospel today is being born again and having a relationship with Jesus Christ. And my thesis is that we've missed a of what the Reformation is about. My point is the believers during the time of the Reformation would have gotten more questions It was sensitive to that issue. And so even though um maybe five or a hundred percent of you got those questions wrong, don't feel bad something. Uh I want to give those questions to a group of people in this year with the successors and Georgie Cornwell Seminary as we sit in there. So it's not the easiest kind of thing. You're not sanctified for that interest. You see that's because we've lost a certain sense of what the Reformation is about. You see, the Bible is not simply a lovely, but it's a legal document. That was clearly wrapped in the Reformation, to being the heart of our joy in our restoration, our salvation of Jesus Christ. You see, the Bible presents that our relationship with God is presented in legal terms It's presented in the little terms of covenant. God has an absolute claim on our lives. We've renounced that claim, and therefore we're guilty. We stand before Him as a judge. And we're guilty. He's broken the covenant. And the problem now is how is God who is just going to justify people who are guilty? And that's the heart of the problem of salvation. How is God going to forgive us? On what basis will God forgive us? It's a mental problem. Not just a relationship problem. God can't just overlook it in order to have a relationship with us. But there's got to be a little transaction. The only possibility of forgiveness is a legal transaction. Where my guilt is placed on a just man who takes that and suffers for it, and his righteousness is placed in my account. And therefore God declares me innocent Because of season. Therefore it's not internal or subjective. The basis is objective and external. Right this is wholly resides in Jesus. That can be very, very rude to really guess what that means. To really see it. But my righteousness depends on the performance of Jesus, not my performance. Now I want this morning to look at the connection between forgiveness and justification in very practical manner. and develop its implications in an area of great interest to all of us, namely God's acceptance of us and ourself-immitting. If anybody here who's not interested in the question of self-image, then uh I'd be interested in meeting you as something uh I find everybody to uh concern me. How I view myself Let's take this from Acts chapter 13. Acts chapter 13. You see in Acts chapter 13 and verses 16 to 41. The first recorded message of Paul was did he become a Christian. This message, the first message as a believer, was delivered into the city of Antioch, the city of Asia Minor, around 47 A. D. Paul was on the uh that uh saturday the sabbath in a synagogue an opportunity was given for him to speak Now, what does Paul say concerning this vital topic of forgiveness and justification in the very first address that he gave to the church before he says chapter 1? Let's take a look. It begins with verse 15. Standing up, Paul motions with his hand and said, Men of Israel and you Gentiles who worship God, listen to me. The God of the people of Israel chose our fathers and made the people prosper during their stay in Egypt. With mighty power he led them out of that country and endured their conduct forty years in the desert. He overthrew seven nations in Canaan and gave their land to his people and as their inheritance. All this took about 450 years. After this God gave them judges until the time of Samuel the prophet. And then the people asked for a king, and he gave them Saul, 26, of the tribe of Benjamin, who ruled forty years. After removing Saul, he made David Justin. He testified concerning him. I have found David, son of Jesse, a man after my own heart. He will do everything I want him to do. From this man's descendants, God has brought to Israel with Jesus, Jesus, as He promised. Before the coming of Jesus, John preached repentance and baptism to all the people of Israel. As John was completing his work, he said, Who do you think I am? I am not that one. No, but he's coming after me, he stands, if I am not one, he's one time. Brothers, children of Abraham, and you God hearing Gentiles, even to us that this message of salvation has been sent. The people of Jerusalem and their rulers did not recognize Jesus. Yet in condemning him they fulfilled the words of the prophets that they're that are read every Sabbath. Though they found no proper ground for a death sentence They asked Pilate to have him executed. When they had carried out all that was written about him, they took him down to the tree and laid him in tree. But God raised him from it. And for many days he was seen by those who had traveled with him from Galilee to Jerusalem. They are now his witnesses to our people. We tell you the good news. What God promised our fathers he has fulfilled for us, their children, by raising up Jesus. As it is written in the seventh Psalm, you are my sons. Today I have become Libana. The fact that God raised me from the dead never to be came to me too. I will give you the holy and pure blessings to come. So it is quoted elsewhere, you will not let your holy ones be the kids. So when David had served God's purpose in his own generation, he fell He was buried with his father, and his body became. One whom God raised from the dead did not see the case Therefore, my brother, I want you to know that through Jesus the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. Through him everyone who believes is justified from everything he could not be justified from by the law of Moses. He says, what the prophet said that might happen to you, look these gossips and wonder and tell it I am going to do something in your days that you would never believe, even if someone says it. That's why the reading of God's Word. But I want to focus on here is verses 38 to 39. Because in those two verses, we see Paul the very part of his teaching, the connection between forgiveness and justification. Now if you have a new American standard, it would help if you look into the marginal freedom here because it uses the word freed, and it's more helpful if you see that that word is the word justify. And so look at the marginal reading and and hear what the new the new international version translates. So it's very clear and it's a very accurate Translation of those two verses. Therefore, my brothers, I want you to know that through Jesus the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. Through him, everyone who believes is justified from everything who could not be justified from by the law of Moses. Now those verses can be a little confusing, a little hard to understand, and so I'm going to approach their meaning by seven questions, if you see written out in the book. And so let's go through the seven questions to try and get into meaning of these two verses to see what God is saying to us about how our forgiveness is faith and rooted in justification. First of all then, first question. What is proclaimed? Well, forgiveness of sin is what's proclaimed. You see in verse 38 Through Jesus, the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. Well that's in our subject is genuine. What we've been leading up to all these weeks Paul here is saying, forgiveness of sins is what I'm talking to you about. That's what the gospel offers. That's the heart of the gospel. Forgiveness of sins. The word that's used here is the word appealing that we talked about some weeks ago. Remember that word that was used to talk about a cancellation of a debt or of a legal obligation So the very word forgiveness to be used in here is a legal word. It's a legal term. It means the cancellation of a debt, the cancellation of some legal obligation. It's law court language. Forgiveness of sins then is proclaimed. Now what is the nature of this forgiveness? The nature is justification Forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. Then verse 39, prove him everyone who believes is justified from everything that he could not be justified from by the law of Moses. You see this word the word forgiveness and the word justification are both connected in the Greek by the phrase through this morning. Now uh NIV says through Jesus, the Greek is literally simply through this man. Through this man is forgiveness. Through this man is justification Through this man you see is forgiveness which is based on justification. Without justification there is no forgiveness. The two are used synonymously Forgiveness is justification and justification is forgiven. Forgiveness comes by means of justification. Okay, then thirdly, what is the nature of this justification he speaks of? Justification we call is conditional and objective. How are the Jews at this time seeking to be justified? They were seeking to be justified by God The law of Moses. He says here in verse thirty nine they could not be justified by the law of Moses. Their idea was that righteousness, remember, is defined as the person who keeps the law and therefore it's innocent. The person who reflects God's nature. And therefore that person is declared innocent. He was acquitted in God's law course. The Jews were seeking therefore to keep the law and to be declared legally justified. But remember, this word means to declare, it means to declare and not to make. So the Jews were simply saying, in order to be justified, in order to be righteous, I must keep the law. That's the only way I can be righteous. You see, they had a handle on something. They weren't altogether off. They knew that the only person who could be justified was a person who kept the law. But then what they overlooked was that they could never keep that law. Now we have to keep in mind that this word justifies Paul using it here. He's using it in the same way that they understand. It's a word that means to liberally be declared, not named, but declared righteous and therefore innocent. You see this word cannot mean to simply overlook something in order to restore what I The question is whether you and I stand innocent or guilty before God. We can't be partly innocent Service. You're either justified or you're not justified in that legal term. You can't say to a person, well uh he's only stolen one car this week. Well he's mostly innocent. There's a lot of cars he could have stolen who didn't stolen. He's mostly innocent. You're either guilty of a crime charge or you're not. And Paul is there saying that the question he's speaking about is the forgiveness is based on whether you're back. That we are totally innocent, not partly, totally either innocent or guilty. Well then fourthly, what concept is in view here What is contrastive? What's contrastive are the two ways, the two uh the two ways of justification. One total failure, and the other total success. Through him, you see he says verse 39, everyone you believe is justified from everything that you could not be justified from by the law of Moses. The contrast then is by the law of Moses, nobody's justified. But by Jesus Christ, you are justified. That's absolutely. It's an absolute concept. He doesn't say it's a better way, doesn't say it's more effective. He doesn't say you mix the two in any way. By doing your own righteousness by the things that you do in order to gain acceptance before God will never be justified That's the Jesus Christ with justification. Now, on what ground number five is on what ground are we then justified? Well you see those twice means. It's through limits. It's rehabilit. Verse 38. Three diseases. Forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. Verse 39, through whom everyone who believes is justified. Some everything could never be justified from by the other. Through him then you are justified. Why? Because he's the just man. Jesus alone is the only man in history who ever was innocent, and therefore God justifies him. By his love and by his eligibility, he took the curses of the guilty party, those who are covenant breakers standing in the courtroom. You see, we come in God's courtroom as we stand before the bar of God. He says to you and he says to me, you are guilty for breaking my law. And you I declared, you're right. That's a just judgment. We are guilty And then Jesus comes and he stands before the judge. And Jesus stands there in his life. And what does the judge say to him? He says, This man shall live because he is justified. This man has claimed to all of my promises because he's innocent. He's acquitted. And Jesus says to the judge. I want to die in the place of Alan Harris. He deserves to die for this time. You're allowed to do that. I grant you permission. I will accept your death in his place. And so Jesus, there's all the curses and all the punishments that is due to you. And then God says, on the basis of what he has done in his mind and in his death and in his revelations, you own a justified And so I'm justified through him with his life. It is the basis of that little declaration of justice to me. It's now to what extent? Verse is the fifth question. To what extent am I justified? And anyone who stands in the easy. See notice what he said there in verse 39 Who am everyone who believes is justified from how many things? From reasons. We could never be justified from We emergence from all things. From all things, from everything. You see, it's absolute. You're either innocent or you're not. And if we stand before God guilty, when God declares us innocent, he takes all of that. And you and I can never again be signed. To be placed in the situation of whether we're giving or not. We have been declared, the judgment's been given. You and I have the right to sit with Jesus, and therefore you see the very eye of a Can we set no claws in his license? Therefore, when God looks at you and me looking like in his righteousness And that's because you see all things. You think it's as if you had lived the life of Christ. It's as if you and I had loved the Lord our God with all our hearts, hearts, souls, strength, and mind. It's as if you and I had loved our neighbors ourselves. It's as if you and I had seen the people the way Jesus seated people, had spoken the words that Jesus has spoken. It's as if you and I acted in all of our life, in all of our ways, just the way that Jesus has acted. Before God. God has given to us to declarate the burden. It was placed on Him. But he didn't do this converted to the place on limited among us. That's the explain. So finally, number seven. What is the meaning? What is the need then of this justification? Not the ground, not the basis, but the need. That is, how do we lay hold of it? Well, it's by believing and by talking. See it there in verse 39. Through him everyone who walks, who believes, is justified from everything that he could not be justified. Everyone who believes, that is everyone who lays hold of Jesus as the only forgiveness for their righteousness. Everyone who sees God's word and says, I take you with your word, God, if you declare what my need is and what Jesus present me. And I believe that. I accept that. I rest in that. I trust him. That his provision is necessary and his provision is sufficient for all things to need to stand in innocence and to be acquitted. By God is again. He said, God no longer is my judge, but now you see on that thing because he becomes my father. That's what he talked about in the week since On that verdict, that little verdict that God now has once for all declared our innocence. And He hasn't simply declared it once for all as if it's a one-time thing. That that verdicts concludes because we have day by day the righteousness of Jesus Christ as we stand before us. That continues to be ever on to eternity the standing in his eyes before God. And so now God comes to us as our father. We adopt the symbol of family because we're innocent and we're innocent of the very self. Well now then to sum it up, forgiveness then is offered not on the basis of anything that we do, including repentance and savings. On the basis of the righteousness of Christ alone. Galatians two six, Paul has said there We know that a man is not justified by observing the law, but by faith in Christ in Jesus Christ. And so we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus, that we may be justified by faith in Christ. Not by observing the law. Because by observing the law or by seeking to do those things pleasing to God in our own faith, by observing the law, no one will be justified. If you uh still want to pursue the kind of things I'm talking about here at greater length, I would suggest that you read the book of the lake. It is one of the clearest statements. It's the magna carta of the system The the whole thing of the book of Galatians you see is the freedom that we have in Christ through justification. Take a look at those And you see that Paul's whole confirmed. Whereas that the believers there were adding something to their justification to establish their righteousness. And he's talking about the freedom to God in Jesus Christ, the freedom that we exist today. lost. The teaching to add their own kinds of righteousness to what Jesus does. Basing it on our skills, our beauty, our activities Galatians is really the best thing to even. And he told this again the same idea in Titus, chapter three, beginning with verse five. He saves us not because of the righteous things that we have done, but because of his mercy. He saves us through the watching of rebirth and renewing by the Holy Spirit whom you poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Christmas. So that having been justified by his grace, we might become heirs of the hope of eternal life. Why? This is our basis. God transfers the accounts of our righteousness. Remember a couple of weeks ago, month or so ago, we looked at Matthew chapter 18 Matthew chapter 18 tells us the fate of our account. Well, what is it? We owe God $10 million. Remember that? Let's do it. Well it's the same word, it's for forgiveness. It's me too and I uh thirteen thirty nine, thirteen thirty-eight We owe the guy ten million dollars. Our account was sort of in the red there. A hopeless debt. We could never repay. The PZ account, on the other hand, remember, is an account in which he doesn't only have ten million dollars in his account. It's an inexhaustible account. It's an account that uh that doesn't any SA is Iran or of any of the OTEP cartels It's an account that does anything we can imagine. We can't be due to any range to the inexhaustible riches of the rest of this. What God does, it's a justification to believe God's cancer. God didn't just make a mistake in the balance. He just took by Jesus owns given to us. He took those accounts. And he took what was in Jesus' account and wrote really on it. We took what was in your account and Jesus. That's what justification. That's what Paul's saying. That is the basis that I've been leading up to all since January laying the foundation That basis on which God forgives you and me in order to do it. If we understand that as the basis, the roots of our heart of forgiveness, the implications just begin to roll out and developing But I want to develop a a one main implication for you this morning as we apply this. And that one main implication, an application to our lives, is this question of God's acceptance of us and our self-interest. So I would suggest that there are two opposite problems, both of which we all have in this room. How can we both how can we all have two problems? Well we do. Well those two problems are first of all the problem of pride and conceit. Does anybody want to claim they don't have that problem? We all have that problem, especially Francis. We all have that problem. We have that problem at the very root of our nature. Now how do we get that problem? We think we're all insecure peace. And because we're insecure, a lot of us seek to gain our security by always comparing ourselves away Now, the question we're always asking is, am I as good as this person? Do I do as well? Do I do better? How do I prepare in my living of the Christian life? In the way I perform, in what I do And so uh I see certain things I don't like about myself. Well how am I going to deal with them? How am I going to deal with those insecurities? Well the way many of us deal with them is by comparing ourselves with others and doing three things. You see where one of those three things are all The first thing that we do is we criticize others to establish our own self-relations. You see, we may say, uh, well, we're reform systems And so we understand more of God's word than other people and therefore uh about it's we're fortunate to have us in Colombia who really know his truth and really are serving him and walking with him. It takes pride from what we understand of God's word. Or maybe uh we think that our church is better than other churches. Or we think we have things more together in our life or in our church life. We begin to look at our own concern and we say, well, you know, maybe I blow it here and there and all of it, but at least I'm confused. I mean, you know, at least when I look at that person I say, I have a confused I may not be doing too well, but at least down deep I love the word. And we begin to compare and criticise others. And we look down on them Why? In order so that we can have something to go through. So that we can say, well, at least time we end up on whatever it is that we're using to establish our own faculty. Well in second day didn't do that. It's to write about what God's doing in my life. In a very probable place. Very, very subtle. We do this in the church all the time, Bible study, prayer meetings, wherever we care what God's doing. We ask that very important, valid, uh, very um very good question to ask you today. What what's the Lord been doing baby? I'm going to tell you some things the Lord's been doing until we uh share a few thoughts maybe some quiet times. We may share some answered prayer that God's given us Uh I know people who will care Google that they say to Lucy from the Lord. But we say these things and we care here for the Lord from CPU, doing three me, doing four me Now there's two ways you can do that. The one way you can do that is to say, isn't that amazing? The dog would do this to see it like that. Wonderful idea. The other way unfortunately often do that is to say, uh, please go to me. How come do I go down to you? Boy, it's really amazing what God does for people who really have a heart for it and really fervent in keeping. What a shame you're not experiencing that. We used to say this in uh some of the charismatic circles that I used to use and some friends of mine that used to figure around a lot of these things. We can talk about how heavy these are One person shares something about fear, and you say, that's really good for me. Let me tell you something I saw, you know, and you begin to share something and become kind of a spiritual competitiveness We try to outdo things. We don't think that God does it. None of us were just doing it. I do it in my own. But it's not restricted to any particular kind of picture. But the questions are on implying these fundamental parts are her following. The third way do we do this, uh let me just say about what I think about that. Uh I'm not saying when I say that is our testimonies are wrong. I'm not saying we shouldn't say what I I think it's important. It's it's vital for it. It's a community. It's the motives that I'm talking about. Why am I doing it? Am I doing it to look up the Lord Jesus and show you faithfulness or am I doing it to show you my faith? And if what I'm trying to examine and to absorb is my faith. I'm establishing my own righteousness. Trying to focus on me. But if in fact I'm doing it in order to look up the Lord, then keep faithfulness. then it may in fact have the effect of producing in you a thirst for more of God's work in your own life. Terrific. You may be intimidated by it. You may say, well geez, why isn't that work? In my life, I said that's okay. But what am I trying to do? Am I trying to lay a heavy on you? Or am I trying to lift you up and help you along in the walk? of the Lord. So we both look at him like it's you looking at me. And it's emotions to the truth. And then the third thing is uh this question of our being disciples of Jesus Christ. It's a simple little phrase, you know. You can say uh disciple of Jesus Christ. And the whole emphasis is on Jesus. Who's disciple being? What I find in a lot of people and groups, uh, females and people and groups that I post groups, groups that I've been in, is you take that page here the cycle of Christ Living in the same. We're disciples to Christ. Yeah, we're we're disciples. Uh let's talk about our discipleship. Well they really uh got some things really that really helped them discipleship. And we begin to produce uh all kinds of ideas and manuals and techniques on discipleships. And somehow if I re-hear a lot of these things, the Lord Jesus didn't see my thing of context Is our discipleship just because we thought we seen us? And why is it that God is working through us and accepting us and blessing us just because we're disciples? Rather than sin is because of Christ. It's because God, in his own kind of sanction and mercy, works with sin as our health We get the emphasis. Take our focus on who's disciples we are, we're going to focus on the disciples, on the disciples And that becomes a very subtle means of self-righteousness. In any of these cases, we see what we're doing if we demand us to be The only basis that we're ever acceptable before God is the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, Christomia. The Jesus God will always allow Jesus to be Christ of Him. and will rob me of my joy as his service. You ever talk about Peter and John yes? Remember Peter and John? Peter said that I am the disciple of the Lord you The more the I love the Google computer, we're gonna be lying on this, the more even the copy starts. Peter says, oh Lord, that'll never be. Nobody loves you like I do. I'll lay down my life for you. Again and again, in the following Jesus. Peter is focusing on his love for Jesus. How great my love is for you, Lord. Nothing can take that away. But for a student, the first one to deny Jesus, the four children. Peter's blood has no. Never look at life. How do we sound the problem that we've got? Never even read it with the end. Are sound stupid and truth? The disciples to please. The guy called Broken is an amazing. He's a disciple who Jesus loved. Jesus loved him. What a fantastic God. But what a wonderful grace and mercy, what a favor. That Jesus could love me. And who wanted? But always said he's not the only person who's created to put it in front. Because two person. If John defines love for us in the New Testament when he told them first time towards John, here is life No. We love God. But if you love God, how do you come to the three of us to our sister? Just the key thing focuses on things and good luck rather than how great my love is to be And therefore it reduces all pride and deceit, takes it all away, and put things in their proper purpose, and But there's an opposite problem in our house. See the outside is left there But inevitably, human or later, inevitably, when we ask that question, what does God think of me? God's going to bring us to the end of our time. Sooner or later we're going to break through that five and that we see. It's going to puncture it and we're going to see it for what it is. And then We come to the end of ourselves, something brings us down, and what do we do? I find in those cases we simply flip-flop to the opposite of three. And we go from pride and deceit to the opposite problem of guilt and worship. We simply pass right through the median point, right to the opposite extreme of despair and depression. And when we look at uh what God thinks of me, we say, Well, I'm disgusted. How can God have anything to do with me? But Lord, I've confessed the same sin to you 15 times this week. But Lord, you must be tired of hearing it. I'm tired of confessing it. I'm tired of looking at it. I'm tired of talking about it. I'm tired of struggling with it. Lord, how can you want anything to do with me? Lord, I sometimes I wonder if you wish you could get out of the bargain. Sometimes I think you must wonder, well, how the fuck is that one? I mean it's from learning, you know, but not that one. Keep going, the same old doctrine. That one just never seems to learn it. I keep having to come back and forgive the same old matter day after day, week after week. Lord, I'm tired of it. Lord, I'm tired of coming before you so we begin to not come for God. We shy away from it. We don't worship him. We use the joy of his presence. We can't even pray. And after a while, the inspiration distress. Why? You see it's the same question that we were looking at before in pride and conceit. The question is what if God sent it me? But what's the problem? The problem is in order to find out what God thinks of me, I'm looking at the wrong person The Bible says you want to find out what God thinks of Jesus, then look what he thinks of Jesus. Think for five or ten minutes about what God thinks of his own Son and Jesus. Meditate on the relationship with these other people and the house of every angel. Think of the fellowship and the love that he fed upon his own son. Let that roll around in your mind for a little while and then turn to John 1723. Take a look at this, because John 17. 23 is a verse I wouldn't bear to audit. He could watch it there clearly in pages of scriptures. John seventeen twenty-three, Jesus is talking there, praying for all the believers He talked about his love for the Father, the unity we have with him, and our relationship together. He says in verse 23, I am them, and you father in me. May they be brought to complete thee, and let the world know that you sent me and have loved them. Come on. Even it now. The first part that I thought, well you gotta be a way around the group in that. Can't really mean that actually If I look up the Greek and I say, maybe it's just going to say, you know, you love them and you love me, that's what he said. And I don't say that. The Greek word there means to the degree that. With the measure that. You can't be a wonderful thing. How do you think? So he likes you, but who like Jesus? To the neighbor, to the world, to be honest, And you might begin to get afraid of it. Begin to think of what I mean. If God loves me, but what did He love? He does his own son. That's something that my mind recoils from itself. I said that can't be. Lord, I can believe that you love me, but I can't believe that you love me is not the truth. That's what still loves me. That's what you Don't believe me. Don't know whom I love by your hands and by your friends. I love you my own son. He loves the adopted who's justified and given the righteousness of Jesus Christ as much as he loves his own son who had that righteousness in not necessarily And when you look at that, you begin to say, Well, let me be true, but I still feel the guilt, it still weighs on me. The guilt of those things that separate me from them. Then I ask you, how complete are you justified? How complete is the justification God to be when you kind of even justify And in Hebrews chapter ten verse, the extent, the measure of that. For we read there in Hebrews chapter ten, verse seventeen. There are sins and their lawless acts I will remember no more. Remember we talked about that examination, the extent of God's forgiveness. We will remember our sins no more That's his fination of forgiveness. Then he says in verse 18, where these have been forgiven, there is no longer any sacrifice or offerings. There is nothing that you and I can add to the rightness of things. And that we can constantly be. I add the weightlessness of my clients. I add the worthlessness of my I have the righteousness of my faith in it in this manner, in that manner. The righteousness of my activity in persponence. And I say not And there is nothing you can ask about. Either you have it or you don't. And if you're outside of Jesus' price this morning, we don't have the right And there is nothing you can do to obtain it. There is nothing you can do to get it. That righteousness is offered you only on the basis of keeping life that you made of us. And you're testing yourself upon you to be able to do it. But if you are, there's nothing you can add to it. There's nothing you can go beyond it. You see what I'm saying? That you and I, when we are serving Jesus Christ, I'm not diminished the fact that you and I need to struggle against him. This doesn't lead to a a lethargy, uh an aptitude that says, Well no, I don't really have to trouble against sin at all. That accepts me just the way I am No, that's if you understand justification, if you understand having a justification, your whole desire is to use God and work on us. What I am saying though is because today, right at this moment, all of these work All of those ways that you come short of Jesus Christ righteousness, all those reasons why you think God should not want to have anything to do with you. You look at those, and then you realize that in all of eternity God will never he will never be one inch more acceptable to God than you are right night if we have his right to you. Because there is nothing to us. Never knowing tiny, are you going to be more pleased and more acceptable to God than you are waiting for sin? Because if we have Jesus, there's nothing. If we thrive against Him, we can arrest in the fact that God is not our judge to our father. Do we work from the device of Jesus Christ? And the other thing that I want to say about science is that motives are all important in playing I find it most of it and motivated Christian living by this. The fear of rejection. That's so easy because I sawten the way these people and There is a light and righteous red of alienation from the Father, but that's not the fear of a rejection from God itself, because it's right here. What I'm saying is that our motivation in serving the Lord should be great, should be gratitude, because as you see there in the bulletin, the law says, you know, sum this up again, put in these points again and again. The law says, Do good and I will bless you. And that produces guilt motivation and Christians. Here we go. Exhaust of grace says, I will bless you. It's so easy. Motivate one another idea. It's so easy to operate out of a motivation field. Are you never working in one of the working groups? talked to the president at the end of that U Cornell. He said, I'll everything I've done with the president of this chapter, with you, with announcements. I was just trying to escape God. Trying to escape to the splinter of team, trying to do everything once, trying to just avoid people's uh rejection of you, trying to leave people's