Well, we are now in the midst of three sermons on the heart of the gospel, focusing on some things that are easy to lose hold of. but make a great difference in the way that we think and live. Last week, uh, you remember we talked about two men that went up to the temple to pray. One was the Pharisee. He looked into himself to see if he had a righteousness that would make him acceptable to God, compared himself with other people, particularly that Despicable Pharisee, that despicable tax collector said, I'm good enough. And so he went down Burdened. Went down uh thinking I gotta keep working at this, I gotta keep comparing, gotta keep plugging away, pedaling faster. And he's in for a big surprise because in that last day God will look at his heart and he will be cast away. He who exalts himself will be humbled. On the other hand, in contrast, the tax collector, that despicable fellow with no scruples, comes, recognizes a sin, and he looks totally outside of himself, doesn't dare to look into himself for any kind of record. He looks out of himself, sees the sacrifice, the blood of the lamb, and all he can do is plead God's mercy. God be merciful to me, the sinner. And the tax collector, Jesus said, went down, justified, conscience clear, joy, in for the great surprise, where he will be lifted up and adopted as a son of God. And so Jesus talks about how those who exalt themselves will be humbled, those who humble themselves will be exalted. But don't miss the other lesson. Jesus said that man. Went home justified before God. And this morning I want to focus on that word, justified. In order to understand it, I'm going to go to the second passage of the three that we're looking at, Romans chapter 3, which talks about justification. Justification is almost totally neglected by the average Christian today and wanting to be careful on what does it mean, what does it not mean. Uh justification is seen as something that's for theologians who have nothing better to do than to define their terms and refine things and think about it and debate it. Actually, a lot of theologians are writing a good bit on justification today, and a lot of it's very confusing and misguided. But in the Reformation, it was something that was very important to any Christian. It was a very central focus of the Reformation. And rather than thinking of reformation, I mean uh justification as something that is Simply for theologians to debate, I would like to posit that there is nothing more practical in your thinking than the understanding, the proper understanding of justification. In order to perhaps make this point to get your attention on it, I want to start by asking you a question. It's a little test. And you see it in your bulletin, although it doesn't give the answer, but uh you see it there. It's just a simple question. Even gives you multiple choice, just two possible answers, and so uh fifty-fifty, you guess you got a fifty-fifty chance And the simple question is this, on what ground or on what basis does God justify you or accept you? On what ground Or what basis does God accept or justify you? And the two possible answers are faith in Christ, A, or B, a life of perfect obedience. Now, which is it? Now I'm not asking for a show of hands because I've long term learned in asking this question to let people keep their answers private. I once preached this in a congregation in New England where there happened to be a very notable theologian and after the service he I came back and he said hi and he said he was sure I was gonna get the wrong answer. to the whole congregation because he says almost nobody ever gets the right answer because the right answer is not a faith in Christ. The correct answer is B a life of perfect obedience. Now, before you wonder what kind of a cult you've dropped into here, let me hasten to say that the The point of this is not your life of perfect obedience, it's Christ's life of perfect obedience. And that focuses on the essential meaning of justification. It distinguishes between that which is subjective and that which is objective, between that which is made in us versus that which is said about us. So the meaning of justification. Let me just mention this before I I give that. I I believe that the reason we have such a difficulty with this today was Put well in a recent Christianity Today article where it said that the typical Christian today starts his theology and every Every Christian is a theologian, you're either a good theologian or bad theologian, but every Christian is a theologian because we all think about God, and that's theology is thinking about God. But the average Christian starts today by my questions, my experience, my dreams, my questions, and the gospel is seen as a solution. It's seen as an answer to my questions. However, the gospel is so radically God-centered that it raises a whole different set of questions, and we lose our joy Because we see it all as centered around us rather than the questions that God raises that will help us to see things as they really are. I still remember cold winter day back in Syracuse, New York, 1976. Church Kathy and I were going to had an adult Sunday school class and they decided to do the class that winter on basic doctrines of the Bible. And so the Sunday school teacher, who was the pastor of the church, shrewdly decided that he would instead just teach it, he would have each member of the class take one of those doctrines, do the research, and present it in the class. And I happened to be assigned a topic of justification. So I had graduated from seminary about eight years before, figured I knew this stuff, I'll dust off my notes and present this, and won't be very hard to do. But I decided I would actually look at the topic of justification, just on my own, kind of get to know it personally a little bit more. And as I did I was stunned. I mean, as I began over the next couple of weeks to look at this, I began to wonder if I really understood the gospel. It was kind of like the time Kathy and I were in Ireland and we had Sunday dinner with um A very kind couple and at the end of the dinner it was a beautiful day and they said, Well have you seen Lady Dixon's Gordon? And I said I didn't know Lady Dixon or her garden. I hadn't seen it in any book. Nobody had ever talked about it. Oh, you must go just go take a look So it was about 10-15 minutes away. We went over, walked through the gate, and again I was I was so absolutely stunned and flabbergasted. It was a rose garden, but it wasn't simply a rose garden. It was a garden of gardens. In fact, There were rose gardens from the gate to the horizon as far as the eye could see, because this is where the international rose festivals were held And they had been held there since the 1800s, and every year they held it, they added another garden. So there were over a hundred gardens that extended through hills and valleys and streams. Garden after garden of beautiful, exquisite, glorious, perfect roses Well, in my study of justification, it was like I had stumbled on this series of gardens and saw the heart of the gospel displayed in something. that was more glorious than I had imagined. So I found in my discovery a new deeper love for Christ. It it was revival to my soul. I I shared this, I was team leader for the university staff up there in upstate New York and shared it with the rest of the staff and God met them and lightened their heart and And uh there was revival in the staff team and everybody got so excited we decided to put together a conference on a weekend conference and we invited the students from upstate New York Students came, students were becoming Christians, students were falling in love with Jesus Christ in new ways, in powerful ways. And this was all because of understanding the real under the the heart. Of the gospel in the meaning of justification. I began to see why some of the great awakenings and revivals of history focused on this particular point. Now, what I want to do is to give to you just a condensed version. I can't take you through all the gardens. I just want to focus on one garden and take you through just a real condensed version of what I taught in the session during those days in that weekend conference And so I want to take you to the Garden of Romans chapter 3. I want to take you to the particular bush of Romans 3. 24, a glorious bush within a midst of glorious gardens, and I want to focus on one simple phrase. And simply three words. Paul in chapter 3 of Romans, beginning in verse 23, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified freely by his grace. through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. I want to look at three words, justify, freely, and grace, and see if I can convey to you something of what so lit up my heart back in the 70s. I love to preach it again because it lights up my heart again, just talking about it. Well, first of all, the word justify, what does it mean? The word justify literally is righteousify. Somebody that's righteous is somebody that keeps the law, somebody whose life is seen as in conformity with what God's standards are. And justify is the verb. It is to it's, you know, it's righteousify, or to declare righteous. It's a legal term taken from the courtroom. It is to acquit. It is to say you are innocent under the law. You have met its requirements. You are innocent, you are acquitted. But notice it is simply a declaration about you. It does nothing in you. It simply says something about you. A legal declaration. Let me give you a couple of examples. You look Back, and these are all here, but you see them in your bulletin outline for later. But Deuteronomy chapter 25, verse 1, for example, the job description of the judges of Israel. Moses says there, when men have a dispute, they're to take it to the court, the judges will decide the case, acquitting the innocent and condemning the guilty. Now the Septuagint, Greek translation of the Old Testament. The word they're acquitting is the word justify. So it says the judges will decide the case, justifying the innocent. You see, it's it's a legal declaration. Simply say, doesn't make them anything. It just simply says, they are innocent. Legal declaration about them. Or take Proverbs chapter 17, verse 15. God says, acquitting the guilty and condemning the innocent, the Lord detests them both. Now if it had anything to do with making, if you make somebody guilty to be innocent, that'd be a good thing. But because the word that is used there, again, in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the word is justify, justifying the guilty, condemning the innocent, the Lord detests them both. It's saying if you make a legal declaration saying that somebody who's guilty is innocent, that's unjust. That's an abomination. God hates that So you see, it's simply stating something legally about the person. Or take perhaps the most dramatic of all, Luke chapter 7, verse 29, where Luke says All the people, even the tax collectors, when they heard Jesus' words, acknowledged that God's way was right. Now the the Greek literally says they justified God. When they heard Jesus' words, they justified God. What does it mean? It's saying we are declaring that God's ways are perfect. We're simply making a declaration. We're not making God anything. They're simply declaring something about God Totally objective, because they were baptized in John. So if you understand that justification is the legal declaration about someone's life, then you realize we've got a problem. And the problem that the Bible raises, we don't raise it, but the Bible's question is: how in the world can a just God justify sinners? Now we can too easily glibly say, well, it's through Jesus, and not really think that through. But wrestle with that. How in the world can God declare you and me? To be innocent, acquitted under the law, righteous. That's the problem that the Scripture wrestles with, the Old Testament, New Testament. And that's the problem that Paul is particularly wrestling with here. So the answer that he gives, because verse 23 says, all have sinned. And come and fall short of the glory of God. Therefore, in ourselves we can't be declared righteous, innocent. But he goes on, verse 24, and are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. Redemption is the purchase, the buying. God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement through faith in his blood. He did this to demonstrate his justice. It's not avoiding his justice, it's displaying his justice. Because in his forbearance he had left sins committed beforehand, Old Testament, unpunished. He was held, waiting. He did it to demonstrate his justice at the present time. Now it's being revealed, so as to be just as the one who justifies those who have faith in Jesus. God saying I want to justify my people, and I must be just So the only way is by having Jesus Christ, God's Son, be the eligible substitute who has kept the law perfectly on your behalf, on my behalf, and we trade records God says, I see your record. Here's the book of all your sins. That is taken and it is laid on my son Jesus. his record of perfect righteousness, perfect keeping of the law, innocent in every thought and deed, that is transferred And it is accounted to you. It is given to you as a legal declaration. Doesn't do anything in you. It is simply about you. Now, to unpack it further, that's justified. Legal, simply a legal declaration about someone. Look at the second word, freely. He justifies us, makes a legal declaration, acquitting us because of Christ's substitutionary sacrifice, and he does it freely. The word freely is the the Greek word is deraion and it has two meanings. The first meaning is sort of obvious, uh freely, it means without cost, something that's free. For instance, take, for example, Genesis chapter 29. Jacob has fled from his brother Esau, who wants to take his head off. uh fleet to his brother, his uh uncle Laban. And uh so he's up in this far country, stays there as his relative for about a month. And then uh the Bible says that Laban said to him, You're my own flesh and blood. After Jacob had stayed with him for a whole month, Laban said to him, Just because you're a relative of mine, should you work for me for nothing? No wages for nothing? Greek translation of that verse in the Old Testament is this word Duraon. Should you work for me freely? Don't pay you anything. Tell me what your wages should be. Quite as kind as he sounds. The two of them tried over the next years to cheat each other back and forth. But at least here it seems like a kind offer. I want to pay you something. I don't want you to work for me for free It's that word, justified freely. Or take Exodus chapter 21, verse 2. If you buy a Hebrew servant, he is to serve you for six years. But the seventh year he shall go free without paying anything. Again, it's that word freely used in Romans 3. 24, Duraion. He will not pay anything. You can't have him a servant for life. He can only serve you for six years. Seventh year, he goes free at no cost. Freely. Alright? Another example, take 2 Samuel chapter 24. David has conducted a census out of sinful motives. God pronounces there will be a plague that will run havoc for three days in Israel. David sees people dropping like flies left and right. He says, I will cast myself on God's mercy, is not at home. He's in this area of a fella Arona, and he says, I need to get his threshing floor and his oxen so I can make a sacrifice. Runa, how much is it going to cost? Aruna says, Are you kidding? Stop the plague, man. I'll give it to you. Oxen are yours, threshing floor is yours. Take what you need. Just stop the plague 2 Samuel 24, 24. But the king replied to Aurana, No, I insist on paying you for it. I will not sacrifice to the Lord my God burnt offerings that cost me nothing. To Rayon, freely. I will not do it if it cost me nothing. I must pay for it. So he paid fifty shekels of silver for the ox and the use of the threshing floor. Freely, no cost. That you can sort of understand. But the second meaning of that word, Dorayon, is the one that we miss. Not only does it mean no cost, it means no cause. No cause, no reason. No reason. Justified freely? Justified without any reason? Let me give you some examples of how that is used. 1 Samuel chapter 19. Jonathan, David's friend, Saul's son. Saul's trying to kill David. Jonathan advocates for David and he pleads with Saul. He says, see, David, took his life in his hands when he killed the Philistine, Goliath. The Lord won a great victory for all Israel. And you, Dad, Saul, you saw it and were glad. Why then would you do wrong to an innocent man like David by killing him for no reason? It's that same word, Dorayan. Here it doesn't mean for no cost, not going to kill them free. You don't kill them for any reason. You don't have any reason to kill them. There's no reason in David, justified freely. No reason in you or me for the justification. Nothing. We're take secondly Psalm sixty nine in verse four David says, those who hate me without reason outnumber the hairs of my head. Again, without reason is this word Dorian. There's no reason for it, no cause for it. I haven't done anything to deserve it. It's interesting, Jesus quotes that verse in John fifteen, twenty-five. He says, They, the Pharisees, the enemies, they hated me without cause. They're the fulfillment. Of that verse. So what Paul's saying in Romans 3. 24 is there is just as much reason for God to justify you as there was for people to hate Jesus. No reason. No cause. Nothing deserving of it. Freely. Or take finally Hosea fourteen. Hosea is a book of Broken-hearted Hosea, who married a woman who became a promiscuous prostitute, broke his heart again and again and again, provoked him to want to leave and forsake her, but he would not do it. And Hosea is a picture of God in His love and His mercy. God brings that to a climax in the last chapter, Hosea 14, where He gives this most beautiful statement of His love. I will heal their waywardness. And I will love them freely. It's that same word that's used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, Orion. I will love them with no reason in them. No explanation. Nothing that you can say that you have done to deserve this. I will love them freely, for my anger has turned away from them. And that thrusts us forward to the last word, by his grace. Grace we think of as undeserved mercy. It's getting something that you didn't deserve. The point is not simply that it's undeserved. We've provoked him. We have provoked him as promiscuous Hosea's wife, that promiscuous woman provoked Hosea. We've provoked him as the prodigal son, provoked the father. We've provoked him as the tax collector. By living without scruples and cheating God's people and siding with the Roman government. We've provoked him, justified freely, by total undeserved mercy. So you see, whenever you look to see what God thinks of you, when you say, can I come to Him? Can I pray about this? What does God think of me? And you begin to look at the things that you've done and begin to weigh the balance of the scale of whether you have been at all faithful in your attempts in the last week, how you've spoken to your wife or your husband or what you've done. And you look at that as the basis for how God looks at you, you're simply looking to the wrong person. You and I can never look inward to see what God thinks of us. We must always look outward to Christ. To look at him and what he has done, to see that the basis of the gospel is not what God does in you, it's what God has done for you. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified freely by his grace. Maybe for some of you this morning, God is showing you this for the first time. You thought that Christianity was a matter of what Jesus has done plus what you do and your efforts and attempts and You sort of mix them all together, but the gravitational pull is always back to, are you good enough? Is your life going to measure up to what God requires? And this morning God is wanting to show you from this glorious garden of gospel terms. The beauty of justification. You don't look to yourself. Totally look out from yourself to the blood of the Lamb, to the finished work of Jesus Christ. If you look into yourself, God's work in you is always far short of what he requires. You look out of yourself to Jesus Christ and you see that what God has done for you, not in you, for you, in Christ, is perfect. Perfect, sufficient, and you can rest in it. If you've never rested in that, I urge you, I plead you, before this service is ended, come and rest. Look to Jesus Christ and rest in his finished work, his righteous record that is accounted to you, that is attributed to you. Because it is free by his grace. No cause in you. No cost to you. Simply what God has done by the internal workings of His mercy, offering to you life in Jesus Christ. Come, come and receive him. But maybe some of you are like the Pharisee. You say, I'm not like him looking simply to myself, but a number of you said that this conversation we had last week. There's that gravitational pull back to the mindset of the Pharisee And the mindset of the Pharisee is always to look to me, it's always to look inward, it's always to examine, it's to compare myself with other people and see how I measure up. And God is trying to free you again this morning to say, look away. Your peace is only in looking to Jesus Christ. Every morning when you and I wake up. We need to preach the gospel to ourselves every morning when you wake up to say, I'm going to rest consciously in the finished work of Jesus Christ, what you have done for me, not what you are doing in me. I am praying, Lord, that you will work more of Christ's righteousness out in my life today. I long for that. The person who has had the righteousness of Christ attributed to them never rests and just remains in that. In fact, I used to say to kids in this conference Until you get to where Romans 5 ends, until you get to the place where you say, if it's that free, then that's just a license to sin. If it's that free, then hey, why don't you just sin all the more? The more you sin, the more grace will abound, right? And Paul says exactly that in Romans 5. What is so amazing is that when Paul says, hey, if the gospel's that free, why don't you just sin more? There'll be more grace, he does not say, Oh, wait a minute, I didn't mean it was that free. He never backs off of it. What he does in chapter six is to say, God forbid, you've forgotten the resurrection. Besides the dynamic of justification, what God does when He justifies you is He raises you up in a new life with Jesus Christ. And you are dead to sin, the desire, the longing, the bondage to it. And so you pray in the morning, God I pray that more of Christ will be seen in me today. Show me work more in. And I want to be more useful to you. I want to be more like you, but that will not make me more acceptable to you. Be clear on that. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you will never in all eternity Be more acceptable to God than you are right this moment. Because if you are a Christian, you have the righteousness of Christ, and there is nothing that you can add to perfection. Amen? And yet today we live in a time when that's being muddied. Reformation issues are coming back to haunt us again. Let me read to you a quote from a magazine, May 2010, Evangelical Magazine. About justification, articles about justification. And it says, quote, Christians are fully justified from the first moment they believe on the basis of Christ's works And none of their own. Sound right? Maybe you're a little afraid to answer after that first question. Yes, sounds right. Sounds good, right? But then he goes on. Yet This free gift may be lost if we fail to appropriate the other blessings that come with it, conviction of God's will and the power to carry it out. It is by continual surrender of the will, by continual obedience, that the blessing of justification is retained. So, God declares you are innocent, justified. And then you well, but you didn't keep on doing it. You know, you didn't work and you didn't keep Keeping it up, you see. It's not gospel dynamic, it is works dynamic, it's the f Pharisee, and you won't retain it That is not the gospel. That's what the Reformation was about. That's what Protestants and Catholics have debated. We see Protestants and Catholics together, we're all agreeing on justification now No, not when we put aside the objective righteousness of Jesus Christ plus nothing. It is outside of you. You will never be more acceptable to God than you are right this moment. If you have the external, outside of you, righteousness of Jesus Christ that has been attributed to you freely by grace. And you will never be more loved by God in all eternity than you are right now. If you belong to Jesus Christ, his love could never increase for you. For it is perfect. And that is what we're going to look at next week. Let's pray. Oh Lord, how we need to look outside ourselves. Lord, we are so, so self-focused. Give us grace to look away to Christ. To see what you have said about us that's infinitely more important than anything you are doing in us, because our peace and our eternal life Rests on that righteousness of Christ. We vacillate, Lord. We're confused. But Christ is crystal clear. Lord, let us rest in it. Let us find our joy in it this week. Right now, give us that joy that comes only by looking away to Christ. Set our hearts afire with the righteousness of Christ that is in us, so that our hearts are set aflame by the freedom, the clear conscience, the joy. The staggering sense of your love and your acceptance of us because of Jesus Christ. Ah, Lord, Lord, do that in us, we pray. Lord, what would happen? What would our lives be like if you set that afire in us? We pray, do it. Holy Spirit, do it now. In Jesus' name. Amen.