Have you ever wanted to be a king or a queen? Be honest now. The call ever crossed your mind that might be a good life. How about you boys and girls? If you ever wanted to be a king or a queen? Or maybe you just wanted to be a duke or a duchess and not have to have all the hassles that kings and queens have in ruling, but you could still live in the palace and have all the royalty. In eighteen ninety four A schoolgirl by the name of Gladys Deacon read about the marriage of the Duke of Marlborough And she determined that she wanted to be royalty in this world one day. And she was going to do it by marrying into royalty. Now, Gladys had an advantage over a lot of us. Gladys was a girl of startling beauty. She was uh the kind of person that you uh couldn't look at just once, you know. You had to turn again and look at it. She had a classic profile, and to make it perfect, she had wax injected in the bridge of her nose. and was absolutely beautiful. Over the years she waited to marry into royalty. She rejected many, many men who wanted to marry her. And she waited twenty five years for the Duke of Marlborough to finally divorce his wife so that then she could marry him. And in nineteen twenty-one, when she was forty years old, when he was forty-nine, she finally became royalty. Sounds like the uh classic love story, doesn't it? Not quite. Because after Gladys married the Duke of Marlborough, she found out what it was like to be royalty She found out that she had really married a palace rather than a husband, and her boredom in royalty turned to hatred for her husband and for her life. Finally, he died before she could divorce him. And she wrote later of her life at that time: My marriage was like a black, heavy cloud, leaving such a disgusted pain that for years and even now. Now I cannot bear to even brush by it in thought. Gladys lost all her friends. She finally went to live in seclusion. And at the age of 81, she was considered a crazy old witch who used to answer the door with a shotgun in her hands. They hauled her off to an asane asylum. And just a few years ago, at nearly a hundred years, Gladys fied in an institution. She said before she died that she had wasted her entire life seeking for royalty. They contrast that with what the Bible says that we are. Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 2 in verse 9, you are a royal priesthood. Gladys Deacon was called the royal siren. Peter says, You are a royal priesthood. Let's look at the context of his statement there again in 1 Peter chapter 2. For the scripture or pick it up. In verse 4, 1 Peter. Verse 4 down to verse 10. Peter says, As you come to him, the living stone, talking about Jesus, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him, you You also like living stones are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in Scripture it says, See, I lay a stone in Zion. A chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe, this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe, the stone the builders rejected. It has become the capstone and a stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Remember there in verse five, Peter says that you are a holy priest We talk about the fact that we as the Church of Jesus Christ are as priests those who can enter into direct worship with God. We can enter into his presence to worship him. We are called as priests also to intercede in prayer. For one another. We're called as priests also to minister to one another. Part of our calling as a priesthood is that we are not only the priests, we are also the temple. Not only are we the temple, but the Bible says we're also the sacrament. Then in verse 9, he adds this other idea. He says, You're a royal priesthood. Now, what does Peter mean by that? It's a unique phrase. Nowhere else does that phrase appear in the Bible. And I'm not sure that I altogether understand what he's getting at in that, but I hope to get at some of what he's talking about. Open that up to you now. And I want to do that by looking at, first of all, the fact of what he's saying, the fact of our kingship, and then take a look a little bit at the meaning of our kingship for us. Now, as always, we want to be a very good thing. We must go to the Old Testament and get the background to understand the fullness of any New Testament concept. So we have to do that in this case. And in this case, we look at the Old Testament promise of our kingship and then look at the New Testament fulfillment of it. First of all, the promise, you see. Peter's there saying you're a royal priesthood. He also says you're a holy nation and a people belonging to God. Now, Peter, as I've reminded you before, didn't pick those phrases out of the air. He's quoting the Old Testament. Testament. Specifically he's quoting from Exodus chapter nineteen, verses five and six. And there we read, when God was meeting with his people to establish his covenant, to call them into being a nation, a distinct people, God Said to them on that occasion, Now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all nations you will be my treasured possession. You see, that's what Peter's saying, you're a peculiar possession to me. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a king. Kingdom of priests and a holy nation. There you see it again, a holy nation. And there's that third phrase, a kingdom of priests. But wait a minute, Peter. Moses wrote, You're going to be a kingdom of priests. And you said we're A royal priesthood. Well, uh that's good, Peter, you were close, but you didn't quite get the quote accurate. Peter should have gone back and looked at his Bible a little more closely so that he could be more precise. Because what's promised there is that we'll Be a kingdom of priests, not a royal priesthood. Did Peter misquote? Of course not. What Peter's doing, you see, is giving acknowledgement to the development of biblical theology. Peter, you see, is giving Giving us a fuller understanding of what Moses meant on that occasion. What do I mean by that? Well, you see, what God had said there at Mount Sinai to his people is you're going to be a distinct kingdom, and a kingdom of personality. Priests, where you all will have access fully to me, you will all be able to intercede on behalf of one another and minister t before uh to one another in building one another up to become like me. You'll be a kingdom of priests. But then I Isaiah adds something to that, as well as others, but for instance in Isaiah chapter 61, when Isaiah talks about this, he says, You will be called priests of the Lord, you'll be named ministers of our God, and you will feed on the wealth of nations. And in their riches you will boast. Now Isaiah is saying not only are you going to be a kingdom of priests, but you're going to be very exalted priests. You're going to feed on the wealth of nations. Now that's something that's written to you and to me. You're going to feed on the wealth of nations and in their riches you're going to boast. Daniel, a little later on, picks this up and he takes it even a step further. What does Daniel say? Well, you remember Daniel in speaking about the conflicts of the kingdoms. Talking about the struggle of the kingdom of the of this world in Daniel seven and contrasting that with the kingdom of God that comes and overcomes these kingdoms and defeats these kingdoms, the kingdom of God in contrast to these kingdoms of man that comes. Come and go will be a kingdom that will last forever. And you have in Daniel seven that beautiful picture of the ancient of days coming and taking his throne, taking a kingdom that's going to last forever and ever, and his dominion is never going to end. His power will be absolutely with without limit. And then what does he go on to say? In Daniel seven, in verse sixteen, we read, And so he told me and gave me the interpretation of these things. The four great beasts that he's been talking about are four kingdoms that will rise from the earth. But the saints of the Most High will receive the kingdom and possess it forever. Yes. Daniel says, forever and ever. He would adds it on to stress it. You notice that. He didn't just say there that the ancient of days or the Messiah would receive the kingdom. He said the saints. of the Most High will receive the kingdom. And then in verse twenty seven he builds on that where he says, and then the sovereignty, the power, the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven Will be handed over to who? To Jesus? To the Messiah? That's not what verse 27 says. What does it say? They'll be handed over to the saints. The people of the Most High. And his kingdom will be an everlasting kingdom, and all rulers will worship and obey him. The kingdom's going to be handed over to the saints. The saints are going to rule in this kingdom. And they're going to rule with the great king. And so, this is the promise of the Old Testament to God's people. Now, brothers and sisters in Jesus, do you realize that you're living in the days of the fulfillment of that promise? Does it strike? That you and I live in the beginning of the fulfillment of what Daniel's talking about there? Because you see, the fulfillment began when Jesus came, as we read in particularly Luke's gospel, to establish the Kingdom. Jesus, the messianic king, whom David the king even called Lord, comes as the king and he establishes the kingdom by his preaching of the kingdom, his signs, and his power over Satan and his demons. To demonstrate that he is the true king. And this king is coming to destroy the kingdoms that are set against our God. And ultimately, he establishes that kingdom by his death and his resurrection. You see, to establish. Establish the new humanity, Jesus has to conquer sin. Jesus has to conquer your sin and my sin. And how does he do it? The Bible says he conquers it by bearing it. What a king. He conquers my sin by bearing my sin himself. And so Jesus, because of his death as a substitute, and because of his resurrection, showing that God accepts That sacrifice on behalf of sinners. That the sin that you and I are guilty of before God, God has placed on Jesus. And because it's placed on him, he bore that. And because he bore That he has now established the kingdom and a kingdom that he has called you and me into that is part of his people. Has he borne your sin? When Jesus died and bore the sin. Sin, so that he would establish that kingdom of the people of God. He established that for those who would trust him. Have you trusted Jesus personally? For him to have taken your sin when he died on the cross? That's what the kingdom's all about. It's a kingdom established by Jesus' defeat of the enemy at the cross. And it's a kingdom into which only those who are called by faith, by trusting Jesus. But now, for those, Jesus says, for instance, in Luke chapter 12, that he's going to give to us the kingdom. That is in Luke 12, for instance, in verse 32. Jesus says, Do not be afraid, little flock, for your The Father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. He's not just saying that it's his kingdom now. But he in fulfilling Daniel's great promise is saying the Father is going to give you this kingdom. Well then in chapter 22 in verse 29 and 30, Jesus goes on to say that I confer on you a kingdom, just as my father conferred one on me, the same kingdom, you see. Jesus has set up the kingdom. And he says, Now I confer it on you, so that you may eat and drink at my table and in my kingdom, and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. What are the twelve tribes of Israel? Israel. Well it's God's people, you see. What Jesus is saying here is that he's going to establish the new people of God and that you're going to rule in these people of God. You're going to govern the new people of God. You and I are going to be kings. among this new people. The whole people will be kings. And throughout the New Testament we read about this idea of our reigning with Christ in Romans chapter five. We read that as death reigned through Adam, so we're going to reign through Christ. Christ. We read in Timothy that if we uh if we do not deny him, but we endure with him, we shall also reign with him, talking about our reigning with Jesus as kings. And so you see the picture is that You and I as priests of God, priests, remember, who can worship in his presence, who can intercede with power on behalf of the saints, who can minister to the saints, that we as priests also function as kings. We're kings. We're royalty. We're royalty in the kingdom of God. Now, Revelation really takes this, you see, and develops it because Revelation is the theological interpretation of history. It takes a look at God's perspective about what's going on. Going on in history since Jesus has come. And in Revelation, you read this idea again and again. Take a look, for instance, in Revelation chapter 1. In Revelation 1, verse 6, we read that he who loves us and has freed us from Now there you see this idea in Exodus. We're a kingdom of his people and priests. But then he was goes on to develop that further, and in chapter five, you read in chapter five, verse ten, in this uh hymn of adoration to the Lord, the words are that you have made them, that is, the church, the people of God. You've made them to be a kingdom and priest to serve our God and to do what? You see now not just a kingdom, but they will reign on the earth. So we're kings in this kingdom. As priests we also Function as kings because we reign on the earth. Chapter 20, in verse 4. He says, I saw thrones on which were seated those who had been given authority to judge. I saw the souls of those who had been Beheaded because of their testimony for Jesus, because of the word of God. They had not worshipped the beast or his image and had not received his mark on their foreheads or his hands. They came to life and they reigned with Christ. For a thousand years. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy are those who have part in the first resurrection. The second death has no power over them. But they will be priests of God. and of Christ, and will reign with him for a thousand years. We will be priests and we will reign with Christ for a thousand years. And then finally he says in chapter twenty-two Verse five There will be no more light there and there will be no need of the lamp or the light of the sun, for the Lord God will give them light and they will reign for ever and ever. Now without uh drawing up the detailed chart of The last times and going into all the details about what Revelation here is getting at. At least the point is this That the New Testament speaks throughout the New Testament and climaxing it in the Book of Revelation of the Church of Jesus Christ functioning as priests who reign with Jesus. with Christ on his throne. And Peter, you see, is taking these two ideas together. Priests who reign. And in his letter he puts them together in this one phrase, you're a royal priesthood. You're a royal priesthood. You are priests who reign. You are priests who function as kings. This is your identity now as the Church of Jesus Christ. He doesn't say He says you are a royal priest. So you don't only have access to God, you reign with God. You stop to think of what that means. What Peter saying here is he tells us about what it means for us to be royal priests. Saul in the Old Testament was a king. But Saul could never function as a priest. You remember that one time when he took to himself the duty of Functioning as a priest and offered a sacrifice without waiting for Samuel? And he was punished for that. God said he would take away his kingdom from his heirs because of that disobedience. He was a king. He could not function as a priest. Aaron was a priest. And Aaron was told that while he was given all the duties to function as a priest, he could never function as a king. He could never take Moses' place. Aaron was a priest and his whole line were the lines of priests. They could never function as kings. But you and I are priests who are kings. And we're kings who are priests. And God has given to us in Jesus. Jesus Christ, the function of both of those privileges, wrapped up in our service to Him and to one another. Now that's a privilege that you and I need to lay hold of. What does this mean for you and for me? What does this mean for us? The meaning of our kingship? And that's the second part. You see, on the one hand, the Bible always speaks of our reigning with Christ in the future tense. We will reign with the Christ. With him. But yet there's also that aspect of our now being seated in the heavenlies, which is reflected in our being a royal priesthood right now. Well, what does that mean for us? I'm not sure I understand altogether. what that means. But I'd like to suggest a couple of things that it means for us to think about and apply in our own lives. First of all, I think that what this is getting at is that we are a priesthood, as you see there in the bulletin, invested with Royal two things royal dignity and royal authority, as you see on the back. First of all, royal dignity on the front and then royal authority there on the back. Now I'd like to just touch on two points under each of these. First of all, under our royal dignity, the fact that we are both important and rich. Now you think of a king. A king is somebody who's very important, right? You don't go around ignoring things. I mean when you're hanging around the palace, you don't say I don't particularly clear what the thing the king thinks about this matter. It's very important. The king is a very important person, and he must be reckoned with. The king is also a very rich person. And by God's grace, this is what we are. Now you notice I have said that we are invested with this. What I mean by that is this is not something we have inherently. This is something that is given to us by God. He has placed the importance upon us. He has given us his riches. Now what's that mean for us? Well first of all Paul, I think in one practical way, it means that we're precious in persecution. We're precious in persecution. How precious? Well, the Bible says that we're so precious as his people. That for instance, the Bible says that we're people who are near to him, there were people born on his shoulders, were people who are kept in his arms, a people held in his hand, a people who are lifted up by his right hand. Seated at his feet, gathered before his face, engraved on the palms of his hands, there were people who are the graven stones of the high priest's blessed breastplate set on his shoulder. And worn in his heart. You and I are people very precious to our God. And yet, is that the way you're perceived in this world? When you walk into the office tomorrow, Tomorrow morning? Will people bow as you walk into the door and run to get you a cup of coffee and say, uh, Your Royal Highness, you have finally arrived. We've been waiting all morning. Uh kids, when you go to school, do people call you Your Royal Majesty? Uh do they treat you like a king or like a queen? Why not? What's the problem? If we're kings, why aren't we recognised as kings? How do you treat kings? Do you scoff them? Do you make fun of them? And yet you and I are made fun of. We're disregarded. We're seen as people not to be reckoned with, who don't count, who don't matter, not taken seriously. You talk about the people who are not going to be able to do it. about your love for Jesus, and people think that that's silly stuff, and they mock at it, and talk about your faith in Jesus, and they say, You really believe that? And you talk about what it means? To be a follower of Jesus, and you don't want to hang around and listen to the dirty jokes? And you're not respected and admired as a king or as a queen for that? Why not? Why is it that you may even be demoted in your job? For following Jesus. You may lose friends for following Jesus. Is that the way you treat kings? It's the way they treated the king. It's the way they treated the king of kings. And why is it that that's not the same? the way they treated the King of Kings? Well the answer is quite simple, you see. The problem is that our kingdom is in a different realm. We're not kings in this world. Our kingdom is in a different world. See, it's sort of like Peter is getting at so very clearly when he writes to the people that uh he's writing this letter to. You notice how he addresses them. Before he tells them they're a royal priesthood, what does he say? And it's the opening. First Peter chapter one, verse one. He addresses them to God's elect strangers in the world. He's saying here you're a royal priesthood, but he's also saying Here, you're strangers in this world. Right after he says that there are royal priesthood, what's he going on to say? After verse 10, he says, verse 11, 1 Peter 2, 11, dear friends, I urge you, as aliens and strangers in the world to abstain from sinful desires. You're strangers in this world. You're kings, but not of this world. Your royalty is not in this world or recognized in this world. And so what does he say is going to be the response? Look at verse twelve. So he says, Live such good lives among the pagans, those who don't know Jesus, that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits you. Peter says, You're going to be hassled in this world. And you can expect to be hassled. You can be expect to be disregarded, disrespected, scoffed at, and mocked. Because you're an alien here. You're a stranger here. You know, it's sort of like the Chronicles of Narnia. Those of you who have read Narnia, you remember that the Edmund and Peter and Susan and Lucy are kings and queens in Narnia. But did anybody recognize them as kings and queens in England? Well, now England, you see, is blind to that. Now, no aspersions cast on England, of course. The United States, I'm sure, wouldn't have recognized them as kings and queens either. But the point is that they just look like ordinary kids in this world. Nobody recognized that they were really kings and queens. You and I know that they're kings and queens. Why? Because we know about the reality of nothing. We understand that in that kingdom they're kings and they're queens. And we, because we perceive that kingdom, because we understand that kingdom, have the inside information. See, that's what the Bible's giving us here. Peter's saying, I've got some inside information for you. In the heavenlies, you're seated on a throne with Jesus, and your kings and your queens, even though you're not recognized. Of such in this world. See, it's sort of like Prince Caspian in the second chronicle. Remember that second book of Larnium? Prince Caspian, you remember, was the rightful king of Larnium. But you remember Prince Caspian had to live in exile. He was cast out because people had stolen the kingdom of Narnia. They had taken that kingdom from him. And so Prince Caspian had to go back and recapture that kingdom. He had to live in One not recognized as a king. But you remember all through that time Prince Caspian acted like a king. It showed he couldn't hide the fact that he really was royal. To be a king, you see, just has to show. And so God is saying to us that even though we are not reigning as we will reign with Jesus one day, even though we're aliens and strangers in a kingdom that doesn't It doesn't recognize that we're kings and queens. It will show. And you and I will show by the way that we live that in fact we're kings in his kingdom. And so Peter says you're going to submit to the authorities of this world. As Jesus submitted. And you will submit to those things that will be very difficult for you. But as you do it, you must remember that you're a king. As you do it, you must remember that you're very precious to God, and that one day you're going to experience What is true of you now in Jesus, that you're seated in the heavenlies on the throne of his kingdom? Where do you need to apply this in your life? Where do you need to think about how you need to recognize your royalty in the midst of difficulties and Discouragement and all the things that seem to deny to you the royalty that's yours. Look with the eyes of faith and see the kingdom of God and realize that that reality is eternal. Not only is the reality of that. That eternal, but also the riches of it. You see, our dignity is not just in the preciousness, but in the riches of the kingdom. Do you ever see a king that worried about his next meal? A king that was worried about not having enough? Well, if he did, he's pretty poor. A king. A king, you see, has the has at his disposal all the wealth of his kingdom. And so a king doesn't go around worrying if he's going to have enough. What's the Bible say about us? 1 Corinthians 2:9 tells us that I. Eye hasn't seen, ear hasn't heard, neither has even entered into our imagination the things that God's prepared for us. He goes on to say in the next chapter that all things are yours, and you're Christ, and Christ is God's. All the things that of the kingdom belong to us. Peter says, in opening up his um letter here, just a few verses before his statement about our being royal priests, he says in chapter one, verse four, that we have an inheritance. that can never perish in the kingdom of God. And so you say, I have that, but it doesn't seem too real to me. I have that, but I don't seem to be experiencing that right here. I'm worrying about all kinds of financial matters. Everything else. Well what's Peter saying? Saying the same things that James said, just the book before that. He said that the riches are the inheritance of the kingdom. God has given to those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith because they inherit the kingdom. And so you see it doesn't matter what you have, how much you own, all the things that you may have in this world, as if those things will give you the royalty, those things Will somehow give you the satisfaction. Gladys Deakin found that out. But what God is saying here is that you are rich in the riches of the kingdom. Those riches of the kingdom are riches that will never, never perish. They're eternal. There's the riches of God's own presence, the riches of belonging to Him, and knowing that you will live in a city where there'll never be any sorrow, there'll never be any sin, never any hurt, that the beauty that is only dimly reflected in this fallen creation would be Be fully seen and displayed when you and I are there in that heavenly city, the great Jerusalem. And we're going to wonder and continue to explore the riches of that forever. The riches of his presence. Now, if God is that kind of a God, and we're those kinds of kings. Does it stand to reason that He's going to let you suffer and want here? But God has said here that He's going to provide for all that you need. For what did He say in Matthew 6? Seek first the kingdom of God. And all All of these things, the needs of your day, food, clothing, raiment, shelter, these things will be added to you. You're king. God's got to taking care of you. And what about authority? That's another area. I think we need to realize that as kings we also reign in some sense in this world. Now our reigning, granted, will take place mostly in the fullness when Jesus comes. But there are several ways that we have begun to reign now. I want to just consider two briefly and closing, what is that we reign in prayer? We reign in prayer. You see, Revelation five ten, which I read before, says that you have been made you have made them to be a kingdom and priest to serve our God. And they will reign on the earth. Two verses before that, what has he said about us? He said that we presented their golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. One way that you want to be able to do that. I reign is through prayer. How much do you know about praying with authority? Praying with the authority of a king. I think we so little understand this because we so little understand. That we're not only priests with access to God, but that we are royal priests who are called into the conference room of the great king as he lays his strategy for the advance of the kingdom. You and I have been called into the world. God's presence, as God said to Abraham when he said, I have called him to be mine and establishing this nation. And then God talks about what he's going to do with Sodom and more and he says, Am I going to hide this from Abraham, who's a friend of mine? And you and I, you see, have inside information again. We can read the New Testament. We can read the Old Testament and the New Testament, and particularly read large doses of Revelation to get an understanding of God's strategy. What's going to happen? To history. And as you read that, you then begin to pray for the advance of that kingdom with the certainty of one who's going to be heard. With a certainty of a king in the conference room who's saying, I'm part of the advance. advance of this kingdom that is going to be surely inexorably advanced and established. And you can pray that. You can pray that for your immediate and personal needs. I remember hearing of a woman once who was walking down a dark street one night and she was accosted By two fellows. They came to beat her up. And as they came at her, in a burst of faith, she simply called out to them, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to get out of here. And they turned around and they ran. They didn't lay a hand on her. Now you may want to explain that by all sorts of natural circumstances, but I prefer to understand that there's a woman who's exercising the prerogative of a king in the kingdom. The one who can command in the name of Jesus, his power, as one who is united to him. Well you and I may see do this as priests on behalf of one another, exercising our kingship. For example, you hear of a Christian couple that is separated. And you say, Lord, that ought not to be. Lord, I know that you want these two people back together again. And so you pray with authority in the kingdom. Lord, bring those people back together. Bring that man and that wife. back together. Lord, I pray that you will bring the humility, the brokenness, that you will take care of the bitterness, that you will destroy all of that which is keeping them apart, and that you will bring them back together now. And I pray that in the name of Jesus. The name of Jesus is the name of the king and we were given that name to possess it with authority. Well you do it on behalf of the church. But we think of the church of Jesus Christ. We're in very important days in the Presbyterian Church right now. Do you know that in In these couple of years, there's an awful lot of talk going on now about whether the Evangelical Reformed denominations of the Presbyterian churches in the United States should join together and form one large evangelical reform denomination. That confesses reformed Christianity in the United States. Now, do we see that related to the kingdom? Can we pray with authority, Lord? That is your church. That's part of your church there. Bring them together. Lord, take care of those things. that are dividing the church. Establish the unity that you want to be there and advance your kingdom by doing it. Do we pray that with authority? That's praying with the authority of kings. Priests who pray as kings. See, we're called to intercede as priests. But we intercede with authority as kings. Finally, there's this issue of not only reigning in prayer, but also reigning in proclamation. We reign in proclamation. You know, there's so much emphasis today. When are sharing Jesus, when are suggesting Jesus? When are offering Jesus? That somehow it seems we've lost the biblical perspective of proclaiming Jesus. Did we proclaim Jesus with authority, that we call people to repent. Paul, when he preached in Acts 17, 30, we read that he says, God has commanded all men everywhere to repent. Now I'm not saying that we ought to do our evangelism with uh a kind of a an insensitive sort of aggressiveness. What I am saying is that we need to recognize that we evangelize as kings representing a king. Do we don't evangelize defensively? Do we don't evangelize apologetically? Do we somehow don't evangelize with a recognition that what I'm saying to you is weird and I know it sounds weird, but that's okay. I'm sort of weird, but I'll just offer this. weird idea to you in case you'd like to consider it. That's not evangelizing as kings. We need to realize that there is a kingdom and that kingdom is real. And that we're reigning in that kingdom. And that we proclaim that kingdom in the king. I think a good example of that. For those who were at the church conference last week was John Fickard and some of the examples that he gave. Those of you who were there remember that again and again John Fickard called upon us to vindicate the name of Jesus. Jesus in the world. That's what I'm talking about. You remember the example he gave about the time he walked in the room, there were three sharps there. And they're all talking together, and one says, Jesus Christ, in a profane way, and he walked up to him and he said, Jesus Christ, that's a wonderful thing. You know, the Bible says that one day every knee is going to bow at the name of Jesus Christ and contest that he's Lord of all. Have you ever considered Jesus Christ? Well, let's talk about Jesus. You know, a guy sort of sneaks out the back door and says, and two other guys go out the side door. He's proclaiming the name of Jesus. He's not standing off and backing off and feeling defensive about it. You have another example. The Saturday discussion where he talked about The situation at work, where his boss and and uh chewing out some of the men again used the name of Jesus in a profane way. He said he didn't he didn't believe he was doing this, but he said there, Sir I'm gonna have to ask you to not use the name of my Lord. that way. I can't just sit here quietly and listen to that. God didn't say anything to him. His boss called him in later, and he said, his boss chewed him out one end up and down the other. And he said, don't you ever rebuke me again in front of my marriage. And from that day on he gave him the worst jobs he could think of in the company. John read in Matthew six, he said, Blessed uh Matthew five, that blessed are you when men persecute you for my name's sake and so he said I tried to with all the gentleness and all the graciousness do all the jobs he called me to do and didn't resist them. Said yes, sir, okay and did the jobs back and forth. Finally one of the guys worked with him came up to him and he said, uh, John, don't you realize that the boss is trying to get your good? He's giving you the crummiest jobs just to get to you? Why are you so happy about it? And God said, well, God tells me that I've written up all kinds of blessings, and he's given me blessings by doing this. Because the Bible says, Blessed are you when men shall persecute you and rebut you. So just think of all the blessings that I'm having because of what he's doing. The guy shook his head and he went back to the boss. John didn't intend this, but he went back to the boss and he said, Hey, you know, you think you're getting the fickers down there about going to all these miles and jobs. That's a word. He thinks you're just giving him blessings by doing this, and he's racking them all up in heaven. John said, from now on, you got the best jobs in the company. What's the point? There's a man who is living with a conscience. sense that he's a king, the conscious sense that he belongs to the king, to be reign with Jesus. That's what we need. The sense that we not only are called as priests or a priesthood of kings to be The name of Jesus in this world. Let's pray. Well Lord our God, we confess that so often the fact The fact that you have called us as kings in the kingdom seems so unreal to us. We don't seem to look like kings, so often we don't act like kings. We don't realize the dignity, the preciousness to you that we have, we're discouraged, we begin to feel we're very powerless, very weak. So what we would be doing not Pray with authority. We pray as beggars rather than as kings. We pray as those who seek to be weedle and cajole you, who are afraid to ask boldly before the And even less do we proclaim you with authority. So often we're apologetic and defensive about being Christians. We think that what we have to say is It's just something that uh people wouldn't understand. It sounds weird. And so we don't say it. Oh Lord our God, open up our eyes. Open our eyes to see the kingdom. To see the reality of your kingdom, to see the perspective of the Book of Revelation, that there is coming that King who will come, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Who will of the fire with the breath of his mouth establish his kingdom and will destroy all those in opposition? And that your call is to reign with him. The people now were exceeded in the heavenlies with Jesus. And we function not only as priests as repeatable. But we function as those who are royal priests, as those who bring the name of Jesus with authority, and those who bring With you. Help us, Father, to think about how these things apply to our own lives. That this very week we would live more as kings of the kingdom and recognize what we have in you as we have. And our position in Jesus Christ, help us Father. We pray for his sake. For the day of speak of the Lord Jesus, the King of the Kingdom. Amen.