Into Ephesians and the three postures of a disciple. And I will immediately begin by contradicting myself, because I am going to give to you this morning the fourth posture of a disciple. Since I began this study, I became aware and have become convinced that Paul really intended to present four postures of a disciple, not three. We had been talking about The disciple is one who sits, walks, and stands. He sits, that is, you learn to rest in the finished work of Christ. We then learn to walk in obedience to his call, and then we learn to stand resisting him. So it is resting, obeying, and resisting. Sit, walk, and stand. We've been looking at that for some time. But this morning I want to look at a fourth posture, that of kneeling. In chapter 3, verse 14 to 21, Paul's prayer begins by his speaking of kneeling, and I believe that he intends that significantly as the fourth posture of the disciple. We've seen in chapters 1 to 3 how we sit and rest in Christ, His finished work, who we are and what we have by grace, not by anything that we earn or attain. My point throughout this has been that this is the foundation of discipleship, not a door that you walk through once. Every day we need to learn to sit. and to rest in the finished work of Christ. Paul then in response to that in chapter 3 verse 14 speaks of that sitting forcing us to kneel Before we walk, the sitting brings us to kneeling in prayer. And so Paul speaks of this prayer that I want to look at for four weeks. To look at the riches of this. This prayer is the climax of chapters 1 to 3 of Ephesians, and I believe that in many ways it is some of the richest It is among the highest of the mountain peaks of New Testament teaching. And so I want to spend a little time looking at what is so precious in these verses. Let's then read together God's Word, Ephesians chapter 3, and hear the prayer that concludes this whole section of chapters 1 to 3. For this reason I kneel before the Father, from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you being rooted and established in love may have power together with all the saints to grasp how wide And long and high and deep is the love of Christ. And to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine According to his power that is at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. And all God's people said. Amen. How can I hit that in four weeks? Four measly weeks. Ah, so much to preach and so little time to preach it. Well, we'll do the best we can. First of all, let me clear up a bit of confusion in these two verses. I want to focus this morning just on verses 14 and 15. For this reason, I kneel before the Father from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. And I would like to just um put away the confusion about what verse 15 means. For this reason, I kneel before the Father from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. That is a pun in the Greek. You can't understand it. It's very simple to understand it if you know Greek. If you don't, it's pretty hard. The Greek word for father is patera. And the word family that he uses here is patria. Literally it means of the Father, those who are all from the Father. And what Paul is doing is he's picking up on the idea of chapter two verse nineteen. Where he said that consequently you're no longer f foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household. And so now he is speaking to the father of this household, from whom the whole family, the whole patria gets its name from the patera. And so it's just, you know, he's linking the two together. We are joined to the Father because we are of the Father. That's how he begins his prayer. And this whole section is a prayer. And so that leads me to reflect for myself and for you, how is your prayer life? How's your prayer life these days? Are you praying in faith? When you pray, are you conscious that your heavenly Father is hearing you? That someone is listening, who cares, and who has the power to answer Do you know what to pray? Are you concrete in your prayers? Or are you vague and you're not sure what to pray? And praying has become a rote thing to you. Something you do at grace before meals, or something you mumble about things you're fretting about, but In terms of any real sense of God's presence, feeling that presence, the awe of his presence, you're saying, I can use a little help That's what I'd like to offer to you this morning. A little help. Three observations from these two verses that I find extremely helpful in my own prayer life. First observation. Paul's prayer had a listener. Paul's prayer had a listener. For this reason, I kneel before the Father. Now the Greek phrase there, before the father, is literally before the face of or in the presence of. It has the idea of approaching someone. So Paul is very clear here. He doesn't simply say, I pray, I speak a prayer, I say a prayer. He is kneeling before the Father. He is approaching the Father. Two things I want to see from that. First of all, notice that that means someone is there to listen. That's the next blank, the A. Someone is there to listen. And that says to me two things that prayer is not that I think we often confuse. First of all, that means that prayer is not worrying out loud. Prayer is not worrying out loud. I've said that before, and I say it again. How many times do you do that? You're worrying about something, you're fretting about something, and so you say, Well, as a Christian I ought to pray about this. And so what do you do? You continue to worry and to fret, only now you do it out loud to God. You rehearse all those things and you speak them all and you just say them all. And what you're doing is simply the same thing you were doing before, but now you call it prayer. Now let me let me ask you something to test your How can you tell the difference between praying and worrying out loud? Very simple. After you finished, how do you feel? Do you feel a sense of relief that you have brought this to the Father and now it's in his hands? And so you're confident that he has heard and will take care of it? Or do you feel no relief whatsoever? You you do you feel just like you did when you started. Now you've just gotten it off your chest, but there's no sense that anyone has heard Or is going to do anything about it. Paul says, For this reason I kneel before the Father. I bring this request before Him. I'm not just worrying out loud about this. I am speaking it to Him. This past summer, we had the Slovene project. Remember, we had a whole bunch of teenagers here from Slovenia with the navigators. A number of us put them up in our homes. We had one fella, Luca, who was staying with us, and it was a Saturday morning, and Luca needed to get to a picnic a little afternoon. The only problem was nobody else was in the house. I had to take them to this picnic, and we had a problem with our refrigerator, and the refrigerator repair man was to come the best he could say between eleven and two. And he was not there by twelve when I needed to take Luca to the picnic. So what do you do? You start fretting. He's gonna come when I'm gonna be gone and the refrigerator's not gonna work and I'm never gonna get this guy but this was the third time I try to get this thing set up. First time it didn't work, the second time it was a mess up in the appointment. So, you know, here I am, you know, starting to fret. And I thought, no, no. Yeah, I need to pray about this And I thought, I will commit myself to praying rather than simply fretting, because here's this guy, he's not a believer, he doesn't know the Lord, and I'm going to pray out loud so he will see what God does. So on the way, driving him over to the picnic, I'm praying. Uh Lord, I pray that I won't miss that refrigerator repair man. Lord, I I pray that he will get here when I am here, hold this guy off Help me to get back, find this place where Luke is to be, and we can just get back, and that thing will be taken care of. You know, he's kind of looking at me a little strange. I didn't tell him I was going to pray. I just started praying. We're just walking along. And so, you know, I said, Lord, there it is. Amen. Yeah. You know, you never know what an American's gonna do, right? So I go back home. And I asked the neighborhood kids, do you see anybody come here while I was gone? They said, Oh yeah. Refrigerator truck pulled up a few minutes ago. Guy knocked on the door, nobody was home, so he left I go downstairs, I write in my journal. Thanks a lot, Lord. Now, Lord, understand. I'm not about to abandon the faith over this. However, this did not do a great deal for my prayer life. Just as I finished writing that, there was a knock on the door. It was the refrigerator repair man. He said I decided to come back. I said, praise the Lord, what an answer to prayers. He probably thought I was even stranger. Now my point in this is that it is those little things that we do that Either strengthen our faith or they take it back. Are we fretting about things without looking for God to answer? Or are we saying, Lord, I'm going to bring this to you and I want to see what you will do in this now? Prayer is being aware that there is a listener. It's not just spreading out loud. The other thing is to be careful. Prayer is not the power of positive thinking. Prayer is not faith in faith. If I just believe, it'll work out. I'm amazed at this kind of new age power of positive thinking so infects many Christians in a subtle way. If I say something in Jesus' name you know, claim it or something like this. The fact that I am just saying these words or doing this little thing, some ritual, it's gonna work out. I don't know how it's gonna work out, but it's just gonna work out. And that's superstition. That's not prayer. Prayer is the awareness that there is someone listening. It is not my faith in faith or what I do in some mechanical way that determines whether or not. this prayer is heard. The second thing to notice about this fact that someone is um that someone is listening Is that this person who is listening, point B, is a heavenly father. Notice that Paul says, For this reason I kneel before the Father. From whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. I remember 1974 At an intervarsity camp, Bear Trap Ranch in Colorado, the speaker said something I'll never forget. He said, You tell me how much you make of God being your father And I will tell you the quality of your prayer life. You tell me how much you make of God being your father, and I will tell you the quality of your prayer life. I believe those are directly related. Do you look at God as a father who is approachable, all powerful, everything that you could ever possibly hope that a father could be and infinitely more? In his perfections. Perfectly approachable, perfectly powerful, and all carrying. The Old Testament teaches us about the power of God The New Testament teaches us about the approachability of God. Paul says, I come to the Father. I approach the Father with these requests. But he is approachable, the Bible is very clear, only through Jesus Christ. In chapter 2 and verse 18, Paul had said, For through him that is through Jesus We, both Jew and Gentile, have access to the Father by one Spirit. It was the same Father who he said in chapter one. In verse 4, chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ. In accordance with His pleasure and will to the praise of His glorious grace. If you know Jesus Christ this morning, there is nothing else that you need to do for God to be your Father. If you do not know Jesus Christ this morning, if you do not belong to Him by faith, having given your life to Him as Savior and Lord God is not your father, and there is no way in the world that you can approach him as your father except through Jesus Christ. It's either or. Either he is entirely approachable through Christ, or he is utterly inaccessible to you except as you come. Through Jesus Christ. But you and I need to make much of God as our Father in order that our prayer life will be able to come alive in confidence. Need to move on, the second observation. Second observation is that Paul's prayer had a warrant. Paul's prayer had a warrant. That is, it had a basis. It had a reason for being answered. Look how he begins. For this reason. That's one of those things you don't tend to notice too much. I think it's very significant. Look, he says, for this reason I kneel before the Father. And that for this reason is the same thing he had said in verse 1 of chapter 3, before he got off and kind of got carried away with that little parenthesis of thirteen verses there. You go back to verse one, he says, For this reason, I Paul. He was about to begin the prayer then. He didn't And so for this reason refers to what just had he had just said before that, the end of chapter 2. What's the reason for Paul's prayer? In verses 16 to 21 of Ephesians 3, it's verses 19 to 21, 22 of chapter 2. Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household. That's not a prayer, see, that's a statement of fact. You are built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets with Christ, Jesus Himself is the chief cornerstone. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him you too are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit. For this reason You see, what Paul's saying is, I can pray, as he goes on to now pray, that you and I will experience The love and the power of Jesus Christ in our lives. Why? Because he says, I know that's his intention. In fact, in chapter 3 and verse 10, he said, It is his intention. That through the church, his manifold wisdom would be made known to all the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms God is doing something that is to display his riches, the riches of Christ, chapter 3, verse 8, the new identity that you and I have in Christ. He is going to display his manifold wisdom through what he is doing in us to show his power to all the powers and the authorities of the universe. Therefore, Paul says, I have solid reason, I have a warrant. To bring this prayer before God, I am aligning my longings with His revealed intentions. Let me tell you, there is nothing more powerful in your praying than to quote Scripture. There is nothing that will more enliven your prayer life than as you begin to notice the character of God. and claim that character. As you look at his promises and claim those promises. As you look at his commands and claim that they be fulfilled. Many of us, our prayer lives are so dead, they're so lifeless, because they're so big. We don't know what to pray. We have no confidence in what we're praying. Our prayers are like fog. You can't get your hands on it. And so we wonder why it is that we lose interest. We're bored with our prayers. We wonder that God's not listening. We wouldn't notice an answer of prayer if it came up and punched us in the mouth. We don't see it. We don't know what we're praying for. Paul says, for this reason, this is what I pray. Because God has told me this. Look in the bulletin. You see, there's prayer is essentially doing two things Prayer is either enforcing his revealed will or character against what not ought not to be. He is saying, God, this is the situation, my life, my friend's life, my family's life, society, whatever it is. This is what it is. Your character is in contrast to that. Lord, change it. And I'm asking you to change it to be like your revealed character. Or something that you have revealed about your will. Or secondly, prayer is claiming his revealed promises relating to my need. You've promised this. And so, Lord, I ask you to fulfill that. I argue your promises before you. You see, you start doing that. You start beginning your prayers with, for this reason, Lord, I'm asking you to do this. And you paraphrase or quote something of Scripture, you will find it'll revolutionize your prayer life. It's work. See, it's a lot easier, just kind of hit the throne of grace, want to run and say, Well, Lord, I got this need, you know, to do something, you know. Finally it's you know you get so tongue tied, well my will be done and who cares and I don't know what's gonna happen anyway. And you then so you you wonder why you're not growing in your faith. For this reason, Paul says And he's able to pray with confidence. Finally, move on to the last thing. Paul's prayer. I wish, by the way, I wish I had time to illustrate that. Because uh I've done workshops where we do that. In fact the concerts of prayer we have Thursday mornings sometimes we'll do that. When we pray, we've got to root it in something of scripture. And you find it really you first of all you there's a lot less talking because you've got to do a lot more thinking. Prayers work. And it's really exciting to begin to see are the things we're praying rooted in Scripture? But we don't have time to go on. Third point. Paul's prayer had a posture. Paul's prayer had a posture. For this reason, he says, I kneel before the Father That's the fourth posture of a disciple, I said. Paul knelt in prayer. Now I'm not saying that you You've got to kneel in order to have an effective prayer life? Am I saying now the reason you've got a crummy prayer life out there is because you don't kneel in your prayers. That's what Paul says. No, that is not what I'm saying You or I could have a crummy prayer life for all kinds of other reasons I'm talking about. But I do want to focus on why Paul say I kneel? First of all, be clear that the Bible gives many different postures, and there is no posture that is prescribed in Scripture. I list some of the ones that are spoken of in scripture. In fact, if you go through the meditation this week, you'll see a scripture for each one of those, at least if you want to see an example of it, and you can do cross-referencing and find a lot of others. Scripture speaks about standing, speaks about hands being spread out and up to God, speaks about the eyes being lifted up, speaks of head bowed, speaks of being prostrate, speaks of kneeling. You know what the most common posture in Scripture is? It's a posture of standing. On some occasions, Jesus, when he taught about prayer, would say, As you stand praying, do this And so the common Jewish posture was pre was standing. But the scripture never says that there is any one way that we ought to stand to stand or kneel or whatever in our praying. There's no one posture that is prescribed. It reminds me of a poem that I read as a little kid that Fascinated me so much. I remember this thing still from when I was a little kid in the book that my parents had. The proper way for a man to pray, said Deacon Lemuel Keys, and the only proper attitude is down upon his knees. No, I should say the way to pray, said Reverend Dr. Wise, is standing straight, with outstretched arms and wrapped and upturned eyes. Oh, no, no, no, said Elder Slow, such posture is too proud. A man should pray with eyes fast closed and head contritely bowed Seems to me his hand should be austerely clasped in front, with both thumbs pointing toward the ground, said Reverend Dr. Blunt. Last year I fell in Hodgkin's well, head first, said Cyrus Brown, with both my heels are sticking up, my head a pointing down And I said a prayer right then and there. Best prayer I ever prayed. The prayingest prayer I ever prayed. I was standing on my head. Now, clearly prayer is not related to posture, right? Now some of you are going to be asking me for that afterwards, I know. But Paul says he kneels, and I believe That while we can pray standing on our head, in fact I used to have a Korean friend that used to have his devotion standing on his head. He found it more helpful. But However, you choose to pray normally, I want to tell you why I think there is some benefit to kneeling Paul says, I kneel before the Father. Kneeling indicates a particular earnestness or urgency. The postures of Ephesians are significant. Sitting, kneeling, walking, standing. Sitting When we rest to see who we are and what we have in Christ, we then drop to our knees, Paul says, in the recognition of that, to come. To see God. Prayer is work. And there are two particular benefits, I think, that kneeling has: not a command, not a prescription. Not saying can't sit at your desk, say drive at the car, you know, you gotta stop the car, get out, and kneel by the road or something. Not saying that. But when you can I'm urging you to try it this week for two benefits. First of all, kneeling reminds us of who is in charge. Kneeling reminds us of who is in charge. In Isaiah chapter 45, God calls the nations to turn to him. Turn to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth, for I am God and there is no other. By myself I have sworn, my mouth has uttered it in all integrity, a word that will not be revoked Before me every knee will bow, and by me every tongue will swear. Psalm 95 calls the nations, you and me. Verse 6, come, let us bow down in worship. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God. And we are the people of his pasture, the flock under his care. When Paul describes the work of Christ, He says in Philippians chapter 2 and verse 10 that at that day every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God the Father. Kneeling humbles me. Getting on my knees helped me helps me to recognize who it is that I am coming to. We are so casual. We have lost the sense of the awe of God. We are a people who are arrogant. And I believe that we will not see revival as a church or as a nation until we are humbled of our arrogance and pride before God. It was in January 1991, the United States was two weeks into the Gulf War, when there was held in Washington, D. C. , the annual leadership luncheon. 2,000 political leaders, business leaders. were gathered there for lunch. It was Leat Warder's last public appearance. The speaker for the day was Dr. Charles Stanley. He spoke from James 516 The prayer of a righteous man is effective and powerful. He spoke about how we as a nation needed to come before God and we needed to humble ourselves and cry out to God. And as he spoke about this, without changing his tone or lifting his voice, he simply asked the question. What would happen if 2,000 people in this room got down on their knees and cried out to God for forgiveness? He continued to drop hints until the crowd finally realized he was serious. He meant for them in their Brooks Brothers suits to get down on their knees right where they were. And to cry out to God. And so at the end he said, unless God does something in this nation We are going to be humiliated in some fashion at some time. I want to ask you if you will join me on my knees. And pray until whenever the moderator thinks the time is over. With that, Stanley turned around and dropped out of sight. End of sermon. The ballroom went quiet. There was a gradual shuffle of chairs, and before long most of the crowd had followed his lead. A sober and reverent mood filled the room. We don't do that kind of thing very much anymore, do we? We're the stand and join hands and share crowd. We're not the fall to our knees and cry out to God, crowd. I remember one of the elders here said he visited a church this summer in which he said the main thing that came through was to be comfortable. Kneeling's not comfortable. And he said, what he noticed was that in being so comfortable in the service, he found he derived very little spiritual benefit. Are we concerned to be comfortable? Or do we have hearts that pant and seek after God? The second thing that kneeling does in our praying is that it minimizes our distractions. It was said that Dwight Al Moody, George Mueller, and others routinely read scripture on their knees. In the recognition that I am bowing before to receive your word. I'm not just studying this for an intellectual exercise. Let me tell you that personally I have found it, and I've done this for a while, this preparing this message renewed my interest in it. That my custom is that after I've done my study, read the commentaries, looked at all the passage, whether it's something I'm preaching or not Then I'll get up from my desk and I go around to a chair that's in my office, and I simply take my Bible and I lay it on that chair, and then I reread that passage. I'll tell you it makes a difference. I get things from that reading I didn't get sitting at the desk. There's a different attitude. I am focused. All I've got is the chair. And being on your knees focuses you on the Lord. It minimizes the distractions of prayer. You lay out that prayer list, you lay out what you're doing, and you just kneel before God. And you find that your mind focuses on who he is and the proper attitude. And you cry out to him. Not comfortable. It's very effective. Kneeling, you see. Puts us in touch with reality We're not set up for that very easily, but I am going to invite you as we conclude now. I'm going to kneel. And if any of you can find a way of squiggling around in your chair to do that, let me encourage you, not simply say it. Some people it would be very difficult to do it. I understand that for where you're sitting and uh physically. Uh but for most of us we can do it. And I think we will find now and this week, if you do it, there's a benefit. Let's come before the Lord. Give you a moment to decide to get yourself in place where you can Lord, we come to kneel before you. Whether physically or in our minds, Lord, we come to kneel now to recognize. That you are the one that is lifted up. Our hearts are prostrate before you, the King of Glory. We bow down to remember that we are your sheep, the people of your pasture. We kneel before the God who is the Father. From whom the whole church in heaven and on earth derives its name. We come from you and we depend upon you. Lord, we confess that our prayers have been vague and often lifeless, that we have been distracted so easily. Lord, we have not been clear on what to pray. It's too much work to see if our prayers are rooted in Scripture. We confess that before you now. Forgive us, Lord. Deliver us from sloppy thinking. Deliver us from taking prayer so casually. That we would be a people who would Once again, learn what it means to cry out in faith, to expect that you will hear and that you will answer. Forgive us from being fretters instead of prayers. Lord, we pray that you will build our faith, that we would become a people who pray expectantly Who are able to kneel before you because we recognize, Lord, that we must humble our hearts before you. Oh Lord, teach us how to pray. Teach us, Lord, whether it is at this moment calling upon you for the first time for forgiveness of our sin and a new life in Jesus Christ. Or whatever whether it is for you to revive our prayer lives, that this week we would learn at the beginning of this fall to pray again with expectation, to look forward to those times when we come to pray, rather than to put in a couple of minutes and feel we've done our duty. Lord, I just notice this week, in my own life, what what it is to just kneel and to pray for five or ten minutes without distraction Without reading anything or writing anything or thinking anything except to come before you, Lord, teach us what it means to connect with you in that way. Hear us in Jesus' name, Lord. Amen.