Now at Paul's prayer in Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 to 19 in our study of Ephesians. If you don't understand what sitting, kneeling, walking, standing is Ask somebody. They're going to deal with it. Okay. Back tonight we're going to have a special opportunity at our Lord's Supper service. Uh first service Sunday of each month. We come and take the Lord's Supper together. If you've never done that and want to come, please make sure you speak to an elder before you'd come tonight. But For those that come, we're going to take the opportunity this evening for you to share what you have been learning about sitting and kneeling. Anything you've been learning about sitting with Christ and kneeling before the Father that God has been teaching you? I've been doing all the talking in this series so far, and now's your chance to bring glory to God, to encourage, teach one another. And saying, here's what God has been teaching me in my own life about these things from Ephesians 1 to 3. So if uh You're finding that you're saying now, well, that's nice, I'll come and I'll listen, but no way am I going to say anything. Let me encourage you to be open to the Spirit of God. He may want to use you to share something. It may not be easy, and yet it may be very worthwhile for us to hear. So I'm just encouraging you to be willing as you pray today about your participation in the service this evening. This prayer in Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 to 19 is so packed with meaning that I suggested to you last week that in order to grasp it, the best way I know is to memorize it. Has anybody memorized this prayer uh just to give that a shot? You know? That's an honest krell. Nobody's memorized it. Well, you look at the meditations this week for anybody that uses them, you'll see you know you get one more week. There it is, pointing encouragement because I really do believe that you will be blessed if you memorize this in order to understand what Paul is praying. Let me tell you, I pray this prayer for you guys. It's a great guide to help you to get out of the rut of what to pray. But to think, what can I pray for my children, my parents, you know, this friend and neighbors, people at work, these Christians in my study, what can I pray for them? Instead of God bless them, help them get through the week, you know, and all Pray this prayer. It helps to give focus and direction. And I pray that for you guys, but let me tell you something. Um, you know, you see these gray slips passed around and we always say, you know, encourage you to fill out the gray slip. You say, ah, what's the difference? I don't take the time to fill out that gray slip. They throw them in the trash anyway. I'll tell you something The people whose names are on the grace lips, that's what I go through every week to pray for you as a congregation. So you say, if I don't pray a follow grace lip, you never pray for me, huh? Well I'll tell you I don't pray for you as regularly and systematically Because it is the gray slips that I go through, and I pray, what is the point of the next week's message, particularly Saturday evenings? I set aside time to pray through the gray slips of the past week. And to pray for God to work in each life to bring his spirit to bear on the message of the next day. So I don't know if that'll increase, we'll see, and that will get big stack of gray slips where everybody says, well, hey boy, I don't get prayed for filling this thing out. Now you're motivated. Well that may be, and I hope that's true. Because that is one of the main reasons that we have them and use them Well, what is the prayer? Let's again think about that prayer together. Paul says, for this reason, I kneel before the Father. From whom his family, the whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. And I pray that he, that out of his glorious riches That he will strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being So that Christ may dwell, take up residence, settle down, and be at home in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you being rooted and grounded in love, in his love, may have power. Together with all the saints, to grasp how wide and how long and how high and how deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love. Which surpasses knowledge, that you might be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. See, it makes a difference if you're doing it in your mind rather than just on the page. And that's what we're looking at now. The prayer itself is in verses 16 to 19. And we saw last week that the foundation of that prayer is this idea of the Spirit strengthening you in your inner being, despite your circumstances. It's not a matter of Paul praying that your circumstances will become easier, but rather he's praying that in the midst of your circumstances that the Spirit will strengthen your inner being. That's the foundation, as it were. Now on that foundation, he builds three blessings. And he says, out of that, so that, he says, three things will happen. Number one, that you will believe Christ's residence in your life. Number two, that you will know his love for you. And number three, that you will experience his fullness in your life. That's what we've been looking at. But you notice that the bulk of the prayer is taken up with this idea of his love for you. The prayer goes from verses 16 to 19, and yet this idea of his love goes from verses 17, end of verse 17 to the beginning of verse 19. Look at it there again. And I pray that you being rooted and established in love may have power together with all the saints to grasp How wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge. Now that's the heart and the bulk of his prayer. When you read verse 18 and 19, does anything seem a little strange to you? A little awkward as you read it. Paul says, I pray that you will grasp this love and that you will know this love. You think, isn't that kind of redundant? I pray that you will grasp this love and and that you will know this love that is beyond knowing. Kind of strange. In order to understand what he's saying there, which is very important, very vital to this, there's three key words that Paul uses that are the basis for the message this morning. This idea of grasping, the idea of knowing, and the idea of surpassing knowledge. Let's look at that for a few minutes. First of all, Paul says that my prayer is that you will grasp. The dimensions of Christ's love. Point one then is to grasp. That first word in verse 17. I pray that you being rooted and established in love may have power, together with all the saints, verse 18, to grasp. The dimensions of his love. The Greek means to grasp something with your mind. That's the blank under there. To grasp it with your mind. That is to comprehend something And that's a very important thing for Paul to say. Because a lot of people today believe that the love of God, the love of Christ, is some sentimental warm fuzzy. And you read all kinds of things about God's love. that really just kind of, you know, it's it's sort of this poetic, flowery image that doesn't really tell you much about it, but you know, it just kind of makes you feel good. It's just, you know, it's kind of like this big cosmic hug or something. Uh last week after my message, somebody came in the back and they said, Well, I really appreciated your message, but only one problem. You never defined the love of God. That's a good point. You see, you can talk about the love of God. It's not simply poetry, it's also prose. And the love of Christ is defined in this passage in chapters 1 to 3. So when Paul is talking here about, I pray that you will have the power to grasp the dimensions of Christ's love, he's not talking about some mystical experience. He's talking about something very practical that you, together with all the saints, whether you're an engineer or a poet, can do. For instance, you look at chapter 2. And Paul said there, as for you, you, he says, were dead in your transgressions and sins. A simple objective statement You and I, dead in our transgressions and sins, in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world, and the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, like the rest of the world, we were by nature objects of wrath, God's wrath. But, verse 4. Because of his great love for us, what did he do? God, who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in our transgressions and sins. It is by grace you have been saved. Chapter 1 says that before the foundation of the world, in love, he predestined us, called us together to be his children. And he did that by the blood of Christ, verse 7, which atoned for our sin, which forgave us fully of all the things which we have done, shaking our fist at God and walking the other way, ignoring him in our lives. The love of God is demonstrated eminently at the cross where Jesus took your sin and my sin if you're trusting him. The love of God can be talked about, you see. It has content. It's a message. It's the good news. It's not something that we just sing about or that we just uh exult about, but somehow you can never get your hands on it. And so he describes its dimensions. He speaks of it as being wide enough that it includes all the nations and everyone who feels their need for Jesus, including every person in this room who feels that need. And desires Jesus to be your Savior and Lord. You've got to feel that need. You've got to be willing to come to Him. But there's no question that His love's wide enough to embrace you. His love is long enough to go from here to eternity. It's from eternity where he chose us on to eternity where he will never turn against us. That love is high enough that it takes us up to heaven to be his bride and to share heaven with him. The love is deep enough that he went from heaven to the cross. The shame, the spitting, the crucifixion, in order that he would save you and the loneliest of the most shameful things that you have ever done. He knows them. And if you're trusting Jesus this morning, he's forgiven you of them. Or to put it in the words of a fax I receive, you know, modern technology, people fax you their quiet times. And I just wanted, I didn't, uh I'm not going to tell you who it was, but somebody sent this to me this week, and I thought it was very meaningful and I would share it with you. Hi, Al. Just wanted to drop you a note about today's meditation from last week's sermon. It asked us to consider the four dimensions of God's love. I particularly enjoyed and benefited from this one, and I'd like to share a brief reflection of what God gave me this morning. How wide is his love? As far as the east is from the west, unmeasurable. How long? I saw this as a dimension of time, as long as from creation through eternity, unending. How high is God's love? From the point where his spirit is living in us today to our rooms that he has already for us in heaven. How deep. God's love extended to the depths of hell to bring his son back to sit at his right hand, and he reached just as deeply into the blackened core of my heart to rescue me. Powerful concepts. Very personal. I never gave this enough attention before. I'm glad I did. I hope I will always be amazed that He chose me, that He forgives me, that He dwells in my heart. Very meaningful. Let me ask you, when's the last time you have thought about the love of Christ? When's the last time you dwelt on it? That you sat as this person and simply thought of its dimensions And thought that this is something I can try to grasp, I can begin to get hold of with my mind because the Bible tells me about it. I can read the Gospels and see how Jesus was and know that he is the same today. He's the same toward me. Once read of William Randolph Hearst, who one time read of a very unusual piece of art. Decided that he must have that piece of art for his extensive collection at any cost. And so he commissioned an agent to scour the galleries of the world to find this piece of art. A number of months later, the agent reported back that he had found this exquisite piece of art. In fact, he had found it in one of Hurst's own warehouses. He had owned it for years and never known it. It had been forgotten in the dust. And you're looking for something in your life, something more, more for peace, more for joy. Paul's saying, you already have Jesus. Lord of creation, ruler of the universe, your savior, and your friend. When's the last time you've thought about him? When's the last time you've exercised your mind to read the Bible expectantly, thinkingly, to grasp his love for you? But Paul uses another word here also. He uses a word in verse 18, in verse beginning of verse 19. After he has said, I pray that you will grasp how wide and how long and how high and how deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love. To know this love Which surpasses knowledge. The second word then is to know. Now again, it seems strange. I pray that you'll grasp it and know it. What does that mean? Well, there's two very different kinds of words that Paul's used here. In verse 18, the word grasp means to know something with your mind, your intellect. The word in verse 19 means to know something by personal experience. That's the next blank. To know by personal experience. Paul is praying simply that you will grasp it with your mind. and that you will know it with your heart, that is in your experience. This necessarily then involves your feelings That's the next blank there. It involves your feelings, my feelings. It's not something we just think about. And we say, well, that's interesting. Jesus loves me includes me in the width of his love and will never leave me, has loved me had me in mind from all eternity. And it's nice to know that reaches to heavens and goes down to hell, has rescued me. It's really good to know. But not somehow affect your heart. Not somehow bring that joy Not somehow change your outlook so that you're able to face the people who would take away that peace and the circumstances that would rob you of all joy. And to be able to know, but there's something in my heart that I've gained from the perception of the love of Christ that transcends whatever this world can do. It's not just cerebral. It grips you. Am I talking about kind of a praise at the pavilion kind of experience or promise keepers or the women's retreat or something like this? Well Not exactly, to be honest. Those things are good in gripping our hearts and our feelings with the love of Christ, but what I think Paul has in mind here because of the context is a sense of his love that necessarily flows from your repentance. That's the next blank. Flows from your repentance It's the kind of experience I described in my class at Westminster last week, where I confessed my sin. And the class responded in forgiveness. And then there was a moving of God's spirit of more confession and a greater sense of his love and of his forgiveness. Or I have another example. And it's one that's frankly a little difficult for me to speak about because I'm ashamed. It has to do with the experience we had at Praise of the Pavilion back on September 22nd. Now you remember that there's been some of us who have prayed that God would bring about such an experience For nearly twenty years, not just that we'd someday all get together at Merriweather Post Pavilion and sing praise, but that that would be part of a movement of God's Spirit for joint worship and joint fellowship. joint ministries that God would do to bring the church of Howard County and this region to a sense of corporate identity. The Thursday before that event was to take place, we met together as pastors to pray, as we do each Thursday of the month, third Thursday of the month. And during that prayer, I prayed and led a prayer that was based on Ephesians 2 and 3, just praying for God to make that a reality in this area. And I sensed a particular freedom of the Spirit of God and a focus in my prayers as I did that. And I knew that I was supposed to lead in prayer on Sunday. When I finished, I thought That's good. That hits it. That says what I want to say. I think I'll jot a few notes and I will pray that on Sunday. And then when I went to the praise at the pavilion time and I watched those brothers up there on the stage and the sisters who were doing various things. I saw them lead, and I found myself comparing myself with them. I found myself being intimidated in my leadership. I saw the capability. I began to think about what did I have to offer in this and how would I look. And without realizing it, something happened at that moment. Rather than my being sensitive to the Spirit of God to think, how can I pass through this group and seize the moment, a high moment of excitement and bring a different note of reflection and repentance and prayer. The confession of our racism, of our agendas, of our desire to control, to get credit, to be able to submit ourselves one to another as brothers and sisters in Christ. So that Jesus would come with a corporate identity of the church submitted to him and all the things that began to go through my mind. Instead of being sensitive to God's Spirit to do that, I played it safe. I decided I'm going to pray what I wrote down because that will be approved. I know what to do. And so I prayed, and I hate to admit this. But I prayed that afternoon, with one eye to God and the other on the crowd, to get your approval and your applause. After the meeting, when I went home, I felt vaguely uncomfortable. You know, you ever have that feeling where you sort of suspect you did something wrong, but you know, it's no big deal. But by Monday morning I was miserable. I knew that I had failed my God. And I had failed you and the people in Howard County. I was more concerned for my image than I was to at that point be used of God's Spirit to simply lead as He would lead me in praying for us as His people. I confessed that to the Lord in my shame. And you know what he did? It was as if God's Spirit said, Well, now that we're on the subject, And he began to bring up to me all the other ways that I had failed. He began to show other ways that I was a man pleaser. That I was looking for credit, that I wanted to get to be seen as someone, and was I ranking with these other guys? You know, and all the other things that were going on in my heart and wanting to be the center of attention and all the rest of all those sinful, shameful things that I'm ashamed to even talk about. And as I began to pour those out, I began to see the issue isn't simply that I wasn't sensitive at a moment. The issue is the whole bent of my heart. And I confessed that to the Lord. And then he showed me that he loves me just like that. Even with that kind of leadership and selfishness, he showed me he loves me. And there was a sense of seeing him, a gentle look in his eye, the tone Of the affirmation of his love for me, the assurance that he knew all along that I was like that. It was nice that I was finding it out, but it wasn't news to him And feeling a sense of the touch of his hand upon my life. And it reminds me of something John White said in this excellent book, Changing on the Inside. He said, I'll read it because I'm afraid of how I may communicate. He said, the discovery of sin, weakness, and despicable aspects of your character, painful memories of the past. All of these are ongoing. All will involve repentance, sometimes with weeping. But with the pain comes a fresh marveling at God's loving concern for you. From these discoveries come ongoing permanent change in your character. In my case, it is the love that makes me weep, not the pain of seeing my failures. I really identify. It's not so much the pain of my failures. It's to realize he still loves me that makes me weep with amazement after that. Seeing God's kindness moves me profoundly. Have you ever had that kind of experience Are you willing for God's Spirit to reveal to you, to not minimize, to blame shift, to say it was no big deal and there's reasons for it, and all the rest of that, to be able to simply look? And to say, God, that's what I'm like. Or are you afraid that if you are overwhelmed with his love? That great a love may drive out your idols. It may change your life if you discover how deep that love really is. And so I think some of us would rather, out of fear, live in the shallows of mediocrity than to know the depths of the love of Christ. What about you? I'm different after that experience. I pray God that I've learned something from it and that his spirit I know there's been times since then that I have acted differently because I sense from him both his rebuke and his assurance that his hand is still upon my life. Changes you, you know. Are you willing to be changed by seeing the love of Christ? The love which surpasses knowledge. That's the third thing. He says in verse 19 that this is a love that surpasses knowledge. You get that? Do you see what that's saying? The Greek word is like the word hyperballistic. You know, a ballistic missile is one that's thrown. Well, this is hyperballistic. That's the word that he uses. It's something that's really thrown. It just goes beyond anything you can imagine. It surpasses knowledge. Notice now, it doesn't bypass knowledge. It doesn't bypass your mind. You can grasp it. You can read scripture. And you can be overwhelmed with your mind as you think of the content of the gospel. But it goes beyond that in the experience of repentance and the humbling of yourself before Him, so that you know, as Paul says, that you will know with your experience the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. That's what happened to me. And it can happen to you. As John Stott said The love of Christ is unsearchable as his riches are immeasurable And you can discover that. And I discover it as we're willing. To come before him honestly, with our lives as shabby as they are, and to see him move in us to change it. It's not just for mystics. It's for all the saints. That's what he says. Let me ask you, have you ever felt overwhelmed by the love of Christ? There's a story of Evan Roberts, a preacher in the Welsh Revival, 1904 and 1905, that one day he was preaching on the love of Christ. And as he was preaching, he fainted dead away on the platform. Said afterwards he had such an immense comprehension of the fullness of the love of Jesus. that he fainted out of being overcome with it. We think of a fellow by the name of Edward Payson Who wrote at the end of his life, a Christian of last century? He said, Were I to adopt the figurative language of Bunyan, I might date this letter from the land of Beulah, of which I have been for some weeks a happy inhabitant. The celestial city is full to my view, its glories beam upon me, its breezes fan me, its odors are wafted to me, its sounds strike upon my ear, and its spirit is breathed into my heart. Nothing separates it from me but the river of death, which now appears but an insignificant rill that may be crossed at a single step whenever God shall give permission. The Son of Righteousness has been gradually drawing nearer and nearer, appearing larger and brighter as he approached And now he fills the whole hemisphere, pouring forth a flood of glory, in which I seem to float like an insect in the beams of the sun, exulting and yet almost trembling while I gaze on this almost excessive brightness. Wondering with unutterable wonder why God should deign to shine upon a sinful world. A single heart And a single tongue seem altogether inadequate to my wants. I want a whole heart for every separate emotion and a whole tongue to express that emotion. Christians, he says, later on, might avoid much trouble and inconvenience if they would only believe what they profess, that God is able to make them happy without anything else. They imagine that if such a dear friend were to die, or if such blessings were to be removed, they would be miserable. Whereas God can make them a thousand times happier without them. To mention my own case, God has been depriving me of one blessing after another. He was at this point on his deathbed, remember. But as each one was removed, he has come and filled its place. And now when I am a cripple and not able to move, I am happier than ever I was my whole life before, or ever expect to be. And if I had believed this 20 years ago. I might have been spared much anxiety. He does this often, not, I remind you, by changing the circumstances. But the strengthening of our inner being in the midst of circumstances we would never choose. We don't need to go to Saints in History to see this. We see it in our own congregation. And I want to invite up now Laura Dexter. Who I've asked to share with you an experience in her own life to illustrate this. Last spring, Laura wrote me a letter of what God had been doing in her life since the death of Maddie, their daughter. And I saw it as a beautiful illustration of this, and I've asked her if she would come to state it in better words than I'm able to do it as we bring to a conclusion our thoughts on this. Clara When I became a Christian in February of nineteen seventy-eight, I thought my soul was in pretty good shape. After all, I had all the right ingredients of faith. Trust in God, obedience, and an understanding of God's love and mercy for me. But I was young then and didn't have the experience of life so Circumstances. In other words, my faith had not been field tested. Ever since I was little, I wanted someday to have lots of children Shortly after I was married, my childhood wish came true and I had two healthy, normal, cute, intelligent, and fun kids. You may not recognize them because they're teenagers today. They're still cute though. From my perspective, life was good and everything was going according to my dreams. When I was about to have our third child, I assumed we would have another normal and healthy baby. At this point in my life, things turned out much differently than I had anticipated. In February of 1986, Philip Warren was born with mucolipidosis type 2, a very rare and terminal genetic disorder. During the course of his short life, Philip's health was very fragile, and he faced numerous life-threatening situations. Even something as simple as a common cold to turn into a critical situation for him. And as a result, our family was constantly under a tremendous amount of Best mom for him. In the early morning hours of December 4, 1989, Philip died. The pain of losing a child was so severe that it shook my I felt alone and abandoned by God. These were some of the darkest days of my life. According to medical experts, there was a 75% chance that the baby would be normal. In other words, the odds were in our favor. I thought for sure God would give me a healthy child. After all, hadn't I already given him enough by giving him Philip? Through prenatal testing, we learned the baby was a girl, and I was very excited. But we also learned that she too was affected with the same genetic disorder. ML2. Upon learning that the baby was going to be born with this disorder, I felt God had betrayed me. And I became very angry with God and I gave him this ultimatum. If I have to go through this again, then you have got to help me. I cannot do this alone. Otherwise that's it for me in this Christianity. Being the loving father that he is, God was patient with me and allowed me to express my anger. I was. By the time Madeline Rose was born in October of 1991, my anger with God had subsided. My hard heart was softened through God's love and the gift of this precious little girl he had given me. Given me. I prayed for strength as I welcomed the chance to be the best mom that this special child needed. Shortly thereafter, God led our family to CTC. Through the sermons and teaching in Sunday school and small groups, God gradually revealed Himself to me. Through difficult circumstances, he has given me a deeper understanding. That I am rooted and established in his love, regardless of my feelings. When Maddie died in April of 1984, I was at total peace with God. He lovingly held me in his arms through this difficult time. His presence was and still is very real To me. Although the pain of my loss is still with me, I now have the peace of God which surpasses my understanding. Not a day goes by that I don't think of Philip and Maddie and remember their darling smiles, their warm embrace, and their sweet I love But also, not a day goes by that I am not reminded of the extent of God's love for me. My faith has been field tested and is stronger than ever. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation. I can do everything through him who gives me strength. I have learned not only to pray for my circumstances, But more importantly, to pray for my inner strength to endure life's difficult situations. In learning of the width and length and And height and depth of God's love for me, my faith has been stretched to the point of where it must be just covered with spiritual stretch marks. And I praise God's holy name for that. Thank you. Let's pray. Lord, none of us can hear what Laura's just shared. Not be moved in our own lives and think of ways that we can identify. We realize again, Lord, that your word comes to us. Is immensely practical. Spirit of God, speak to those areas of our hearts where we have been hardened. Where perhaps we have dared you to show your love. Where we have given you ultimatums. Where we hear of the love of Christ and its dimensions, and something in us says, yeah, right. We come now, Lord, to confess before you those areas of resistance and hardness and unbelief. Lord, come into our hearts to show us That in those areas where we are most ashamed, and in those areas where we have been most disappointed Your love, Lord Jesus, is more than sufficient May we see the look in your eye, hear the tone of your voice, and feel the touch of your hand. As you come to us now and draw us to yourself, sinners, saved by grace. Thank you, Lord Jesus. Thank you that you have loved us enough to die for us. That you fellowship with us day by day. And that you long for us to be with you to celebrate heaven forever. Amen.