It is a privilege to be here this morning and to open the Word of God with you. I get to do this because Alan and Tim and Steve and and and everyone else is on vacation. So So we'll talk about vacation this morning since it it falls rather nicely after Alan's series on a Christian perspective on work, we're going to look a little bit at a Christian perspective on rest. And we're going to be reading from Psalm 46 and looking at this Psalm. So if you would open your Bibles to the 46th Psalm, I'm going to read this for you to begin with. Psalm 46. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth should change and the mountains slip into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains quake at its swelling pride. There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy dwelling places of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She will not be moved. God will help her when morning dawns. The nations made an uproar, the kingdoms tottered, he raised his voice, and the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our stronghold. Come, behold the works of the Lord who has wrought desolations in the earth He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow and cuts the spear in two. He burns the chariots with fire. Cease striving, and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our stronghold. Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, we come this morning to you, rejoicing that you have Met us here and rejoicing that you have given us the ability to cry out to you in praise, that you have granted repentance and forgiveness. And now we thank you for the privilege that we have of opening your word. Lord, I pray that you would give me the very words that you would have me speak this morning. For this, your people. And Lord God, I pray that you would give them ears to hear what the Spirit of God is saying this morning, that Christ might be magnified and glorified and uplifted. For it's in his precious name that we pray. Amen. All right. Well what what are your vacation plans this summer? This is that uh time of year when we flee the uh daily lives that we have and race away somewhere else to fill our lives with something else so that we don't have to think about the things that we will deal with when we come back. This is a classic American problem, although it's not just an American problem. But we have become addicted to entertainment. We race to many, many different forms, and we fill our lives with it if we can. We come home, we turn the TV on, we get in the car, we put a CD in. I drag my kids to the Cannon Yards and make them watch baseball with me. And And all this in the name of relaxation and rest. All this to deal with the stress that inhabits our lives. But as I look at Psalm 46, I see something very different. And the first thing that I'd like to talk about this morning is the context of the passage. That's I think the first blank that you have. The context of the passage. First thing that we should see is that the psalmists' circumstances are not still I think it's precisely here that that we have our maybe our greatest point of reference with the writer of the psalm. And the question is, what is the struggle in your life today? Which mirrors the psalmist. You know, the imagery that you see in Psalm 46 is God is our refuge and strength, the very present help in trouble. And then he lists his trouble. The earth is changing, the mountains are slipping into the heart of the sea, waters are roaring and foaming. This is beautiful poetic Hebrew imagery for my world is falling apart. It's crumbling around me. So my question to you this morning is, what is it in your life that is completely out of control? You don't have to answer out loud, but I want you to think about this. It doesn't have to be this physical world out of control. It could be your circumstances at your job, as we were hearing from Alan the last few weeks. It could be sin in your life. Could be finances or physical ailments. What is it in your life this morning that is completely out of control and that you cannot escape? It's here that the Scripture again proves both its timeliness and its timelessness, because it is here that the Scripture speaks to us. In these circumstances, the psalmist world is falling apart. God is displayed. God is displayed. In the midst of his circumstance, he displays God for us. And interestingly, uh to me anyways interestingly you see the Trinity in Psalm forty six. And uh this wasn't some this wasn't something that I saw initially in fact it wasn't until I was trying to write the notes out uh for Tom so that he'd have some idea what he was uh getting into when he graciously offered to to lead worship. that that I saw this uh in uh in this next set of blanks. God is displayed. The first is that God is our helper. Uh that's from verse one. God is abundantly available for help. And you know, John 14, 16 and uh also the uh the epistle of John uses this word parakletos or advocate, which really literally means helper, one who comes alongside. And so you see God the Spirit displayed. God is our helper. But also in verse five I see that God is in the midst of her God is among his people. And this was looking forward in faith to what we now know in Christ. Emmanuel, God with us. And then as you move on in the passage, not only is God available for help and in the midst of his people, but God is sovereign over the circumstances. And we see in verse 6 that the earth melts at his voice. And verse 8 that It says in verse 8, come behold the works of the Lord who has wrought desolations in the earth. He is terrifying. This is God the Father revealed in all his majesty. And so I want you to see as you think about what it is in your life that is completely out of control The response of the psalmist. Because this is written in the circumstance. This is present tense. And for myself, when I am in a circumstance that is completely out of control, my tendency is to turn away from God, to blame God. To turn, to seek answers and solutions to get out of the problem. I have pain, I want to stop the pain. It's that simple. No, it's not that simple. The psalmist tells us that in the midst of the crisis of our life That God remains in the center. So this is written in faith for us as an encouragement to us during a severe crisis. And in the midst of that, in the beautiful passage displaying both the crisis and God in his triune, majestic nature, we have one command. That's verse 10. And that's what we're going to look at this morning. Be still, or cease striving, and know that I am God. And so there's a command given, and that command has three parts, and I will give them to you because they're in the bulletin outline, and then you can kind of fill in because we're going to talk about each one. But the first is be still. Cease striving. The second is no. And the third is I am God. Be still, no, I am God So let's go back and look at this first part, be still. Your translation may say be still, it may say cease striving. He probably could say, relax, let go. That would give the the gist of the of the passage. And so involved in that first part of the command is two different ideas. One is a sense of stopping striving. That is Stop working under your own power. Stop looking at your situation and trying to derive a solution on your own. Isaiah 3015 says that our strength is in repentance and rest Not in our ingenuity. You know, that's uh j oh boy. Uh Jeremiah, I bel I want to say the ninth chapter of Jeremiah, but Where uh Jeremiah says, Let him who boast, not don't not not not the mighty man boast in his might, or the wise in his wisdom, but let him who boast boast in this, that they know the Lord So that the call is to set aside our strength, to set aside our own wisdom, to let go. But also caught up in this passage is the idea of being still, of waiting, and of patience. How often when you find yourself in the crisis in your life that is out of control Is the first thing that happens, how how often is it that we actually stop and say, okay, I'm not going to find an answer to this in my own strength? How often is it that we stop and say, all right, I won't be able to figure this out on my own? And how often are we still, patiently still, before God I would say that the way that I live my life most of the time is harried. I suspect that most of you Did not come to church this morning after an extended time of being still. I suspect you raced around Unless you're completely different from me, which would be good if you are. But you raced around to get ready. Get the kids ready. Get out the door. Watch the clock. Here we are. Let's worship. The command is to be still. Not just this morning, but in our devotional lives as well. How often I substitute, thumbing through the scriptures, reading something quickly, a brief hurried prayer, for true time still before God in His Word. And I have another question for you. This is kind of the meddling part. How long has it been since you opened the scripture and read and waited for God? To speak to you about himself through his word. How long has it been since you were still before God? Our response to this circumstance is to cry out to God most often that He would still the circumstance. But the command is not about that. You see, it isn't the circumstance that needs to be stilled. God is in control. He is sovereign. It's you and I that need to be still before God. And it's you and I that God desires to be quiet. They that wait on the Lord shall renew their strength, shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not grow faint. That passage is powerful because it involves resting in the strength that God supplies rather than our own strength. So be still and know And this knowledge implies more than book knowledge or head knowledge. The knowledge that is implied here by the word used in the Hebrew is that of intimate relational knowledge. We are familiar with it in the Old Testament in the sense of the intimate relationship between man and wife. There's a beautiful passage in Genesis 22 where Abraham sacrifices Isaac or is going to sacrifice Isaac, ready to do that. God stops him. And then God says the most amazing thing. God says, Now I know that you fear me. Now I know that you fear me. And that's confusing because God already knew that Abraham feared him. He already knew what Abraham was going to do. And yet there is a sense in which God was able to enjoy the pleasure of the grace that He had bestowed on Abraham that had produced faith and obedience. And he knew it in an experienced sense, not just knowing, but in experiencing Abraham's obedience to him. That brought him pleasure. And that's over and above what he already knew about Abraham, but it was the experience. Of knowing him personally. Psalm 51, I think that David has this in mind when he cries out to God in the light of his sin that God would not take his Holy Spirit from him. David is mortified at the prospect of breaking fellowship with God. Now we understand, we understand that God gives us the Spirit as a down payment. That is, if we belong to Him, that the Spirit of God rests in us, and nothing will change that. But there is something about David's relationship with God, the intimate knowledge of God that he has. that he is mortified that is going to be lost that it that it is going to be lost because of his sin. And the question that I have for us this morning is, what is it in our walk with the Lord? That is so precious, that is so intimate, that is so powerful, that for someone to say, I am taking this away from you, We would be mortified. We would be overwhelmed. Or have we lost the sense that life at its fullest, life As it can best be lived is the knowledge of God and Him alone. As the world crowded out our our hunger and our thirst for Him, with entertainment and with rest, so called, that can never satisfy. In Hosea, the seventh chapter, Israel is receiving another indictment for their sin. Let me back up for a minute. I have to share an illustration. I don't know if you guys can see this in the light, but I I have gray hair. It's in here. It's hidden because you know my hair is kind of light, but it's there. I'm aware of this. Um and if I wasn't aware of it, my uh my children who I dearly love would uh make me aware of it. They point it out on a regular basis. All three of them do that. And they so they take some pleasure in this, actually. But I already know. And they say, hey dad, your hair is gray. I can say, yeah, I'm aware of that. I I look in the mirror and I and I see that. And uh And you know there's a gentle uh one of these because it represents something, doesn't it? Right? It represents a decay, an aging process. It's not malicious, it's just fun, but it does represent real physical decay The problem in Israel that Hosea was addressing was that gray hairs were sprinkled on their head, he says, and they are unaware. Gray hairs are sprinkled on their head, and they are unaware. Is it possible that we are unaware of what we have lost in our relationship in Christ? Because we have no sense of loss. Like David did, because we're not we're not still in the intimate knowledge of God that could be ours in Christ We miss because we don't wait for God to speak. And so there's a decay that takes place. And we're unaware of it. I should say that the Word of God remains central. It remains the supreme vehicle through which God speaks to us by His Spirit. and through which that Spirit reveals Christ. It can be reflected through prisms, the sacraments Our brothers and sisters, pastor, Sunday school teacher. But it's the Word of God alone that testifies of Christ. Search the scriptures, for in them you think that you have eternal life. But they are those which testify of me. So that there is more to knowing than simply blind experience, but it is experience of God and Christ by his Spirit through the Word. Which reveals God as He truly is to us. The third part of the command is that I am God. Be still and know I am God And again I think he reveals his majesty in saying, I am his name. There's his name right there in front of him, the holiest name. He reveals himself as the eternal, changeless sovereign. And there's no command here, unfortunately, for us to know the solution to our problem. This is really not good. We want the problem to be fixed. We want the pain to stop. And yet in the midst of a crisis that turns our world upside down, again, Christ, as he constantly does, challenges us to radically redefine what we mean by living. He says, in the stillness, know me, know I am God. So that I would say it is not enough to know a solution to our problem, to search for a solution to our problem. In fact It's idolatry to search for the solution to a problem apart from Christ Himself. He will not be known on those terms. I have a fairly short quote from this is uh D. Martin Lloyd Jones's book on the first chapter of Ephesians. So I think we can be thankful. In some ways, there are six volumes of his messages on Ephesians that mirror this. And Alan, I believe, has them. At any rate, he's preaching on Ephesians 1-3, and he's actually preaching on the first three words of Ephesians 1-3. And he says we need to stop. And when we say blessed be God, what do we mean? Do we know anything about God? How can we say blessed be God when we don't know him? And listen to what he says. I think it has application for us in our lives today. Our salvation is entirely from God. But because of our morbid preoccupation with ourselves and our states and moods and conditions, we tend to talk of salvation only in terms of ourselves and what is happening to us. Indeed, it is the extent of our God-given understanding that ultimately determines our experience. We spend so much time In feeling our spiritual pulses and talking about ourselves and our moods and conditions, that we have but little understanding of the planning of what God has done. But the Apostle Paul generally starts with this, as also does the Bible. And I call attention to this matter, not because I am animated by some academic or theoretical interest. But because we rob ourselves of so much of the glories and riches of grace when we fail to take the trouble to understand these things. And to face the teaching of Scripture. We tend to take a chapter at a time. Here he's taking three words. We pass on and we do not stop to analyze and to realize what it is saying to us. Some even try to excuse themselves by saying that they are not interested in theology and doctrine. Instead, they want to be practical Christians and enjoy Christianity. But how terribly wrong that is. The Scripture gives us this teaching. The Apostle Paul wrote these letters that people like ourselves might understand these things. And then he goes on to say this if there is no praise in a Christian's life, it is because he is ignorant of these things. If we desire to praise God, we must look at the truth and expand our souls as we come face to face with it. If we want to say, Blessed be God, from the heart, We must know something about how he has planned our great salvation. Cease striving and be still and know intimately through the revelation of the Scripture that I am God. So that's the command, and you may be sitting here thinking that uh that's impossible to obey My circumstances overwhelm me. I can't stop thinking about them. And uh I want to agree with you. It is impossible. In fact, if you are here this morning and you don't know Christ Not only can you not know him, if you don't know him as Savior and Lord, not only can you not know him as this passage suggests, but you are at war with him. And you live in open defiance. of a God who is described in Psalm 46 as absolutely terrifying. His voice causes the earth to melt. This is a parallel passage in the New Testament in 1 Thessalonians. First Thessalonians one. Almost there Let's try Second Thessalonians one. There it is. Um It's talking about their suffering, the suffering of the Thessalonians. And then it says this, that God is After all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you and to give relief to you who are afflicted and to us as well, for the Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire. Dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. The Lord Jesus Christ to be revealed in flaming fire. He is terrifying. And he cannot be known by ourselves. Nothing we can do Nothing we can do can make him known to us. So if the story ended there, we would be Absolutely without hope, as Paul said, and without God in the world. But we're not, are we? Psalm 48 says this that God in Zion made himself known as a stronghold. God made himself known to us as a stronghold. And through the work of Christ finished on Calvary, although criminals we are We can know this terrifying, awesome holy God in intimate communion through the blood of Christ. While we were dead in our trespasses and sins, Christ died for us. The story of Jacob in the Old Testament is a story of one man, a deceiver, a criminal. Kind of a family wrecker on the run from God, from his family, from everyone. But it's the story of the tender mercy of God who chases him down. God pursues Jacob and reaches and meets him at Bethel. Jacob would later build an altar there. That story was read by another man, Francis Thompson, a writer in Britain. Francis Thompson was a brilliant man. Went to medical school, grew up in a Christian home, went to, I believe actually law school, but dropped out and became completely pleasure-seeking, self-seeking, actually became homeless. lived along the River Thames, would go to Charing Cross, the city center where he could buy drugs, use the drugs, come back to the Thames. Occasionally he would pick up a piece of scrap paper, write a letter to the editor, send it in. So brilliant was Francis Thompson that the London Times editor said that there is among us greater than Milton, but he doesn't have a return address. In all his brilliance and wisdom, Francis Thompson was completely lost. And then a woman, Christian woman he was staying with, gave him the scriptures. He opened the scriptures and read the story of Jacob and saw in Jacob his own struggle and was converted by Christ. And he penned a poem called In No Strange Land. I'll try and remember it. I forgot part of it the first service. But it's powerful. Listen closely. There is much that is packed into it. O world invisible, we view thee. O world untouchable, we touch thee. O world unknowable, we know thee. Inapprehensible, we clutch thee. Does the fish soar to find the ocean? Does the bird plunge to find the air? That we would ask of the stars in motion if they have rumor of thee there. Not where the wheeling systems darken, Or our benumbed conceiving soars, The drift of pinions would we hearken, beats on our own clay-shuttered doors. The angels keep their ancient places, Turn but a stone and start a wing. 'Tis ye, 'tis your estranged faces, that have missed the many splendor thing. But when so sad thou canst not sadder cry, and upon thy so sore loss Shall shine the traffic of Jacob's ladder, pitched betwixt heaven and Charing Cross. Yea, in the night my soul, my daughter, cry, clinging heaven by the hems, and lo, Christ, walking on the water, not of Gennesaret But Thames. The God of the Bible races to meet us where we are In the time of our deepest crisis and our deepest need, He meets us and makes Himself known to us. And so that Jacob could say, when he went back to that place in Genesis 35, 7, it says that Jacob built an altar and he called it El-Bethel. the house of God. Why? Because listen, there God revealed himself to Jacob. Brothers and sisters, the Scripture sits in front of us as the revelation of Christ. And the call to us is by his power and his might, through the work of his spirit, to be still and know him as God. Thirdly, and quickly, there is the consequence of obedience The first is that we are still. We can rest. We can relax. The second is Christ is glorified. Christ is magnified in our lives. There are three things that I see in this passage again. How is Christ glorified? And I briefly will share them with you. The first is that He is our strength In contrast to all the other gods that we see in the world around us, the false gods who wait for man to serve them, God races to serve us. Isaiah 64 brings that out in Isaiah 64, 4. There is not a God in all the world that is like God who works for those who wait for him. Psalm 121, I will lift up my eyes to the hills. From whence comes my help? My help comes from the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth. And in this passage, you see three things. He gives us power. There is power over nature displayed. In verse 7, you see that he gives power over the enemies who assault his city. That's us, the New Jerusalem. And thirdly, in a demonstration of his power, he gives us a vision of his power over the whole striving, warring world. That we look at and we say it's out of control. You know, who is sufficient to sustain us as we live life in this world? Oh, but God is. God is sovereign. And He gives us power. He is our strength. Secondly, he is our security. We will not fear. I point you to Isaiah 51. I ask you to read Isaiah 51, 12. It's an interesting passage. But essentially, the psalmist says Isaiah says this: He says, as God speaking to us, he says, Who are you to fear? Am I not the Lord of the universe? Have I not sustained you? How can you be afraid? You see, fear is pride. It's arrogance that in this situation I'm going to rely on myself and I must have relied on myself before and now I'm going to rely on myself, but I don't have the wherewithal to do this And God says, no, how insolent of us to be afraid. Perfect love casts out fear. And as Philippians says, there is a peace that is supernatural that will guard our hearts that comes through Christ. Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, he is our satisfaction and our true pleasure. There is a river that makes glad the city of God. Brothers and sisters, Christ is that river, and we are that city. And he longs for us to set aside the pleasures and the struggles of this life. And in stillness find our satisfaction in him. As the woman who came to him asking him if he needed a drink in John chapter 4, He turned to her and he said, if you knew who you were speaking to, you would ask me, and I would give you water so that you would never thirst again. Is that our experience this morning with Christ? The good news of the gospel Is that what we could never accomplish on our own, God provides us supernaturally in Christ. Our stillness and knowledge of Him allows Him to be our rest And so unlike in Jeremiah, where the false prophets, it says, healed slightly the herd of the people, saying, peace, peace. When there was no peace, there remains for us the city of God, a Sabbath, a true rest, with Christ, as Hebrews says. And the light of Christ is not something that we see in our own power But as Paul wrote the church in Corinth, that God causes the light of Christ to shine on our hearts, to shine on these clay pots, so that the power and the revelation of the glory may be his. My prayer for us is that God will reveal Himself with ever-increasing clarity, that we will find in Him our true satisfaction and rest That will allow us to be still in the midst of the circumstances of our lives that seek to tear us apart, to find in Him our strength and our security, to the glory of God. To the honor and praise of Christ. Father, we thank you for your word, for the truth that you give us. Lord God, seal this psalm to our hearts this morning by your gracious Spirit, the power of the risen Christ at work within us. Give us the joyous ability to cease striving and to know you, the one true God Christ in us our hope of glory. Amen