Finally, my brother, rejoice in the Lord. It is no trouble for me to write the same things to you again, and it is a safeguard for you. Watch out for those dogs. Those men who do evil, those mutilators of the flesh. For it is we who are the circumcision. We who worship by the Spirit of God who glory in Christ Jesus and who put no confidence in the flesh. So I myself have reasons for such confidence. Anyone else thinks he has reasons to put confidence in the flesh? I have far more I have more. Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, in regard to the law, a Pharisee, as for zeal. Persecuting the church as for legalistic righteousness, faultless. But whatever was to my prophet I now consider lost for the sake of Christ. What is more, I consider everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish. That I may gain Christ and be found in Him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the lost, but that which is through faith in Christ. The righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ And the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of sharing in his suffering, becoming like him in his death. And so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead. Let's bow in prayer briefly. Father, we would ask you to reveal yourself to us in your scriptures. We pray, Lord, that you would teach us from your word what it means to know, to love, to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise in his name. Amen. This morning we are going to take a glass at Paul's spiritual journey. We are going to see him wind his way through the labyrinth of Judaism. into the freedom of knowing the Lord Jesus Christ. We will take A glimpse at his conversion experience and how he came to know the Lord God in an amazingly unique way on that road to Massa. But we will see that he was not content to allow his relationship to Jesus to Jesus to rest on that one experience. But he wants to know Christ. That's a relationship. It's a relationship that he had with the Lord Jesus Christ. A relationship that we can enjoy. with Jesus Christ. Paul says he wants to know Christ. Now that's a very distinctive aspect of Christianity. Knowing a person. Central to our faith, knowing a person. The third verse of the high priestly prayer that Christ prayed Recorded for us in John 17. We see the words, now this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God. And Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. But how is it that we can know the Lord Jesus We know from Jesus' words how important a thing that is for us. That this is eternal life. That you know the Lord Jesus. How is it? That you can know Christ. What is this knowing Christ? What does it mean to know Christ? Is this an intellectual activity only? Is it a process of our mind? Is it cognition alone? Is it something we do just up here? No, it isn't. To know Christ is to experience the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and the love of God. The love that reached down and loved us while we were getting dead. And our trespasses and sin. Knowing Christ involves at least three aspects, and the three aspects of our text that I want to direct your attention to this morning. We know his power. And this links up rather nicely with our justification. We know his power in our justification. We also know his suffering. As we are sanctified by his grace. Finally, we know his victory as we are finally in that last day. Glorified. If I were to reduce what it means to knowing Christ to just one sentence, it would be something like this. Incidentally, this is the theme of the message. It's written for you in the bulletin. Underline it. Look at it, refer to it in the course of the message. The one theme, what it means to know Christ, involves union with him in our total Christian experience. Knowing Christ involves union with him in the totality of our Christian experience Paul says he wants to know Christ and the power of his resurrection. What does this power of the resurrection mean? Now there are a couple of verses for us in the New Testament that perhaps might give us a little bit of a clue as to what is being said here, this power of his resurrection. I'm thinking of Ephesians the second chapter verses 19 and and 20. The power that raised Christ from the dead, that resurrection power of God, is made available to those of us who believe. In Romans the eighth chapter, in verse eleven, it says, the Spirit of God. The power, the spirit that raised Christ from the dead. It's that same spirit that we have. Now is that what it means when it's talking about the power of his resurrection? I think that the power of his resurrection that Paul is getting at in verse ten is a little more specific than solely the energizing power that God exercised when he raised Christ from the dead. I think it's a little bit more precise than that. What is the power of the resurrection then? The power of his resurrection. I think Paul is referring to the power that is released. As a result of the resurrection. Not so much the resurrection power that God exercised in raising Christ, but the power that is released to us. As results of the resurrection. You see, Christ by his resurrection overcame the powers of sin Satan, death. It is the power of a conquering hero who has secured a victory for his people. That I think is the crux of what this power is. That comes through the power of Christ's resurrection. Let's look at that power, which Paul wishes to appropriate fully to himself, which we also should appropriate fully to ourselves. Let's look at the context of chapter 3. Paul is giving us in verses 4 and following a brief autobiography. He's telling us something about himself. He's actually bragging about his blue blood as a Jew, and he's bragging about the accomplishments that he performed in his own efforts The first thing in chat in verse 4 there, he circumcised the eighth day. He was no Ishmaelite, having to wait until his thirteenth year. Now he circumcised on the eighth day. Of the people of Israel. He was no proselyte that came to Judaism late in life and then was converted and circumcised as an adult. He was of the tribe of Benjamin. That faithful tribe, the tribe from which the first king of Israel came. Do you remember what his name was? That was King Saul, very likely a namesake of the apostle. Paul was a Hebrew of Hebrew. He knew the languages. He knew the ancient languages of Hebrew and Greek. He wasn't thoroughly Hellenized like some of the other Jews in his day. Then he moves on to describe his accomplishments, his great accomplishment regarding the law. He was a Pharisee. He was a member of the strictest sect in Judaism. Regarding zeal, he persecuted the church and he started that at a very young age. You recall that it it was at Paul's feet or Saul's feet at that time. That the coats of those who stoned Stephen were placed as he guarded them. Regarding legalistic righteousness, he was faultless, according to the laws of men. But was all that enough? Was that sufficient? Was that adequate to justify Paul? And are things of that nature adequate to justify ourselves? Think of some parallels of these things that Paul claimed, that so many claim today. I can relate very, very personally. to particularly the first part, the first four things that he lists there, in some respects in my own experience. I was baptized. As a child. Not only was I baptized, I was brought up in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. And not only that, I had heritage. My father was a minister in that same church. I would boast those things. I thought if anyone was saved, if anyone had access to God, it must be someone in my position. There are other things that people claim, however. People claim to have a certain amount of zeal, and by that zeal they're they are they commend themselves to God. You've seen the cartoon that uh uh it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you're sincere, that that type of attitude, no matter what road you follow, if you are sincere And zealous in it, you will get to God and God will honor that. But that's false. There is the attitude of of those who suggest that they're righteous That they're good enough, that they can do things that will recommend themselves, commend themselves to God. Or they may think like the church taught back in Luther's day. That there was a pool of good deeds that those like as Mary and Jesus Christ Himself And the saints would contribute to. It was a treasury, a heavenly treasury. And if you were deficient, if your accounts were in arrears in your own good deeds, You could just write out a deposit, or or a a withdrawal slip, rather, to this heavenly deposit. The church would dispense that grace to you. You again would then be justified. Many believe that But those kinds of attitudes are such attitudes that Paul criticizes that he himself has. But he criticizes In his old way of thinking. He could not wind his way through the intricacies of Judaism to the point of knowing The freedom of the Lord Jesus Christ. He couldn't keep the law perfect. He couldn't do things himself that would justify him before God. Do you remember the convergence of sin? And what a dramatic one that was. On the road to the masses to go to persecute the church, a light blinded him, flashed down from heaven with the brilliance of an atomic blast. He heard a voice, and the voice said, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? Who are you, Lord? was his response. But he knew, even as in his response, he knew that it was the Lord whom he was persecuting. It took a revelation. of Jesus Christ himself to shake Paul out of his attitude of thinking that he could do something, that he could be something in himself. He was misinformed that his own sinfulness wasn't that bad and that God's holiness wasn't that bad The revelation of Jesus Christ, however, informed very clearly in a way that struck him. Struck him with the holiness of God and the simple sin. People today need that same revelation. You and I need that same revelation of the sinfulness of our sins and the holiness of God. We need that revelation of Jesus Christ in his word as the Spirit convicts us of our sin. And points us to Jesus Christ as the only way of salvation. You have to take your eyes off yourself and look for the Lord Jesus. requires full confidence in Christ alone to justify. The power is firmly secure in Christ. On the one hand we have our false Securities, we have our phony righteousness, we have our self-delusions that we can do things to commend ourselves to God. What does Paul call all that? He says it's rubbish, it's sewage, it's garbage. On the other hand, we have the righteousness of Christ. The righteousness of Christ alone. The only thing we can. And you see, I've only got two hands. It's either one or the other. Righteousness. Christ. It's as simple as that. Paul considers considers it all rubbish that he may know Christ, gain Christ, and be found in him. not having a righteousness of his own. What is the power of Christ's resurrection that Paul wants us to know? It's Christ's victory over sin, faith, and death. It's Christ's victory over the bondage of sin. Now I don't mean to suggest that we don't still deal with sin, that we don't still have sin indwelling us. But the victory has been won by Christ. We are no longer bondage in bondage to that sin. We are no longer slaves to that sin. Christ has gained control. The strength of the sin that we have broken. See that power is firmly secured by Christ, not by money. Not by power. Firmly secured by Christ. Paul wants to know the power of Christ, not having a righteousness of his own. That comes from his obedience to the law, that which is faith in Christ. Another translation puts this in focus for us in the following way. All I care for is to know Christ, to experience the power of his resurrection. All I care for is to know Christ. How does this resurrection power of Christ come to him, to Paul, and to ourselves? The power is freely given to us. You see in verse 9 of Philippians 3, it is from God. It is through faith alone. Those oft-quoted words in Ephesians 2:89 again are so important for us. For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith. And this is not from yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of work, that no one can both You see, this requires looking to the Lord God alone. It means that we no longer can depend upon ourselves, rely upon ourselves. It's hard to accept a gift. It's hard to accept a gift with no strings attached. A free, free gift like this We want to feel that it's deserved on our behalf in some way. The historian Frederick Jackson Turner has an interesting theory. It's a theory that as the frontier in this country moved westward, stopped first at the Appalachian Mountains, and then moved to the Mississippi River across the Great Plains. To the Rocky Mountains, and then finally to the Pacific, as that frontier moved westward, as we, as our ancestors, pushed that frontier westward. We were having at that time something inbred in us. And that something inbred is self-dependence. Self-reliance, reliance only upon ourselves as we move the frontier westward. What is the frontier today? The frontier today is in science and technology. There is the attitude held by many that given enough time, given enough money, we can solve whatever problems may confront us. Technology is omnipotent, all powerful. Now I think this relates to the sphere of our religion, our relationship to God. We can't expect God to take care of all the details in our salvation. We have to depend upon ourselves as well. So often that attitude of self-dependence is rooted in our thinking But we surely didn't invent this type of thinking. I don't mean to suggest that at all. It's been around for a long time. I think of the great reformer, Martin Luther. Before he was converted to the Lord Jesus Christ, he felt that he had to contribute to his own salvation By confessing every single sin that he ever committed, every wrong thought that he ever had, he would resurrect from his past all types of of thoughts and attitudes that he thought might be sinful. And he would go to the confessionalist and he would confess. Confess and confess. He thought that's the only way that he could be justified. If he can't confess it. And God can't forgive it. It got to the point where it's so bad. He spent six hours a day in the confessional. He was bound to this uh to his anxiety. He was in bondage to his anxiety. You see he couldn't accept, and many can't accept today. Free gift from God. That free grace from the Lord God. God takes all care of all of the details in our salvation. Now we should praise Him for that. In short, Paul is saying in this in this section that he trusts in the power of Christ's resurrection to secure His justification is being right before God. He's counting on the power that is released from the resurrection of Jesus Christ to gain his salvation before God. Paul goes on to say that he wishes also to know Christ and the fellowship of his suffering. He wishes to experience union with the Lord God, even in his suffering. Now, in one sense, there is no one who has ever been alive, no one who will yet live on this earth who can share in the union of Christ's suffering in one unique way. That is only Jesus Christ can bear the sins of his people. Only Jesus Christ, who is perfect. Could bear the sins of his people. It was God, it took God Himself to bear our sins for us. In Isaiah 53, verses 4 and 5, we see these words. Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows. This is speaking of the Son of God. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. This is no innocent man, simply an innocent man that died on behalf of others. This is God Himself. Only God Himself Who could by his own sacrifice atone adequately for us, for our sins It was only because Jesus Christ was God Himself that his atonement was adequate. It was sufficient. But it wasn't just sufficient. It was super abundant. To share in Christ's suffering involves more than just being aware of the great pain that he went through, the great cost of his sacrifice, though that is important. It is more than feeling just great sorrow for our sin. For it is our sin that nailed him to the cross. So that is important. More to it than that. What is it? What is this sharing in the suffering of Christ? I think of an example of a man who reportedly shared in this sufferings of Christ in a mo most unique way, and I say reportedly, uh please keep that in mind. I'm thinking of a fellow by the name of Francis of Assisi. Now he he lived in the 13th century and probably uh a number of things that he said are now in plaques and hang in some of your your homes. a very well-known character. Anyway, he believed that in order to to truly preach Christ, in order to be a true Christian, He had first of all to give up his possessions, give up any extra clothing that he had, give up any extra food that he didn't need, and then go out and preach the repentance of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He to be to uh to adequately preach Christ in the true way, you had to actually be like Christ in every way possible. Now it is reported that he bore what men believe to be reproductions of the wounds of Christ in his body. Reproduction of the wounds of Christ in his body. I think of a movie that I saw of his uh life uh a while back. As he was dying, he was lying back in the snow. His hands were outstretched like this. And he began to see the wounds similar to those on cr in Christ's palms. Appearing, and you saw blood dripping from those wounds. And besides being sacrilegious, that is just plain inadequate, no human beings can bear the wounds that Christ bore. No human being is an adequate sacrifice and can truly share in that unique suffering and pain that Christ went through. That's dramatic, but I don't think that's That is what it means to share in Christ's suffering. You see, to identify with Christ does not mean that you have to become identical. to pray. See, Paul has something else in mind here. What he has in mind is that we suffer on the behalf of Christ Shortly after Christ died and was resurrected and offended, there was a great persecution in the early church There were a great number of martyrs. In fact, people would believe that it was a level of spirituality to be pursued if you could be like Christ so much that you were killed. Great suffering is forewarned for Christians in the Scripture. In Peter, the second chapter, not the first chapter as it's listed listed in your bulletin, but in 1 Peter 2 Verse 21, we see these words. To this you were called because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example. That you should follow in his steps. And Paul tells us it's the following words in 2 Timothy 3, verse 12. In fact, everyone who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. That's a promise. The godly Christians. We'll be persecuted. Now today in this country, right now, it's not like it was in the early church. We don't see martyrs in the streets of Washington, D. C. or in Columbia. That time may come. I don't know. But then for us, how do we become identified with Christ in his suffering? How do we become identified? How do we have union with Christ in his suffering? Here are also the words of Jesus, a very simple warning that he gives us in John 15. If they persecuted me, and they did. They will persecute you also. They will treat you this way because of me. Bruce Hunt, Orthodox Presbyterian missionary to Korea, landed in jail for preaching Christ. Harvey Khan, OP missionary again to Korea Had his teeth smashed by a lead pipe because he was trying to leave prostitutes to Christ. It seems that the pimps didn't like him infringing on their income. I think of Robert Stewart, a missionary now to France. She was ostracized by her family when she accepted the Lord Jesus Christ. But that all sounds so far away, it's so distant from us. Recall last week Mr. Harris mentioned how easy the Christian life appears in some people's experiences. Some Christians just have seemed to have no battles, no struggles. There is little to distinguish them from the world. There is little distinctive in their own lives That would mark them off, set them apart from the world. Why? Why is there so little suffering? Can you live like Christ, even in this day and age, in this society, and yet not? Be persecuted, not undergo any suffering at all? I think the heart of this problem is that we are comfortable We are comfortable with non-Christian patterns of thought. We are comfortable with non-Christian ways of life. We seem to blend in so readily with the world around us. We don't like to stand out, even from the times during elementary school all the way up through school. And adults, we as adults are not immune from this. It is very important what other people think of us. We don't want to stand out. We want to blend in with the crowd. There's a lady in our Bible study this past week who mentioned that she really didn't think that she stood out from the crowd in terms of her speech. Now I'm not picking on her because we all agreed with her that yeah we don't really stand out from those in our society in terms of our speech, the way we talk to one another. and and relate to our neighbors. We all agree that we blend in too well, that we don't react. When we hear the name of the Lord Jesus Christ being dragged through the mud, we're numb to the sin we see around us because it's so pervasive. It's all around. We come j we become just numbed to it. How can we see? How can we be numb to it? How can we just grow accustomed to it? We were looking at Philippians 2, verse 15, which in the context of our speech says that you will shine like stars. in the universe. If you really are different from the world, if you really are different from your neighbors, it will show up in the way you speak, in the way you react to such things as I mentioned, as the name of Jesus Christ. being defiled. You will want to defend the name of the Lord Jesus as you witness to your friends and as you protest as they drag it through the mud in curse it, swearing. Because we'll shine like light, like stars in the universe, like stars in the heavens, like lights in darkness. Perhaps If you are sensible to defend the name of Jesus, you will cast just a little bit of suffering. Perhaps you will sense a little bit of what it means to be ostracized. Are you holding your life? Under a bushel. How closely identified are you with Christ? Have you known any suffering on his account Paul goes on to describe his knowledge of Christ, how in his Christian experience he longs to be conformed to Christ, not only in his sufferings, but in his death. But only Jesus suffers. Only Jesus suffered on our behalf. It's not something that we can do to earn our own salvation. Jesus died for our sins. In 1 Peter 2, verse 24, it says he himself bore our sins in his body. There is no clearer verse in all of Scripture Which tells us why Jesus came to do what he did. Why he came to this earth. He bore our sins in his own body. Let me emphasize again, Paul is not suggesting, nor should we try to emulate the idea that to be identified with Christ, we must be identical to him. Christ's ministry, his work on the cross, unique. It would be the height of arrogance to assume that there would be anything that you could do in your own sinfulness. To commend yourself to God is a minimizing not only your own sin, but also the holiness of the Lord God. How then are we to be conformed to his death? How are we to be conformed to the death of the Lord Jesus Christ? How are we to become like him in his death? That same verse that I just quoted, 1 Peter 2, 24, gives us the answer as you read on. He bore our sins in his body, so that we might die to sin. And live to righteousness. The same idea is expressed in Romans, the sixth chapter, Romans 6, verses 5 through 7. Romans six five through seven. If we have been united with him in his death, we will certainly also be united with him. For we know that our old self was crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be rendered powerless, that we should no longer be slaves. to sin. Because anyone who has died has been freed from sin. We know Christ. We are united to him in his death. He died for our sins. We are united to him as we die to our sins. He died for our sins. We died to our sins. We put to death the deeds of the flesh that we yet perform. Christ's victory. powerful over the control of sin in our lives. What does this mean to you? What does this mean in your own experience? It means I think primarily a death to selfishness, a death to a self-serving attitude That so many of us, all of us, fall into. It's that self-serving attitude that is a recurrent theme throughout the book of Philippians. If the church is to live in harmony, if the church is to do that for which it was called. To honor the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to build up the saints, to declare the excellency, the grace of the Lord God. The only way it can do that is when. We put to death the selfishness, the self-serving attitude, and we follow the example of Christ's life. We serve one another He came to serve others, says in chapter two verse four, by his power we can overcome our self-absorption Are being so concerned about our own interests that we too can be like Christ in serving other people. Do you see the perspective here? I'm not suggesting that we do certain things to commend ourselves to God as pay payment for our justification. But I am suggesting that because we have gained Christ, because we know Christ, we've been united to him, we respond out of his power, out of love for him, in doing obedience. For him. We've become identified with him. More and more. We will put to death the deeds of sin. What is your attitude towards sin? Are you willing to die for it? Die to that sin, even as Christ died for that sin? You see again, we are united to Christ in salvation. We know Christ. We are united to him as we come to him, as we've suggested. We know his power. In our justification. We also know Christ. We are united to him as we share in his suffering. As he gives us power over the sin in our lives. We are united to Christ there. We know him there as well. But we also know Christ as we are united to him fully, only when he comes again, when we will finally and fully share the union with him, when we are glorified. This is the final stage of the process of knowing Christ. That process that began so dramatically in the life of Paul and his conversion. It's the process that culminates in being like Christ. United fully to him. We know Christ's victory. We know the victory that Christ has won. His victory is complete. As I have said, he defeated definitively sin, Satan, and death on the cross. When he uttered those words from the cross, it is finished. It was no mere declaration that the sponge that the soldiers had raised up to him because he was thirsty was now dry. It was a declaration that his mission was accomplished. He had accomplished the salvation, the redemption for his people. It was something that was finished. It was done The rest of history is a mop-up operation as a result of that work. Now I'm not supposing that we can have complete victory over sin as we remain in these earthly bodies. But we do have a partial, present victory. His salvation is sure. We have been united to Christ. We have become sons of God, even as we are adopted, as we are justified. We are sons of God. That is a relationship that has perpetuity to it. It a re it is a relationship that will not end. It will not be cut off. When we die in these bodies, we are the sons and daughters of God. We are sealed with the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, ABBA. Father, we have received that down payment. We have received that security deposit in the form of the Holy Spirit, even as we are united to Christ. Paul looks forward to the time when he will no longer have to live in his body, no longer have to deal with that sin. You see, even now, we can't adequately know Christ. We can't know Christ fully. You aren't identified with Christ in all that you think And all that you say and all that you do, there is sin that remains. But Paul looks forward to a promise: the promise of being completely united to Christ in his resurrection. There will be a future, complete victory. Paul confidently expects That God will complete that work of grace which was begun in him at his conversion. Here and now Christ is risen. Christ has given us that power, that power that we can know in our justification We are not yet enjoying the fullness of the victory, however. I read verse 21 of chapter 3 in Philippians. Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control, will transform our lowly bodies So that they will be like his glorious vines. Paul longs to know Christ fully in that way, to be conformed to the image of Christ. Is that your hope? Well, that's something that you think about, that you concentrate on, that you enjoy, that you delight in, that you praise God for. A favorite verse of mine is in 1 John 3 and verse 2. When he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Literally, it doesn't say, not when he appears, rather, when he is made known. When he is made known, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. That's when we shall have full knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's when we'll be united to him completely. Without any traces of sin remaining. We will be like Christ, we'll be conformed to his image in true knowledge, righteousness, and holiness. Now I don't mean to suggest that the distinction between the Lord Jesus Christ as creator and ourselves as creatures will ever be ignored, will ever be put aside. But we will become like him. We will be made perfectly after his image in true knowledge, righteousness, and holy. That is knowing Christ. That's knowing Christ fully and finally as we're glorified when he comes again. Do you know him? Do you know that hope, that hope in his resurrection? Do you think about that hope? Or are your thoughts often directed to the things of this life? Are you concerned more with the things that you will wear? The things that you will eat, the house that you will live in. Christ Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount, not to worry about those things. Don't be concerned about those things. For I have fully provided my righteousness for you. I have fully provided for you. I have given you the hope of the resurrection. Is that where your hope lies? If so, praise his praise the Lord Jesus Christ. If not, I would ask you, do you know the Lord Jesus Christ? Do you know his power? In your justification, putting aside anything that you might do so you know his power and his power alone. Amen.