Good morning. Good morning, beloved of God. What a name He has given to us Because of his work on our behalf, we can be called beloved. I invite you to turn in your copy of the scriptures to Paul's letter to the Thessalonian Christians. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 is where we're going to be looking into God's Word today. And I invite you to turn there. And as you get there, we're just going to camp out, beginning in verse 14 to verse 18. And I want to offer prayer and ask the Lord to bless this time together. Let's pray together. Gracious God, High King of Heaven. The victory won. We praise you and we thank you, Lord, that these truths are ours to claim and to receive by faith because you have accomplished all that was necessary. And we thank you for that. And we ask, Lord, that you would now take your word and that you would use it in a powerful way to make us your Your bride, the beloved, that we would grow in our knowledge of Jesus Christ and his finished work on our behalf, that we would grow in grace. That our love and good deeds would be evident and known to all, so that you would receive praise and glory and thanksgiving. From the watching world around us. Lord, we ask that you would bless this time and we pray for it in the name of Jesus Christ. Thank you. Amen. Amen. We um last week saw in God's Word the idea that we are the bride, the bride of Christ, the beloved. And we heard about uh how to be a better bride. I even saw that on someone's Facebook post Sunday afternoon. That was cool But to be a better bride, we have to continually look deeply into the face and the work of the bridegroom. And so we look at God's word today, maybe uh some practical teaching from the Apostle Paul to a church that he loved. You see the joy of Paul as he recounts all over uh these two letters to the Christians in Thessalonica of That they are his uh favorite. He says, My glory and my joy you are Because he was able to preach there and he saw them receive the word and he saw them endure suffering on behalf of Christ, and he was encouraged by that So I want us to be a better bride, looking at God's Word. And you see the title there, Knowing and Doing God's Will. And I want to Conclude that little ellipse there, there's three dots, with the phrase, as the church. Knowing and doing God's will as the church. Let me ask you a couple of questions. What do you want to be when you grow up? Is marriage in your future? Who will you marry? Where will you live when you are out on your own? What are you going to do after high school? What are you going to do after college? Hey some of you, what are you going to do after your career? What church are you going to attend? Who should this church call as the pastoral team leader? And on and on and on we could go. Trying to discern the will of God. We get caught up in that because we're looking for some specific instruction And God has given specific instruction, but it is different than what we think it should be. And all the technological advance, travel just about anywhere in the world, sky's the limit to the possibilities age that we live in, can we really know God's will? We feel the extra burden because of all these good choices to make the right choice, to choose best among the many good options, and because of the myriad choices. We sometimes add the self-imposed pressure that could lead to an obsession to know the will of God for our lives. And if we don't have a correct understanding concerning what the will of God is, we'll suffer needless confusion. It's not necessary. We gave our graduating seniors this past spring a book by Kevin DeYoung, a reformed preacher in Michigan. The book was entitled Just Do Something, A Liberating Approach to Finding God's Will, or How to Make a Decision Without Dreams, Visions, Fleeces, Impressions, Open Doors, Random Bible Verses. casting lots, liver shivers, writing in the sky, etc. , etc. And the young Speaks in the introdu in the introduction to the book of the confusion regarding God's will. He says this, and I quote, the will of God is one of the most confusing phrases in the Christian vocabulary Sometimes we speak of all things happening according to God's will. Other times we talk about being obedient and doing the will of God. And still other times we talk about finding the will of God. The confusion is due to our using the phrase the will of God in at least three different ways, typified in the previous three sentences. End quote And De Young proceeds to break out each of those three, God's will of decree, or that a sovereign God plans and ordains all that comes to pass. Nothing can thwart the action, the plan of sovereign God, God's will of desire or that he commands his people. And those commands are for our good. And then that so-called God's will of direction. And that's where most of our confusion usually shows up. We're looking for the writing in the sky with an arrow pointing to our future spouse. Or the college application to come back with God's stamp of approval. He goes on to lay that out through the book, and about midway through the book, commenting on the confusion that is there In light of God's clear will of desire that we be obedient to his word, DeYoung says this, and I quote So go marry someone, provided you're equally yoked and you actually like being with each other. Go get a job, provided that it's not wicked Go live somewhere in something with somebody or nobody, but put aside the passivity and the quest for complete fulfillment and the perfectionism and the preoccupation with the future, and for God's sake, start making some decisions in your life. Don't wait for the liver shiver. If you are seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, you will be in God's will. Just go out and do something. End quote. Amen. We have choices before us as a congregation. They are many, and we probably even don't know half of them yet. As they arise and they appear before us on the horizon. So we want to be a church, a bride, a beloved people, doing the will of God, and that's what the text before us today points us to. We're not going to find the name of the man in the Midwest or the South or the East Coast or the West Coast that's supposed to come and serve us as pastoral team leader. But we are going to find clear in God's Word what God's will is for God's people at Columbia Presbyterian Church. You want to hear that, don't you? So Paul writes to this church that he is in love with Who would have ever thought that God would be clear in his word? Do we read God's Word? Do we avoid God's word? Because it's just so hard to understand. Well, Paul writes to the Thessalonians. I want to read from chapter 4 first. Verse 3. Rick read some of the passages in the scripture where God is very clear what his will is. We see one of those in 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 3. For this is the will of God. Your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God. Paul says, this is the will of God for you, your sanctification. That word hagiasmos is from the word which means to be sacred or set apart. It's the church, the word that we use for church, ekklesia, the ones who are called out from the world. We are called out from the world to be set apart for God, to be holy. I am holy, therefore you will be holy, God says. I'm making you into my image. I'm going to call for myself a people who are not my people. And I will make them my people. So Paul says: the will of God is your sanctification, your holiness. to be conformed to the image of God. Rick read from Romans 12. I appeal to you therefore, brothers, with these first eleven chapters of the doctrine of justification by faith alone, in view, in view of God's mercy, offer your bodies to To God is a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable, sacred, set apart and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual act of worship. Do not be conformed to this world. Come out from the world. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind as God's word gets in there and makes those changes that only God's word can make. That's a paraphrase I'm reading in. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind that by the testing you may discern what is the will of God. What is the will of God for us? To live holy lives. The will of God, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. Deuteronomy 29, 29. The secret things of the Lord belong to the Lord. But the things that God has revealed to us belong to us. And Deuteronomy 29 says, to us and to our children. The things that God has revealed. They belong to us and to our children forever. Why? That we may do all the words of this law. So God has Scripted what he wants us to look like and be and do. And he's given that to us. This first letter to the Thessalonians, and the second one for that matter. It was written by the Apostle Paul after he had shared the gospel with these people, and they had gladly received it, and they were growing in grace. In chapter one, he gives thanks to God always for all of them, constantly mentioning them in his prayers. In chapter two, he thanks God for the way in which the Thessalonian believers received the Word of God and were being changed by it. His faith is encouraged to see the way they've endured suffering there in chapter two, thirteen and fourteen. In chapter two and verse twenty, Paul calls the Thessalonian believers his glory and his joy Referring to the fact that they so accurately portray lives that have been transformed by the glory of God. Transformed by God's grace. And it's important for us to know who Paul is talking about before we read these verses. As Paul concludes his letter, he gives a final thought and he urges those who are mature, those who are growing in grace, those who are growing in knowledge. He gives them a charge, and that's where we read today. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 verse 14. And we urge you, brothers, the brethren. The church, admonish the idle, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak Be patient with them all. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. What's Paul telling us? What does God's word have for us? First thing I want to do, this sermon can be seen in two parts. And both parts have to do with these five types of people that Paul, I think, is outlining for us. Five types of people found in the church. Now I read all those great things from Paul's letter so that we'd know that these are matured believers These are men and women who have received the gospel, who have endured suffering, who joyfully embrace what God sovereignly brings their way. And then Paul says these words. There's five types of people, and I've given them each a D word, so we can write them down. I'll try to say them slowly. I know you don't have an outline in front of you. They are the disruptive. The disruptive, the downcast, the downcast, the debilitated The debilitated, the drainers, the drainers, and the depraved. The depraved. We'll get to all those. Look at what Paul says. We urge you, brothers, admonish the idol. The word idol there is translated. It's a Greek term. It's actually a military term. It means to be insubordinate. Unruly, some of your translations may say unruly, idle, not constructive, not participating, not pulling their share. And Paul says there are those in the church who are disruptive, bringing division, if you will. The disruptive ones, they're there. They can be out of step with the whole came to be under understood in this military term as anyone who wasn't doing their duty What they had signed on to do, the commitment they had made, the vow they had taken. And Paul says, they're there among you. Last week we looked at Ephesians 5 and 21, hupataso, that word which means to submit, to willingly relinquish our rights, to place ourselves under the authority of another. This is another military term, just like that, except it's about the exact opposite. And it means to basically say to leadership I'm not going to do what you say to do. They're disruptive, and they're in the church. Then the second group of people, the downcast, Paul says, encourage the faint-hearted, those who are faint of heart. The church contains those who are faint of heart. The Greek literally means one who is Small souled. One who is small-sold. They're risk-averse, if you will, fearful. Not ready to step out, not ready or willing to be bold witnesses for Christ. And they're there in the church. And Paul says The faint of heart among you. I've got a word for them. I've got a word to speak to you, brethren, about the ones who are downcast. Here was a church facing persecution the Jews had come up to Uh infiltrate those collections of people who had given their lives to Christ faced with the real possibility of suffering, and among them Paul knew that there were those who were downcast, who were faint of heart. That's a second group of people. The third group we find is the debilitated. The Greek word here is actually described as one who is susceptible to sin Those who are struggling to give up sin that has enslaved them. Those who are struggling with confidence to be obedient to God's will, these are the weak. These are the strugglers, the ones who because of years of patterned behavior that has gone unchecked Are weak in their spirit to do anything about the sin that plagues them? And Paul says, they're there in the church. The disruptive, the downcast, the debilitated. In fact, this is the same word that the uh writer of James uses, that James uses when he translates, it's translated weak here. Esthne, but it's translated sick in James 5. 14. Is anyone among you sick? Then he must call for the elders of the church, and they are to pray over him. You remember in James chapter 5, and if you've ever seen the elders bring uh oil and anoint a member and pray for them, the first thing we do in strut in accordance with James 5 As we ask if there are any sins that they need to confess because of the meaning of that word weak, sick, enslaved, shriveled. unable to do anything about their sin. And so Paul says they should come. They must call for the elders of the church. I mean James says they must call for the elders of the church. And they're to pray over these sick, weak ones. The disruptive, the downcast, the debilitated, the drainers. Paul says, be patient with everyone. Forbear with the ones who struggle, and then as if to imply, all struggle He says, Be patient with everyone. Be patient with them all. We don't mind engaging in the lives of others if we can do it at a convenient time for our schedules We don't mind engaging in the lives of others if we can accomplish the service to the needy one in a reasonable, read, short amount of time and get back to our lives. We don't mind engaging in the lives of others if we can move on from the situation without experiencing too much personal cost to ourselves. Hey, listen, unscathed if possible. It's the way we think. It's the way the Christians in Thessalonica thought. And that's why Paul said, be patient with all. Forbear long-suffering. Stay engaged, stay with them. So you have the drainers in the church. And then the fifth type of people, the depraved. Paul says, see to it that no one repays evil, anyone, evil for evil. Seek to do good to one another and to everyone. What? Are you telling me that in the Church of Jesus Christ there would be those who would seek to perpetrate evil upon another? or retaliate with evil when evil was done against them? Paul seems to say yes. Yes, there are So we have the disruptive, the downcast, the debilitated, the drainers, the depraved. Does anything ring a bell for you, CPC? I think they all ring a bell for me. Not because I interact with you, but because I look in the mirror every morning when I wake up This is us. Is this a picture of the church that you've Embraced? Is this a picture of the people that you've aligned yourself with? Those who are disruptive, unruly, insubordinate, those who are Downcast, weak of heart, faint of heart, fearful, risk averse. Those who are debilitated, enslaved by sin, those who are weak and unable to fight the good fight, those who are drainers. Let's see when your caller ID shows up that number, you thank God silently that you have caller ID And those who are depraved, who when you see the action, you think to yourself Is that a Christian? Or when you see it well up in you, you think the very same thing? That's a picture of the church. Jesus said the well don't need a physician. He did not come for those who were righteous in and of themselves. He came for those who were sick. He came for those who were in prison. He came for those who were spiritually blind to their condition. He came for all of us. All of us who were in bondage to sin and unable and unfit to come to God on our own. That's who Jesus came. He came to seek and to save that which is lost. Remember the words of Paul in his first letter to the church at Corinth concerning the types of people that make up Christ's church. As Paul extols the purity of Christ and his kingdom. Listen, the purity of Christ and his kingdom. Paul's making a case in 1 Corinthians 6 for how holy God really is. And he says these words, do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither the sexually immoral, nor the idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards Nor revilers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. They're not going to be there because God is holy. And those who will be with God in the kingdom of heaven will be holy. You remember what Paul says without even taking a breath. In First Corinthians six, eleven, and such were some of you. And such were some of you You steal, you lust, you practice and think of ways to sin Such were some of you, but you were washed. You were sanctified. You were set apart, that word sanctified. You were justified, declared not guilty, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Paul says, that's who makes up the church. God saves us from our sin. He doesn't want us to stay in our sin. A holy people set apart. That's the good news of the gospel that you were set apart, you were called out, you were declared not guilty in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of the living God. That's the good news of the gospel. Have you embraced the gospel. Is that your picture of church what I just laid out? A bunch of sinners? When people come and stand behind this lectern and join our fellowship, we require what the church for two thousand years has required, and that is a public profession of a black heart that cannot be righteous in and of itself. We it's the only organization on the planet where you have to stand and give public witness to the fact that you are despicable. And you are weak. And you need another to be your righteousness, wisdom, and peace. The church, praise be to God. Paul says, such were some of you. Such were some of me. Forgive me, English majors. So what is the church called to do? What are we called to do then? In light of w who God is, what God has done, what he's called us to be and do, Paul doesn't leave us hanging. Note in the letter, in this uh closing instruction, the final benediction that Paul gives, he urges the brethren. There may be another couple of D words here. These are the ones who are desperate for God. These are the ones who are diligently seeking after God's will for their lives. These are the ones who are maturing. For they've not arrived just as we've not arrived. But they're maturing in the faith. They're teachable. They're instructable. They're open to correction. They're following God. And Paul says, I urge you, I urge you, brethren, church, he speaks to the leaders in this letter. And he speaks about how to submit to the leaders. But this final instruction is to the church. I urge you, brethren. Do these things. Admonish the idle. For the disruptive, there's a word to bring. The word here admonish is Nuthateah. And we have this brand of Christian counseling called newphetic counseling. It simply means to take God's word and admonish those who are out of line with God's word. What neuthetic counseling does not mean is to stand on a morally high ground, to point a finger at someone, and to judge them A couple of weeks ago, one of my brothers I dearly love and he, you know, encourages me in the faith and He said, Are you gonna put your I was talking about putting my, you know, bony finger in his grill or whatever, uh some stupid spiritual correction term And it really struck me, we said, so are you gonna, you know, point that bony finger at me today? And the image came to me that this is really not what Nuthateo gets to. But it's this, with a strong arm of God's grace, with a realization that we've been forgiven our sins. We gather the one who is unruly, idle, disruptive, and then we admonish. I don't think this goes away. I don't think we do this really. It's just a picture, you know, word picture. You got the symbol thing kind of. Can't see it on the tape, but you know, I'm pointing. It's the strong arm of grace, of the presence of Christ in the church, to wrap a loving arm around the unruly and to say, Look It's it's not good. In fact, this word actually that the way Paul is using, the way it's used in Colossians, the way it's used throughout the New Testament It's described as the one who brings the serious warning. And the serious warning, when brought to another, should have already been well received by the one bringing the message. That's the whole picture of Jesus that he gives of the log and the speck. You better go and take that plank out of your own eye, man, before you go and try to pull the splinter from your brother. And so for the disruptive one, for the one who's out of step, and I'm not talking about like, I don't like vacation Bible school We're talking about not in line with the Word of God. We're talking about uh the potential of a husband astray from his wife, his commitment to her, for a a parent to neglect their responsibility to nurture and admonish their children with love and not exasperation. We're talking about following God's word and that's The one who says, I'm not going to live that way. They're the ones who are insubordinate, and Paul says, admonish them. Show them how serious their path really is. that the end of which is destruction. But wrap that arm around them. In John chapter 1, Jesus is described as the one Bringing grace and truth. And so when we go with a reproof, we should go with the goal to bring 100% grace and a hundred percent truth to that person. We might not achieve that goal. I don't know what is good. You know, 61% grace and 38% truth. I don't know. Go with the goal to be representing Christ, bringing grace and truth. and admonish the idle one. There's downcast among us. They're the faint of heart, fearful. And Paul uses a term that means literally to speak alongside Paramutheomai, to speak alongside the fearful one. He says, listen, encourage the faint-hearted. Come alongside them with what? I love you, you love me, no. Come alongside them with the truth of who God is again Because the fearful heart needs to know the truth. The fearful heart needs to know that God is. The fearful heart needs to know that He's sovereign, that He's good. That he invites his followers to cast their care upon him because he cares for them. A fearful heart needs to know that God is attentive to the cry of his children. God answers prayer. The fearful heart needs to know that he who did not spare his own son will also freely give us all things. The fearful heart needs to know that the one who has promised to be with us to the end of the age will never leave us nor forsake us. That's what needs to be in our encouragement. Now you can say I love you, you love me, we're a happy family if you want. But make sure the Word of God gets into your encouragement. Because that's where the life is. For the debilitated, for the weak, the frail, the ones who struggle in their sin, the ones who are susceptible to particular temptations, they need help. He says, help the weak and techo, which literally means hold firmly to, cling to them, grab them. Grasp them. It's the same word that Paul uses when he's talking to Pastor Titus in chapter one of the letter to Titus When he's selecting elders on the island of Crete, Paul says, Listen, those elders need to hold fast to The gospel to the doctrine, sound doctrine, hold fast to sound doctrine. Why? So that then they'll be able to encourage those who need it and to rebuke those who oppose it, but they've got to be clinging to it in order to do so. It's the same kind of picture. And Paul says, in the church there are those who struggle with sin. They're susceptible. They're weak. And Paul says, grab 'em. Grasp them, hold tightly to them. Why? Because they don't have it going on. They're weak. And we gotta have an environment where the weak, struggling sinner Because sin is never pretty, sin is often ugly, and it usually disgusts you if you get a chance to look at it in the light. We need a church, an environment, of a setting. Where the weak, those who struggle with sin, can expose that and say, This is who I am. It's a shame. It's horrible. I don't want to be here anymore. Church, help me. And the church is called to Cling to them, to to help them, grab 'em, give 'em the gospel For the drainers, forbearance, patience, for everyone. I wondered, he just expanded. Paul just Let it let it loose. Be patient with everyone. Why? Man, everybody needs it We all need patience. How many times do we have to fight back the temptation to utter those words that we feel so right in saying, Man, I don't deserve this. God save us from what we deserve. Because what we deserve Is the wrath of God poured out forever and ever? That's what we've earned. That's what we deserve. And for us to say I he says I don't I don't have an extra hour. I can't I'm not gonna take your call. I I don't know w you know. Oh no, she's hurt. Oh. They can't keep their kid in line. Whatever it is, Paul says be patient. We're a work in process. That which we will be and we will fully know it, we don't fully know it now. But we're getting there. By God's grace, we're getting there. So Paul says, be patient, forbear with one another. If you're ever tempted to not, then take a look at the one who is long suffering with you. The one who extends his right arm of salvation, God describes himself as the one who suffers long with his people. We turn our back on him, we we stray from him, and he calls us back, he forgives, he works those things out, and Paul says, be patient with everyone. For the depraved among us, those who might be tempted to repay evil for evil, Paul says, Don't do that. You want anything more clear than that? Don't repay evil for evil. In Romans chapter 12, Paul said the same thing. He's talking about the idea of justice. See what's what's underlying here is that we have a sense of justice. We know that that's wrong. That shouldn't happen. But we don't retaliate in kind. That's what Paul says. In fact, in Romans chapter 12, Paul elaborates on this whole concept of not repaying evil for evil. He says Bless those who persecute you. Bless them. Do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight. Repay no one evil for evil. This is to the church. This is to us. Give a thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, as far as it depends upon you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, listen, never avenge yourselves, but leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written, quote, Paul says, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, Paul says, this is what the church, this is what the regenerated heart thrives to do. If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink, for by so doing you will heap burning coals upon his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. It's not one of those nasty, stick it to them, let's put some burning coals in their head. That's the cleansing fire of God at work. It's the loving kindness of God that leads us to repentance. Do we not think that that's a good pattern for us to interact with one another with as well? I hope so We've been saved from the wrath of God, growing in our appreciation of that salvation, Paul says You don't need to lash back. Trust God. Do good. So Paul says in conclusion So with the people that have gathered as the church confessing their sin and growing together in grace, all these instructions for each of those types, and maybe a mixture of types. Paul says these words, rejoice always. Together as a congregation, rejoice in the salvation that you've been given. Never let it be said of the people who have been bought with the blood of Christ that we are downers But rejoice always, even in the midst of suffering. Pray without ceasing. Now that doesn't mean give up your day job. It means stay in a constant, dependent state. We need God. To the extent that we recognize we need God, we will be a praying people. It was such a delight to gather with the 45 or 50 of you. Who gathered last Sunday afternoon and prayed for the church? We prayed for the church, for the church in Howard County, and for the church in the United States and around the world. That's what we did. And it went from five to six, and it was pretty cool. We need God. So Paul says, pray without ceasing. And then he says, give thanks in all circumstances. With thanksgiving, present your request to God. Give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God. In Christ Jesus for you, church, that he would give us his grace to do his will. Let's pray to that end. Gracious God, we ask that you would work this word in us Make us aware, Lord, if you would please, of where we might fit in some of these categories. Give us hearts of repentance Courage, strength, and Lord, where we see our brothers and sisters and interact with them, Lord, give us grace and truth and make us your church. Grow us. Lord, we pray. Thank you for hearing our prayer, and we offer it now in Jesus' name. Amen.