Good morning. It's uh a lot of fun for me to introduce Dan, although he did almost ruin it by saying, do you really have to introduce me? Can't you use that time better? I told him, and I will take the heat. I said, Dan, you preach what the Lord's given you to preach and we'll take the heat. So um let me bring him up. He is a second intern of CPC. Many of you have recognized prayer requests in the back of this for Japan. for as long as you've been here because they've been in for as long as he's been here. Um Dan is the guy who started the team planting churches in Chiba, Japan, with the the vision of reaching the city of Tokyo and creating a presbytery. And uh Dan has a really unique effect in his ministry. He's able to rally people, bring them and take them. He took the Colburns, he took Linda Carner, and I'm I'm telling you, watch yourself because Dan may take you. But I have to say in that, Dan, that you are a model to me and an encouragement for which I am eternally grateful, of a man who understands the stewardship of the global church. And you're in Japan because you recognize that God had given you a trust And you are acting on that trust and following his lead. And so I thank you for that. And I look forward to what the Lord has to say. Thank you very much. Thank you. It's great to be with you again, and I need to turn this microphone on. Right right here. Okay. Yes, Al Bierkus was, he tempted me very much. We had a great two years. Here is your second interns, became an elder. We love CPC. We were at home here, but we were headed to Japan. God had called us to go to Japan. And one night, Albierkas, we were coming home from session meeting, I was driving him home and he said, You know, Dan, y you and Carol, you really fit well here. You know, maybe you should stay and uh I um gossip I'm glad we didn't give in to that temptation. We went with a twelve-year commitment. We've been there twenty-two years, and that's where we know what we're gonna do when we grow up now. We're where we're supposed to be. Please turn to Genesis 22. You have an outline in your in your bulletin. Genesis 22. Genesis 22, verse 18. Says, in your offspring Shall all the nations of the earth be blessed? We want to especially think about that today. I'm gonna uh missional family. I did a an internet Google search of missional, it's a new word in English, last five or ten years. I did a a Google search of missional, which is the idea of the church and Christians being outward focused, outward-oriented, and then we're just just tons of pages about it. And I did, you do a Google search of family, Christian family, and there are pages and pages about that. And I did a search of missional family and there was nothing. when I did this a few years ago. Uh often it seems that we talk a lot about family and we a lot of people think we're their allies in that because we have nine children and um about fifth, sixth generation of a Christian family talk about the covenant, the promises to us and our children very often. And then but sometimes it's easy for us to get ingrown and only think about family and not the missional side. I see that in some of the churches we go to sometimes. They're very ingrown. I call them Presbyterian Amish we can become. Then on the other side, see sometimes churches and Christians that are missional, they're outward oriented, but not focusing on family. And this this that's part of this this idea of missional family we see in this passage. In your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. You say, but Dan, that's talking about Christ. And it is. But it also in the passage you see it says your offspring will be like the stars of heaven and like the sand of the sea, which it shows us this is This is talking about, yes Christ, the blessing to the nations, but also us, and even our children, our seed. being a part of this. Jonathan and Sarah Edwards, a famous book about Jonathan Edwards, uh called Marriage to a Difficult Man. This Someone heard that, they said, Oh, is this a book about your wife Carol. And I said, I certainly am a difficult man, but no, it's about Jonathan Edwards. And there's one chapter in there where he, uh the writer, Elizabeth Dodd, talks about the the seed, the descendants of Jonathan Edwards, more than a thousand of them. And how God, you you know, two uh one vice president, several senators Uh they went to the mission field by platoons. The way uh God used this missional family that focused on family and the gospel and and the nations and and being a missional family, how God used that. I'm I'm hoping that today that as we think about family from this passage that will be a bigger, compelling, more compelling vision for us and our kids. I'm amazed how young people today in America and Japan too are galvanized by different kind of things, want to be a part of something Big, exciting. We see it in the election right now as well. Uh so I want to be some a part of something successful. Well this is something that is the greatest endeavor of history that is talked about here. This This gathering of the elect from every tongue and tribe, and to see us and our kids a part of that as goers. And as senders as a part of this greatest endeavor. A couple days ago in Atlanta, I was with a young man, 30 years old, named Hamilton Powell. And went up to their penthouse office with a Japanese church planner with me who's going to be our church planner for City Center Tokyo. And I learned from this young man, he told me about their family's vision for generosity for four generations now, starting with his great grandfather who became a wealthy businessman in Atlanta, that that our have two goals, that our company would be successful and that we would limit what we live on so that we can give, we can be generous for the sake of reaching our city and reaching the world. It's called the generosity movement they were part of. He told me about another family, the McClellan family from Chattanooga, Tennessee, that uh this family for seven generations, they have kept their lifestyle in terms of what they live on. And their reason for it was selfish because we in America, the richest country in the world, uh the great danger of wealth, they've had they've passed this from generation to generation that we're going to cap what we live on and and give the rest away. And they start foundations, they they give their wealth To help the nations, to help Chattanooga, Tennessee, to help the poor. They do that. This is exciting that they've been able to hel you know, y I think there's a show in America now, they're starting to show it in Japan sometime. American Idol, is that what it is? This is someone coming back from the second richest country in the world. I come back to the richest country in the world. By far more than the second richest country in the world. And I say American idols, you know, of of wealth, safety, comfort. Man, it really is here. It's great to go on short-term mission trips. We we really see that. You know, it begins that we begin to see our culture and what it's like here. But this family, this very wealthy family, they said, oh, for the sake of our kids, for the sake of our kids, this family legacy of of of God being central, of of even finding some very specific ways they do that. A compelling vision for our families, for our children, that's bigger than our own Comfort as bigger than ourselves. Now this is a difficult subject as we talk about our seed, our descendants, because You know, there that some of us our children aren't doing so well. Our children go through ups and downs. We've we have nine kids. Sometime they're doing well, sometime they're not doing so well. We keep praying, we keep loving, we keep claiming the promises of Christ. keep sharing our failures. I think as we Carol and I uh help with uh families in Japan, so many of our first generation Christians, one of the best things we do is share our struggles and our failures of how we have How we have failed in our raising our children many times, how God has used our our sin even as we turn to Christ and repent and share openly. with parents of younger people, of people struggling. Let's share our struggles. Let's keep praying. But we need to study this. And remember that our hope is Christ. Our hope to the end is Christ for us and for our children. And not only that they know Christ But in this passage, verse 18, that they will be a part of through your seed, the nations will know that the nations will will be blessed. After that long introduction, let's look at the first thing, the Lamb of Promise. We sang about it. What a great passage. Let me read verse 13. And 14 again then Abraham raised his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering. in the place of his son. And Abram Abraham called the name of the place the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord it will be provided. You remember this story is crushed Don't have time to read the whole thing, but Abraham is ob in obedience to God by faith, going up to offer his son Isaac as a sacrifice. And and the the little boy's well trained, and he says, Daddy Where's the sacrifice? And Abraham's answer, the Lord will provide by faith. He he believed that the Lord will provide a lamb for himself in verse 8. This is the heart of what we believe. I'm from a country that is into performance and try hard. Francis Xavier, when he came to Japan, he said. We found the best people group on the face of the earth. They're honest, they're disciplined, they try hard. And that country today with no gospel, no grace, no idea of a substitute land uh people with the highest suicide rate in the industrialized world, incredible heart problems and families that are that are just broken because of this idea that it's all about us and it's our effort and our performance. But the message of the gospel uh is that it's Christ. Here we see the picture of Christ, our substitute. Uh the heart of this promised blessing is the gospel. Every other religion. You measure up, you do better. But the gospel, Jehovah Jirah, my provider, he is my hope. In my country, Japan, there's uh the word there's a word for grace, Megumi. But uh But you know, hardly anyone knows what it means because it's all about me, my hard work. I can't show weakness The there's a famous uh saying of the samurai warrior, and he is standing by the gate to the temple and he's picking his teeth with a toothpick As if he's just eaten, even though he hasn't eaten for three days. Because he can't show need, can't show weakness That is very much the way we we see the effect of that in Japan. That is about me and my effort. But the gospel is not that here we see that it's the substitute lamb that is offered, the spotless lamb, uh that takes our place, and that is Christ. Salvation is of God. We help ourselves to his grace. And our kids, Abraham offered when God provided the ram, he offered this for him and his family. And our families are are so marvelous. I remember I was preaching on Exodus twelve uh many years ago in Japan. Our son Jonathan was at University of Virginia and he was really struggling in his walk with Christ that first year, going through some things. And I remember preaching on the blood and the Father uh slays the lamb and he puts it on the doorpost of the house. And I was as I uh I began to weep as I preached through Exodus twelve and thinking about my son Jonathan. Is he going to go outside the the the roof that The the outside the where the blood of the lamb covers because there was the the angel of death was coming across Egypt. And God said, you know, th the father is representative of his family, offers the sacrifice and puts the blood on the door post of the house and any father that night, boy, he would have wrestled his son to the ground if he wanted to go out and play or do something and I just remember weeping as I preached on Exodus twelve and say, Lord, our children, keep them under the blood of the Lamb. And we pray that and we beg God for that and we continue to pray and and look to Him and His promises for our children. And just thinking that the promises for us to our children. And We want to be gospel centered families that look to the land. I see in Japan and in America everywhere. The the danger to be moralistic, the danger to to focus on other things, not the gospel, not the Lamb. That is parents in all of our failures. We want to model repentance and turning to the Lamb, Jesus is our is our hope, Uh one day in Japan uh I really lost it. If I can confess my my sin and my need before you, you'll probably cut off our support. I'm I'm really a bad father in many ways. Uh I heard big commotion downstairs. The kids were fighting and I probably was up working on a sermon trying to be a good uh good pastor missionary and I came downstairs and my son Danny, oldest son, he was probably about fifteen. And he had my daughter Syrabeth, uh, and sh and he had her and he was trying to put her head in the toilet and flush it. What do you call that again? There's a name in um in English, isn't there for that? He was he's trying to do that to her. And I just lost it. I was so angry. And I'm embarrassed to say what I did, but I I I grabbed Danny. Now he's fifteen, started to get pretty big, and I and I grabbed Danny. And and just being the good father, having read Dobson and all the good books, just guess what I did? You know? I tried to put his head in the toilet. It's really good grace based parenting, you know, and and as I began to to to try to do that. Now he's uh uh you know, he wasn't rebellious, but he wasn't about to put his head in the toilet. And he puts his it's really hard, try it sometime, you know? He put he he had his hands on there and and he's fifteen now and I was still you know, I used to be a Marine and I but I c And and and the kids are looking at Danny's looking dad. What's you know, are you possessed, you know? And and uh and uh the kids are all gathered around, probably six of our nine kids gathered around watching, you know, and whoa But what happened today? And the doorbell rang. So here's our house. We're in this incredible tension and And I go to the front door and we have a gang con where you take your shoes off and it was a Japanese person from our church and and they uh uh they were bringing something and you know I politely invited them to come in hoping they wouldn't come in and Thankful that in Japan you have to ask people three times to come in before they'll know you really mean it. You came in. I only asked her once to please come in and it was it was terrible tension in the living room there and and after uh I turned around and came back in after she left and there we're my children with with gizentia written on their forehead. Hypocrite. I had had my pastor's plastic smile, you know, and been so nice to that person and my kids Dash, what a hypocrite. Okay, parenting question. What do you do? You repent. Turn to the you know, God helped me. The Spirit showed me in that second You know, I used to think that our our parenting, our discipling is that here, we just, you know, we we do good, we have our good self-discipline, and we measure up and keep the fruit of the spirit, most of it, you know, and that's what we give to our kids. The best thing we give to our kids He's showing them a mom and dad who need Christ and who turn to the Lamb and who repent. And the Spirit helped me in that section. And to realize I said, I am so sorry. Please forgive me. I sinned against God and against you guys. I don't know what got into me. And I you know, I I we prayed together, I asked them to f forgive me, and they did, you know, they're little sinners who need Christ too, and they started to walk off. I said Danny, you wait. And we dealt you know we dealt with them right, you know? But that's it's this gospel that our families need, and it's this gospel of the Lamb. that we take to Columbia and to the nations. Look at the scope of this promise of Abraham's offspring in your outline. Not just the promise of the land, the scope of the promise. We know that from Galatians 7 that that the Gentiles in Christ are Abraham's offspring. And this is an incredible promise here where God says in verse seventeen, that your people, the seed of Abraham Abraham, your seed are gonna be as numerous as the stars and the sand and in other places the dust. Genesis 15, 5, Genesis 17, 2 to 6, Genesis 26. God repeats this over and over again. Abraham, look at the stars, Abraham. Your seed will be Like their number. Look at the sand, Abraham. Your seed will be like them. In other places like God is he's being humorous. He says, Can you count the stars, Abraham? Can you count the dust, Abraham? Some people jokingly with all the kids in our family said, Well Dan, you don't have to try to do that all by yourself, you know, with big family like we have, and now we've got seven seventh grandkid on the way. But you know that is part of it We we do see that that there's the the in the old testament we saw more of how will the church produced by biological church growth. And then but more often nowadays we think about it in terms of of uh evangelistic church growth, people coming to the faith. But here, the point here is that people and peoples The promise here that there will be many. D. Martin Lloyd-Jones supposedly said, we don't care about numbers I haven't found it, but I know a guy who has a very part of a very small ingrown denomination in Japan. He puts that at the bottom of all of his emails. It you know automatically comes in D. Martin Louis Jones, we don't care about numbers. I wrote him back and I said, look at Genesis 22. God seems to care. about numbers. No, not in a bad sort of way. We see David with the senses that he sinned, pride, all that danger. There's a whole nother side to be careful about. Yes But we have this great hope because of this promise. We read the book of Acts. There's twelve and seventy and three thousand and five thousand. The Holy Spirit writes numbers. Over and over again. He says that there are many who are baptized, men and women. That this is what we do look to and expect until that day in Revelation 7. 9. We sang about it hinted to it one of the songs we sang this morning. millions and that great multitude which no one could count. That's what we want our kids to be a part of. Our kids are part of that number and of helping us reach the rest here and around the world. But not just people, peoples If you've been here a while, every time I come, you heard me tell about my story in seminary and had missed this peoples every tongue and tribe, all the nations. We we you know we're we I was a Marine station over at Fort Meade and we uh join the Burtonsville Church, the mother church of CPC. Our plan after seminary was to come back here, be a part of this church or daughter churches. And in seminary We saw one missions conference over three days from Genesis to Revelation people's Every tongue, every tribe, the ends of the earth. And Carol and I looked at each other and said, what are we going to do with this? How do we miss this? This can't be peripheral. This is central. People, myriads, millions. Hundreds of millions and and peoples, every tongue and tribe, and that still in this world there's still the 6,000 peoples, people groups. There's still many that that don't know uh of Christ. I put a bunch of verses in there we don't have time to look at it, but it's all through the Bible. This promise. And third, the certainty of the promised fulfillment is here. Th This is a great passage. The day God swore. What does he swear about? Not to keep the stock market from falling, not to keep us comfortable. All of the things that maybe we might often uh worry about more. The day God swore, now there are a few other times in the Bible where got where this terminology is used. But, you know, look at this. Verse 16. He swears by himself to Abraham that this is going to happen. Seed like the stars of heaven. Every people group, his elect from every tongue and tribe will be gathered in that day. How difficult do you think this was for Abraham to believe? You know? Incredibly difficult. Jesus told the disciples the same thing. You're going to do greater works than I do, which had to be, not about raising the dead or healing the sick, but about taking this good news to the nations, doing greater works. The church took off as Jesus gave the Holy Spirit. And we see the good news of the gospel. We see the church spanning out through the Roman Empire, loving. and and and caring for people and sacrificing in the church, growing and spreading and taking over the Roman Empire, uh in in one sense of the word. How difficult for the disciples to have believed that back then. But we read the book of Acts, we see that twelve became seventy, became three thousand, became five thousand. Now we see the church hundreds. of millions of people all around the world. I had the great privilege of going to Bangladesh last year. And there a Welsh missionary came over from uh India. He'd been working with the Miso people in India, came over into a group in the tribes of Bangladesh called you know most of Bangladesh is Muslim, but there are tribal peoples there. And he Uh and he shared the gospel for a few months. He was a Welsh missionary. He went back to India. Uh no one had believed. But a few years later some of the indigenous uh uh missionaries from India came over and the Balm people group in Bangladesh are now mostly Christian and they're going out to the Chakma who are Buddhist and the Mru who are uh who are animist. And our church helped to build help them to build a school to reach the Meru people because they have no education. Our church in Japan has been giving to do this. I got to go. See, I saw one group of people in a Chalkma village where a hundred and fifty people were baptized at once. Now that missionary from Wales never knew about this and the the uh The healing is taking place among these very poor people that is very different the Christian villages and the ones where the gospel hasn't gone. Christ promised. We see God swearing by Himself here that this is going to happen. This is the march of history, the last hundred and fifty years. You know, we look at the The since Christ promised and and since this promise 4,000 years ago. This last hundred and fifty years. It has been incredible. In China, I'm reading Hudson Taylor right now, just finished it uh actually and reading about the early days in China and the late eighteen hundreds. One place, Hudson Taylor, he's he's going down this river. And he's thinking of all of these cities, many, ten, twenty, thirty thousand people, and not one Christian in any of those. And yet today in China You know, there are more Christians than than America. We see uh the r the recent uh some of the catastrophes in China, the the effect of Christians who stayed and who loved and who cared for We see all around the world, Korea, Soviet Union, uh South India, uh the things that are happening there. Uh it's uh it's incredible. The Islamic world, there have been in the last forty years There have been more people come to Christ in the Islamic world than in the previous 1400 years. We see incredible things happening. God swears by himself Kingdoms rise and fall. The this kingdom too, the United States. There's only one that doesn't. The kingdom of Christ. We have you know, we think about look we think about what happened with the stock market recently and our economy You know. Are there any certain investments in the world? I'll tell you one, invest in God's kingdom I can guarantee, based on the promises of Christ, your investments of giving of your sons, giving of your wealth, giving of your prayers, they won't lose 40% in three weeks. They won't. We just see how God takes a little and he keeps growing his church around the world. You can count on it, you can stake your life on it. And fourth thing, the means of promised fulfillment. Verses 17 to 18. Let me read that again. Indeed, I will greatly bless you. I will multiply, greatly multiply your descendants as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is on the seashore, and your descendants shall possess the gate of their enemies. It's military terminology. It's it's militant terminology. Your descendants will possess the gates of their enemies. And in your descendants all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Now how about that last line? Because you have obeyed my voice. Now I'm a God-centered Christian, a gospel-centered Christian, and I'm uncomfortable with that last line. Is there anyone else here who's uncomfortable with that last line? Because you have obeyed my voice. I remember the first time I preached on this, I was very tempted to leave it out. Do you understand what I'm saying? Because we're God-centered. It's not about us, as our worship leader says. It's about him and his promises. But here is a clear, fully orbed biblical principle. It's about God. He's the first cause. Our confession, the Westminster Confession, was I think the only place I've ever read about contingent causes, secondary causes. God is the great cause, and he uses angels? No? He uses people. We had a guy from Redeemer Church New York teaching on Cell Group in Japan recently and he used this illustration. It's kind of humorous. He said, you know, Jesus uses people. He went that when he fed the 5,000. He could have he could have just uh had all the baskets appear right where everyone was. No, but he used his disciples to give out the bread, just like he uses us. to give the true breath. In fact, because he's God, he didn't even have to use baskets. He he could have just put it in everybody's stomach, right? Little you're not laughing like the people in Japan did, you know. But he could. He's God. He can do anything. But he delights to use people. He uses means. Why would he use me in Japan and you here in Colombia and around the world? He uses means. Now of course the first and primary The first and primary here is Christ. Through the means of Abraham is Christ. But it's also through us, Abraham and his sinful seed. Sinful but forgiven, empowered by the Holy Spirit, the means of this promised blessing is us and our seed. The end of verse 18 again, and your seed. All the nations of the earth shall be blessed because you have obeyed my voice. In verse 16, says it again, because you have done this thing. Now, how do we look at that? We gotta be careful. It's about God. It's him. But he delights to use people. He takes The little bit we offer to him. My grandfather wrote the hymn we sang earlier, Spirit of the Living God, fall fresh on me. You know, a lot of places they sing it wrong. Uh instead of break me, melt me, mold me, fill me, they sing it Melt me, mold me, fill me, use me. And before he died he said, Dan, you make sure they sing it right. The cross came before Pentecost, and you gotta be broken before you're filled, and don't worry, if you're broken and filled, you'll be used, you know. But we're broken, we're weak little vessels, aren't we? We're a mess. We're deep sinners who need this land, this Christ. And he delights to use weak people, but he uses people. He takes our little offerings As we love people in Japan, we have a terrible suicide problem as we intervene and try to help people to see people who are gonna c kill themselves now part of our church and growing Christians to see families healed. You know, God uses people. The theologians call this the obedience of faith. If you looked at Hebrews 11, 17 By faith Abraham offered up Isaac. It was by faith that he did this. But God uses us in right here By the Holy Spirit, he says that He's He uses us. All through history we see how God has taken weak vessels And he and he's using them to spread his kingdom. Uh John Payton, famous missionary, went to the South Islands of the Pacific. They were cannibals there Before he went, one of his uh uh friends in the church in England said, John, you'll be eaten by cannibals. And his famous answer was, My friend, a few more years, you're getting old, you will be eaten by worms. Said great counseling sensitive kind of thing. We wouldn't use that nowadays, you know. But it's true. We'll all be eaten by worms, unless the Lord comes uh unless he come before we go to heaven. Well H his children died, his wife died, incredible suffering. My boss went there recently. There's a vibrant Presbyterian church. There are Christians everywhere on those islands. It's incredible. God took a man and his family. Yes, there was incredible sacrifice, but God used them in a mighty way to reach that place. Any new goers here? Any new senders here? As you think about your family partnering with your children to be a part of going. Not all of us are going to go. Most of us won't go. I was with my son Joel in Atlanta the last couple of days. He's helping us raise support for this Tokyo City Center church plant. To rent an eight hundred square foot apartment in City Center Tokyo, it cost us uh Almost $20,000 key money just to get in, you know, and and $3,000 rent a month for $800 square feet for this church planner. My son Joel's helping us uh to to raise the money for this in Atlanta. And Joel said, Dad, because Danny's in ministry, Jonathan's in ministry, Sarah's in ministry, are they more important than I am? He said. What's the answer? Of course not. You know, he knew the answer, but he just wanted to hear it, you know? He says, Man, I gotta be a millionaire to send all my brothers and sisters, you know And he has that that idea that we we we gotta give our children the gospel and a vision. There's something bigger than just accumulating stuff bigger than just safety, as we struggle with raising our kids to see beyond the struggles of just raising our kids. Is it a struggle? Is it hard? Anybody agree? It hit tough. I think how many times Carol and I with especially after the third one? That was the hardest. It got easier, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. You know? I'm serious. They did. They helped. I remember just sitting on the bed crying. You know, up it all night with fever, feverish kid. We did that with grandbaby recently and I remember back. Oh boy, I'm glad we're not in that stage anymore. You know? Up all night with a grandbaby with in you know, take him into the shower with croup and oh we're We're chanting to ourselves, children are a blessing, children are a blessing, children are a blessing. But to see beyond all of the struggles that they're part they're little warriors to help take the gates of the enemy, to help the kids see that. That it's bigger than so much of the little stuff we get caught up with. Uh at a missions conference uh two years ago My dad was there. I was there preaching, and my daughter Serebeth, who's on our team now with her husband Eric, had their baby Noah baptized at a missions conference. It was my first time ever seeing that. Anybody ever seen it? I've never seen that before. Usually that's different. What I'm saying today, it's part of it. Little baby Noah, a warrior for the kingdom. How God is going to use her, a warrior of love, for this great gospel to take, if God leads her to marriage or whatever, this little baby is a part. of the t of of this promise here, through your seed all the nations of the earth will be blessed. See this is great for our kids. When our kids are self-absorbed, when we're self-absorbed, it doesn't work. It's not good child raising. That there's a bigger vision, plan that God has given us. It's hard. We just got through five ninths of the way of kids going to college. Anybody want to do the math? I have, and I don't like doing it. And I don't like doing the math for the next four. It's very hard. Children are a blessing. Children are a blessing. We find ourselves chanting to ourselves, a no. Because now they're growing up and they're becoming partners, taking these gates, sharing this good news, gospel-centered, Lamb, knowing the Lamb, who is their substitute, and taking this good news of the gospel. To inner city, Newark, New Jersey, to Japan, all around the world, being a part ascending, praying. What's your part today as you think about this? You know, this is so exciting. It is so much bigger and more exciting than so much of the stuff that me too, I'm in Japan's second richest country in the world. I get caught up in all that stuff too And this helps me to think about something bigger. This message of the Lamb who is our substitute for every tongue, for every tribe. I'll end with this my uh Carol and I had went through a very difficult time in our marriage this uh past year for uh uh most of our stuff is little After uh the the the volume escalates and we uh we a few you know thirty minutes later we say now what started this fight? We can't even remember sometime, right? Any any couples know about that, arguing over which is the fastest way to get somewhere, or stupid little stuff. Well this day it th this period was bigger. It was something bigger in our marriage. And and we stayed up late one Friday night. uh just it we weren't seeing resolution. And we really have always had in our marriage we pray, forgive each other before we go to sleep, you know, the before the sun goes down on your anger. And and this night it was very difficult. Now the especially difficult thing about this night was the next Saturday morning we had to teach a class for our new Christian hybrid school on marriage. So I I honestly considered. What do I do? Friends, what do I do? Calling someone say you gotta get somebody else. I'm not qualified Well, we went to sleep, we got up early, we prayed, we talked, we confessed our sin. We still were not fully resolved. Took a number of weeks for God to bring us through this So I we went into we decided we're gonna we can't ask someone else to do this, we're gonna come in and do that. What should we do? Just pretend like we got it all together Done that before, then there, done that. You know what I did? These Japanese friends, all people who've recently come to Christ or come to Christ, we shared that we're going through a big struggle and that we really need our Lamb, Jesus, and we need the Spirit to help us today. If anything good will come out of it. You know, I think that was the best marriage thing we've ever done in Japan. as we shared our needs of the Lamb, who is our hope. Because all those people sitting there, just like all of these people sitting here, are deeply flawed, sinful. God knows, and our kids know, don't they, how much we need. Christ, our substitute Lamb. And that's the message we take to the world, and we want our kids to be a part of that. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this great gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you that there is a Lamb who is a sacrifice for sinners, a perfect, spotless Lamb. And thank you that we have that hope. We have a righteousness that cannot change. And oh God, Columbia needs that message. Our kids need that message. Japan needs that message. The whole world needs this message so desperately of the Lamb that was slain, of Jesus, his cross, his resurrection, our great high priest interceding for our sin today. This one who has sent the Spirit to help us raise our kids, to help us be fathers and mothers who repent, who confess our sins, who boldly say, I am weak. I need Christ. Thank you for this wonderful message of the gospel that we have to give to our kids, to our families, and to the whole world. In Jesus' name. Amen.