Good morning. It's great to be with you this morning as we've come this Sunday morning as we begin our missions week. The theme is the desired of nations and our prayer that Christ would become the desired of nations of all nations. Of all races, tongues, and tribes. And so we welcome you this week as we begin this focus on our work around the world, partnering with missionaries So it is an opportunity this morning that we have to invite you. If you are visiting with us for the first time, we're glad that you are here. Or for the first few times, we're glad that you are here. And on today it would be a great day that you're visiting because you get to see that we recognize that we are church not for ourselves, but for Christ and for the world. For we are here because someone told us about the gospel and about Christ. And we see it as intricately involved with our mission as a church. To be missionally minded around the world, in this city, in the surrounding region, places like Baltimore and Washington, around the country, but also around the world And we are committed to that ministry. So this morning, if you are visiting with us, we'd love to know that you are here. We'd love to find for you to find out more about who we are as a congregation in a few moments. I'm going to ask the ushers to come forward and you can fill out that visitor slip, place it in the offering plate as it comes around. Even if you're a regular attender or a member here, you too can let us know how we can be aware of your presence and we're glad that you're here. With that said, I also want to take this opportunity to take a few moments to introduce our guest preacher this morning. It's Pastor Dan Iverson. His wife Carol is here today. We're glad to have her here. And I know that many of you know the Iversons, and uh and so no introduction is needed. But there are many of you here who may not, and so let me just give a brief word of introduction. Uh I had not had the opportunity to meet uh Dan Iverson over the years where when I served in the Presbyterian Church in America, but I did have opportunity to serve alongside his father, uh Bill Iverson. Dr. Iverson, I got to know in Metro New York. We served together in taking the gospel to Newark, New Jersey, and partnering with other ministries there. And I got to know him, and one of the things I got to know is the fact that the gospel of Christ had reached throughout his family. And let me know about his son Dan, who was serving in Japan. And then, as God would direct, he would lead Kate and Caroline and I here to serve you. Little did I know that, in fact, this would be the church where Dan Iverson had served as an intern. And the opportunity to get to know him briefly as he had visited very early on in my ministry here, and he said, We've got to get you to Japan. And Japan was the farthest I'd ever been away from home. And how blessed I was to see what God is doing in Japan. You're going to hear more about that this morning. You're going to hear more about that tomorrow night. But let me uh encourage you by saying the work that is taking place there in what is the second largest unreached people group in the world, the largest is Bangladesh at 130 million. Japan is the second largest unreached people group with over 99% of people who do not claim Christ. Very few people know anything of the gospel, know even one single Christian. But to be able to visit places like Sindai and Nagoya and all around Tokyo and the suburbs of Tokyo, I was greatly encouraged by the vision. That the Iversons have been a part of in serving as the country director for Mission to the World in Japan, and to really be about planting churches. And so why are we committed to sending lifelong and long-term committed missionaries around the world The Iversons are an example. I will tell you that many around evangelicalism have stopped, by and large, sending long-term committed missionaries from this country to other parts of the world. But we want to stay committed to that because every single church planter who is Japanese planting churches in and around Japan Are doing so because someone told them about the gospel. And that has happened because the ministry Of the Iversons, Colburn's, Linda Carner, and many like them. So we want to stay deeply invested, but we also want to continue to pray, God, how would you give us a deeper and broader vision? For partnering with people like the Iversons around the world that Christ may become the desired of nations. Twelve percent of Christendom is represented in North America. The largest growth is being seen in places like Asia. And as we walked the streets, as we worshiped in these church plants, as I got to meet their first convert, I see that God is moving house to house. Heart to heart and on his timing and according to his purposes. We have been a part of that, and we want to pray that God would encourage us to continue in that partnership. So, Dan, I'm going to ask that you come forward this morning, and I want to pray for you as you begin to bring the ministry of the Word to us. Father, I thank you for the ministry of Dan and Carol Iverson. Father, I want to thank you most of all because what I've been able to learn from him in even the short amount of time that we've gotten to know each other. Lord, I thank you for the heart that you have given him for the people of Japan, that you have equipped him with your spirit, that you have humbled him through the beauty of the gospel. And Lord, I thank you that you have made their feet beautiful because they have brought the gospel. But with so many others. And Father, I continue to pray for open doors that the gospel may come in. And Lord, I pray for the non-believers who are worshiping in the churches that are being planted there, that they would come to know Christ as Lord and Savior. Lord, protect them. Equip them, bless them. And now we thank you for the word that He will bring. In Jesus' name. Amen. If you have one, Isaiah chapter 25. Isaiah 25. It is so good to be with you all. We had a great internship here for two years after seminary. Alan Harris. discipled me. We received a lot of temptation too to stay. We were came here committed to going to Japan. God had raised up a team of four couples. uh during seminary to go, commit to twelve years to go, preach the gospel, start churches where there were no churches, and had a great time here. It was so wonderful. We found this piece of land during the time while I was here. Alan Harris just taught me so much. Alan Bjurkis one night going home after session meeting. I had to say, get behind me, Satan. He said, Dan, you fit in here so well. Are you sure you should go to Japan? You know. I said, Alan, stop. I could I could do that. Oh, it was just so wonderful being here, being a part of your church. Uh Tom Brode trained him, prepared him to be an elder, and he uh and one day he said the same thing, he said, Dan, you know You're really American. You really fit well in America. Said stop, stop. I could And you sent us to Japan, raised up the Colburns and Linda Corner to go with us from our time during that we were here. And they committed to 12 years and they've been there way longer than that, like we have, 28 years now this December. So we praise the Lord for you. So thankful to be here with you. Hear now God's word, Isaiah 25, verses 6 through 9. O Lord, you are my God. I will exalt you. I will praise your name. You have done wonderful things, plans formed of old, faithful and true. That's verse one. Now down to verse six. On this mountain the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples. A feast of rich food, a feast of well aged wine, of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined And he will swallow up on this mountain the covering that is cast over all peoples, the veil that is spread over all nations. He will swallow up death for ever, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. It will be said on that day, behold, this is our God. We have waited for him, that he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. Let's pray again. Lord, uh thank you for bringing me me bringing me from Cambodia safely two years ago two days ago, and I am really tired. And I pray for strength and the fullness of your spirit for me and for my brothers and sisters listening here as we hear this great text. That your spirit would come and that you would help these weak vessels. We beg you. In Jesus' name. Amen. I did. I came from Cambodia 40 hours ago. And uh and was thinking, I'm 62. Why did I say yes to Rabi? That I would come and do all this right after that. But I am so glad to be here. Would you pray for me for strength and the fullness of the Spirit as we look at this great passage of Scripture? This is the passage about the great lavish feast for unlikely people, for us, and for the nations. A mother dragged her 17-year-old son into my office in Japan. He was my first Hikikomori boy that I met. It's an epidemic in Japan now. Every Japanese kid knows that name. It the word means pulled back under the cloud. It's young people, but now we have 'em in the thirties and forties. Uh but it you they usually begin about junior high age, sixth grade, seventh grade, and this boy had shut down emotionally, refused to go out of his room. The mother She pulled up in her Mercedes, obviously wealthy family, very articulate, strong mother. She said, I took him to the Buddhist priest, I took him to the Shinto priest. They couldn't help him So I brought him to a pastor. I've never been to a church before. Can you help my son? Uh we sent him to the best elementary school. To the he was number one in his class every year. We sent him to a junior high school in Tokyo. We're in a suburb of Tokyo, Chiba. We you know he was in the best schools, always number one, number one. He was so smart. He was uh normal, exceptional. And then he was number two in his class last year. And and and then this year he just suddenly shut down emotionally. and refused to go out of his room. We have to take food to his room. And this is an epidemic in Japan. He was the first one I met. And it quickly became clear to me what happened. This was a normal had been a normal kid and it was the mother. And I think this mother really loved her son. But she had bought into the wrong feast. She believed the the lie of Japan Incorporated, that education and money and and finding your esteem, finding your true food. In the things that Japan values would be what was the best for her son. And in that She really won seemed to destroy her son. It was so sad. This this passage tells about the true feast. And we know that we too are tempted. Before I really embraced Christ began to grow, I was very, very tempted by those false feast, the false bread that's not true. The veil of verse 7, there's a covering over the eyes of the nations, it says, a covering, a veil. And this mother had this veil. She had no clue about the gospel. no clue about the true feast. I grew up in a home where I heard about the true feast, the true bread. I knew about it. And yet I found myself as a teenager, as a marine, going after these false feasts. This passage tells us there is a true bread, true sushi, true wine. And we know it's the Lord Jesus Christ, and we celebrate it here today in this supper. It's a lavish feast, Jesus said in John 6. 27, don't work for the food that perishes. Don't work for the food that perishes. It's not the true feast. I am the bread, he said, our sinful nature. And afterwards, after we come to Christ, we're so prone to think, what are those things that that tempt you, that you go after bad, overtly sinful things? Could be substance abuse or sex outside of biblical marriage or pornography, you know, things you just know there is nothing here Yet we go after or good things that that tempt us. Work success for me has always been just achievement idols. ministry once I became a uh a missionary ministry in those first years in Japan it it just ached so bad those first four years we worked so hard And there was no fruit, no visible fruit that we could see. And then years later, after there was a church and the church was growing, when there was a split, almost a split, and it seemed like the work was gonna unravel. I remember how the pain in my heart from it. Yes, there would have been a proper pain of sadness for Christ's church and for God's people, but but so much of it was from my own the the the false bread of ministry success that that was causing this pain in my heart, not God's glory and not uh the longing for a people uh to not go through this and to know Christ. Uh I told you this story before, but I didn't tell you the whole story. My son Danny, when he was fifteen I heard this huge commotion downstairs and I ran down the stairs and and there was Danny about fif he was fifteen and he had my daughter Sarah who's eight and he was putting her head in the toilet And uh and uh her hair and she was screaming and the other six kids uh were gathered around screaming and it was chaos and and and I did what I must have learned from Dr. Dobson. I just got so angry. I lost it. Learned this from Dr. Dobson, I'm sure. I I grabbed Danny and I put his head in the toilet You know? And he wasn't really fighting me, but he wasn't letting me do it either. He had his he had his hands and and it's just this angry, angry father. And uh and he's kind of, Dad, Dad, I was just kidding, and you know, his was a sin of judgment and maybe being a little mean to us. sister and mine was of anger and a deeper sin, I'll tell you in a minute, related to this. And uh is he's doing that and there's chaos and here's this this family that came to Japan to bring the peace and love of Christ and this anger and the kids are screaming and the kids wonder W who what is our father possessed, you know? And uh and right at the worst possible possible time. Ding dong, the front bell rings, you know. And uh and I go to the front door and there's a lady from our church had come and and she was bringing something for us and I said Oh Agari could I say, please come in? I I put on my plastic pastor's smile as I open the door. You know what I mean? And uh phony as could be and uh and I I only said oh god you could say please you know where you take your shoes off and you step up into a Japanese house And I uh I I only said it once 'cause in Japan you have to you you have to say it three times. People, you know, like the way we say, How are you doing? We don't really want to act you know, maybe find out. You you automatically say, Please come in But you have to say it three times and they're looking at your eyes. Do you really want me to come in? You know. I only said it once, I did not want her to come into our house, you know And and she left and she left what she brought and went away and I turned around and they're my children. And it was if they had hypocrite written on their foreheads, looking at their father. And I uh I think I've told you this before, and you know what do you do? And I repented. The Christian life is a life of repentance. Luther's first of the 95 Theses on the Wittenberg door. And and you know, we don't teach our kid we're not going to teach our kids to be perfect. We want to teach them the gospel that they like me. will get angry and I had lost it and we prayed and it was a precious gospel moment for our family. But what I don't think I told you before, and I've come to see over the years What was behind that anger was related to the false feast. My kids had interrupted My sermon preparation. Think about that. Here I am preparing a sermon to bring good news to the Japanese people. And my kids interrupted me. And we need to look at the sin behind the sin, you know. And the the sin, the the struggle in my heart was that I wanted to perform. I wanted to look good. I have that today. It's in me. We have these things. We want others to think well of us. What are those things that we've looked to to satisfy us? And often other things come out like came out that day. Jesus, he is the true desire that really satisfies us. This is the true feast. ever eat we eat today as we remember the Lord Jesus Christ who gave his life for us. He is the true desire of all nations. And that's the second thing we see from this passage. Not just the true feast. But this is a feast for all nations, every tongue and tribe. I've shared with you before how we went to seminary from the Marine Corps. We were going to come back and start, you know, a a daughter church somewhere here in Maryland was what we wanted to do. Do an internship at CPC and then start a daughter church. And it's seminary. The nations were there, students from all over the world. We were confronted with the message of the Bible from Genesis to Revelation, every tongue. and tribe. We heard of all these places where there's no bread, no true bread, no true wine. People have no clue about it. And the Lord began to work in Carol's heart and my heart, and it brought our team together and sent us to Japan. This feast is for all nations. I remember reading, was very moved by the story of Hudson Taylor going down a river in China, inland China, and seeing one city. Each one more than a million, and knowing there's not one Christian, not one church, no one to take that bread, that wine to that city. I remember a similar experience, not on a river. But on the Japan bullet train, coming from western Japan, southwestern Japan, where I was preaching, speaking in a church, I'd flown down there and came back by train. just to see all of Japan and you know I was going by one city after another. Huge cities, million people, eight hundred thousand people. Two million people, and knowing that there are so few Christians and so few churches in this country, we're moved by Multitudes of people, aren't we? When when uh you know, when one person is killed from the tsunami, but when eighteen thousand are killed by the tsunami and we see the the visual coming across our s we're moved by it on Sinjar Mountain. 30,000, 40,000 people on that mountain a month and a half ago. We're moved by it, aren't we? And that all of these people that are that need to be rescued and Uh you know, I was moved by it and I used to be a Marine and I'm thinking, where are the Marine ships? Were there Osprey helicopters? I Google Sinjar Mountain, you know, and and maybe they could come in this way and rescue these people And I you know when I saw the video that CNN video rescue of uh those b the the g girls weeping and you know we're moved and they're and they only took twenty out on that helicopter. But that's we get that from the Lord. We see the Lord telling Jonah in the last verse of Jonah. He said, Jonah, how could you not have compassion? On Nineveh. And what's the city of Nineveh? It's right near Sinjar Mountain. Mosul Now ten more than ten times bigger, but remember how many people were in there? The Lord's a huge city for that day. 120,000 people. Colombia has a hundred thousand. The city, I remember that number because the city you sent us to, at first it was 70,000. Now the coup, Midori Kou, is 120,000 people. And so I kind of like that number. One of our guys is starting a church in City Center, Tokyo. Randy and Robbie went there recently. Friends, there's 120 now they're actually 130,000 is growing. And there's not one church of any kind. There's not a Catholic church, not a Protestant church, 120,000. And God says to Noah, who has no compassion on Mosul, Nineveh. How could you not have compassion on this great city of a hundred and twenty thousand people? I think of Japan. Tokyo area, Tokyo proper 12 million people. And Greater Tokyo, which includes us, 35 million people. Japan, over 120 million people. We long to take this bread to the nations. We pray, Lord of the harvest, send workers to take this good news of Jesus, this true and living, the true bread, the true wine. to the nations. And this is this is a great promise for Japan. I love this passage. I've never seen this. I I've always loved this text. But notice in verse three, if you jump back, it says that ruthless nations will come Ruthless nations will come to this feast. Friends, could ISIS come to this feast? People from ISIS, beheaders, as the news has said. We have not seen evil like this since the Middle Ages. It's not true The country where we serve and love was so ruthless just 75 years ago. We think of Japan. Japan may have killed thirty million people in Asia. Literally raped literally and figuratively raped Korea. The Chinese, you know. so many Chinese people who were who were killed by this ruthless nation of Japan. I was with one of our uh pastor friend in Singapore one year ago, about this week. and hearing from a Singapore Presbyterian Chinese elder telling about the occupation when Japan came down the Malaysian peninsula and came in the back door, you know, 'cause the guns pointed out to the ocean. and uh and how brutal they were. This I said, Reverend Kimoto, Dicegate, do you know do you know you know that your country, your soldiers came here and just ruthlessly just abused and devastated Singapore, right? He said no. It's it's history reconstruction in Japan, you know, so people don't know. He's a college graduate, three years of seminar. He did not know. that his army had come and devastated Singapore. This elder, as my friend almost cried, said, Yeah, the uh the Japanese soldiers came, they made all they lined up all the men, they made them hold out their hands. And they came and checked all their hands, and all the men with smooth hands. They put them on buses and took them away, never to be seen again. They killed them because they thought they were the leaders and all the men with rough hands. They would let them go to work and uh be their laborers, you know, for the Japan occupation and And uh my friend Daisuke from Japan not knowing what his country had done all over Asia. You know, that's just this one little island, one little place. And he and he says, uh and he says, and my father had smooth hands. But I heard this story from my father because he worked for the Singapore government, had a job they wanted, and they didn't kill. My father. Japan, ruthless this this passage says ruthless nations will come. Yes. We celebrate will be in Japan in two weeks, back in Japan, be celebrating the Lord's Supper. with the ruthless land of Japan. And my best friends in the world who now who love Jesus and who serve him and we walk together. Yes. Uh you know, I'm a Viking, I'm a Nor of Norwegian ancestry. You read what the Vikings did, the gospel came, they killed the missionaries, and then became the percentage-wise, the the the the the greatest missionary sending force in the world per cap you know per capita a small country. Uh all through history we see so many ruthless nations like the nation of Japan. I pray for Japan, this ruthless nation of Japan. That would come to the table and eat. It says in verse 3, strong nations will come. That gives me great hope too, for Japan is such a strong nation. This little country of Japan took away. took over all, you know, Asia. It's amazing really when you think about it. Francis Xavier, the great uh uh Catholic missionary, when he came to Japan he said, We found the world's best people group, you know They are so diligent and smart and you know and and polite and all these things he told about Japan. I, you know, I they really are. Japan is incredible. Makes America look like a third world country. I come back to America, the telephone booth doesn't work, the the uh the uh tel pay telephone doesn't work in the airport. I was in Atlanta airport, my last trip. Three Telephones in a row didn't work, the Coke machine doesn't work, it steals your change, you know. In Japan in 20 years, I've never had found anything not to work. And I was in Sapporo for a co church planning conference with a Japanese pastor. I put my money in the train machine. You don't have to count your change. Everything is per this is a strong land. You know, back here this time we're at Home Depot. And you know, and the the kid there cuts he cuts the wood and it you can just see he's not doing it exactly right and my son and Seth we walk away and say, Yep, in Japan that would never happen. You know? Would It's incredible, you know? But in my 20th year, put my money in the in the machine in Sapporo and it didn't work. And I was so happy Finally, 20 years and it something doesn't work in Japan, you know? And uh the pastor would be said, no, uh Pastor Dan, you did it wrong. Look, let me show you. Ah, you know. You know, but in some ways that strong, perfect, we are driven Japan. That's part of the reason for the sky high suicide rate and tahiki komori like that young person I told you about because it's not in our strength It's in the true bread, the true wine. It's in the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that we really eat and drink. And find our meaning of life. Now, we see also from this passage, this is a God-centered passage. It is God who saves us. It is God that provides this feast. This is such a great pass. God does it. Look at verse 6. Again, he provides the feast. This is the most expensive meal you will ever eat. And someone else paid for it. Isaiah 55, 1 and 2. I love this verse. Ho, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. You who have no money, come buy and eat. Jesus paid for it. The Lord God planned this feast before the foundation of the world. Jesus was crucified before the foundation of the world in God's Marvelous holy plan. Jesus paid for this feast for you. He substituted himself on the cross This is a God-centered passage. This gives us great hope for Japan and for the whole world. Verse 7 says, he's the one who takes away the covering, the veil. I think of just with each of us. when that veil has come down and we saw the one true and living God, saw our sin and and saw our need of Christ. I think of it just it's just so what a privilege it is to be a missionary. Thank you for sending us to Japan. And as we share the gospel with people, first nothing is like that veil is so thick. You know, Romans one and two says God's God is written on their hearts and God's word, his law is written on their hearts, but it it just seems Just Japan is so dark that it also says there's a veil, there's a covering, it's so thick. And then to see The breakthrough. They see, I am, I see my sin. I see my native Christ. And to see people come to faith and be baptized. It's sin to see a whole family baptized. It's so Exciting. Verse 8. Again, it's not us. It's He that swallows death. He's the one that wipes away tears. Whatever tears you have today. It's Jesus In this gospel, he's the one that wipes away tears. Three weeks ago I met a uh a young man from Rwanda, twenty-eight years old. He was spending the night at my daughter's house in Richmond with my daughter and her husband. And he was here in America studying to be a pastor, a sweet, wonderful young man, but oh his tears. I could not believe his story when he was eight years old. You know, the Rwandan genocide. that what the the other tribe came into his village and he's telling me he saw his father murdered by machete by a guy someone from the other tribe and he ran out into the jungle to get away. He's eight years old Think of the pain and the tears of this young man. And he he followed with his just in sheer terror, having seen can you imagine having, you know the The scars. And he fled through the bush with the other people of his language group that he could hear them talk in his language. And he he he got to the Congo, the next country over. And he lived there as a street kid for three years. He said, I said, how did you live? Did you steal? Did you beg? Did people Show mercy to you, he said, all three. That's how I survived for three years and then when my language I could hear them going back and I just kinda followed and we came back to Rwanda And uh the genocide was over and he hears that his mother she had fled the other way to Kenya and she had died in Kenya of disease and and here's this young eleven year old boy. Can you, can any of us Imagine the tears and the pain that he has gone through and to see the smile on this twenty-eight-year-old brother in Christ. Who has gone through the pain and sickness of this world you know all of it, the results of sin, disease, and and especially we see war and things like that. And he was happy in the Lord. And it taught me about the joy of the Lord. And it will be this passage speaks of being glad in the Lord. He had the joy of the Lord. Whatever your story, whatever your pain whether it's abuse or parents or over strictness or whatever, we have this marvelous promise. He will wipe away tears. Verse 9, we wait for him because he is the one that saves us. You read through, you see, it's God who does this He's the one that provides the feast. He's the one who saves us. And we wait for him and we long for him. Do you know the story of Jessica Buchanan? She was waiting in the Somalia desert. To be saved, she'd lost all hope. It's three years ago she was captured by Somali Somali land pirates. You go on the web and and hear her talk about this and she she just had lost all hope. They moved her every two days. They were demanding a forty million dollar ransom. to get her back. These evil guys drugged up, twenty of them or so, usually with her, guarding her, they abused her. She's just having such a she's getting sicker and sicker by the day in captivity for ninety days. And she just lost all hope. She's American, went there to help people, you know, and she's lying in the desert. They moved every day 'cause they thought another group was gonna try to steal her so they could you know, could get the ransom. And that's why they moved every two days. She said no, you know, she had no hope. If I told you that she one night she got up, she took the rifles away from her guards, she beat them all up and escaped, would you believe me? Of course not. She she was so weak she couldn't do a thing. And there's no way she can rescue herself like us. In the middle of the night, the night President Obama made the State of the Union address. Because he went to Leon Panetti as he walked in and said, good job tonight, good job tonight No one knew what was that. This is what it was. As she lay there on her little mat Bugs everywhere, miserable, thinking she's gonna die, had no more hope. All of a sudden, just just massive ship, you know, blah blah blah blah blah you know 20 seconds of chaos And perfect silence. She said, Oh no. And she feels hands on her back. And and and there's these a man's hands grabbing her back and and she's no, I won't go with another girl. I can't, I'd rather die. And all of a sudden she hears in American English Jessica Buchanan, we're taking you home. She looked up, and there's this guy. She didn't know, who? How did your what? Is this a dream? It was it was a guy from SEAL Team Six. They had parachuted in twenty miles away, came through the night, and they did what she could not absolutely do for herself. She said these guys That you know the most amazing thing, they called me by name. They called me by name. I thought of John 10, you know I know my sheep and I call them by name and she said they he th I I was so weak, threw me on his back, and he ran through the desert to where the helicopter would be coming. And they thought they heard something, and these guys, they gathered in a circle around me, and three of them laid their bodies down on top of me. To take a bullet for me, to be my substitute, my substitute. She said, I I couldn't believe it. I was the most important thing in the world to them. And they called me by name and they rescued her and they waited till the helicopter was gone to make sure she was safe. Well isn't that a great story, true story, three years ago, you know? And she was rescued and and we think of our they did it. None of them were killed, they made it. Our rescuer came. To those who had no hope of rescuing ourselves, our Lord Jesus Christ. He died for us in our place. He did die in our place. He took us the punishment we deserve. He covered us over, so to speak, and took the wrath of God. Jessica's Sad thing. She says, they knew my name. They called me by name, but I don't know any of their names. I want I wanted to to say thanks. I want to tell about these guys who rescued me. But the Lord, we do know the name of our rescuer, our Lord Jesus Christ, and we do care To spread his fame to Colombia and to Japan and to the whole world, that he is the one who saves us, who wipes away tears, who gave his life for us. Let's pray to him now. Lord, we thank you that these unlikely guests to this supper. Those of us here from many, many different people groups of the world that someone came and brought this good news to us, our ancestors, and we've believed, we've tasted of the bread, drunk the wine. And we are unlikely guests. We thank you and we care that your fame would spread to Colombia And to Japan and to the ends of the world, the ends of the earth, the fame of our Lord Jesus. We bless your name. We pray you'll help us. To eat and drink this feast and enjoy you deeply. And yes, to take this bread and wine to the nations, beginning here in our Jerusalem. In Jesus' name. Amen.