For the past few months, Pastor Harris has been preaching about contentment and what it means to have a godly contentment regardless of the circumstances that we're in as Paul has written in Philippians chapter 4. He has also talked about what discontentment is and how we should avoid discontentment. This weekend next, I would like for us to look at what the nature of God is that can help us so that we can achieve a godly contentment. What is it about God that will enable us to be content regardless of our circumstances? And I'd like to do that by reading and studying from Ephesians chapter 1. And looking at one verse this week and another verse next. Before reading from Ephesians chapter 1, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about how we go about reading the scriptures. As I was preparing for this sermon, I read a commentary by David Martin Lloyd Jones, who died, I think, in 1980 or 81, but for most of this century was a great English preacher. at Westminster Chapel in London, England. Martin Lloyd Jones raises the question in his book on Ephesians of how do we read the scripture? And he uses an analogy of how do we view art. And it got me thinking because I have some favorite memories of when I have been to great art museums and great art galleries in the world. And I thought maybe some of you had, and it'd be worth considering that for a few minutes, because it does say something about how we can read a book of the Bible such as Ephesians. Have any of you been to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York or the National Gallery of Art in Washington? One of the really big ones. Have you ever done what I did and went to that museum? And two hours later walked out and said, Oh, I've been to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. I've seen it all. You've seen all of it? Seen something that has two million more than two million square feet? Seen all of the artwork in that museum How much we, when we view art, look at it as a race where we want to see as much of it as we can, but we fail to really appreciate a single work of art. And then maybe you are like I am, and when you look at art, you don't know what to look at. And you try to appreciate it, but you find yourself more concerned about reading the little plaque next to the painting that tells you who painted it and when it was painted and why it was painted. And suddenly that becomes significant to you and you don't really look at the painting itself. I had the good fortune when I was in New York once of visiting a place called the Frick Museum. The Frick Museum is an old mansion built by Henry Frick, who was one of the coal coal and steel magnets of the late 19th century. century and he built what is an enormous mansion on Fifth Avenue, collected a lot of art, and then turned it into a museum. It's one of my favorite museums, if not my favorite, and the reason is that compared to most museums, it's very small. There are maybe ten, fifteen rooms full of wonderful paintings, a lot of paintings by Degas, which which are a great pleasure to look at. But because it's small, it invites you to go slowly through the rooms and to gaze upon a painting. and just enjoy it. And to observe it, to survey it, and wonder what has made it what has driven the artist to paint it that way. What makes it so special to the eye. That's the way I think that we need to be reading Scripture. It is tempting sometimes to read Ephesians or to read the first chapter of Ephesians and feel motivated to read through the rest of Ephesians. and feel, well now I've read Ephesians. Without really stopping and pondering what is being said, without choosing a word or a verse and looking at it and reading it again and again. Thinking of what it means, the richness of the message, why it is that God inspired Paul to write it in that way. What I hope that we can do Today and next week is ponder and look and gaze upon some beautiful artwork as found in Ephesians chapter 1. Now again, before reading Ephesians chapter 1, I'd like to say a little bit about Ephesians itself. Many of Paul's epistles were written to specific people. with specific issues and problems in mind. You'll note as you read Romans and Galatians and the Corinthians that Paul clearly has issues that he's wrestling with that he knows the people reading the letter are wrestling with. So he is addressing those specific issues. When you read Ephesians, you see something different. First of all, in the oldest manuscripts, the scholars say The words in Ephesus found in verse 1 are not even there. So there is some question whether Paul wrote the letter to the Ephesians, or perhaps he wrote it to other people. Most scholars now think that he wrote it to a group of churches as a letter that could be passed around from church to church. That means that he was writing it communicating some of the deepest thoughts that he had. had some of the most profound truths that he felt Christians needed to believe. He was not addressing specific questions, he was painting a broad picture of God and of what the Christian life is in response to That means that we don't have to get too hung up about the little plaque next to the painting. and wondering who wrote it when and why. We can read Ephesians and just glory in it and enjoy it and revel in it So that's what I would like us to do now. Turn with me, if you haven't already, to Ephesians chapter 1. I'm going to read the whole chapter. I hope that you can pay attention and think about it. And listen for words that mean something to you. Listen to phrases that grab your attention. And then let's look more carefully at the Chapter Hear now the Word of God found in Ephesians chapter one. Paul an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God To the saints in Ephesus, the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ. In accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. And he made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment. to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. In him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who worked out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will, in order that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be for the praise of his glory. And you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth. The gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance. until the redemption of those who are God's possession, to the praise of his glory. For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have not stopped giving thanks for you. remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation, so that you may know him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. and his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. Far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us. Let's bow our heads and pray. Father, this is a marvelous work A stunning chapter filled with riches beyond what we can understand. A chapter that we can dig into deeply, seeking to know your truth and what it means to know. Help us, Father, now. That the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts would be acceptable in thy sight, and that we would be changed for having read and listened to your word. We pray in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen. Lavish is an interesting word, isn't it? What do you think of when you read it, when you see it? It caught my eye a few years ago when I was reading it, and I haven't let go of it. I enjoy the words. I think it it just me it says something to me about God's grace. It communicates to me in a different way than most other words, and I hope that by the end of this morning it will do that for you. So what do you think of when you think of lavish? The word that comes to my mind is lifestyle, actually Actually. Lavish lifestyles. It's sort of like the lifestyles of the rich and famous. You think of these extravagances that people have and the way they live that we can't even relate to because They have so much money. That's lavish, isn't it? And then the other word which the other way I think of the word which is also perhaps amusing is A big blob of whipped cream that's been lavished on a dessert. You just throw it on there and there's more than you need and it overflows over the dessert onto the plate. I like whipped cream. Well, lavish as you see in the sermon outline does in fact mean overflowing and abounding. It really comes from the idea of a fountain or something that contains water, and there is so much water in it that it overflows. The container cannot hold it all in. There's more than there needs to be. So think of that meaning when you think of God's lavish grace. More than there needs to be. That's what God has given us. He has given us lavish grace that's more than what we need. What I'd like to do is to focus on three characteristics of grace that make it lavish, or three characteristics of lavish grace, and then consider some applications to our lives when we think of it. You'll see that I have followed Alan's habit and I managed to find blanks and I shouldn't take pride in this, but I am proud that the words that fill the blanks all start with the same letter. It took a lot of effort to do that, and I'm not sure they're the best words, but they do all start with the same letter. The first Well, before we go to that, let me just point out one other thing. Another favorite part of mine in Ephesians is Ephesians chapter 3, where Paul Tells the readers that he hopes that they can understand how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, and then he immediately says that it's love that surpasses knowledge We need to keep in mind that as we try to understand God's love and God's grace, that we can understand part of it, but it still surpasses any knowledge that we will ever have. But nevertheless, let's look at three characteristics of God's lavish grace. The first is that God's grace is lavish in design Now the word might better be intent, but think of it as God's design when he gave us this grace. God's design was that He would give grace to a people who were completely unworthy of the grace. There was nothing that those people had done or could do which would make them worthy of this grace. It was grace as if to a dead man, as it says in Ephesians chapter 2. For in verse 1 it says, as for you, and that means as for all of us. You were dead in your transgressions and sins in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world. Dead. Unable to move. Unable to respond. Unable, apart from the grace of God, to be his or to have wife. I remember when Catherine and I joined a church in Ohio before we moved out to Maryland, that we went to a newcomer's class. And in that newcomers class they used a series of overhead pictograms that illustrated important doctrines of that Church. And one of them was an illustration of grace. And it showed a giant ship in an ocean, and it showed a man in the water drowning. And you could see that he was flailing about, about to go under the And it showed a life preserver being thrown over the edge to that man so that that man would have a chance to be saved and not drowned. And they said that that was a great description of God's grace, a great illustration of what it means that we who are drowning, who are going under, are given a life preserver so that we can live And Catherine and I, who had been to some good Presbyterian churches and had heard some good teaching, thought, that's not God's grace. An illustration of God's grace would be a dead man floating in the water with his back up. Unable to move, unable to grab hold of the life preserver. Do we even contribute the energy or the will to grab hold of the life preserver? Preserver? No. It says in Ephesians, it says in Colossians 2, 13, in Romans 8, that we are dead. And the illustration should be Jesus Christ jumping over the edge of that ship. And swimming out to the person who is in the water dead, and breathing new life into that person, so that then that person could take hold of the life preserver. And make it back to the ship. God's design in his lavish grace, his intent, is nothing less than giving life to people who are dead. It is nothing less than taking we who do not have the capacity to respond and making us his own. The second point is that God's grace is lavish in degree, or lavish in scope. God's grace is so broad, so wide, that it takes we who were dead and gives us life But as we know from John 3 and other places, he gives us eternal life. And then we read in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4. He has chosen us to be holy and blameless in his sight. A man Imagine the contrast. We don't give ourselves credit for how evil we are. God nevertheless has chosen us to make us holy, perfect, and blameless in his sight. He makes us holy and blameless now. He makes us holy and blameless in what he sees in us now. But even as remarkably, He has guaranteed to us that He will make us to be and to act holy and blameless when we are in His presence in heaven. He has taken us sinners and uh chosen us to be holy and blameless. And then his grace is lavish because he not only makes us alive and then leaves us to our own devices, But as it says in verse five, He adopted us as His sons. He has made us His own, given us the privileges of being His children, with all of the inheritance. That his children deserve. That's ours. That's another word that you can read and ponder and survey as you read Ephesians one. A grand inheritance that comes because God has made us his adopted children. That's the scope of his lavish grace. And then as you see in Ephesians 118 and 119 The scope of his grace is such that he does not simply change us and leave us to our own devices. to hope for a future inheritance. He gives us hope that is present. He gives us power that we can receive and experience in our lives today. God's grace is lavish in degree. And then the third point is that God's grace is lavish in his delight. Delight. Pleasure. This is something that's taken a new meaning, taken on a new meaning to me in the last few months. It is God's pleasure to give this grace to us. It is God's pleasure to save us. Read it in verse 5. In accordance with his pleasure and will. And in verse nine, according to his good pleasure. Maybe this is not a new issue for you. Maybe it's not a new truth for you. But it has changed me in my understanding of God's grace to remember day after day after day, and I have to remind myself all the time That God takes pleasure in making me his son. God takes pleasure in saving you. God takes pleasure in giving grace to you Do you take pleasure in receiving it? Is it your pleasure to be his adopted son or daughter Is it your pleasure to be his child? He takes pleasure in making you that. So how do you respond? We have a song that I have led when I have led worship here from Psalm 104. Let the glory of the Lord endure forever. Let the Lord be glad in his works. In some translations it says, Let the Lord rejoice in his work. Do you think of God doing that? Do you think of God taking joy in what he does in your life? I do. I didn't used to, but I do now. And it makes me filled with joy to think of the joy of God in your life and in mine. And that leads us to the application of the lavish grace in our lives. Have you received lavish grace? Perhaps we should ask first, have you received grace? Have you acknowledged that you are as if dead in your sins? Have you acknowledged before God that in fact you do not like what he wants, that you do disobey him, that you are antagonistic to him? Yes, that you may even hate Him in all that he stands for. Have you acknowledged to him your inability to change, your inability to follow him? And then have you can't turn to him to see that he has given you life And that Jesus Christ has died for you, and that it was only the death of Jesus Christ that could m give you life. It was only his sacrifice that could truly atone If you receive that grace, do so now. Receive Him. It's a wonderful grace. But then, to those of you who know Jesus Christ as your Lord and as your Savior, who know him in a personal way, have you received lavish It's wonderful. It's a grace that just pours out on us over and over. The idea of something that is lavish is that it doesn't run out. God's grace does not run out. We can keep receiving it. Jesus in John chapter 4 says that anyone who drinks of him will never thirst. But how often we as Christians do thirst. Perhaps because we think there's a limit to the amount of grace that God has for us. In Isaiah fifty five it says, Come all you who are thirsty, come to the waters, and you who have no money, come, buy and eat. See, we're not bringing anything to God. God that makes us worthy of this. Come buy wine and milk without money and without cost. Why spend money on what is not bread? And your labor on what does not satisfy. Listen, listen to me and eat what is good. And your soul will delight in the richest of failure. The richest of fair, and it's fair that never ends. It's always fair always available to us As an elder I was serving Lord's Supper last week, and I was preparing for this sermon, had been that day, and I was struck by something that caught my attention a few months prior to that, but it really got my attention this past. Sunday. And that is the way that we all go about serving the Lord's Supper and partaking of the bread. We have these relatively big loaves of bread that are up front. And then we pass them around. And I don't know what your thought is when you take the bread. Perhaps it's a rationalization for me, I'm not sure. But have you ever noticed how tiny the piece of bread is? Have we ever run out of bread? Have we ever ended the Lord's Supper thinking, uh oh, we're in trouble because we don't have enough bread for everybody to take it? No. And yet for some reason we're very careful. It's as if we don't want to take too much, as if there's not enough there. And I couldn't help but wonder if that's not an active demonstration of the way we respond to God's grace. Last Sunday, since I was one of the last people that was there, and I saw how much bread was left, I grabbed off a big hunk of it. I thought I'm not gonna take a little crumb. I'm gonna grab a big hunk and I'm gonna put that in my mouth and it's gonna be hard to chew it, but it's gonna feel like something big. And something that's lavish and I'm going to have a new understanding of God's grace in a broken body. Because I'm going to chew and I'm going to enjoy it. It's not going to be a little speck or a little piece It's something that I'll feel. Now I don't know who makes the bread. So I'm a little cautious about encouraging all of you to do it because I suppose there's the theoretic possibility that everybody will grab off a big hunk and that for once we will run out of bread. But at the next time that you go to a Lord's Supper, I hope that you will give some thought to how you receive God's grace. And just as you may be taking a small crumb, is that how you take God's grace on a day-by-day basis? For you see, as we understand how lavish God's grace is, it should motivate us to worship and to delight in God. And as it motivates us to do that, it should motivate us to do it on a regular basis. I have found recently, as I've been preparing for this sermon, that I have wanted every morning now To read hymns, wonderful hymns of praise, and to read over and over again Ephesians chapter 1, and revel in the fact that God has has given a lavish grace on me. He has lavished it on me as he has lavished it on you. There are some great hymns and these hymns really can set my mind to the right thoughts in the morning. And boy do they change a day when you just take time to do nothing else but to enjoy God's grace. And I think He wants us to do that. Listen to two hymns from written by Charles Wesley. Jesus, lover of my soul, he says, Plenteous grace with thee is found Grace to cover all my sins. Let the healing streams abound, make, and keep me pure within. Thou of life, the fountain art freely let me take of thee. Spring thou up within my heart, rise to all eternity. And then another Jesus, I am resting, resting. What a great verse. It says, Oh, how great thy loving kindness! Vaster, broader than the sea. Oh, how marvelous thy goodness lavished all on me Read those hymns and rejoice in how God lavish love and grace on us I have to confess that as I was enjoying it so much, I found that my devotions in the morning just kept going back to that and back to that. And I thought I should be reading more of the scripture. I should be reading a broader part of the scripture. I shouldn't be so focused on what God has done for me. And then I read a quote from George Mueller, the great English nineteenth century man who operated the orphanage to That he went through a change when he was actually about my age. I saw more clearly than ever, he writes, that the first great and primary business to which I ought to attend every day Was to have my soul happy in the Lord. The first thing to be concerned about was not how much I might serve the Lord. How I might glorify the Lord, but how I might get my soul into a happy state, and how my inner man might be nourished. For I might seek to set the truth before the unconverted, I might seek to benefit believers, I might seek to relieve the distress. I might in other ways seek to behave myself as it becomes a child of God in this world, and yet not being happy in the Lord, and not being nourished and strengthened in my inner man day by day, all this might be done. But not in a right spirit. I hope that as you understand God's lavish grace And read Ephesians 1, that you will delight in it, and that you will delight in it every day, because it will open new opportunities for you to worship when you gather on a Sunday morning. morning. It will open new opportunities for you to serve Him day by day because you will be going forth knowing that there is a lavish amount of grace upon you in the Behind you. And finally, let me encourage you to love lavishly and to be lavishly gracious to the people around you. The word lavish, the Greek word that's translated lavish, is used several times in the New Testament. And one place is found in 2 Corinthians 8 2. Where Paul writes of the Macedonians, they were impoverished, they had no money, but when Paul was collecting money for the church in Jerusalem, he says, they overflowed in a wealth of generosity. in rich generosity, out of their extreme poverty. In Colossians chapter two, it calls on us to be overflowing, to be lavish in our thankfulness to God. And then in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3 verse 12, Paul encourages the set the Thessalonians that their love would increase and overflow for each other. Same Greek word. Word is translated as lavish. God has lavished grace on us. What a wonderful thing for us to receive it. Next week we're going to be looking at God's incomparable power as found in verse 19 of Ephesians chapter Chapter one. Let me just give you a hint of next week in saying that the reason that we can count on God's grace is because he has incomparable power. He is an incomparable God with incomparable power to give us ri riches of grace that he lavishes on us. So let's Okay. Father, we do thank you indeed for the grace that you have given us. Lord, so often we do not understand it or appreciate it. We take it for granted, we don't truly see the riches of it, we don't see the abundance and overflowing of the Help us, Lord, to see that now. Help us in the remainder of this service to worship you, receiving that grace. Let us be changed as your children because of that grace. In the name of Jesus, our Savior. Amen.