There appeared to be a conspiracy yesterday to not get me here at any reasonable hour It was only planes. There were just too many of them. And too much rain. But such is life. The Lord's good. I have the privilege of starting off the Advent series this morning. This is my 33rd sermon at CPC. And although in this section of preaching it is my last, I, well, I hope to see you again, Beyond, today. We're going to be working through these names of Jesus in Isaiah 9:6 But we're going to give some context this morning. I appreciate Asher, who, again, I don't know why I always victimize him, but we've added a slide which may be slightly different, because I actually want us to start in chapter 8 and verse 22. to give you a little bit of context for what we're going to look at in Isaiah chapter 9. So starting in Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 22 and reading down through 9. 7, let's hear God's word. And they will look to the earth, but behold distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish, and they will be thrust into thick darkness. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Nastali. But in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness on them has light shone. You have multiplied the nation, you have increased its joy. They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, and they are glad when they divide the spoil. For the yoke of his burden and the staff for his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken, as on the day of Midian. For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born, excuse me, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God. Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, thank you that you gave this word to us, your people. Some twenty-seven hundred years ago. You've been at work from the beginning for you made everything He set apart your people that Jesus might rise up from among them, that he might be this son that this passage speaks of. How we need you, Jesus. We need you as our wonderful counselor Would you work in us, Holy Spirit, open up this word this morning, open up our hearts. That is Wayne prayed earlier, that our hearts might be like that of Mary. Open, willing, humble, happy to serve. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Some of you will know that I spend a lot of my time as a pastoral coach. So we flourish coaches churches and we coach pastors. In this case, where I've been here, I've been coaching a church. Many times I'm coaching a pastor. Have you ever made use of a coach or a guide? Uh used a fly fishing guide in September. Have you ever gone to the pastor for guidance, maybe a counselor? Someone who could help you with the challenge that you are facing, or perhaps you're facing one right now, you should know that that I have, and I do, actually almost weekly. Do I go to people and ask for help? Why do people like you and me make use of those that we call those who are in the helping professions? Why do we make use of them? Well, it's bound up in that word help. When we sense our limits, we ask for help. But recognize also that the opposite is it's true too. If we feel like we have everything that we need, we're like the person who's lost. Or a person who clearly needs help, but they refuse. They refuse to ask for directions, they refuse to receive help. And I think a mistake I think we uber competent Americans make is to think that because we're competent in our professional capacities We transfer that into our spiritual lives and think that we are confident there as well when the reality is that we are not. I am not in and of myself competent in my spiritual life. And it is my profession. Why is this matter of whether I consider myself spiritually competent or not so important? If you feel yourself in no need or quite rare need of counsel, This name of Jesus that we're going to look at today is going to mean rather little to you However, if you see yourself accurately small and frail and weak and needy, oh, and sinful If that's the kind of creature that you are, like me, in need of Christ, in need of the wisdom that only Christ can provide. Then this name of Jesus and the wisdom that he can provide, they will be a bomb for your soul. And a reassurance. That what you sense you actually need is available to you These words that we're going to be working through here in Advent, Isaiah wrote these about 2,700 years ago. 2700. It's a long time. But because people are people, the problems that the Israelites face are the same ones that we face. What's in view here in this passage that we're looking on is pride. Revealed in choosing to go our own way. In Isaiah's day, our God was appealing to his people, to his rebellious people, to come back to him, to stop relying on themselves. To stop heeding the counsel of the priorities of the world. Despite their sin, God desired them. He wooed them. Sometimes I think this is missed about the prophets. We say somebody's got a real prophetic voice that they just punch hard. But the prophets, they're weeping, they're pleading. To God's people, to come back. God desired his people to return to him, to make him the focus. And so God promises grace to his people, despite their judgment worthiness. This section of Isaiah starts with chapter six and verse one. Maybe you remember that passage. If not, you can read it later, but remember it's an interaction. Between Isaiah and God. And there the holy, holy, holy God takes Isaiah's sin away. He takes it away as a foretaste of what God is going to do for Judah, for Israel, even for all of his people across the whole world and all ages, ultimately in Christ. Some 700 years after Isaiah wrote this. It's within that promise of grace that we find our passage for Advent. As we look to four names given to Jesus ahead of time. Now, this is also given to us. It's given to us to dispel our gloom. That's why I decided to start the reading at 822. Yes, we study Bible at In commenting about Isaiah 9, 1 through 7 says, the spiritual gloom of 822 is dispelled forever by the light of the Messiah, Jesus Christ. That's why light figures so prominently in our traditions. And in our songs, Jesus comes as the light of the world to dispel the gloom. And a second coming forever. Did you hear that word? We'll go for the passage, but that's fascinating. Forever. In the macro picture of the world today, even in some quarters of our own place here in America, in Howard County and Columbia, Perhaps even in your own heart you could feel that gloom. So let's together receive hope as we ponder these names of Jesus, these next Lord's days together. So let's first So that ends first here the prophecy. I'm going to very, very quickly, and probably unsatisfyingly, if you've studied this passage, there's a lot here. I'm gonna only I'm gonna try and restrain myself to make the briefest comments possible. So Isaiah 9 and verses 1 through 7, just very 30,000 feet. So there's this prophecy of gloom, but then there's going to be no gloom. High contrast, how do we how do we get that? For the one that was in anguish that in the former time is brought into contempt, the land of Zebulun, the land of Naphtali, but in the latter time Right, in in what's being foretold here, but but said in the past tense, which is very interesting about this passage. This is sort of the prophetic past, right? In the sense that it's so sure that it's as though it's already happened. Because it's God. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. That's how sure it is. In the latter time he's made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. You're going to hear about places, the gospel writers pick this up. You're going to hear about places that Jesus walked and ministered. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness on them has light shone. You get this in the, of course, the light of the angels, Jesus coming. You've multiplied the nation, you've increased its joy. They go from gloom to joy. They rejoice before you. And the comparative is a hard one for us because we haven't had the joy of harvest season. Right? Most of us live uh urban places and w we don't uh maybe you have a backyard garden, which would be then you could have a little bit. Um yesterday was the one year anniversary of my dad's passing. And uh my brother and I were texting a little bit yesterday. And um when i in the period last fall when my dad was failing, um I took a trip from here up to New York to see um to see them. And I I walked, maybe I've told the story, but but I drove in the next morning, I got up, and my dad was a master, a cherry tomato gardener. Master He had so much he had to give it away. And so he did. And it that's the that's the little picture here that we're given is the joy of the day of harvest. but it's harvest forever. Remember in Revelation, the picture of the new heavens, new earth, the trees on one side of the river? They give they give harvest twelve times, not once, every month. That's the picture here. They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest. They're glad when they divide the spoil. When the last enemies are killed, Satan in death. For the yoke of his burden and the staff for a shoulder of the rod they pressed her you broken as on the day of Midian. That's a very interesting comparison if you want to go back and and look at that. This is the the scene of uh Gideon the the fearful Proud judge that God has to make small in order to use, but of course, that's exactly what he's doing in Jesus. So small that Jesus is but a very fragile zygote in Mary's womb. Fragile as can be But it's the way that he works. Every boot of the tramping warrior in battle swimming, every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. No more. Won't need that anymore. Won't need conflict anymore. How? How could that be? That the gloom would be dispelled forever. How could that be? Surprisingly, through a child For to us a child is born. To us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, not a single national government, not the government of Israel, the government of America, like the government of everything. Like the providential ruler of all. The government shall be upon his shoulder and his name shall be called. And then here's where the context of the word, the four names are. And they're um they're two-part names, all of them. Wonderful counselor. This is what his name shall be called. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. What's his rule going to be like this one? Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end. Now all we can imagine is no end to war. But then, in the fullness of the kingdom, of peace there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. Our world is so messed up, it's it seems absolutely impossible that that could happen Our hearts can feel so messed up that we're just like, how could it ever be that there wouldn't be gloom and that there could be peace forevermore for me? And so we're given this at the end. How will this be? The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. So the one who made all from nothing will dispel the gloom forever. It's his own zeal. He'll get it done. All right, that's the prophecy. We're focused these weeks on verse 6 and these names that are given to the Christ child. The Son of God and the Son of Man. And so let's ponder first two-part name, which is wonderful counselor. And so let's second then enjoy God's wondrous provision. Isn't God the Father kind to provide Jesus? Have you thought about that That we're going to talk about Jesus as the wonderful counselor, and that certainly has personal application that we'll look at in a little bit. But recognize that before there was anything, there was God in three persons forever. A community of love, an overflowing fountain, Michael Rees talks about so beautifully in Delighting in the Trinity, which you should read. Entirely readable by lay people. Need no technical knowledge at all. It'll bless your life. This overflowing fountain of life yields the making of the world. But from the beginning, the three persons that God had, they took counsel together. And I imagine the dialogue reverently like this Father speaking. Well That would be an expression of our love. But it's gonna be hard. It's gonna get messed up. I can see it already. And Jesus raising his hand among the three of them and saying, I'll go. And the Father saying, you sure would you? And the Spirit says, I'll strengthen him. That what gets messed up gets made right. Think of the heart of the Father I've said before, I have three sons, you can't have any of them. But the father's got one. And he gives them. Isn't God the Father kind to provide Jesus? In the big picture, certainly. But also here as we ponder Jesus as the wonderful counselor, this is a joyous two-part name. Recognize that Jesus' wonderful counselor isn't some a junior first-year counselor still getting in his or her hours. That kind of counselor is easy to disregard. But Jesus is the wonderful counselor. Think about Jesus as he shows himself to us in the Gospels, that three years of public ministry that he had after 30 years of obscurity. Living in a backwater. In the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, how do we see Jesus? He's the one who comes alongside people understandingly. Sympathetically. He he came to them as one who had lived a hard life. He could commiserate with people. He could give pity and he could provide wisdom. Wisdom, pity, or sympathy. You might not want pity, but you need pity. I'll show you that in a second. Think about wisdom for a second. Jesus, the wonderful counselor, was wise. Remember in John 7. 46, the guards go to arrest Jesus. And they return empty-handed. And they throw it like, what are you doing? You had one job. This is what you do every day. Why didn't you arrest them? And they say, no man ever spoke like this. They said that Jesus spoke with authority. Of course he did. He was God and man Jesus is a wonderful counselor, is wise, wisdom for us. But also pity, sympathy. Remember Hebrews 4. 15, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. It's a double negative for you and those people. Um means that he can. He must. He will. It's the reason that he came and lived in a body, at least one of the reasons. We don't have a high priest who's unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. We have one who can sympathize with them But one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. So the hope here is that if you're tempted to sin, you can go to Jesus and you can say, Oh, this is so tempting, and Jesus You should hear Jesus say, yes. It is, isn't it? Because he knows. In fact, he knows better than you do. Because he resisted that temptation. And didn't sin. But in so many cases we don't resist it and do sin. Jesus, there's a uh ad campaign that I I cannot um fully ascribe to because I think it's it's erroneous in some ways, um, but it has a nugget that's helpful. Indeed, Jesus gets us. He gets us in all of our emotional tumults. He gets us in all the challenge of temptations to sin. He gets us in all the challenges of relationships with the sinners around us. Think of all the people in the gospels that Jesus spoke to. Um if this isn't something that you've pondered a ton, Paul Miller's Love Walked Among Us, I know recommended it before, but it's perennially in my top five because it really helped me understand Jesus way better. Think of all the people in the Gospels that Jesus spoke to Some came to him, think of Nicodemus. Some he walked with the disciples. Some he approached with pity. Seeing Zacchaeus up in the tree. Hey, come on. Let's stop. I'm gonna come to your house and eat with you. Which is an honor. The woman at the well. He approaches with pity It's super important that you get this about Jesus because if you think about Jesus that he's exacting That he doesn't understand, that he couldn't understand. The net result of that is that you won't go to him because you don't think you're going to get pity when you go there. You don't think he's going to sympathize with you. You think he's going to judge you. It's so important that you get this about Jesus correctly, or else you'll never go to him for counsel because you won't think about him rightly. What did Jesus do with the people that he interacted with? He counseled them all wisely, wonderfully flowing from his pure hearts. And his intimate knowledge of other human hearts. Many times, as you look at Jesus interacting with people, what is he doing? He's lovingly exposing other people's hearts. to them. I've done I've kept all of the commandments. Okay. Sell everything that you got. Give to the poor and follow me. He walks away. Jesus lovingly exposed his heart. He does that many times. We're told that this is who Jesus is, a wonderful counselor. Perhaps you're tempted like I am at times to not go to Jesus for counsel. Either you get no counsel, it's like, okay, I've got to figure this out on my own. Big mistake, by the way. It's wisdom in many counselors. Proverbs will tell you. But sometimes we get no counsel. I've got to figure this out on my own Or we only go to mere creatures for counsel. The people around us, mere creatures. But we don't go to the Bible, we don't go to prayer, we don't go to radical dependence on Holy Spirit. Why? Why do we do that? It's bullish, by the way. But why do we do it? If we're honest, it's because we don't actually want to hear what Jesus would have to say to us. We want to feel justified in our thinking, our feeling, our speaking, and acting. You see, if you go to only other creatures. Other people. Other limited, frail, and likewise, likewise sinful creatures. They will justify your breaking of God's clear commands that we find in the scriptures. Other mere creatures will allow you to keep not bearing the fruit of the Spirit towards those around you. They will. They have. You have. Nah, you should but definitely be like that But if you go to Jesus in his word, you say, Holy Spirit, how should I be here? What should I do here? What should I say They won't let you. They won't let you stay breaking the commands. They won't let you not bear the fruit of the spirit towards other people. They will draw you to repentance. I think this is why Jesus is not viewed by many as a wonderful counselor. They've taken counsel in their own heart and they're done. And so they don't plan to heed his counsel, and so they don't seek it And in this way, we are just like the Israelites in Isaiah's day. People are people all through time. But imagine how different your life and my life would be if we both sought to live dependent on the Holy Spirit to live out just a couple of things. To live out the Sermon on the Mounts? Lots of wisdom there. If we sought to bear every day and in every instance, friends, this is what I seek on a daily basis by the power of the Holy Spirit. Is to bear every day and in every instance the fruit of the Spirit towards others. What if we did that? Where we live, work, and play? That's the counsel that wonderful Jesus would give. And your life and the world really would be better off if that happens. Which is why you should, the third point, lean on the wonderful counselor in the spirit. We should, all of us, lean on the wonderful counselor in the spirit. There's a couple of leans here. The first lean is to begin. Is to begin and then maintain a lifestyle of repentance and faith. That is the calling of the gospel. Repent and believe. Repentance is a person like me or like you sort of looking at us Taking counsel only within our own heart as to what our life should be like. We rule it. We set up the rules and keep them or break them and find ourselves terribly guilty. But but it's basically uh over here in this space that we're turning from, um I'm the one who is the counsel, I'm the counselor, I have the word, I'm the one who's in charge, I'm ruling. And repentance is saying, all right, I'm done with that. I'm done ruling myself. I'm done taking counsel from myself. I'm done trying to find fulfillment or satisfaction, whatever it is, merely in the world. And instead, as I turn in repentance, I turn to Jesus. And I say, I need you. Satisfaction can only be found in you. I was made for you. Thank you that you lived and died and rose and ascended. And even right now you're praying for me. So the first lean to Jesus is to say, I'm done with self-rule. I'm done with self-counsel. And I'm turning to you, Jesus, because I need you. Maybe today would be the first day that you would do that. Jesus is worth that. The first counsel you should hear from him is to repent and to believe the gospel. But that's every day That's every day that we keep up that lifestyle of repentance and faith because we're always tempted to go back, to counsel ourselves, to rule ourselves, to try and make our own satisfaction by sin. And so this movement of repentance of faith is every day for us, friends. This is always God's way It's what he called the Israelites to. It's what Jesus called his contemporaries to. It's what the gospel calls each of us to in an ongoing way. That's the first lane. The second lien is to really own Um what the s the um message of the song, I need thee every hour. It's very interesting. It's not an Advent song, so it wouldn't have been necessarily appropriate to sing this morning. But do you believe that What if each of your waking hours, the first five minutes of those hours, you expressed your need to God? If that was your daily kind of habit, your own sort of personal liturgy of a day. That to really own that, I need thee every hour, that each hour had some component of expressing that in prayer The second lean is to really own. I need thee every hour. It's to say to God, I need your counsel all the time. And the second lien is to ask constantly, what scripture could inform this struggle or situation? See, that's what pushes us back to the relevance of the Bible People are people. We have the same needs. We're the same kind of people. Our technology might be different. Pace of life might be horrendously different. I get that. But people are people. What scripture could inform the struggle or situation? This is how you lean on the wonderful counselor. It's to pray much. Pray much to the Father in the name and by the righteousness of Jesus, asking Holy Spirit for wisdom. Remember James 1:5? If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. How much do you pray to Holy Spirit? This is not a controversial topic, by the way. We can pray to the Father, to the Son, to the Spirit, they're all gone. But how much do you pray to the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, Jesus Spirit, who remember inhabits you, believer? I can't explain all of that. How it is that the third person of the Trinity somehow abides in and with me But that is what the scripture says. That the Holy Spirit comes in and then in that initial repentance faith, what happens is the Holy Spirit comes in and changes my heart from a heart of stone where I didn't want to respond to God. To a heart of flesh that's soft and moldable. But when the Spirit comes in and he does that first work in me, uh it he doesn't go away. It's not like a flipper. I've used this analogy before. You know, flippers come in, they buy a cheap house, they fix it up, and they go away and they sell it, and you have to live with the consequences of their bad work. That's not that's not the way the Holy Spirit works. He comes in and he begins a work of renovation and he stays. How much do you pray to the Holy Spirit? I'm encouraged by the scriptures and by the way that Jesus um interacted with people. You can come to Jesus weak, even admitting your weakness. Remember the the father with in the this is in Mark 9, the father with child who was um Demon-possessed and would throw them in the fire. It's a horrible scene. If you actually sit and try and imagine what that child's life was like. And the father's hopeless He thinks it's an impossible situation. He says to Jesus, if you can. And Jesus goes, if you can, that's the Matt translation. But if you can? Immediately the father of the child cried out and said, I believe. Help my unbelief. It's a most encouraging word, friends. That Jesus received that. You can come with that to Jesus I love the line in Coming Sinners Poor and Wretched that says, all the fitness he requires is to feel your need of him. All the fitness he requires is to feel your need of him. I've discovered in recent years them my problem is not that I'm not strong enough. See many times think we're just like, I've just got to get stronger. I think I've discovered that that is a that is an unhelpful path. My problem is not that I'm not strong enough. My problem is that I'm not weak enough. Remember that Jesus, as you would come to him as a wonderful counselor, he died for the mess in your heart. So messy, Jesus, please. Yep. Yeah, yeah, I'm intimately aware. That's the reason I came and died for you. Because it was the only hope for you. That's Jesus' attitude towards you. Remember this uh these parallel phrases that goes back kind of through Jack Miller and through Tim Keller. But you have to remember and hold these two things together. I'm so bad that the only hope for me would would be that Jesus would come for me. But I'm so loved that Jesus was glad to come for me Which is encouragement to go to him is a wonderful counselor. He's made it possible for you to go to him through his life and death, resurrection, his ascension, as Wayne said earlier. And his intercession, something that I've touched on maybe once here, but it's very interesting that the work of Jesus in one sense is done. Right? That he's done everything that's needed that we might be saved. But his work is ongoing. When you read Romans 8 You see that the Spirit is praying for you in Romans 8. 27 and that Jesus is praying for you in 8. 34. So before the throne, for you, the Spirit and Jesus are praying. I find it amazing that many times the only person missing from that prayer meeting at the Father's throne is me. I'm the only person missing. Do you need counsel frequently? Like I do? It's pretty simple, friends. We find counsel in the Bible. We find counsel as we pray And as we depend on the Holy Spirit asking for faith and wisdom. And when you do that, you'll be leaning on the wonderful counselor. Father, thank you that you have such a heart towards us. That you saw our need and you met it by giving up your only Son. Thank you, Jesus, that you were willing to come to earth for us and for our salvation. Thank you that you give us in the Gospels these pictures, just little tiny segments. Really, of the life that you lived, if we saw all of it would fill all the books of the world we're told Thank you that you are a wonderful counselor and that you desire for us to come to you for counsel. You're worthy of it. Holy Spirit, would you work in our hearts in a way that we would be willing to not simply take counsel with ourselves or with other creatures? But that we would willingly submit ourselves to you, Lord. To your word, to your counsel, Jesus. And that we would sense our genuine dependence, Holy Spirit, and come to you seeking strength and grace in time of need. Help us we pray. Jesus Name. Amen. J