Good morning, CPC. I'm so glad you were able to join us on this Valentine's Day, and I hope that you're able to enjoy being again together with family at home. It seems that ever since we've tried to go back in person, the weather is not agreeing with us. But I hope you're staying safe and able to enjoy the time together with family. This morning, as we continue in this series, as we look at that God's law, the moral law, and the Ten Commandments, as we consider what did renewal in the wilderness look like for Israel? We see how God's moral framework for the way in which he wanted to relate to them and how he wanted them to relate to him and then ultimately how that was to look like in their relationships with one another. This is what we're learning from God's word as we seek to apply it in our present day circumstances. And this morning we make that shift. We make the shift from the first four commandments, which primarily look at our relationship with the Lord our God. Now we turn to the second part of the Ten Commandments that looks at what it what our relationships ought to reflect with each other. And this morning we look at the fifth commandment. And we will begin this morning looking at Exodus chapter 20, that has been our practice as we began this series by looking first at verses 1 through 2 How God grounds his commands as he grounds the responsibility he's giving to his people in the fact that he is a redeemer God. Hear now God's word, Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 through 2, and then verse 12. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. Our Heavenly Father, we give you thanks and praise for this day that you have reminded us again of your faithfulness. Of your provision, of your love, of your redemption. We gather together as your people to hear your word. We ask that your word would feed us. Shape us, strengthen us, but ultimately, Lord, that it would ground us in who you are, for you have spoken and reminded us again that as a God of redemption. You have for us a plan, a way to live. A way to live that enables us to flourish. Help us to do that, O Lord, to the glory of your name It is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. And so the story of being a parent right now is a story that is. full of examples of just how challenging being a parent is. Over this last year we've been reminded that in the midst of this pandemic, many parents have had to learn what does it look like to balance working from home or having to commute to work while at the same time making sure your children are receiving an education which is only available through technology. What does it look like for a struggling parent who is single trying to raise their children but at the same time trying to provide for themselves in the midst of a global pandemic? As well as those of you who are pregnant and who have given birth during this time know it is incredibly hard learning to be a parent in the midst of all of this. So the stories of being a parent are full of challenge, but also delight. But this passage draws its attention to what our obligations are in the light of who God is. To our parents. What does it mean for a child to relate to their parents? It is not an easy topic. But it is one which is necessary for us as a people to wrestle with, as God calls us to. But it isn't merely to children who are under the age of 18. There is also plenty here. That is for those of us who are adults and have our own families, but also still have our parents living. What are our obligations? What does God's word have to say to us for this day? And so this morning, as we consider these words from Moses as he received them from the Lord, We learn that God tells his people to honor your father and your mother that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. This is the first command that has tied with it a promise. So it's important for us to hear it. But first, before I even tell you where we're headed, it's important for us to understand what does the word here mean by honor? Let's unpack that for just a moment. And to say that we honor something is a Hebrew word for kabbod, meaning literally glory and weight. So to honor someone is to give them the respect that is due to their position, to the weight of their position. And the position of a parent carries with it great weight. And it is full of challenge. But it is one that is important for us to acknowledge that God has set in place that the role of a parent is one that is important and carries with it great challenge, but also great importance. And so when it says here to honor your father and your mother, it's saying to have a level of respect that is due to them because of their position. And so this morning's outline follows with them. If we are called to honor our fathers and our mothers, what is required? And so what is required is first humility. Secondly, wisdom. And then thirdly, living the promise. Honoring our Father, Fathers, and Mothers requires humility, requires wisdom And that we might live the promise. So let's look together this morning at first. This requires humility What do I mean? What I mean is this, that fundamentally, to honor someone and their position that they have that is honorific, that is worthy of weight and glory. Fundamentally, honoring someone means that I functionally understand that now I am no longer the center of my own existence. That it requires humility for me to now see that I need to make room for another and for others. That I'm no longer simply the center of all of my energy and focus and priority. But what is required for is a humility that seeks to move us to see that now I have a responsibility in relationship to and for whom those who are in my life that have authority, that have shaping power. And what it means is that we are called to show respect, of course. Fundamentally, this is germane to all of Scripture And ultimately we see that there's this wisdom to God's word as he tells us how to live, and we see the fulfillment of God's righteousness, not only in how he, as a heavenly father, has related to us. We also see that built into God's redemptive work is ultimately the revelation of his son, who honored him as Heavenly Father. But more than that, as an outworking of the gospel, as God has loved us in Jesus Christ, it is Christ who teaches us and gives us the grace. And the motivation of how we ought to live in humility with those around us, honoring and respecting others We hear this from the Apostle Paul as he says in his letter to the Philippians in chapter 2, verse 1, where Paul writes So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy. Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Built into this gospel of grace is a changed way of how we relate to others And yes, it has a and a proper priority to it. And for the Lord to tell us how we're to honor our fathers and our mothers built into that is to show the priority of the relationship that we have with our parents. And so we seek to treat them and to recognize and to honor them as greater than us. Worthy of honor and love and respect. Of course, this is a challenge, particularly In our day and age, but not just in this day and age, it's been a challenge for the last fifty even sixty years. Because even as I was a teenager I was well aware that in nineteen eighties most of the films uh out from popular culture It showed parents in one of two ways. Either it showed them as completely gullible and buffoons, or it showed them as domineering and control freaks. Rarely was it displayed parents as they often are, loving, sacrificial, caring. And therefore worthy of our honor and respect. No, what was often actually triumphed and celebrated and still to this day is to have this prideful dismissiveness. Towards parents. Oh, they don't know what they're talking about. Oh, they're completely out of touch. And even if our parents are not in step with all that is happening in the world, Is never a reason to dismiss them. Just the opposite. What we see that because God is a God of redemption. He's demonstrating how he wants his people to be changed in their relationship with each other. That because he has redeemed us and drawn us to himself in his love and grace as a heavenly father, he then teaches us how we ought to treat our heavenly fathers and mothers. And so, what does this look like practically? Let me just give a couple of suggestions. First, I think it's recognizing that priority that mothers and fathers play in our lives. Because this relationship matters, because they are the ones who have brought us into the world. It has priority. Now it doesn't have the priority throughout the the same priority throughout the whole of our lives because as we grow up to be adults Or if we become married and we have husbands and wives and those relationships have priority, it is right that those relationships have great priority, even greater priority. And yet it doesn't mean that our relationship with our parents falls off the priority list. In fact, just the opposite. As long as they are our parents, we seek to honor them because of the priority of their place. Secondly, I believe it requires humility in honoring our parents because it requires not just priority, but listening. To care enough for them to listen to them. And this is perhaps the greatest place of challenge Oftentimes, we don't want to listen to our parents because we think we know better. Or we we know what they're going to say, or we think we know what they're going to say. We don't want them to repeat something because we know that they know us. Perhaps the greatest amount of humility. That is needed from the Lord is our ability to simply care enough for our parents by listening to them. Thirdly, not just priority, not just listening, but also allowing them to have influence and shaping in our lives. Do we look to them as an example? Do we recognize that they do have shaping power? And we ask them for advice To allow them to have influence requires requires humility. And it is hard. Fourthly, and I think particularly, it requires humility and honoring our fathers and mothers because I believe it requires that we cultivate the self-discipline. To avoid sarcasm, to avoid dismissiveness, to avoid hostility, manipulation, or criticism. You see, they know us, but we also know them. And oftentimes, familiarity does in fact breed contempt And it requires humility, enabled by God's grace, knowing that who are we, that God would shed his love on us. Who are we that Christ, while we were yet sinners, died for us? We see what he has done for us. And so therefore, as a result, we seek by his grace and spirit to cultivate. the self-discipline to avoid sarcasm, dismissiveness, manipulation, hostility. It is hard. I know this is hard. I spent much of my first 16 years of life dismissing my parents. In my mind, in my heart, and even in my speech, I would deride them. I would make fun of them. And I would, the last thing I wanted to do was listen to them. But I remember. I remember the day when I became a Christian. How and in what ways my relationship with my parents completely changed. It wasn't perfect. But it completely changed. And I began to see how much of my speech was dripping with contempt or sarcasm. How much I just dismissed them. But I also saw how much I had missed. And thanks be to God, what I have experienced since that day of knowing Christ. Of my relationship with them, even now as an adult. And though the relationship has changed and appropriately so, I would not exchange that relationship for anything And it is only because God's grace can redeem and remake. But I know that pressing in on this point, we have to acknowledge that our parents' relationships, often with their children, are far from perfect. It is far from perfect. And parents sin against their children. They abuse their authority. And they hurt And they leave scars emotionally and physically. And so I can't deal with all of those issues in one sermon. But those are important, and please hear me say, honoring our fathers and mothers, our fathers and mothers does not remove their responsibility. This word is spoken to us as those who are children and have our parents. And so it requires humility. Secondly, honoring our fathers and mothers requires, it requires wisdom. And how does it require wisdom? I believe it requires wisdom because of what I just said. First, to be able to honor our fathers and mothers in the way that God has intended for us to show them respect, to give them priority, to listen To make room for them requires wisdom because we as children understand that we are sinful, fallen people. And our parents are sinful, fallen people. Therefore, that relationship, the parent and child relationship, is a complex one. And it requires wisdom then, by God's grace and from his word. How do I, as a sinful, fallen person, move towards another? And show them respect, recognizing their failures. That requires wisdom. And it is wisdom that reminds us that as we have backstories, so do our parents. And he requires wisdom to understand and to remember that our parents are human too. And they don't always get it right. Nor do we. And it is precisely that wisdom, undergirded by humility. That enables us to move towards our parents in their frailty, in their brokenness, and we in our brokenness. In a way that seeks to cultivate a healthy relationship. And that is guided by wisdom. Another aspect of this honoring of our fathers and mothers that requires wisdom is yet again a point where there's often the most conflict. But it is a reality that the scriptures tell us, particularly in the Proverbs. It often says, as the Solomon speaks to his son, son, listen to me. He's calling out. And then he describes wisdom. As that which should be sought after. And here is a pearl of wisdom. It requires wisdom to honor our fathers and mothers because it rem requires that we remember. That they have experienced life more than we have, and they know more than we do. Not in everything, but in many things. And it requires wisdom and discernment to remember that. And as such, if we ask for wisdom And we honor our fathers and mothers by asking them for advice We are then seeking wisdom. And when God says that he who lacks wisdom, let him ask for it, and we will receive it. And it becomes like gold in our pockets. And I am grateful not just for the wisdom my own earthly parents have given to me, but also my spiritual parents. the fathers and mothers in the faith who've given me wisdom throughout the years. And even to this day. This requires wisdom. And I believe to live out that wisdom in honoring our fathers and our mothers requires an attitude of curiosity. To be open to what they can teach us and what we can learn. Secondly, I think that we can practice generosity. And using wisdom to say, because my parents are human, and because they have backstories, they have good days, they have bad days, they are weighed down with burdens, I can practice. The discipline of generosity, of seeking to encourage them, to remind them that we love them, to remind them that we're grateful for them. And to pray for them. We want that from our parents. But we can ask that God will give us wisdom to practice that generosity towards them. But also, I believe it requires that we practice empathy. Our parents know trouble and challenge and difficulty and burden that they often never share with their children. And it requires of us wisdom to know how to practice empathy, of giving space to our parents. Knowing that they're struggling, knowing that they're burdened. May God give us the ability and wisdom to remember that And not expect them to always serve us when we want it, how we want it, where we want it. But to know they too need us to care for them. And I think that's where we enter into the promise that is attached to this command. For it says, honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land. that the Lord God is giving you. And here, while I have addressed the issue of parent and child, particularly thinking of younger children, now we need to broaden the lens, if you will. to understand that this has a much greater target than merely young children to their parents. Yes, there's plenty here, implied and explicit, for how we ought to obey our parents, listen to our parents, honor our parents, and that is all right and good. But what happens here is we consider this promise. Now it's interesting that the promise begins to help us see a fuller application of the command itself. For when it says that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you, it's actually not talking to the individual or giving us the expectation that we'll live long lives with many years. No, there's something else going on here. And many commentators have pointed to this, and it's and it's here that what God is saying to Israel as a people As he is to now his church of Jesus Christ, that I've made you a people that I've called my own, and I desire that you live abundantly, this idea that you may live long in the land is has embedded within it the same idea of shalom. It's not just merely peace, as in the absence of conflict, but rather abundant life. a full life as it ought to be lived. And so what is being talked about here is not longevity, but a fullness of life. And so in some sense, what he's giving them a vision for is I'm about to give you a land. So he's telling Israel to look into the future. And he's saying, do you see where I'm taking you? And here's how I want you to live, not just in relationship with me. You shall have no other gods before you, and this is how you ought to worship me, but this is how I want you to live with each other. And he's saying something to the community Not just to the personal relationship between parent and child, but actually our relationship intergenerationally Which is why we as a church want to continue to flourish as a congregation that is intergenerational. It's not just that I seek to honor my my birth father and mother, but I seek to honor those brothers. and fathers and mothers who who are older than I am. And I've had the blessing of serving with men and their wives in ministry who are well beyond my years. And we seek to honor them. But there's something deeper here. Is that living long in the land is pointing towards this flourishing, this thriving of what it means for God to provide a place. And a city, a culture for his people. It is a promise that we want he wants us to see the vision of and that our ethical behavior with each other will bring about. that if we seek to honor them, it will bring back and bring about a fruitful, abundant life. It's said in this way that respecting and honoring our fathers and mothers in the faith, in the church, and in our families. We have a concern and care for them in such a way that that concern and care, that honor and respect, is like a glue That holds together the whole community. When it's lived out, when it's modeled Because without it, what we're left with is chaos and insecurity Those who've gone before us who are older than us, if we're not caring for them, it creates an insecure environment for them. And they don't flourish. If we do not model that for our children, we're teaching them how to treat us. And so it begins to have a beautiful cycle of us honoring our fathers and mothers in the faith and in our families, and we're also modeling that for our children. And in so doing, we're creating an environment that has a glue of relational ethical behavior that God says will bring about our flourishing. This is a beautiful and gorgeous picture. And I am grateful that we have an intergenerational church that enables us to show That faith can be lived out many years and what it looks like, and we seek to honor and care for them. And so this is why we care for our widows and our widowers This is why we seek to honor those who are ahead of us in the faith and seek to make sure and procure justice and care and concern for them. Grounded in what God has done for us. So, what is being talked about here is yes, absolutely, our individual relationships with our fathers and mothers and our families. But also in the family of God, the church of Jesus Christ. Grounded in the reality that this is what God has done for us in Jesus Christ. That while we were yet his enemies, Christ died for us. So therefore, we now, saved by grace, live by grace, and seek to honor our fathers and mothers. With that grace. And what comes out of it is a beautiful picture of God's community in the world for the glory of his name. This is hard. There are lots of questions that come from it. When our parents fail us, when our parents do not want us to care for them. And also the very painful reality when our fundamental relationship with our parents is often broken. Those are real issues, and there's real pain. But the gospel can help. Address those issues. And we need to do that together. But for the purposes of looking at God's word this morning, I want us to be reminded of what God intends here. For his people, for his church. That it will be a model to the world, that we do not dismiss the generations that are ahead of us. So that we can model for the generations that come behind us of how we ought to live and honor one another. But it is only by his grace, It is only by his redeeming power. It is only by his wisdom that teaches us humility. It is only by that wisdom and humility evidenced to us and shown to us in Christ that we're able to move towards human. them in humility and wisdom. May the Lord do this in us for the glory of his name and for the building up of his church. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this, your word. We thank you this morning that you remind us of the beautiful picture of what you want for your church, for your people. Help us to love and honor and respect our parents. It isn't just about obedience, it is about a full-orbed relationship. Lord, help us to live that out with humility and wisdom. So that we might live out the promise of what it looks like to flourish as a people, as an intergenerational people who need one another. That we might reflect your peace, your grace, and your mercy. Thank you, Lord Jesus. It is in his name we pray. Amen. Thank you for joining us this morning. Again, I hope you enjoy this day with you and your families. I encourage you today, as you seek to spend time with each other, or if you are on your own, take time and worship the Lord, look into his word, ask him for wisdom, and he is faithful and he will give it. And now receive the good word, the benediction. May God of love and grace and mercy Give you his love and grace and mercy by his spirit now and forevermore. Amen. The Lord bless you today. Thank you.