Good morning, CPC. I hope you're all able to enjoy this beautiful snowy Sunday morning. It was not our hope. Of course, we are desired that we would be able to gather again in person on this Sunday morning. But the Lord reminds us again that we, of course, are not in control of all things. And it is a great opportunity for us to remember, particularly on this Sabbath day and on the day of rest as we look at this commandment of the Sabbath. That it is a good reminder that the Lord is the Lord in control of all things. And He has given us the beauty of this day, the beauty of this snow, and it is an invitation for us. to come into rest. So thank you for joining us this morning. Thank you for joining me in what I'm calling the the Rev Shed. This is uh something I've had to create here at home and Not whatever I not something I ever expected to have to do, but there we are. But I'm grateful for the technology and I'm glad you're able to join us this morning. Morning. As we continue in this series on the Ten Commandments and how we are to live, and how the commandments form the way and understanding of how we ought to live as those who trust. in the Lord, ways in which we understand the law of God in the light of who Christ is. It is an opportunity for us to gather again. And this morning we do so by remembering that we are now in the fourth commandment. And on this Lord's Day, it does regard the Sabbath. Hear now God's word to us. Taken from Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 and 2, and then verses 8 through 11. Hear now God's word. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work. But the seventh day is the Sabbath to the Lord. Your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter, your male servant or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Will you join me in prayer as we begin to look at God's word this morning? Heavenly Father, we thank you that we can gather together in the name of Christ. Thank you, Father, that we bear the name that you have given us. You have given us as your children. You've called us into relationship with you. And all those who profess faith in you are all called your dearly loved children. We thank you, Father, that you have called us into your delight, into your salvation and redemption. Now, Lord, we ask that you would take the word by the power of your Holy Spirit that you would teach us your ways and lead us into rest. Remind us of the importance of rest. And help us, O Lord, particularly in this time, to learn how to rest. In Jesus' name. Amen. And so I've titled this sermon, Learning to Rest, because I want us to consider, particularly, as people who are living in the 21st century, why rest. And learning to Sabbath is not a burden, is not a heavy load, but rather it is a place where we can finally take a deep breath and rest in the relationship that we have with God. If you do not have a relationship with the Lord, he invites you into that relationship And this is just a picture today, if you don't know the Lord, what he intends for you, what he desires for you. And how our lives are to be transformed because of his redemption and salvation. But before we go there, I want you to consider these words by author A. J. Swoboda when he wrote this. Our time-saving devices, technological conveniences, and cheap mobility have seemingly made life much easier and interconnected As a result, we have more information at our fingertips than anyone in history. Yet with all this progress, we are ominously dissatisfied In bowing at these sacred altars of hyperactivity, progress, and technological compulsivity, our souls increasingly pant. For something more and for meaning and value and truth, as they wither away, exhausted, frazzled, displeased, ever on edge. Our bodies wear ragged. Our spirits thirst. We have an inability to simply sit and be still. As we drown ourselves in a 24-7 living, we seem to be able to do anything but quench our true thirst for the life of God. The result is that we have become perhaps the most emotionally exhausted, psychologically overworked, spiritually malnourished people in history. Indeed, I think Swoboda is on to something. And I think it is a perfect time for us to consider what the Lord have to say to us in this fourth commandment. How are we to understand it? So this morning you'll see if you are able to download the manual or the Worship guide that is offered as a link in the email that came out this week. I'll be covering three points: the rhythm of rest. The purpose of rest, and finally the witness of rest. The rhythm of rest, the purpose, and finally the witness of rest. So first, the rhythm of rest. Of course, we hear this in the word that God gives to Moses and then to his people. He says simply, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you work, one day you rest. And so what we find in this interesting call and commandments is the rhythm that God put into the world that did not begin simply with Exodus chapter 20. In fact, it is baked into the entire creation. For we understand from Genesis We hear the words that God said this in Genesis chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day, God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work and that all the work he had done So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. So God has even set into the creation of all things the rhythm of six to one, the rhythm of rest and work. And so as we consider this rhythm of rest, two things are very clear from the immediate text given to us in Exodus 20 and even in Genesis chapter 2, and that is cessation and separation. Rhythm of rest involves cessation, but also separation. The whole idea, of course. in terms of the word Sabbath is the cessation of work or from work, to stop actually working, to take that which we do all the other days Set them aside, and then on this day we cease from that which we do the other six. This is the rhythm that God intended. This is the rhythm that we understand that in fact this cessation from work is not necessarily this time of Sabbath is what Man was made for, but rather the Sabbath day was made for man. What we understand is from the words of Jesus in Mark chapter 2, verse 27. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So the Son of Man is the Lord even of the Sabbath. And what we learn in all of that is that God intended for the Sabbath, this day of rest, as a gift to his creation, but then we learn in Exodus it is also a gift to his people. So there's both a creation element to cessation, but also a redemptive element to cessation. What do I mean? And that is that yes, God baked into all creation a day of rest. Not because God was exhausted or needed to rest. No, he was simply pointing out that on this day we can take a break from that which we have been given the work we've been given to do and to rest in him. But because of the fall, as Swoboda points out, That we continue to want to work, to strive to a 24-7 life that leads us into greater and greater experiences of anxiety, worry, ambition, which does not bring us rest. but brings us great stress. And from that we then learn that as a part of the restorative, redemptive work of God, as he called a people to himself, And now it says through Moses, you are my people. The Sabbath in Exodus doesn't become a burden, no, it becomes an element of God's redemption. What man refused to receive as a gift and turned it yet into more work, God restores his people and says, No, I'm bringing you out from the rest of the world to call you to cease. Cease from the work and trust in my provision that on this day I will provide for you, because it is a day for your rest. This is the rhythm that God has given, but not just for cessation, but also separation. He tells us here that God made it holy, meaning it is to be treated differently than all the other days. Meaning there's something more that is going on on this day than merely the cessation from work. And we'll get to that in a few moments. But it is impossible to escape the fact that God just didn't say that one of these days is the day of rest. No, he rested and he called it holy. It is separate. There is something intertwined in this rest that has to do with our redemptive relationship with him, something that should be celebrated, sought after, rested in. And in fact, what we understand is this was precisely the point that those who tried to trap Jesus, because they tried to say, Hey, look what you're doing on the Sabbath. You are breaking the fourth commandment. But what Jesus was pointing out in Mark chapter 2 is that the only thing he was breaking were all the things that they had added to the Sabbath that God had not. You see, by the time that Jesus came, the Sabbath had become such an incredible weight on the people, for all of these things had to be done and not done. Because if they did, they would break the law. Well, this is law that not God had given, but man had added on to the Sabbath. And so he reminds them. that the Sabbath was made for man. You've made the Sabbath a work, a work to prove your righteousness. Not holiness in God, but you've tried to make it how you're holy, not to focus the attention on the holiness of our God. And so Jesus said, the Sabbath was made for man. Not the other way around. B. B. Warfield, the great uh Reformation, or not Reformation, but Reform Theologian said this Christ took the Sabbath into the grave with him and brought the Lord's day out of the grave with him on the resurrection morning. You see, this is why we consider Sunday, the Sabbath day, not as the last day of the week, but the first day of the week. And since Christ's resurrection, he took that Sabbath day, he took it on and he obeyed it completely. But when he was raised on the third day, Something new, all things new, we're being made through the power of his resurrection, victorious over sin and death. And God is showing us something about this Sabbath, that he is restoring things. It is Jesus who exemplifies why this day has been made holy, for God's victory over sin and death, God's victory over our brokenness, and provision of our restoration is on display. So this rhythm of rest brings about cessation from our normal work that we do the other six days But also calls us into separation, of remembering this is what God has done for us. Intricately woven into the redemptive relationship with Him is a place where we can be separated in time and space To find the rhythm of rest, of enjoying him And we can rejoice that Jesus Christ took all of the Sabbath on himself. And he rested, but he rested victorious. And then he was raised victorious on the first day of the week. This is why we gather on the first day of the week. And we begin with rest. We begin with cessation. We begin with separation. And that enlivens us, restores us for the work ahead But not only do we learn from these verses the rhythm of rest, we also understand the purpose of rest. We understand from the commandment that there is a purpose to the rest, for it says, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. So there's not just stuff we don't do, but there are things that we are Called to do. But remember, we are whole-bodied humans, and it involves our complete self. So as we understand the purpose of rest, I want you to consider these two things. The purpose of rest is restoration and remembering. What do I mean by restoration? I don't think it takes very much research at all to understand that over the years many tests, studies And research has shown that failing to rest after work of any length, the failure to rest, leads to insomnia Sleepiness, hormonal imbalances, fatigue, irritability, organ stress, and every other increasingly serious physical and mental symptoms It affects us physically, spiritually, emotionally, and relationally. So restoration isn't merely spiritual. We take this time to remember what God has done and what He has provided. It most certainly is that. But the purpose of rest goes beyond just the spiritual, it is also physical, where our bodies are able to literally find rest Which is what they were made for. They were made for work, but also rest. but also emotional to find that place and to find that group which the Church of Jesus Christ is intended to be and in our own families. That the purpose of rest is emotional, where we let our guard down and we're able to be who God has created us to be. We're not first and foremost workers. We're first and foremost children, brother or sister, son or child, father, mother, husband or wife, friend We need the emotional rest. But there's also a place for social rest That when we gather together as God's people, it's not meant to be a time of performance or trying to be on for other people But it's a place where we know, though we might be very different, think differently, look differently, live differently, that in this place Socially, we come together in a union of understanding that our hope is bound up not in ourselves, but in the Lord alone. And there we can find even social. Rest. But I want to say, please understand that this purpose of rest, while it is meant to be restorative, we must be careful as one writer has pointed out. Of the trap of not exchanging restorative rest for relaxation. What do I mean? And what do I think they mean? Restoration can involve relaxation. But we can't take the whole bodied restoration and simply exchange it for relaxation You see, we're very good at relaxing, but oftentimes our relaxing just means we're filling ourselves with other things. Our devices, our screens, our entertainment. But I believe, like many writers and researchers have found, that there's not much restoration in entertainment. Rarely. Our minds are still busy, frenzied. They've even done tests that whether it's exciting like a sporting event, yes, I know it's Super Bowl Sunday, or it's a movie or binging to watch something on Netflix. Doesn't always bring restorative rest. It can bring stress, anxiety, even excitement. But even excitement is not the same as rest. So restoration can involve relaxation, but our restoration physically, socially, emotionally, spiritually, cannot be exchanged for mere relaxation. May we not fall into that trap. The purpose of rest isn't just restoration, it is also remembering, as the text tells us. What do I think is baked into this idea of remembering the Sabbath day to keep it holy? I believe it is this. We remember who we are. We were created as human beings. And even before the fall of man into sin and rebellion against God, we had limitations. Because we are humans. And after the fall, we feel our limitations very acutely and chronically. But we remember who we are. We are humans with limitation, which in itself is an invitation into rest. But not just we remember who we are, we remember what we are. We are humans and not gods. We've done a good job with our screens and technology of being able to control our space and how we experience it, but we've not been able to control time. We are not God. We do not know the future. We so easily forget the past. And we have a hard time just being in the present. We remember that we are humans. From the dust we have come, and to dust we will return. We are not God. But we remember who we are, we remember what we are, but the most important part of our rest and the purpose of our rest is to remember whose we are. We are called beloved children, redeemed Again, as God spoke these words, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery If you believe in the Lord God, if you confess Jesus Christ as your Redeemer, on this day, above all others, we remember we. Are his. And he calls us out of our slavery to ambition and drive and the 24-7 work To find a place where our souls can find rest completely restored because we remember we are His. Marva Dawn, theologian author, wrote in her book way back in 2002, On the Sabbath day, we deliberately remember. That we have ceased trying to be God and instead have put our lives back into His control, concentrating on God's Lordship. in our lives enables us to return to His sovereign hands all the things that we are beyond our control and that terrify us. Once these things are safely there, and as long as we don't stupidly take them back up again, our emotions can truly find comfort and healing rest I love that. Once those things are safely there, as long as we don't stupidly take them back again, our emotions can find truly comforting and healing rest. We bring all that we have to him. Let me share with you one of the things that I do each week and each day Each day I begin my day with these words. As I enter prayer now, I pause to be still To breathe slowly, to recenter my scattered senses upon the presence of God. God, every blessing in this new day, I invite you to shape my soul with your words and inspire my life through your works. Teach me to walk in the way of blessings. I find that I need this space. I need this day And as I begin each day, Lord, take all that I have, because I belong to you. And I find when I do that, I can breathe. I can rest. I'm first and foremost not a pastor. I'm first and foremost not a husband or a father. I'm first and foremost a son of God. And thou his words, his truth, his grace, his mercy. His invitation to rest can then begin to reshape my soul, my words, my emotions. My body, so that when I enter into the engagement of the day as husband, father, as pastor, I do so because I began from a place of rest. This is really hard. This is hard for me. As a pastor, I don't find Sabbath days always very restful. And it's hard. Please pray for pastors. Please pray for those who work in ministry. For oftentimes your day of rest, where we encourage you to find rest, it's hard for us to find rest. So I invite you, please pray for me, but please pray for all pastors and those who work in ministry. But we see here in these words not just the rhythm of rest and the purpose of rest, but also the witness of rest. What's interesting is that we find that God intended, when he called his people into rest, it was to be distinct from the rest of the world, not in self-righteousness. But as a witness that they belong to someone different and they have a different liturgy and how they understand they live their life and the order of their time. What's interesting is that God would say this as he reminded them in Exodus chapter 31, verse 17, it is a sign forever between me and the people of Israel. that in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed. Again, not because God was exhausted. But he showed us that he rested from his work and it was all very good. And he therefore he invites his people as an everlasting sign of his redemptive purposes. A people to, he called a people to himself to rest in a world that is frenzied, working, and anxious. John Tyson, pastor in New York City, wrote these words. God laid out a vision of a 24-hour period. that is kept differently from the other days and is remembered as holy. It is a day that is blessed and given to an exhausted human race as a gift. Sabbath is given to us by God as a form of His grace and blessing. And our practice of Sabbath is a gift to God of our trust. Worship, loyalty to his lordship in a culture of counterfeits. So therefore, our practice of Sabbath becomes a form of witness to the world. That we do not belong to its liturgies, but we order our lives from a God of grace and mercy. So therefore, it is a great reminder that in this 24-hour period, we step out of the way of the world, as Tyson writes, and into the way of eternity. We step into space of the Spirit of life and of God, and we step out of the space of that which denies God. Sabbath is a portal to participate in God's presence. Therefore, I want you As we finish today, to remember that our witness to rest in the Sabbath means we do one thing above all else. We revel. We celebrate. We enjoy God. Again, I was reminded this one writer, they treat Sabbath day as pleasure-stacking day. Where they take all the things which God has given and they revel in it. They enjoy it. Think about these words, these verses given to us in Psalm 34. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. We revel, we revel and taste and see that God is good. How can we do that? We do that because what we hear in Isaiah 25. On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine. So on this day, have you ever considered saving a special food or drink just for the Sabbath and enjoying it and giving thanks to God? But we rebel also in worship when we gather together as God's people corporately and privately. We do that which we hear in Revelation 21. And he who is seated on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. He also said, write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true, of rich food full of marrow, and of aged wine well refined. You see, on this day, we sing, we pray, we listen, and we rest. Why? Because God had made all things. New. The Sabbath, whether it was in the Old Testament with God's people, or in its beautiful, fulfilled form in life in Christ in the New Testament. The Sabbath was never meant to be a dour day, a day of don'ts. No, it was meant to be a day of celebration. A day of reveling, a day of joy, and of festival. A day of wonder This is what we get to do. This is what we were given as a gift to be able to do. And so think about this for just a moment. For the Christian, the Lord's day can become a festival day of good gifts that God has given Read your favorite novels and see it as a gift from God, your favorite poet, your favorite art, your favorite food. These things can be used as a gift and said, Lord, here we can gather together with friends, albeit not in a pandemic, but only in a safe way, of course. But whether it's with masks or six feet of separation, or whether it's on Zoom, or whether it's calling up a friend, these things are a place where we can rejoice that the Lord is good. You see, each week it is to be the foundation for God's people. For those who belong to Christ, it is to be a day grounded as a foundation of celebration of resisting the liturgy of the world. Paraphrasing a writer when they said, the liturgy of the world says I spend my first half of my life working like a dog, so I can spend the second half of my life trying to make amends. God's word says no. Each week, each week, young, middle, old Are called not into the liturgy of working like a dog and hopefully finding some space in life to make amends. We can find rest for our souls, our bodies, our emotions. Our relationships right smack dab in the middle of the world that God is making new. So I invite you, as I hear God inviting me. Come unto me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest, for my yoke is easy And my burden is light. What an invitation. And in Christ, all things are new. Come learn to rest, find rest for your souls Pray with me. Heavenly Father, we thank you this morning for your word. I pray that you would continue to help me to find rest and restoration. To revel, to remember. Lord, I pray for your people that they would be called into a new time of rest and restoration That you are God, that you are good, and that your grace is sufficient. Lord Jesus, to hear your invitation Thank you that it is not, as the Father said, just merely for our physical rest, or even merely for our spiritual rest or emotional rest. It is a sign of your redemption. For you have paid the price for our sin and given us salvation. And you have been rid you have been revealed as the victorious one over sin and death. And on this day, the first day of the week, you said for us to rest. Help us to do that, O Lord. We are weary and we need your restoring power. Do this, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen Thank you for joining me this morning. Thank you for joining technologically and We look forward to gathering together again. Lord willing, next week we'll be able to join together in person. So please look for those announcements. Thank you for being here today. And just one quick announcement that this coming Friday at 7 p. m. , our women's ministry is hosting a Zoom get together to pray, encourage one another. Register through Church Center, and it's another way of finding that space where we can rest in the relationships we have in the Church of Jesus Christ. So I encourage our women to please join this coming Friday at 7 p. m. for that Zoom gathering May the Lord bless you today. May He bless you and your families. Wherever you are. May He give you rest for your souls. And now receive the good word, the benediction. May the love of God the Father, the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the presence of his Holy Spirit be with you now and forevermore. Amen. Thank you for joining me today.