Good morning. Let's try that again. I know it's a little dark and a little cold and a little icy, but let's warm it up in here. Good morning. Good, I'm hearing at least names. In nineteen seventy-nine I had the opportunity of hosting a couple of strangers to each other from Australia. And one of the interesting things that happened is they came to visit. One came a day or two before the other one. But when they came and met each other, they they knew that they were gonna meet at our house in Southern California. When they met, the first thing They did was they gathered together, went out in the backyard, stood by one old bush next to a fence that we had, and talked for half an hour. The reason they were talking with each other was because they knew That they had learned lessons in their visit to America about how to relate to American culture. I recall that when when the first guy came, and and both were non-Christians visiting with us. He shared with me his utter embarrassment at having gotten off the plane, spent a couple days in the United States, and and he was a smoker and he wanted to have a cigarette, but he had run out of cigarettes. So going to somebody that he knew from his visit, and I don't recall exactly the context, he went up and asked for a cigarette, but he found out So he had gone up to this man that he knew just tangentially and asked if he had And the gentleman promptly and unpleasantly explained to him that that was a very inappropriate question to ask. And he learned quickly that he didn't know the rules rules and the expectations of our culture. And in our passage this morning in Philippians three, Paul is concerned to show us the rules of behavior, the code of The expectation God has of us as we come to Him. You see, we come as Americans expecting God to To treat us as other Americans would treat us and to receive our treatment as an American. But unfortunately, God is not cultural. And if we approach God as And Paul's concern isn't simply that of culture in this passage, but of false teaching. Church, as Paul wrote this letter, there were people who were teaching the church how to relate to God. And they were confident in what they were saying. Unfortunately, they were a hundred percent wrong. And Paul recognizes that and he's addressing that. And as we come to this passage this morning, we need to do the same thing. We need to come Not with the context of expecting God to treat us as any other American would treat us and to be willing to receive our treatment as any other American would. We have to realize that God Certainly we have to approach him with a culture because we are cultural beings in essence. We have to know how to relate to one another. And there are rules and codes. But Paul's teaching this morning that there is a way to relate to God and there are lots of ways not to relate to God. Australian friend underwent. But it is judgment in hell. You need this morning and for the rest of your life to know how to relate to God One other consequence of this is tremendous liberation and freedom. And I think I see in Paul. Paul, as he writes this passage, the same fervor and zeal that I saw in my Australian friends as they got together to show each other how not to behave in America. As he writes and speaks not only to the Philippians but to us. Let's read the passage. I'm going to begin in chapter 3 verse 1. Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. It is no trouble for me to write the same things to you again, and it is a safeguard for you. Watch out for those dogs. Those men who do evil, those mutilators of the flesh, for it is we who are the circumcision. We who worship by the Spirit of God, who glory in Christ Jesus. Who put no confidence in the flesh. Though I myself have reasons for such confidence. If anyone thinks he has reasons to put confidence in the flesh, I have more. Circumcision On the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, in regard to the law of Pharisee, as for zeal persecuting the church. For legalistic righteousness, faultless. But whatever was to my profit I now consider lost for the sake of Christ. What is more, I consider everything lost compared to the surpassing I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in Him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ and the power We need to look first at what Paul's doing in his epistle, and I think we have to understand this is a very personal letter to protect Particular people. He's writing to thank them. He's writing to speak about divisions that exist in the church. But I think one of the most important things on Paul's heart is he writes this letter. Is his concern for the Philippian church as they are being threatened by teaching that can shipwreck them, that can take young Christians Christians who may or may not be secure in their faith. And show them a whole different way to respond to God that's going to drive them away. You see, because the teaching The teaching that Paul is battling here is nothing less than saying that you must add works in your relationship to God in order to pursue and to produce protect and to keep that relationship. You see, the Jews had come in and they said, yes, you know, Christianity is an important part of Judaism. But you have to keep the law. Therefore, you must be circumcised and keep all of the law that God has revealed so that you can please God and keep salvation. So that you can earn God's approval and keep in contact with Him. And I think I think we need to understand Paul's response to that. The thing about reading a passage is that you you bring into it the emotions that you have as you come. But Paul, as he writes this, is bringing his own emotions. I mean listen to the words that he says. Watch out for those dogs. I mean it's one of the strongest insults he could have used. This context. Those men who do evil, those mutilators of the flesh. Are you getting Paul's picture here? He is not coming with an even temper. He's furious. Because the church is at risk. Because people's relationships with God are in jeopardy Because they might listen to what these people have to say. They may actually try and live the law in order to earn God's favor. He points out through his own example that you can't do that. But even more clearly In Galatians chapter 5, he's writing to a church that's in a similar situation. He begins his epistle to the Galatian church saying, You began well, who is setting you off? Who's pushing you off? And then he directs it to the And he says, It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. That's what he's calling the law. A yoke of slavery. He goes on and says, Mark my words. I, Paul, tell you that if you let yourself be circumcised Christ will be of no value to you at all. Again I declare that every man who lets himself be circumcised Is obligated to obey the whole law. As Paul's talking in this letter to the Philippians, he's speaking of the party of circumcision. Those who are saying, Yes, Christ is good, but keep the law. You've got to live under the law. You have to hold to your works. As a part of your relationship with God. And Paul's saying, no. For in fact, if you do that, you trust your works and you sever yourself from Jesus. And he's furious. And this morning I want you to catch that fury. Because what Paul is telling the Philippians is what Jesus himself told Paul. Paul setting up and he's saying, If anybody could have trusted their works, it's me. My family background was impeccable. Not only Was I a citizen of Rome, but I am a Jew, a wealthy Jew, who could go and live in Palestine as an Israelite, not as a Greek. I'm of the tribe of Of Benjamin, beloved of God. I was circumcised on the eighth day. Everything that could have been done right by my family to set me up with God Has been done. Everything that I could have done was perfect, as far as it could be done by a human. My zeal was such that I per Persecuted the church. My obedience was such that according to the religious law I am faultless. If you want to trust your works. You can't even measure up to Paul's example. And he says that it's rubbish, that it's muck, that it's trash, that it's useless. For you see what What he's saying, pardon my step into being out in the first blank, is that you can offer nothing. There is nothing that you can offer to God that will add or induce him to give you salvation. There's nothing that you can offer to God that will give you perseverance in your salvation. You cannot procure Paul learned that on the road to Damascus. He learned that in the He was going as Saul the Pharisee to persecute the church on the basis of his works. Because he thought that he was pleasing God and obeying the law that God had given by the Driving out these upstarts. But Jesus appeared to him on that road and said, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Why are you attacking my gospel. Why are you driving yourself from God? Paul realized that he had nothing that he could offer. His family background was useless. His personal righteousness was of no value. It was rubbish. As good as it was, the best example he could come up with it was not enough. For you see, everything that he had done, thought, and said was tainted With sin. And the thing that Paul learned on that road to Damascus was a two-fold lesson. And the first part of that lesson was that God expects perfection. Doing it right isn't enough. It's got to be done perfectly, with perfect motivation, with perfect thought. It's got to be And everything that Paul did was painted with sin. Everything we do is painted with sin. And we don't even do it as well as Paul did it. The truth. Beyond the fact that God's standard is perfection, is that God Himself saves. God told Paul that day that it was he who would save him. On the basis of Christ's work. Now we don't have the account, so we don't know all that he said, but certainly this is the lesson that Paul learned in in Acts 9 on the road to Damascus is when And Paul began to learn that lesson. And as he spoke with Ananias, as he spent time in the wilderness, he was taught the fullness of the gospel. And what he learned is summarized in verse 9 of our chapter. And be found in him not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law. But that which is through faith in Christ. The righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. That hearkens back to Ephesians 2, where Paul says again, for by grace you have been saved through faith. That not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not as a result of works, lest any man should boast. It's by grace that you're saved. It's by grace that you continue in that relationship with God. Don't allow anyone to bring you back To law, to the yoke of slavery, in trying to keep that relationship with God. You see, there is a perfection that is available to us. Remember, God's standard is be perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect. There can be no sin. In that payment for our sin. There can be no sin in that righteousness that pleases God. We can't offer that. And if you're trying this morning to offer to God a righteousness That is mixed with your sin in hopes of getting that relationship with God, then you, like my Australian friend, have completely lost the rules of community. Conduct. Because that's not what is going to earn you that relationship. The only thing that will earn you that relationship is Jesus. perfect life, his unnecessary death, and his resurrection. And if the righteousness of Jesus is covering you, if God has given it to you Imputed it to you as your righteousness, then you need add nothing else. And you cannot add anything else, because if you do, you do not trust the righteousness of Christ. That's why Paul says that if you trust in works, you have severed yourself from God. And see, Paul came to an understanding Understanding, whether it was that day or week in in Damascus after the road, whether it was later in his life, he came to understand a very, very important truth that you must understand And that is, as children of God, you come to God and operate with him not on a code of conduct of righteous behavior. You come to God on grace. You come to God as His child, chosen and loved by Him, made righteous by Him Protected by him. You see, Paul saw this, and there was a tremendous result in his life. Paul looked at that and And he said, I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death I don't know if you felt the way that I did this morning as we sang the songs to begin with, but I began by thinking, this isn't me. I can't claim this I have a family, four kids, there's stress, there's conflict, Sunday mornings, oftentimes we won't one of the most difficult mornings of the week. And so for me to come in and make that transition and to be focusing primarily on loving Jesus is is difficult. But I hope you're like me Because as I began to focus on the Jesus we were singing of and to, I began to remember the things that he'd done for me. I began again to fall in love with him. And as I remembered what he'd done, I began like Paul to want to know him. To be conformed to him. To share his sufferings. And the tone of what Paul's saying here is not one of gain, it's not one of this is to my benefit. It is one of love. He says, I want to know Christ. He's not saying I want to be saved. I want to know Christ. I want to share his sufferings. I want to be conformed to his death. And there is an a desire for intimacy. And in a sense, a desire to please Jesus that Paul's speaking of when he speaks with his tenderness. And then That's the lesson we need to learn with Paul. Jesus in chapter fourteen of the Epistle of John is speaking on the last night before he is assassinated And he speaks to the disciples in a private conversation and he says this if you love me, you will obey what I command. And he goes on a couple of verses later and says, If anyone loves me, he will obey my teaching. If we want to translate that and get more of the sense of But what he's saying is if if you know me and love me, your goal in life will be to please me. And that's really what Paul's saying What he's saying in our passage in Philippians is, I want to know Jesus. I want to please him by being conformed with him in his sufferings, in his death. I want to be intimately immersed in Jesus. Now I don't find that taught often in the American Church. I don't find it taught In the conservative evangelical church. I hear a lot of do's and don'ts, and that makes me think of the party of circumcision. Because you're not to do the works you do to gain God's satisfaction, to gain His love. You don't do it to gain anything. Let me make a very strong statement here as we move into the third point. What are the implications for us? You see, God doesn't love you because of what you've said, because of what you've done, or because of what you thought Let me say that again because I want you to get that this morning. God does not love you because of what you have said, because of what you have done, or because of what you have thought. And you don't lose his love by doing the wrong thing, by saying the wrong thing, or by thinking the wrong thing. Because if you think that, what happens is you think that you've earned God's love. You think that you've earned his approval and you have a right to your position. with him. And the honest truth is you do not. Again, for by grace you have been saved through faith, not as a religion God didn't choose you because of what you do, say, or think, and He isn't keeping you because of what you do, say, or think. So if that's true, then where do my works come in? What do I have to offer? If if having a quiet time seven days this week doesn't gain me a brownie point, why make the sacrifice? If giving sacrificially doesn't gain me God's seal of approval, or maybe some crowns in heaven, why do it? If struggling for my own purity doesn't give me a step up Why? Remember, if you trust your works, you have severed yourself from God. Whether it's the law or whether it's a standard you put on yourself. If you're trusting your works to give you a secure relationship with God, then you have driven yourself from the very security of that relationship. For you see, we tend to be people of one focus. And if that focus isn't Jesus, but is my works, then I've lost My focus on Jesus. You must have a single focus, and that must not be your works, it must not be your problems, it must not be what you have to offer. That focus has to be this to please Jesus. If anyone loves me, he will obey what I Way back when I was in college and lived in Southern California, I had an opportunity to go to Catalina Island. Unfortunately that opportunity was inextricably yoked with sitting in a cabin that had three bedrooms and watching 15 kids, ranging in age from fifth grade girls to high school age young men. And the first night that we were there, I had already been told by the doctor who was the one who had brought this clan over and he conveniently stayed in a motel down the street, that they would cook for me. I could go buy the food with them and things like that. But they knew how to cook well enough that that they could cook and I wouldn't have to be both cook and house cleaner and guard. And so the first night I'm looking forward to seeing what these fifth grade groups We're going to cook me for dinner. And I'm sure the doctor must have thought that they were wonderful cooks because they were his daughters. But they brought out half-cooked school spaghetti covered with ketchup. Now I don't know anybody that would pay for that in a restaurant, and I'm not sure anybody I know would be willing to be paid to eat that. On a bet. It was worthless. I went to the kitchen and I cooked spaghetti. I took the meat that they hadn't even bothered And I cooked it and I made a spaghetti sauce and we had a dinner. And for the rest of that week I cooked. They offered what they could. was not enough. When my children, who are exceptionally talented, by the way, offer me a picture, I see that picture radically different than any of you would. If I were to try and give you one of my children's pictures to hang on the wall of your house or your office, you would look at me with a rather curious look and wonder about my stand. And move on. Because that picture, in and of itself of its own value, is nothing. It isn't enough. But to me, as the father, I don't see the failing of their ability, and I don't see the lack of internal merit in the picture. I see the lack of love of my children in offering to me a humble attempt at pleasing me. And I think that's the illustration you need to have as you look at your works And how they relate to grace. Because as you go and offer your works to God, if you're focusing on pleasing Jesus, that's what you're going to do. You're going to To offer a very poor piece of art, not done in perfection, but done in love. And you know what's going to happen You're going to accomplish your goal. Because Jesus isn't going to see that the picture is very poorly done. He's not going to see that your quiet times were mixed with times Of sinful thoughts. He's not going to see that the sacrificial giving that you do was really mixed with the selfishness and a desire to glorify yourself. He's going to notice the focus was on him. And that you did it because you loved him. And that's why Paul Goes on to say that he presses toward the mark. Chapter three, verses twelve and following, he he's talking not about relaxing and taking it easy. And simply gazing on a picture of Jesus. He speaks of straining. He speaks of exerting himself. He speaks of working hard. Probably harder than than he did as a Pharisee, but for a whole different goal. His focus is not on himself and not on what he can gain. His focus is on Jesus in offering pleasure to the world. This morning I want you to be thinking about how God is calling you What is it you need to change? What of your thoughts, of your motivations, of your attitudes draws you away from From the one you want to be close to. You have to begin that by trusting him for your salvation. I'm sure that there are probably some who may wonder, do they really trust Jesus? Or do they trust? They like the party of circumcision, trusting their works. Well, if you have a question about that, trust Jesus. If you're not sure what that means, talk to me. Talk to Alan. Talk to An elder. Talk to someone you trust. But trust Jesus for your salvation. He's done it all. There is not one thing you can add. to them. Then you need to see your works for what they are. They're poorly Done pieces of art that have very little value in and of themselves. And if you're looking at your at your glory to come from the people around you, for like what John says in chapter 5 He says, Jesus said, How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that's from the one another one and only God? Who's the focus of your works? Is it the people around you? Is it Is it yourself? Is it an attempt to gain something from Christ? If it is, then it's wrong. And it will gain you nothing but a distance from Jesus. See your works for what they are, what they can and must be. A statement of love to Jesus. And then you need to focus on him. You need to focus on pleasing him, and you do that by knowing him better. Paul speaks and says, I want to If you feel like you don't know Jesus well enough this week, then learn more of him. Read in the Gospels where He speaks Find out who this person is. Find out what he's done for us. For you. Allow his love to flow through you. And as you see what he's done for you, you will Will respond in love. And then ask him to bring you to growth in your Christ-likeness. It's his power. Paul says earlier in this epistle, he says, I'm confident that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion. If you want to be More Christ-like, ask God to make you Christ-like. And do what you do out of love for Him. I want to go back. To the hymn we just sang, because the last verse in that hymn is incredibly linked to what we're trying to talk about here. Listen to this Ever lift thy face upon me as I work and wait for thee. Resting neath thy smile, Lord Jesus. Earth's dark shadows for you. If you want to please Jesus this week, focus on Jesus and do what Jesus, we thank you that not only have you come and provided a means of salvation Not only have you come to bring us into relationship with you, you've made us your children. Sons and daughters of the living God. You've taught us the code of behavior. You've shown us that the work that's done is all yours. And that the law is all is not a means of procuring or preserving our relationship with you, but it's an expression of what pleases you and your desire for For us is that as we know you and love you, our focus be what pleases you. Lord, this week, this day, even this moment, as we reflect upon you, transform us. Take from us our selfish desires to be secure. Take from us our focus and our pride. Upon what we have done. Lord, transform them. Give us a childlike desire to please you. Help us to know you. To know your love, to know your power, to know that you are satisfied with the love of your children. And fill us with that love.