Great, thank you. It's a pleasure to be here with you all again and uh missions month. So we're just so grateful at MCW for churches like Columbia. Who take the Great Commission very seriously. And so it's just a privilege and a pleasure to be back in your presence again. And bringing the Word of God. Just uh just to kind of get our minds around things, let me just ask you this question. You know, what do you delight in? In in what do you delight? I was an engineer, sorry, English was not my major. In what do you delight? Or let me let me put it this way, what exhilarates you? Like gives you an adrenaline rush. Anything in particular? I have uh six kids. My son and daughter are here, which is awesome. They're here to support me this morning. I have two girls at home And they love roller coasters. I mean they love roller coasters and one of the ones that uh just wigs me out. Have you ever been to Busch Gardens in Florida? There's a chicra. You know the chicra if you've been there? and it goes up about two hundred and fifty feet and you make the slow climb. And as I get older my fear of heights is just getting worse and worse. And then you get to two hundred and fifty feet and then you go over there and it just hangs you there for like four or five seconds and just this fear. I mean I get a pit in my stomach just thinking about it right now. And then finally, it seems like forever, but it's only a few seconds. And then it just releases you into this 200 foot drop. That's exhilarating, just so you know. I had a work colleague, this freaked me out. She loved, she loved reading. Stephen King novels in the middle of the night by herself. Kind of that yeah I'm glad you're alive. Don't do that, by the way. I don't I'm not recommending it, I'm just telling you. Uh it's kind of that that that fear that but just gives you that adrenaline rush. Well believe it or not, believe it or not, the Bible has a category For delighting in fear. The Bible has a category we're going to look at this morning for delighting in fear that leads to a deeper connection with God. And a deeper involvement in his kingdom. So let's take a look at Nehemiah chapter 1. Nehemiah chapter 1, where I'm going to read all 11 verses. But just check out this process that Nehemiah goes through. Hear now God's holy word. The words of Nehemiah, the son of Hechaliah. Now it happened in the month of Chislev in the twentieth year, as I was in Susa, the citadel, that Hanani, one of my brothers, came with us with certain men from Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews who escaped, who had survived the exile concerning Jerusalem. And they said to me, The remnant there in the province who had survived the exile is in great trouble and shame. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are destroyed by fire. As soon as I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days. And I continued fasting and praying before the God of heaven. And I said, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God. who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments. Let your ear be attentive and your eyes open. To hear the prayer of your servant that I now pray before you day and night for the people of Israel, your servants, confessing the sins of the people of Israel, which we have sinned against you. Even I and my father's house have sinned. We have acted very corruptly against you, and have not kept the commandments, statutes, and the rules that you commanded your servant Moses. Remember the word that you commanded your servant Moses, saying, If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples. But if you return to me and keep my commandments and do them, though you your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven. From there I will gather them and bring them to the place that I have chosen to make my name dwell there. They are your servants and your people, whom you have redeemed by your great power and by your strong hand. O Lord, let your beer your ear be attentive. To the prayer of your servant, and to the prayer of your servants who delight to fear in your name. And give success to your servant today and grant him mercy. in the sight of this man. Now I was cupbearer to the king. Could you pray with me just briefly as we unpack this passage? Father, we thank you for your word. It's authoritative. It's your inspired word. But we need it to come alive in our hearts by the power of your spirit. So, Spirit, I pray that you would move in us, shape us, and mold us. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So the background of this passage is kind of halfway through a story, actually, halfway between Ezra and the rest of the book of Nehemiah. Nehemiah, it's about 445. B. C. Jerusalem had been destroyed over a hundred years before that, 586 B. C. , because of the disobedience of God's people. And they'd been scattered. But if you're familiar with the story, under Cyrus, the Persian king, you know, things had changed hands, waves of exiles were allowed to go back to Jerusalem and begin to rebuild. And they ended up, if you read Ezra, they were able to rebuild the temple, which was no easy task. But between internal strife and external pressure, uh the walls were still in ruins. And if you think about it, uh in those days A city's walls, I mean that's that was how they survived. That was part of their prosperity. In a sense, it was kind of the glory of a city, how big its walls were. And that's how an area prospered. And so today we're going to look at two things. We're going to look at Nehemiah's posture. And then we're going to look at Nehemiah's response. His posture and response. Because if some if anyone knew what it meant, he understood the importance of of city walls as he stood in the citadel of Susa, 120 feet over the rest of the city. See, he knew what it meant for a city to have those kinds of walls. And he's waiting for his brother. There's messengers. They've been sent back to Jerusalem to bring word back to Nehemiah Hanani. And he gives them this news. But it begs the question though, as before we kind of dive into the text. And that is, why is Nehemiah so why is he so curious about Jerusalem? Why does he care that much? I mean he was born in Persia. This is his home. He's got a cushy job. I mean he's sitting pretty right now Why is he so curious? Why is he so concerned about Jerusalem? Well, if you look back in the scriptures, the restoration of Jerusalem was promised. And it was actually fulfilled in Daniel's prayer in Daniel chapter 9. And so what we find here in this passage is this is on God's heart. And if it's on God's heart, then it's on Nehemiah's heart. And so this is the work of the Lord in Nehemiah's life. And he's caught in this tension. He's caught in this tension between the brokenness of this world. And the promises of God. And you can feel it here in this passage. He senses what's going on in the world, and yet he knows from the scriptures, the authoritative word of God, what his promises, what God's promises. are. I just wonder, do you sense that same tension here? Do you sense that same tension Around the world, the contrast between the progress of the gospel and the state of the world. Check the slide out just for a second. And it gives us a sense of the state of the world. And this is it, this comes from a Global Frontier Fellowship. I went to one of their seminars. And it says this is where the most the the the most number of least reached people live. And it's a little hard to see, it's a little bit small, sorry about that. But you can see numbers of people groups. You may not make out the numbers, but it's three and four digits in those countries. And it says ten countries with the largest population of least-reached people contain 75% of all the least-reached in the world. Let me put that in context with you. If every Christian shared the gospel with every person they know and God brought them all to Christ, there would still be two billion people left who have not heard the gospel. It's an issue of access. And I know there are struggles in our own country, but I can tell you, whatever the needs are here It's times a thousand. It's times ten thousand overseas. I tell maybe I said this last time I was here. I tell kids, you want to be one in a million? Everyone wants to be one in a million. You do not have to become a basketball or football or you know mus a m a famous musician to be one in a million. All you gotta do is be a full-time worker in a Muslim country. I guarantee you, you will be one in a million. Because that's what it takes. And that's that those are the statistics today. You'd be one in a million there, and you'd be a part of God's glorious kingdom. And we know, right? We know one day Christ will come. We know the promises of the Lord Jesus. But until he does We have a task, don't we? We have a job, the Great Commission, to taking the gospel to the ends of the earth. And so you're starting to see this is kind of Nehemiah, they call it his his his kingdom-facing posture. That's what he's about. He's got one of the best jobs in the kingdom. But that's not his focus, is it? His focus is on the kingdom of God. And he wants to hear news about what's going on in the church in Jerusalem. What's going on with the exiles who are rebuilding the city and the temple. So let's now look at Nehemiah's response. The news comes back and he has this threefold response to that news. As you look in the passage, what does it say? As soon as he heard these words, look at verse 4. I sat down and what? Wept. Wept and mourned for days. He grieves, he hears the news, and it breaks his heart Now it would seem a little odd. It's not because he knew about the destruction of the walls 150 years ago. That's not what it's all about. Every U. S. school kid knew that news. That's not what actually is happening here. If you look back, if you get a chance to go back to Ezra chapter 4, there's this little vignette and it's looking forward a little bit. And what's happening is the enemies of Israel send a letter to King Artaxerxes, the very king that Nehemiah is serving. It's about 15 years before this time, approximately. And they say, hey, listen, King, it's early on in his reign, and they say, there's this rebellious people over here in Jerusalem, and you need to tell them to stop. And so he tells them to stop. He's trying to solidify his kingdom. He's a young king. He's trying to solidify his power. And so they are forced to stop. And 15 years later, Nehemiah, he's just hoping. He's hoping to hear good news that somehow, some way, God's people have prevailed over that, and that perhaps the walls of Jerusalem were being rebuilt. And so you can imagine when he hears this news, he's just crushed. His heart is broken over what's happened. He's mourning. He's mourning over what has happened. And that that I don't know. If that challenges you, it challenges me. When is the last time? Let me ask you this. When is the last time you mourned? Grieved, wept over the state of the world in terms of God's kingdom. That's what's happening here. He's weeping over what the brokenness of this world and the lack of gospel witness I don't know about you. I don't know. I I see these statistics, and sometimes I see them so often. This is I'm in the missions world. You become desensitized, don't we? We become become so focused in our own little kingdoms. That we forget what's going on around the world. But it's not just Nehemiah who wept over Jerusalem. You know that. It's not just Nehemiah who wept over the church or what's happening in the world. Jesus himself wept. Maybe remember in John chapter 11 when Lazarus is dead. He's been dead four days in Jesus Christ, and he knows what he's going to do. He knows he's going to raise him from the dead. And Jesus wept. Why? He weeps over this, the brokenness of this world and how sin is just ravaged God's world. Jesus weeps again over Jerusalem. He says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how I wish I I wanted to gather you like a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you would not have it. But this so you start to realize in Nehemiah's life. This is the work of the Holy Spirit. This is the work of God connecting, or Nehemiah connecting with the heart of God. God. And so I'm going to ask you, I'm going to challenge you. Would you, would you ask the Lord to break your heart for what breaks his When we look at the state of the world today. Paul talks a little bit about this in 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Because there's different kinds of sorrow. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 7 rather verse 10. Look at what it says. I love this verse because he says, look, there's different kinds of sorrows. And he's comparing and contrasting those. He's saying, for godly grief produces repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Can we pause there just for a second? Does anybody else here struggle with regret? That is one of the biggest things I struggle with is regret. And maybe it's because I haven't experienced in some areas of my life that true repentance. that says I can leave it at the foot of the cross, knowing that my guilt and shame has been taken away. See, godly sorrow leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly sorrow produces death. So this is what's happening in Nehemiah's heart. He is connecting with the heart of God, and he is he is has this godly sorrow. And it causes him to grieve. But the beauty of it is, if it's godly sorrow, you won't stay there. He doesn't say this. Your worldly sorrow would just lead you, right? It just leads to death. It just leads to depression. But godly sorrow leads you to do something. So what does he do next? He grieves. And then as you look back at the passage, what is the next thing he says? As soon as I heard these words, I sat and I wept and mourned for days and continued fasting and praying before the God of heaven. And then I said, and he just goes into this prayer. And this prayer of Nehemiah is beautiful. It's a beautiful prayer because it almost follows exactly you know that acronym ACS, you know, adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication. It almost follows that to a T. And I tell people sometimes, if you're stuck in your prayer life You don't know what to do, just go to Nehemiah chapter 1. It'll you're like, oh yeah, okay, this is what I need to do. Because he starts, which was how we start our worship today. I love the liturgy today. With adoration. And notice what he's saying in adoration. He's basically saying, Lord, you're faithful. See, Lord, you're faithful. It's not your fault. You're not the one who caused this. See, we're the ones who have the problem. You're the one who's faithful. And that word there, steadfast love, you know, there's only a few Hebrew words you need to know, right? Like Yahweh. Elohim, Adonai, some of those names of God, and then you know the word Hesed, right? Hesed that that covenantal love, that faithful love, that there's almost no English word, or there's probably ten English words you would need to translate it. That steadfast, constant covenant uh-making, covenant-keeping love that God has for his And the beauty of adoration, in my opinion, is adoration puts your heart in the right spot in order to receive what God has for you. It puts your heart, it calibrates your heart in the right place for you to receive a message from God. And that's exactly what's happening with Nehemiah. So he grieves. That's the first step. You're going to see there's a progression there. He grieves. His heart is broken for what breaks the heart of God. And then he goes right to the Lord. It drives him straight to the word, to the Lord himself. So adoration, then he goes into confession. And notice in verses 6 and 7, it's not just for him, it's not just for the people of God, it's for his household too. God, I mean Nehemiah's household. It's both a corporate and a personal prayer. It's a confession for himself and God's people. Now, Nehemiah is not a prophet, nor is he a priest. He's kind of like a secular business guy. And you so what is he doing here? He's confessing his sin in the context of the larger church. In the larger context of God's people. And God has brought this through his heart, and he's taking it to the Lord in godly sorrow and repentance. I don't know if some of you have read the book by Jerry Bridges called Respectable Sins. You've read that book? Just the title. You don't have to read the book, right? This is the subtitle of it. Respectable sins, sins we tend to tolerate in ourselves. Right? Because we tolerate and that we don't tolerate sin in anybody else. But we tolerate sin in ourselves, don't we? Not so bad. A little pride, a little anger, hate. Isn't that what we all deal with? Little this little la, you know, and until we're just kind of like, yeah, God doesn't really mind those sins and Nehemiah is convicted, he's like, No, no, no, no, no. This is and he it's fully orbed. He doesn't even say like a few things. We have acted corruptly against you and have not kept the commandments, the statutes, the rules. I mean he's just like, this is it. Okay, we're guilty. See praises the Lord, then he confesses his sin before the Lord But again, godly sorrow leads to repentance, and repentance, by the way, is a grace of God. Beating yourself up is not repentance Do you need to hear that again? Beating yourself up is not repentance. Repentance is being able to say, Lord, you took it all. And you remove my guilt and shame. And I'm sorry. I'm going to turn the other way by your power. And actually repentance, true repentance leads to joy. That refreshing of the soul. And so Nehemiah he adores God, he has adoration, confession. The next one I would say is Thanksgiving-ish, right? But he starts to recount to God his promises. And it basically, if I could summarize verses 8 and 10, it would go something like this. Lord, you warned us, we messed up, but there's hope. There's real hope. There's true hope. And he's reminding God of his promises. You told us, Lord, yeah, if we If we messed up, you'd send us away. But you also told us if we turn back to you, you will bring us back. And in a sense, he's holding God to his promises. I heard a message by James Forsyth, who was uh the the pastor McLean press, a Nehemiah's prayer, and he had this quote, it was at an MTW event, and he had this quote from Martin Luther. You've got to see this quote, it's awesome. Listen to what Martin Luther says about holding God to his promises. He was praying actually for a friend who was very sick and in trouble. I besought the Almighty with great vigor. I attacked him with his own weapons. Check this out. Quoting from the scripture, all the promises I could remember that prayer should be granted. And said that he must grant my prayer if I was to henceforth put faith in his promises. Who else but Martin Luther could pray a prayer like that? Right? I attacked him with his own weapons. That's bold. That's a bold prayer. My prayers are so anemic compared to this. This is a bold prayer. I'm not saying you should pray exactly this way. But I feel like, yeah, God doesn't mind, in a sense, being held to his promises. He wants us to know his promises and go after his promises. That's the beauty of this prayer of Nehemiah. Yeah, ask the Lord of the harvest to raise up, and we're expecting that he's going to answer that prayer And uh I you know I say to folks, I I I'm sorry if I said this to you last time, uh forgive me, but I say one of the biggest blocks to uh people going on missions is parents and grandparents. And uh sorry, well I'm not sorry, I'm not sorry. Uh look, I've got kids, you know, maybe some grandkids, who knows, and uh And so I'm going to ask you, parents and grandparents, when you pray Matthew 9, that God would raise up working for the harvest, would you put your kids or grandkids' name in there Lord, would you raise up? Put their name in. Now it becomes personal. That's a real prayer. That's a real prayer. That's a bold prayer. But notice Nehemiah as he's going through this. He bases his prayer first on the promises of God, but then he bases his prayer on two particular attributes of God. Check it out now, starting in verse 10. But they are your servants, your people whom you have redeemed by what? Now check these two things out: your great power and your strong hand. So he's basing his his uh his prayer on the attributes of God. And he's the promise keeper, and he's the one who's able to fulfill fulfill his promises. So I looked at those phrases and in the Hebrew they're they're only used a few times in the scripture. It's very interesting. This word great power. and strong hand. Now I'm just going to give you a representative of each, but look at this. Starting in Deuteronomy chapter 4, this is when Moses, he's trying to tell the people, okay, we're going in now, right? We've been through this before. Now we're going in to take the promised land. He's reminding the people. And because he loved your fathers and chose their offspring after them and brought you out of Egypt with his own presence by his great power. Great power. Driving out before you nations greater and mightier than you. Now, therefore, today, and lay it to your heart that the Lord is God in heaven above and on earth beneath, there is no other. This is a reminder that God had brought them out of Egypt by His great power. And I love that, driving out nations greater and mightier than you. I mean, do you ever feel like I'm looking at these unreason people groups and I see some of these places around the world, and maybe you see it even in your own neighborhood. You're like, it feels overwhelming, doesn't it? I get overwhelmed sometimes when I think about the Great Commission. And I have to be reminded that God is greater than the nations. He's greater than our enemies. He's greater than us. And all of our, you know, silliness. Nations greater and mightier than you. I'm sorry. Nations greater and mightier than you, Israel, right? Because there is no other. But this gets better. So great power. Now we got to get to strong hand. Strong hand. And so representative passage there comes from 1 Kings chapter 8. Slightly longer, but this is when the temple has been built. They put the ark into the temple, and Solomon is this beautiful prayer in 1 Kings about what's going to happen. And what has and how faithful God has done, things that God has done. And check out this prayer now. We uses the words, the phrase strong hand. As for the foreigner, Who does not belong to your people Israel, but has come from a distant land because of your name. For they will hear of your great name and your strong hand. There it is, and your outstretched arm. When they come and pray towards this temple, then hear from heaven your dwelling place. Do whatever the foreigner asks of you. Why? So that all the people of the earth may know your name and fear you. This is a mission's prayer. Thousands of years ago. Now they didn't understand all that was about to happen or what was going to happen in terms of the kingdom of God. But this is a missionary prayer. Lord, would you hear the prayer of the foreigner so that what? Your name, that your name may be known and feared. Brothers and sisters, this is our job. This is our job. To make his great name known. His saving power, his mercy, his mighty hand, his patience towards sinners, his strong hand to take broken lives, broken families, and put them back together. That's what God has done. That's what Christ has done on the cross. substituting himself for us that we might experience the greatness of God, that we might be able to delight in who he is. And if you have never experienced that before, maybe today is the day. I was looking at your bulletin and I saw this little flap here. I saw little things that you can mark down. Take a look at that just for a second. There's one of them that says I'd like to receive CPC weekly emails. Feel free to take your pen and cross it out and just say, I'd like to receive Jesus. And the elders would love to talk to you about that. Because this is what it means to be part of the kingdom of God. What a great privilege and honor. And then as he kind of goes through this process of prayer, then he has this supplication, we can call it. Look at verse 11, just for a second. Oh Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant and to the prayer of your servants. who delight to fear in your name and give success to your servant today. And grant him mercy in the sight of this man. You're thinking, okay, what is he talking about? Now you've read this before probably, but if you're reading this for the first time, you're saying, success in what? What plan? What man? Who is he talking about there? And then the last line is beautiful. It's beautifully written. It's like it he just drops it in there, right? He just is like, boom. He's like, I was the cupbearer to the kid. I mean that's like a mic drop, right? It's like done. Walk off stage. Now to us that doesn't mean that much, but to be the cupbearer to the king He has access. He has regular access. And if you read the rest, a friendship almost with the king, King Artaxerxes. He has access to the most powerful person in the world. And I know you're close to DC here. I was trying to say, what's an analogy? Being like an advisor to the president. But you know, it's not even that because these guys were dictators. They didn't have a Congress or a Senate or anything, you know, Supreme Court. Whatever they said happened. He had access to the most powerful. I mean what a LinkedIn profile, right? I mean, yeah, you need help on this project? Oh, by the way, I have access to the most powerful man in the world. What he says goes. And so you see what's happening? He grieves. Right? Here's the process. He prays And then he plans. And he's committing those plans to the Lord He's in and if you read Nehemiah chapter 2, take a minute this afternoon if you would, but I mean it's awesome. He's asking for time off. He's asking for safe passage. He's asking for the material. This is a big ask. Derek Kidner, a commentator in the Old Testament, puts it like this. Take a look. Nehemiah had prayed long enough and had faith enough. To visualize the operation in some detail, even to the building technique that he was going to use for the wall. All that time of grieving and praying was not just that. He's the Holy Spirit's working in his mind and in his heart. And he's using those skills that God has given it. It's almost like this. I paraphrase it like this. You're king. Yeah, I I'm I'm gonna need to go. I'm gonna need a lot of PTO. Um I'm gonna need a fleet of trucks. I'm gonna need a diplomatic passport and I'm gonna need a boatload of cash. That's all I need to make this happen, right? And the king grants it. Take a look at Nehemiah chapter 2. Nehemiah has these great prayers. There's this prayer, you know, for every you know Big long prayer, right? Acts. And then he has these arrow prayers of he's about to ask the king and he says, I prayed to the Lord and said, Oh king, can I have all this stuff? And the king says, Yeah. Amazing. But you see the progression. He agrees, he prays, he plans. So I'm going to ask you today, will you commit? To being part of God's kingdom. Whatever that might look like, would you commit yourself, your life to God's worldwide kingdom? We're going to land this in just a minute here. Because before you do, I want you to go back to that statement. We're going to go back to that statement I mentioned at the very beginning. Take a look at verse 11 again. He said, then to the prayers of your servants who what? Who delight to fear in your in your name. Now we all know we should fear the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, but to me I've never heard it in delighting in the fear of the Lord. To me, it just pushes that even further. Challenges me. I don't need to just fear the Lord. I need to delight in the fear of the Lord. There's a definition. Let me just read this to you. It's a little bit sterile. We'll just uh personalize it. In this case, I got this out of a Bible reference. In this case, delight means The object solicits favor by its own intrinsic qualities The object still is favored by its own intrinsic qualities. The subject is easily attracted to it because it's so desirable. Here, God is the object, Nehemiah is the subject, right? Let me just translate that. Nehemiah is so enamored with the qualities of God that it drives him to this conclusion. It's being enamored with the qualities of God. And so the God you know who and the qualities of God, who God is, is juxtaposed with the brokenness of this world. And when he does that, when he delights in the fear of the Lord. He gets this clarity. Do you like clarity sometimes? I do. He gets this clarity of engaging in God's kingdom. It's kind of like Psalm 37. 4, right? Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. So as I bring this to you today, as we kind of land this plane, this is not a slap-down guilt fest. That's not what this is about. This is about becoming so enamored with the qualities of God that your heart is connected with his heart. And allowing yourself, allowing your heart to be broken, that would drive you to prayer. And you would commit yourself. Because Nehemiah's story, all as amazing as it is, is just a precursor. It's a preparation for a much larger plan that God is going to enact when Christ comes. And Wayne read it in Acts chapter 1. See, no longer would people have to come. The foreigner wouldn't have to come to Jerusalem. You are the temple of the Holy Spirit. We are the temple of the Holy Spirit. And we bring the presence of God with us wherever we go. And so this is going to be much bigger than Nehemiah ever even dreamed of. Going out to the nations. And Nehemiah doesn't know this, but one thing he does know, he needs to be faithful to what God has given to him. And I encourage you and challenge you as a church to be faithful to what God has given to you and individually where God is calling you. Delight in the fear of the Lord. Allowing your heart to be connected with the heart of God. And I'm convinced, I am convinced that when Nehemiah thinks about this, I mean he gets an adrenaline rush when he thinks about delighting in the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this time together. Thank you for your word. Lord, we want to delight in fearing you. We want you to be Lord of our lives, Father. Lord, would you be pleased to use us For the sake of your kingdom. And we give you praise in Christ's name. Amen.