As we get going this morning, I want to read a verse to you that describes some of what Jesus regularly went through with the Pharisees. Jesus is speaking with Levi or Matthew. He's calling him as his disciple. And the Pharisees are very upset. Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? Jesus gives one of his promises that is a repeating theme and is the focus of the parable we're going to look at today, where he says, it is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. As we look at the parable of the prodigal son, which really ought to be called the parable of the older brother We're going to break it into two weeks and we're going to look at two things. We're going to look at the parable from the perspective of the prodigal today, because that's necessary to understand what takes place with the older brother and the father, which we'll look at next week. But this parable is found in a group of parables that I'm convinced Jesus told at the same time because they build on one another, and the parable of the prodigal son explains the other two. The first is the parable of the lost sheep, and Alan preached on that last year. The other is the parable of the lost coin, where the woman spends all day looking for one out of ten coins and celebrates with her friends when she finds it. And then Jesus gives the parable of a lost son. The point of the series of parables is clear. That point is that God loves his children, even when they're lost. That's a hard lesson for us to learn. We'll look more at that next week and see how we respond to that. But Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees, to the tax collectors, and to the disciples, as he explains God's unbounded love for his children. Let's turn now to parable is found in Luke chapter fifteen, verses eleven through thirty-two. Jesus continued. There was a man who had two sons. The younger one said to his father, Father, give me my share of the estate. So he divided his property between them. Not long after that, the younger son got together all that he had, set off for a distant country, and there squandered his wealth in wild living. After he had spent everything, there was a severe famine in that whole country, and he began to be in need. So he went and hired himself out to a citizen of that country who sent him to his fields to feed pigs. He longed to fill his stomach with the pods that the pigs were eating, but no one gave him anything. When he came to his senses, he said, How many of my father-fired men have food to spare? And here I am starving to death. I will set out and go back to my father and say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired men. So he got up and went to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion for him. He ran to his son, threw his arms around him, and kissed him The son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. But the father said to his servants, Quick, bring the best robe and put it on, and put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let's have a feast and celebrate, for this son of mine who was dead, is alive again. He was lost and is found. So they began to celebrate. Meanwhile, the older son was in the field, and when he came near the house, he heard the music and dancing. So he called one of the servants and asked him what was going on. Your brother has come, he replied, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he has him back safe and sound. The older brother became angry and refused to go in. So his father went out and pleaded with him. But he answered his father, Look, all these years I've been slaving for you and never disobeyed your orders, yet you never give me even a goat, so that I could celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours, who has squandered your property with prostitutes, comes home, you killed a fattened calf for him. My son, the father said, You're always with me, and everything I have is yours. But we had to celebrate and be glad because this brother of yours was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. Let's pray. Lord God, I know that this is a familiar story to us all. I know that we have emotional responses when we hear this story read. But I pray this morning that you would stop us. That you'd cause us to ponder. That you'd open our eyes so that we might see what you want us to know and to experience and to feel as we consider your love for your children and as we consider our position. In that story. Lord, please change us. Conform us to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want to look at the prodigal son. I want us to learn with him this morning. Whether you see yourself as the older brother or whether you see yourself as the pre-escaped prodigal. Whether you see yourself as a humble, repentant, returned prodigal, I want you to learn with a prodigal this morning. I want you to think as the story is unfolded. Because there's a lot for us to learn. We have to learn with the prodigal himself, and we're introduced to him first and foremost in verses 12 through 14. The one thing I want to say in the beginning as we look at the prodigal son is that he's a really unpleasant person. I don't know if you think about it that way, or you just sort of get lost in the story, but here is a guy who is proud and selfish. He's so consumed with his own issues that he goes to a father and takes a very bold step. He says, give me my share. But I want you to think for a moment, because is that his share? Is he taking what is his by right, or is he taking a gift and making it a possession? There's a case back in California when I was still in seminary where an employer had graciously for a period of three years given his employees in his shop a turkey every Thanksgiving. He did it because he wanted them to have a good holiday. And so he went out of his way not only to give the turkey, but he'd go buy the turkeys and bring them and give them to his employees because he cared about their Thanksgiving. Well the fourth year business wasn't nearly as good. And so because he decided that that that was a benefit that he could do without having to pay for it, he didn't provide the turkeys One of the employees decided that he had been shafted. Somebody had not given him what was his, and so he went to court. The outcome of the court decision was that there had been established an implicit contract because of the regularity of the gift. And that although there was not some stated agreement in the contract with the employees that one of their given benefits was a turkey, the implicit contract was a bound was a binding contract, and indeed the employer had to go back and give them all the turkeys that he'd forsaken that Thanksgiving. Now, if I was the employer, I'd be pretty upset. I would think that here I had done something out of the kindness of my heart that had been a gift, and now my employee, or employees depending upon how many participated in the suit. Was taking a gift and making it a right. That's exactly what the prodigal had done. He went to his father, and even if it was by culture a right of his to expect an inheritance, A division of the property, he certainly didn't have to expect it while his father was alive. He had no right to go to his father and say, hey, you know, you're healthy, you're going to live a long time, but I want my money now, so give it to me. But he did. And his father, out of the gracious goodness of his heart, gave him a significant percentage of the family estate. Probably a third. We only hear of two sons. The firstborn has a right to a double double share. But being the younger son, he probably got a third of the property. It was now no longer part of the common estate by which the family could run their business. It was his He's a very unpleasant person. He's not focused on his father. He's not focused on his brother. He's focused solely upon himself. And we see that further in verse 13. As he moves from saying, Give me what is mine, to where he, not long after that, gets altogether what he had and set off for a distant country, there squandering his wealth in wild living. The son not only didn't want to have his father provide for him, the son wanted to be free of his father's rules. If he was worthy of this property, he was worthy of it on the basis of his relationship. It was his not by essential character, it was his by relationship. He was the son of the one who owned it. And not only does he say, Give it to me while you're alive so that I can have what I want, he goes to the Father and says, By the way, now I'm not going to stay here I've got what I want and you're not part of it so I'm gonna leave. I don't want your rules. I don't want your oversight I don't want your company and he left And he squandered his his property in what's termed in the Greek aesotos living. His living was He's called the prodigal because he has a prodigal lifestyle in this far country. And that that sort of has become a lost term to us, but it means amoral. He has no concern for what he's doing. In verse 30, you see his brother speaking about it. Brother, whether it's right or wrong, we don't know because it's not confirmed. But his brother says he's basically spending his inheritance with prostitutes. Whether or not he's partying and having fun, whether he's spending his life in a degenerate style with prostitutes, whatever, we know that he squanders his wealth. His goal is to have his property, to have his cake, to have his icing, to have his ice cream, to eat it all at the same time and never see it go away. He wants to get away from his father and away from his father's rules. This is a proud and selfish young man. At this point, I'm looking at him and I'm thinking, I can really agree with this older brother. I'm pretty glad that he's gone. At least now I don't have to worry about him anymore And I'm beginning to feel a little self righteous with the older brother who says, Good riddance. I'm not sure I'd want to see him return. At this point I'm not feeling very much like the younger son. I don't know if you are. But he was a real jerk. And it seems to me that the family is better off without him. But the story doesn't stop here. Because in verse 15 through 20, we see the lessons that he begins to learn. In verse 15, he is now confronting his true needs. He is away from his father's protection. He has lost all of the money that he had, and he's starving to death. There is no postponed reckoning for him. One of the things that in studying this parable came very clear to me is that I live in a very, very comfortable place. Because any reckoning that I have to face is postponed. I can recall a time when I was in college. I don't know if you who've gone through college recall this, or you who are in college are experiencing it. You who are going to college will someday face this. I went away to college and I left the protection of my parents, but I had a certain amount of money in the bank that I knew would get me through X number of years of college. And so as I took the tests, they were familiar. As I studied, it was a familiar routine. And I knew that while I was still at university and I'd paid my bills to the dorms and I had paid my bills to the to the uh university. I could take the classes, I could live in the dorms, and I could eat in the commons. I had everything I needed. But as I drew closer to graduation, I began to realize that there was a day of reckoning that was going to come sooner than I had anticipated. And I knew that when I graduated from college I had to find a job because at that point I was on my own. I would have been twenty-two I would have been trained and it was time for me to prove myself. I either had to provide for myself or acknowledge my failure There was a day of reckoning that came. And there were times when I was very anxious about what I was going to do, because my degree, foolish that it was, was a history degree. And an undergraduate history degree and a dime, well no, today maybe 50 cents, can get you a cup of coffee. I know PhD history graduates were painting houses for a living because history is not an employable skill. And there was a day of reckoning that came and went for me as I looked at what I was going to do with my life. God graciously led me through those anxious times, but but that gave me a taste of the day that's coming. Because we will all face our Father. This prodigal son didn't face his father, but he faced his real needs as he sat there amongst the pigs, realizing that he was starving. And he knew that if he didn't change, he would die. In the NIV, it says, I'm starving to death. In the Greek, it's apolemy. That is a term that has a dual sense of perishing and judgment. What Jesus is interestingly doing in the way he phrases this parable is he's speaking of both that temporal day of reckoning and that eternal day of reckoning. This son is recognizing not only is he going to die because he cannot provide for himself, he has no safe place, and he has no skills, and he has no money. He can't even eat the pods that the pigs were being fed. He's not pulling any punches when he says, I am starving to death. But there's a dual sense because he also recognizes now his sin. He understands that in leaving his father, in taking his inheritance, and in squandering it, he has sinned against his father. In verse 17, he says, verse 19, I'm sorry, he says, I am no longer worthy to be called your son. He understands the sin of his leaving and of cutting that relationship to the point where now he he has to beg his father. To be hired as a servant. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Please make me one of your hired servants. What you have to understand at this point in this parable is that a conversion experience is taking place. He is not the prodigal any longer. At this point, we now have to call him the younger son. Think about that for a moment. He is no longer the prodigal. When he returns, he is not the prodigal return. He is the younger son. Come home We'll get more into that next week as we look at the relationship between the son and the older brother. But that is an essential point for you to get a hold of. There is a shift in verse nineteen where he is no longer the prodigal. I want you also to understand But that is a unique experience. Think for a moment. For those of you who are parents, I want you to think of your children. How often can your kids come to you with a tearful eye, a downturned frown, and a wondrous word of, I'm sorry? There are several magical words that children have gotten a grasp of, and one of them is I'm sorry And you can think of times where either your children have come to you, or perhaps you in your own remembrance have gone to your parents and really been sorry that you're stuck in the situation you're in. But there's no sense of repentance. I keep thinking of of a few prisoners that I got to know very, very briefly in a visit that I made to a prison back in California when I was working with the navigators. And there were two classes of prisoners who would come to the chaplain. There were those who would say, I'm sorry And hope that by their penitence they could get a better situation. I'm sorry, therefore that ought to make it better. Please give me a clean slate and we'll start again. Not. There's another class who come and say, I'm sorry. I blew it. I deserve everything that you've dished out to me, and I hope for God's mercy. One of the things that has eluded me in my study of the prodigal son for a long time is the fact that the prodigal son fits the second category He comes to his father, and look at what he says in verse nineteen. I'm no longer worthy to be called your son. I know my sins. I have sinned against heaven. I sinned against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Please take me on as a hired hand. Anything is better than where I am. An incredible transformation has taken place. But an even more incredible experience awaits him. Because as he comes back to his father, expecting judgment, expecting justice. Expecting to face his sin, what happens? This unpleasant man who's now realized who he is and desires to change comes to his father, and while he is a long way off, His father is watching and is waiting and sees him coming and before he can even finish his statement. His father is all over him, is giving him hugs, is welcoming home, is calling after the servants. To clothe him with the best robe. To give him a ring of authority on his hand, to show that he's part of the family, to put sandals on his feet because he's not a servant. He is a member of the family. And lastly, he brings the fattened calf, the best he has, so that they can celebrate together and delight in the fact that this son of his who was dead is alive. I don't know about you. You can ask my daughter, my other kids aren't here yet this morning, but you can ask my daughter, would I take that teachable moment and throw it away? No. See I I'm I'm foolish enough to go ahead and try and make sure that my kid becomes worthy. You know, I've got to do my fatherly duty and make sure that they have learned their lessons, that they won't make the same mistake, and that now they can know how to step up and become worthy. To be my child. I'm pretty proud and arrogant and selfish myself. This father doesn't do that God doesn't do that. Because you see, this father understands that this child will never be worthy. He will never come to the point in his own relationship with his family that he is worthy to be a child. And the honest truth is that you and I will never be worthy of being God's children. You and I will never come to the point where we can claim that as a right That is something that we have to get out of our minds. Because you'll never be perfect until you get to heaven. And then it will only be because God has made you perfect. You will never deserve God's gift of grace. No matter how good you are, sanctification is a work of God, not you. It's something God is doing in you that you grow to hate sin and grow to love righteousness. So you can't ever come to the point where you proudly say, I deserve my part in God's family. That's a secret you're going to have to remember next week as we look at the older brother. Because that is essential to understanding what Jesus is trying to communicate. You will never ever be worthy of being a member of God's family. You will never ever have the right and the privilege to have a say about how the other members of your family ought to operate. You will never ever have a say about who God can call and restore to his family. That's not your place. That is the Father's place. So the Father restores the son to full and complete membership in the family. Now there's some questions there that I just want to set aside for a moment and look at because If you're at all interested in the position of the older brother, you're thinking like he does. Okay, this unpleasant jerk has come back to the family. He's only come to torment me, and he wants another shot at an inheritance. And there's a real tension that goes on here because the father doesn't say, okay, you can come back and you can live with us, but everything's your brothers. What does he do? He kisses and hugs his son. He gives him the ring of authority and a symbol of being part of the family. He puts sandals on his feet and says, You're here. He gives him the best robe. He slaughters the fattened calf and throws a celebration. Now, if you at all identify with the older brother, you're getting really nervous at this point. And you're beginning to think, all hell just broke loose once again. And my future now, which had been secure, even though it was diminished, is now no longer certain. And I can't trust my father to take care of me. Because he's gonna be too busy loving these jerks and losers that really have no right to be here. Is the inheritance of the older son diminished? No. We'll see that more next week, but if you look at verse 31 and 32, he says, All that I have is yours. As we see people who have been graciously spared by God coming into the kingdom, is our inheritance diminished by their joining us? No. Not in the least. Are we hurt by the fact that God brings losers into the kingdom? The Pharisees and the tax collectors were all concerned because their status as members of an exclusive club. Was threatened. And so they were grumbling. Why does this man accept the tax collectors and the sinners and the profligates and the wretched and the wounded and the ugly into his presence? It's no fun to be there if he's going to let these people come. If he doesn't let those people come, we can't be there. Because those people are us. As we look at what this parable has to say to us this morning, there are a few points I want us to catch. And I'm going to try and drive them home. Number one You are unworthy to be a member of God's household. All I've got to do is ask you to reflect on the last sin you committed. And I don't think you're going to have to have a picture memory, a picture perfect memory, to be able to recall it, because I think it wasn't too long ago. I probably wouldn't have to give you more than a few hours at most. You don't deserve to be with God. You don't have a right to decide what the entry requirements are. You can't establish that standard. Point number two. Repentance is an essential for membership into the kingdom. I want you to reflect back to verse 19. I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. This young man does not return to his father demanding anything. He comes home apologizing. He comes home humble, saying, I've blown it. There is no question, I am guilty. I am the one who has done this. I am the one who has offended you. I have taken what was not mine. I have fled from the one whose relationship I crave. And I'm hoping, I'm hoping somehow, in some way, you'll let me back in whatever capacity. A true repentance and conversion experience is taking place. For you to come back to God Means you have to repent and convert. Now, many of you will stand this morning and say, Amen, I've done that, and I am back in the family. And I am glad for that. Some of you will say, Now, I'm not sure where I stand. I know that I've blown it, but I'm not sure that I've restored that relationship with God. Well, then turn around and head towards Him. Don't head towards him saying, Well, gee, I already know the end of the story, and so I know that if I go back, God's going to give me everything and I can claim it as my own. No. Go back, acknowledging your sin and claiming his promise, not in pride, but in humility. Because he is the one who has called you and he is the one who was waiting for you. That leads to a question. That question is: can I be secure in my relationship with God if I'm unworthy? See, I'm uncomfortable allowing anybody control of my future other than me. And so when I look at this parable and I see that there is an equation that takes place, I am a sinner and unworthy of God. I can return to Him and be given grace. And I can be secure, then automatically my mind leaps to a logical conclusion that if I'm secure, it's because I'm worthy. I don't know if you reached that same conclusion, but I want to disabuse you of it this morning. It's not true. You are not secure in your relationship with God as the younger son returned. Because you are now different and worthy of being his son or daughter. You are only secure in that relationship because of the character of your father. He promises it, he'll deliver it. And so as you come to him, it's never going to be possible for you to come to him with pride and say, You're stuck with me. You'll come to him with humility and say, Thank you. And that's the third point. I want you to focus on your father. You have a Father in God who will not abandon you, who will not forsake you, who will not leave you alone One of the interesting things to me is that in the first two parables, the active person is not the coin and it's not the sheep. It's the owner. Now I don't want to make too much of the fact that it's the prodigal who returns, because I believe that it's God who worked in that prodigal's heart. And God will not allow you to wander without without calling you to Himself. His children, and that's a select group. That is the people that he has called to himself. Whether they are restored, whether they are pre-escaped, whether they're in the midst of that profligate lifestyle, are his children. And God is not content to let them wander. God is not saying, well, they made their bed. They're going to have to lie in it. God is calling his children. For those of us who have come to that relationship of repentance and conversion, it is a comfort that is without measure, because now I know that I'm His and I'm secure because of Him. For those who are wandering, the issue is, am I his? And that's an issue you have to resolve. There is a burden upon you to respond. Today is the day of salvation. Do not harden your hearts. But we can delight in the character and in the love of the Father who has called us. We are unworthy We must convert. We must repent. And frankly, that's an ongoing thing, because I'm still finding myself falling into sin And the verse that that Dick read earlier today, 1 John 1 9, that if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. is an ongoing verse that I hope each of you has memorized because you ought to be claiming it regularly. That is an ongoing work of sanctification and God will not allow you to be far from that passage and far from the promises of that passage. If you're his. And thirdly, the light in the Father who loves and calls you. Are you the prodigal Are you the prodigal prior to his escape? Or are you the prodigal who's in escape? Or are you the younger son who's come back? Let's try Heavenly Father, we do thank you that you have made yourself our Father. That we can come to you in prayer. And Lord, I pray that if there are any here Who still see themselves as the prodigal, who have to acknowledge before you that they have run away, that you draw them to yourself. Lord, for those of us who've gone through that process to become the younger son, I pray that you'd fill us with a delight in your love for us. That we would know that you have love which is unbounded. And that our security is because of your love for us. Lord, I pray that you would cause us this week to reflect upon this passage. That you'd help us to see how tremendous your work is, both in the younger and in the older son. And Lord, I pray that we would fully learn of you, because our security and our good future only lie in our relationship with you. Lord, move us and change us and fill us with a love for you that responds to the love you have for us. In Jesus' name. Amen.