Week. We are in um the Passover season and we have been spending um we're spending last week and this week to look at the life of Judas Seeing the common contrary to the common view that uh Judas was very different from us that he was a demonic character capable of such a heinous act as betraying Jesus that we good people could never think of doing or be capable of. We're seeing that rather Judas was much more like us than we would like to believe, that his heart was very much like your heart and my heart. That we need, in fact, to guard our hearts, because Judas's downfall was a progressive choice by choice. gradual downfall to destruction through seven stages that we traced last week. We talked about his materialism, which was his uh discontent with what he had, thought he needed more and then secondly his refusal to admit that to face it Rather, thirdly, began to rationalize to the point where he could actually steal from the common purse. And then fifthly, as he did that, his heart became harder. uh fourthly, excuse me, resisted uh Jesus warnings to him, his heart became harder in that, and then fifthly came to the place where he was open. To Satan's promptings to do the unthinkable, to consider actually selling Jesus for money And then sixthly, to the point where he was filled with Satan and actually did betray Jesus, to the seventh and final stage of despair and suicide. I pointed out that Judas was a mystery. I think it's important to see him as one of a prime example of the mystery of sovereignty and responsibility. On the one hand, that Jesus said the Son of Man must be betrayed, that he would be betrayed. That this was the fulfillment of Scripture that he would be betrayed. On the other hand, Jesus commands Judas again and again. He commands them, for instance, in Luke 12, 15, to watch out for greed. Because his life does not consist in the abundance of possessions. Judas was one of the disciples, and he was warning about that, other times specifically appealing to Judas. about his betrayal, about the direction that he was headed, so that you see in John chapter 17, what was read last week In verse 12, when Jesus is praying for the disciples, he reflects this when he says, While I was with them, Father, I protected them, and I kept them safe by that name that you gave me. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction. Literally the Greek there is, except the son of destruction. so that the scripture would be fulfilled. Judas was predestined by God's sovereign foreknowledge and control to be the son of destruction. The one who would betray Jesus. On the other hand, Judas chose to disobey Jesus. He chose to sin and he chose to betray Jesus. Did you see that mystery reflected in a verse like Acts chapter 2 in verse 23 where Peter says This man, Jesus, was handed over to you. That's talking about Judas, his betrayal. He was handed over to you by God-set purpose and foreknowledge. So this was not something done out of God's counsel. This was done by God's set purpose and foreknowledge. But then he says, and you, with the help of wicked men, Judas. And those others involved in this, put him to death by nailing him to the cross. Now some of you are taking the course on Reformed Theology, and I don't know what you talked about this week, but I know you had this article last week. I understand this week might have cleared some things up, but as I look read the article by Lash last week, uh I could see he talks about this tension that there isn't a tension in Scripture between The illusion of free will, none of us are free. You know, our genes, our culture, our family background, all kinds of things impinge on our choices. Only God is really free in his choices So we make choices, but those choices have many imminent, just natural determining factors, but then there's also God who has to work in our heart. What what I saw missing in that article that Rick says was cleared up this week was that there's uh uh there was a lack of an appreciation between the mystery Of God's sovereign control and our responsibility in making choices. God sovereignly brought about Jesus' betrayal through Judas, but Judas was responsible in making choices. choices that led them down the path to that destruction. Now I could easily take the rest of this morning's sermon and a whole series of other ones to try and delve into that mystery, but I'm not going to do that because what I want to focus on this morning. Are three practical lessons from the life of Judas because you and I need to guard our hearts. Judas did not do that. He was responsible for that. So there are three lessons that will help you indeed this week, I believe, if we look at the life of Judas and can learn from the tragedy of that life. How you and I can make choices and move to Jesus toward him for a better life that he has available for you. First lesson to learn from this is the deceitfulness and bondage of riches. The deceitfulness and bondage of riches Judas probably would have said, sure, I like nice things. So what's wrong with that? Nothing The problem was the coveting, the refusal to be content with what he had That's always the problem. It's not that you like nice things, it's that you say, I'm not happy unless I also have this or that. Paul says in 1 Timothy 6 In verse nine, people who want to get rich fall into temptation and attrap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people eager for money have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs. Judas is a prime example. John Calvin said, coveting always leads to theft. Because the covetous person believes I deserve more than I have. I am entitled to take what is not mine. I remember a child growing up who stole from her parents hundreds of dollars. out of the family cash box over a period of years because she believed that she was deprived and that she deserved more than she had and had a right to take it I need to have a high definition flat-screen plasma widescreen TV, you know Uh it's just that's that's part of what is needed to keep me moving in life. Uh you know. There's all these things that whatever it is for you, the area closed Or cars or houses, these are things that grip us. And Judas rationalized, I need something. And so he took from the purse And um the first time was difficult, but it became hard it became easier as his heart became harder, each step like another link in a chain That was holding him in bondage. Until finally, he came to that place where he was willing to sell Jesus For thirty pieces of silver. Exodus 21 tells us 30 pieces of silver was the price of a common field slave. And Jesus, Judas was willing to sell Jesus for that. And so after the Passover dinner. Jesus takes the disciples and they go out to the Mount of Olives and along that Mount of Olives, the hillside, there's a little garden that Jesus has customarily gone to to pray. It's the olive press called Gethsemane. He takes the three disciples in there and he prays. And after a time of agonizing prayer, he comes out and he says, Come, my betrayer is at hand. And off in the distance You see the torches, and you see Judas coming with the temple guards. Now, because it was night, the temple guards didn't know exactly who Jesus was. So Judas had arranged a signal with him. He said The one that I kiss, that's the target. Take him. And you gotta give it to Judas, don't you? He is bold I mean, can you imagine deciding to betray Jesus? And I think even if I could have ever gotten to that point, God forbid, you'd say He's over there, that one, the one in that room. Take him. But you wouldn't want to get near him. But Judas walks right up to Jesus as if nothing is wrong. And he says, Hail, Master, and he kisses him on the cheek. It's Holy Week. The last sad days with Jesus. How soon the loud Hosanna's fade away The palms that waved so proudly in the sunshine, discarded now along the dusty way. Where now the fold that bore the precious burden? Whence going the crowds that loudly gave acclaim. Now silence reigns instead of glad Hosanna's, and soon will come the scoffing and the shame Ah, see the twelve now gathered round the table. Does one seem restless, quite, and ill at ease? As Jesus sadly tells them, without malice one would betray impossible. Not one of these. Then looms once more that darkly shadowed garden where all alone the master kneels in prayer Disciples slumber on or heed the danger as Judas and the mob find entrance there. The kiss How can we know the heartache? The master felt a touch of cruel lips, as loving trust is met with gross betrayal And matchless love and greed have come to grips. And Jesus simply says Do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss? What heartache To see a token of affection so defiled as Judas's kiss Elder Hal Wilson was telling me this week that his pastor would speak of this incident and could barely get through it for his choking up and the terrible realization of what was going on there. Jesus gentle honesty. He says Do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss as if one more appeal to Judas's dead heart? And then he follows that up with Come and do what you've come to do. Get it over with. Let's get on with it. You see there that while Jesus is willing to be betrayed, he is never willing to be dishonest. He is not going to pretend that this is friendship. I know what you're here to do. Let's get it done. Don't you love Jesus for his gentle, straightforward honesty on every occasion? At least you need to respect him in a position like that when his heart is broken by such vile betrayal, to respond in gentleness and honesty. And so they come and they take him away. He's betrayed because of greed, because of Judas bondage to things Gordon Calvert, who does financial counseling as a ministry with our congregation, was quoting from a book by Randy Alcorn this week where he says When we deal with materialism, we are treading upon enemy territory that the that Satan will not easily give up This goes right to the heart of so much of what holds us in bondage, the deceitfulness of materialism, of things Let me ask you at this point a very, very personal question, which fortunately you don't have to answer aloud, but want you to answer in your heart. Have you been a thief? Have you stolen because you felt you had the right to something that didn't belong to you? Have you taken software that was copyrighted and not paid for it? Have you copied videos or CDs or downloaded music that should have been paid for? And you didn't? You could get around it with a friend? Have you shoplifted because all your friends shoplift and it's kind of a game to see what you can get away with? I heard this week of a kid that Chop lifted from a store where he had a gift card in his pocket for the same store. Five years later, he did that at age of 13. Five years later he went back to get a job. Thought it was no big deal. Went back to the same store for a job. They recognized him. They had him on record. And they said, you get off these premises in five minutes or we'll arrest you. How dare you come back here for a job? We do such stupid things For money, the things that we feel we've gotta have. We think there's no consequences You look at the life of Judas. It was his destruction. Have you been playing around rationalizing with taking things, maybe your income tax form, or maybe other things that you just You know, shift and turn and twist and say, doesn't really matter. Everybody doesn't. See, it's a hard attitude that says, I deserve this more than the person that it belongs to. I'm more important. I can't trust the Heavenly Father to take care of me and provide for all I need, and I'm not content with what I have. That's really the hard issue, you see. And so if you have stolen, let me offer to you five steps to get out of that bondage. If I just jot down a word or two for each, five steps to get out of that bondage. First thing is to admit it, confess it. Confess it and call it by its name. I stole this. Then secondly, repent of it That's different. Confessing it is simply calling it what it is. Repenting it is saying, I recognize that my heart is in rebellion to God in doing this. That I am saying I am more important, I can't trust him, I'm not content, and so I come to hate what I did. The third step is to return it, to take it back. Excuse me. That's the fourth step. You know, I should have looked at what I was saying. Third step is to before you do that, remind yourself of the gospel and believe it. Remind yourself of the gospel and believe it. Remind yourself that Jesus died on a cross between two thieves. And one of them confessed it to him and said, Lord, remember me. When you come into your kingdom and Jesus said, Today you will be in paradise with me. Jesus died for thieves like you and me, who take what do not belong to us, people who are takers rather than givers. Believe the gospel that he died for such and his forgiveness is available to you. And then out of that Heart that is renewed in his forgiveness. Return what you took. Whether it is stuff you took when you were babysitting or stuff that you shoplifted or on a job somewhere, take it back to the boss, back to the people and say, this wasn't mine, I need to return this. God has convicted me. You know revivals have started because of such actions. The Christians have returned the things that they have taken. And people look and they shake their heads and they can't understand what would motivate that. Return it and have it cleared. And then finally, the last thing is give rather than take. You're not finished just by returning it, but Ephesians, remember 4, verse 28, Paul said, He who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work, doing something useful with his own hands, that he may have something to share, to give with those in need. The heart attitude is changed when I trust God enough to learn how to give rather than to take. That's when I've gained victory, when I begin to learn to give to God the first fruits of what He has provided for me, to time. When I look at the insert about the opportunity to give to Japan the Missionaries there for a piece of land that has come up and is providentially arranged, and they say, I will consider giving to that. Once you give, you've broken the bondage of taking. Not that it will never be a temptation again. But if you want to be free from that and avoid the direction that Judas headed because he refused to face that, I offer to you those steps. Now the second lesson is right there. The second lesson is the danger of keeping your struggles to yourself. Judas wouldn't admit it. The danger of keeping your struggles to yourself. If only Judas had been willing to admit to one of the disciples or to Jesus that he was having a conflict in this area. But by covering his sin, he showed that he really didn't want to change. The first step in escaping bondage of any sin is to admit it to yourself, to God, and to another person, either a person you've sinned against or a person who can be a support to you. I say a support rather than accountable, because accountability for many Christians has a very legalistic notion. The idea is someone who can support you out of the context of the gospel in overcoming that sin. I remember a woman that I used to work with who is not in this state. Nobody here has ever seen her. Years ago. I worked with her, and this woman had a tr had problems with her weight, and she was single and very unhappy being single. And there was a particular time when uh you know she would never talk about this. Uh anytime it came up, I knew she was bothered by it, but we never could talk about it. One day we were on a trip, a three-hour car trip. And so she couldn't escape and I couldn't escape and I decided to step in the cage. And I brought it up and we talked about it, and during that period of time She was able to admit to me that this was a struggle in her life, and she saw that it was sin because she went to food as an idol for comfort. And as she saw that and began to repent and saw me as a friend who could help her and support her through the weeks and the months ahead. In the following six months she lost forty pounds and was engaged after six months to a great Christian guy who she hadn't even dated um when we were talking. There's no promises in that, you know. I'm just saying that there are times when you and I have an affliction, have a sin, have something we're in bondage to, and you need to be willing to talk to somebody. Author David Hazard talks in an article about the problem Hebrew had, same area. For him it was overweight and he decided to, in the flesh, just starve himself. He got to the point where he says he'd go to the office and he'd have to lay down on the the floor because he was too weak to continue to put in a full day. But he says, uh, I fought this battle in the typical manly way, total inward isolation. Then finally he was so miserable driving in the car one day, turned to his wife and he said, I have a problem with food, you know. He said, I wish he had given me that I knew it all along, you dope sort of answer. Her actual reply hurt even more. She said, Oh, thank God, I've been praying for you for so long The timid rise in her voice made me think of a bird with its wing feathers frozen in the ice watching the sunrise. What are we going to do now to get help? Why had I been such a dope to wait so long? In my case it's safe to say I'd now be returning nutrients to the soil if I had not shed my pride and let myself be known. But I risked And I'm alive. Pride and self-rightness are a long, slow death. But I'd rather risk being loaned, even if it feels like going hand over hand on a rope over a gorge. than to die without ever reaching the high peaks of God's call for me. We have guys that have said, I need to admit my addiction to sexual pornography, the internet People who come part of ourselves in small groups to say, I want to be known by fellow sinners who can point me to Jesus. Are you willing? Or do you want to preserve your isolation and image? That's what Judas did. And Judas went to destruction. But it doesn't have to be that way. You can let yourself be known to sinners like me and others And see what God will do as we come together, pointing one another to Jesus Christ. And there can be freedom. There can be a new life if you're afraid to dare to hope for, if you're willing to let yourself be known Amen, for those that have done that. See a couple people have done that. Come on, there's more of you out there. Who's let yourself be known and seen some freedom in your life? Amen? All right. Get their names later. Third thing, the damage of torturing yourself with remorse instead of repenting. The damage of torturing yourself with remorse instead of repenting. Remember the end to his miserable story told to us in Matthew chapter twenty. twenty-seven. Verse three. When Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he was seized with remorse and returned the thirty several coins to the chief priests and the elders. I have sinned, he said, for I betrayed innocent blood. It's not to us, they replied. That's your responsibility. And so Jesus Judas threw the money into the temple and he left and he went away and hanged himself. John chapter 17, verse 12. Jesus says, While I was with them, I protected them, and I kept them safe by that name you gave me. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction, the son of destruction. So that the scripture Would be fulfilled. You see the mystery? It didn't have to be that way. Even after Judas had betrayed Jesus, he could have been forgiven. And he could have been restored. He said, Why do you say that? Do you remember that when Jesus at the Last Supper spoke to his disciples, he said, To not one, but two disciples, you are going to betray me. Both disciples absolutely denied it. We know Judas denied it because when Jesus said, You will all forsake me and betray me. The Bible says they all denied it, and they said, we would rather die than do that. Two men ran out from that trial. As betrayers. Both wept bitterly for their reprehensible actions, but one of them, Peter, wept tears of repentance. Why? Because he knew the heart of Jesus. He knew that Jesus was of a character that would forgive him and restore him. Judas never let himself know the heart of Jesus He kept himself distant because he refused to look at his own heart and therefore he was unable to see Jesus' heart. If you are unwilling this morning to look at your own heart, you will never see the heart of Jesus. And your tears will always be tears of remorse. You will go through the cycles of blame and shame. You blame others. Because it's their fault, they're your excuse, you want to criticize them so that you can feel better about yourself until you finally have to face yourself and you're overwhelmed with shame and remorse and regret. And you go back and forth between those two cycles, blame and shame to blame to shame. The escape is to see the heart of Jesus To see the Jesus who restored Peter in his reprehensible denial that he even knew Jesus before a servant girl in order to protect himself. Could also forgive you whatever is in your background, whatever shame you carry this morning Jesus holds out forgiveness. He holds out restoration. He holds out new life. From time to time through my life I've had a dream. It's a dream that uh I haven't had for a bit of a time now, but uh If I knew what I ate that brought it on, I would stop eating it. Just recently I have found out I'm not alone that there's others who have this kind of a dream that recurs In my particular dream, I'm back in College Hall, the college that I went to. I'm on the second floor of College Hall, and I'm one hour before a calculus exam I never liked calculus. It was always one of my hardest subjects. It was always kind of a terror to me. And one hour from now is the calculus final exam. And the problem is I not only have not done any of the homework, I haven't even attended the class. through the whole semester. I blew it off because of denial. I just want to go to face this thing. And now judgment day is coming At three o'clock this afternoon, I'm going to take that exam and it is hopeless. I am so panicked, I don't even try to crack a book. I sit there in a cold sweat and I usually wake up from that dream. It's so terrible. And what happens when I wake up is that I'm able to preach the gospel to myself and I say, but you know what? I passed that dumb course years ago. They don't have me in bondage. And it's a parable of my life and your life if you belong to Jesus Christ, because then I can say to myself, Jesus says I took that exam for you, and I got a hundred percent, and that's what's in your account. Amen. He took the penalty for my flunking and he took the exam for me, and so whether I have a heart like Judas or whatever it is in your life and my life. Jesus extends himself to you now and he says, I can take all that. I can lift it from you. I can offer it to you a new life. Do you want to come to him to to just look at what the bondage is in your life and to admit it To come and to receive his grace and forgiveness. Let's pray. Lord, I pray in these quiet moments you will be speaking to the hearts. Beach of us who push you off. Maybe, Lord, we've shoplifted with our friends. Maybe we've Done other things that we look back and they were at the time seemed cool and they were very justifiable. And now they range from dumb to deeply shameful and humiliating. We realize that our whole heart has been lifted, holding you at a distance, coping with our own coping mechanisms And we see where it led Judas. We're scared. We're scared, Lord. We know that his suicide was not unforgivable. The suicide simply revealed the despair of his own heart. And so, Lord, we come. We come to you who hold yourself before us. We thank you that we're still alive, that we're here, that we have that opportunity. To admit those things that grip us in our lives. Lord, we pray that you would show your grace and your mercy You who die between two fees and said to one today, you'll be with me in paradise, can say to every person in this room today You can have that burden lifted and know that you will be in paradise with me also. Lord, we bring those burdens to you. We bring that shame, we bring that sin. Lord, I pray for those that have kept in isolation That you would give them grace to this week, today, to admit their struggle that they've been keeping private to another person who can be support, can point them to Jesus, to be willing to go to the person they've sinned against. To become part of one of our cell groups and fellowship groups or support groups to be able to get the help as other sinners point them to Jesus. It's not our groups that save us, it's you, Lord Jesus. And so we look to you right now. We look to you because you're so gracious, you're so tender, and you are willing to save everyone who seeks you. We're willing to rescue and to release that burden of bondage. And so we come to you. Thank you that you hear us in Jesus' name. Amen.