Well we come up once again on Thanksgiving this Thursday, a day uh not simply to fight the battle of the bulge, but uh and to do that with family and or friends, but a day also hopefully to remember to give thanks for many of the blessings that we have received And I know you um probably expect a guy like me to remind you of the pilgrims who had so little on that fall of 1621 and yet uh called for a thanksgiving feast to thank God for his merciful provisions for them after a hard winter. Actually, over the years, I have gotten into the tradition of reading about the history of the pilgrims, the 20 years before and after 1621. have read a number of books on that and have always been deeply impressed with not only what they suffered for Christ, but how their pattern of contentment and thanksgiving through um many situations that I cannot imagine being thankful in have been a challenge to me In fact, as I read Paul's letter in Philippians chapter 4 and read his words to the Philippians I see in them a classic example of what Paul both exemplifies and commends to us. And so after all these years, perhaps thirty years of reading through this stuff, I'm finally uh Taking the plunge to give you a condensed version, condensed history of the pilgrims in how they illustrate the lessons and the commands of Philippians chapter four. This is uh quite a challenge And I um pray that you will be able to not only follow it, but to be able to gain something of benefit. in your life as you look at this. So first of all, let's look at the scripture, which is what is most important here. Do you remember that the Philippians um supported Paul as a missionary? And he uh gained support from them and says in Philippians 4. 10 that he's very thankful. He's grateful for what they have supplied him. Uh verse ten I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you've renewed your concern for me. Indeed you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. And then he wants to make sure that they understand he's not trying to manipulate them in saying, I'm just being grateful here, so you'll give me more money. But he says in verse 11, But I am not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. And he talks about how he has experienced hardship, he has experienced plenty, but he has learned that his contentment does not rest on the circumstances. Verse 12, I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well-fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can do everything, that is, I can be content in every situation, he's saying, through him who gives me strength. We see that theme running through the whole chapter. If you look back in verse 4, he says to you there, rejoice in the Lord always. And I will say it again, rejoice. Not power of positive thinking, whatever the situation, rejoice in the Lord. He is the one who enables you to do that. Uh just this week was thinking about some difficult emails, some situations I was going through, was getting me kind of down. And I thought of this verse And determined, I will rejoice in the Lord. And just by reminding myself of that verse and going over that and what I had in Christ, my heart was really lifted. I I really experienced that He goes on to say in verse 6, do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving. Present your request to God. Again, not just the work out of some plan to get through it, but present it consciously to God, you here, and the peace of God, this promise which Transcends all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus and then back again to that idea that He has learned to be content, whatever the circumstance, whether in plenty or in one. How? Verse 13, Through him Who gives to me that strength? It's through Christ. It's focused on Christ. It's in the Lord. It's to God. It is from Him. Now that's easy to read. But to ask you, as I asked myself, the hard question, what is robbing you of contentment and thanksgiving as you come upon this week? Are you able with a light heart to really give thanks this week? Where do you find yourself complaining? Things aren't quite right Don't measure up to your expectations. Where do you find yourself? Anxious? Discontent. Somebody has said we all choose to live in one of two tents. The tent of contentment or the tent of discontentment? Where are you abiding this morning in Contentment or in the discontentment? So see if there might be something that you, like I, can learn from the pilgrims in their circumstances In how they learned to be content through Him who was their strength Our culture has deconstructed Thanksgiving so that it is just being grateful to each other because it is a profoundly Christian holiday. Not a biblical holiday, but it's profoundly Christian. And uh I have looked through the years at the established history of what actually occurred back then. Uh actually uh most of the books that I've read are not Christian books. but the things that are basically agreed upon as established history. And I want to offer to you ten examples this morning. of amazing ways that God enabled the pilgrims to give thanks in contentment in what seemed like circumstances that would shout Why should you give thanks in this? This is terrible. God has abandoned you. In reality Only in historical perspective to be able to see that he was doing something very unique and history-changing through a small group of mostly ordinary people who were simply characterized by faithfulness, perseverance, contentment, and thankfulness in very difficult circumstances. Keep in mind that the pilgrims from which we get our Thanksgiving holiday was simply one small congregation of the larger Puritan movement. After the Reformation in England, the country was torn in strife over how far to take the Reformation. Most people wanted basically half a Reformation. Overthrow popery, few other things, um, but to keep a lot of the trappings of the Catholic Church. Those who took the Reformation further, wanted a radically biblical worship and lifestyle, were given the slur Puritans. Most of the Puritans wanted to remain within the Anglican Church and purify it. There were a group of them, however, that decided they could not do that. It was too corrupt. They separated from it and were called separatists. The separatists were seen as a cult. They were seen as rebels and were marked as the targets of persecution from England because they were seen as traitors. They were seen as those who wanted to make their own laws and therefore were a threat to the crown and to the peace of England. They were at first scorned, then they were hunted, imprisoned, and some were hanged. They comforted themselves, however, with passages like 2 Timothy 3. 12. All who live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution, that they were privileged to share in the sufferings of Christ, and they were thankful. You know, the pilgrim story would have never come about except for the amazing confluence of three very unique men. The first was an unusually godly and strong leader, Pastor, John Robinson, the pastor of that small congregation. The second was a wealthy businessman, Christian, William Brewster, who was in his thirties uh at this time in early sixteen hundreds and sixteen twelve, fourteen. And um the third was a teenager who uh Brewster befriended and who suffered the scorn and the rejection of his family for deciding to worship in this small separatist congregation that met at Brewster's home, Scrooby Manor, in Scrooby, England This teenager's name was William Bradford, who wrote the book of Plymouth Plantation, 1620 to 1647, the base basis of much of the eyewitness accounts of what went on then. Well, after the death of Queen Elizabeth in 1603, the pilgrims were hoping that things would get better, that there would be some relief with James I coming to the throne. They were deeply disappointed when they found out that James was far harsher than Elizabeth. He said he wanted to harry them out of England. They were traitors and he would teach them. In fact, he pris imprisoned them and executed a number. They prayed about this and decided that their their only hope was to flee to Holland where there was religious liberty. So in 1607, they paid a very high bribe to a British captain of a ship to take them over to Amsterdam. In fact The captain took their money and then betrayed them to the British authorities. William Brewster was a very rich man. And all of his goods, his home, everything he had, was confiscated. And the the goods of many of the other pilgrims Brewster, because he remained content, didn't grumble, complain, curse God, was an example to many of the others of contentment in difficult situations. So next they hired a Dutch captain who would take them to um over to Holland and he was faithful enough But when he went to pick them up, uh they gathered on the beach, the men went on board to prepare everything for the women and children to come on board. And somebody had tipped off uh a mob, and so the captain saw a mob of people coming to descend on the beach to rush upon their wives and their children. The captain panicked, weighed anchor, and pulled out from the shore. And it was a desperately heart-rending scene as the husbands and fathers watched their wives and their children being mobbed by this hostile group of people and could do nothing to save them. So the captain put out to sea to take them over to Holland, uh and you'll see here, uh Holland is actually not south of England, it's you know, it's east And so here's where they were at Scrooby. They went here with the boat, took off over to here. This is normally a two-day voyage from Grimsby over to Amsterdam. They came upon a terrific storm Terrible storm. In fact the storm was so bad the sailors despaired of any hope. The ship almost foundered. The pilgrims called prayer meetings, constant prayer, yet Lord you still can save. Yet Lord you still can save. And the ship did right itself. It survived the storm. After fourteen days of storm they finally made landfall in Amsterdam. They decided now that the only way to get their families over was by ones and twos, which over a period of time did work. And so they settled in Holland. They found that that was more difficult than they expected because they didn't have any skills for living in a city. These were rural folk. They couldn't even have kitchen gardens there. So they got subsistence jobs. They just got the, you know, the McJobs of Amsterdam. And uh very difficult um living in poverty over there. And yet because they were free to worship Jesus Christ in the way that they had longed Their worship on Sunday went for four hours. Four hours of singing praise and thanking God for his mercies and having Bible studies and eating together and just enjoying their fellowship. Grateful and content people. But it was too difficult to live in Amsterdam. So they finally decided they would have to move and they settled further down whoops a list of map settled further down here in Leiden. Um but conditions didn't improve. In fact, they found that the people weren't even able to live till middle age or beyond. They were dying off because of such hard labor and such poor food and poor living conditions. They found that the children were being absorbed by Dutch culture and they were losing their English heritage and what was worse, they were losing their convictions. Their children were growing up by adopting some of the looser Dutch ways. Uh William Brewster had written some literature against the compromises of the British Church calling them to more biblical faithfulness. So he was now a fugitive. He was uh there was a price on his head. And the worst thing of all was that um there was a temporary treaty between Holland and Spain that was going to expire in a few years. And if Spain invaded Holland and likely would take over Holland, there would be an Inquisition that would make things much more difficult for Christians than they were in England So they decided after much prayer that they would have to leave. And they decided that like many people they would head for the new world. They prayed about where that should be. South America, Central America, North America, finally settled on traveling to North America. And one of the things that is difficult to understand about the pilgrims is that they were markedly naive and gullible. Perhaps because they were simple and trusting people, they believed good about others. Um so they tried to sign on with a Dutch company and um make their way over there, but uh they met with this slick fellow by the name of Thomas Weston. Weston was a used car salesman kind of guy, you know, and he said, look, I got a deal for you. Sign on with our group, the Merchant Adventurers in England. And we will pay for your passage, and all you have to do is make some easy payment plans of furs, pelts, various other things. Over a few years, won't take you very long. And that'll pay off all your passage. So just sign right here And they signed. Um so then they took two ships, the Mayflower and the Speedwell, let's come back. Okay, back um To going back to England. I think it's the it's the um s the slide before that one. Oh, nope, can't come back. Yep, there we go. They go down from Leiden for this two ships, May for Flower and the Speedwell, to Plymouth, which is why they called it the Plymouth Plantation. That was the last port from England. They settled there and now it's July. It's getting late. They're getting a little nervous because by the time they get there it's going to be pretty late to put in crops before the winter. And so they take off in July with these two ships, um, the Mayflower and the Speedwell. As they head out to sea, the speedwell begins to leak. In fact it leaks so bad they think it's gonna sink, so they turn around, go back to Plymouth. takes several weeks trying to fix it, couldn't really find much wrong with it. Now it's August. They set out again. After setting out again, as soon as they get out here again, the speed well starts to sink. It's leaking. They come back. To try to repair it, they finally decide it's hopeless. Uh they can't do anything with it, they're gonna have to abandon the speed. Well, it turned out they found out years later that the cabin captain had actually sabotaged the speedwell because he didn't want to make the voyage. He thought it was too late, too risky. And so the Speedwell actually served for many more years quite uh seaworthy and no problem after he got rid of the pilgrims. But that meant that they had to drop off another twenty people and lose them for their voyage. Uh, you know, some of 'em weren't all that hat uh unhappy to be those that were left 'cause it was looking pretty risky at this point. But Uh they got the healthiest, the youngest to be able to go. Turned out they took a hundred and two people. Here they are finally leaving. Uh there's the Mayflower. Here they are. The sad parting Um William Brewster and his wife, uh Bruce Brewster has had grown town and married, and in 1614 they had a son, six-year-old son, they leave him there because it's too risky to take him was a heartbreaking scene. But they took off a hundred and two of them to America. Only half of them were from the congregation. Half were Christians, half were what they called strangers. They were just people who wanted to make a new life in the new land. So they took off these 102 for uh what turned out to be a 66-day voyage. They were traveling rapidly along at two miles an hour across the Atlantic Thirty crew and the crew despised the separatists. They were seen as a cult, they were seen as weird, uh they insulted them, they made fun of them. One sailor particularly said, I can't wait to be the first to throw your bodies over the ship because you're never going to make this voyage, you're a bunch of wimps. Uh and everybody was rather surprised when shortly after that that sailor got sick and died within one day, and his body was the first one over the ship. That severed up the rest of the crew to treat them a little more nicely for the rest of the ship trip. But it was a very difficult trip. They came into a storm that was so fierce, so terrible, that it actually broke the main beam of the ship. The pilgrims prayed again, Lord, you can save, Lord, save us in this, and they were able to screw the beam back together so that it finished the trip safely again. experiencing God's mercy and his tenderness with thanksgiving for his mercies. They finally, after sixty-six days site landfall, um but uh they were headed for the uh mouth of the Hudson River and uh they actually were blown off course and they were coming to Cape Cod. So the captain turned the ship south along Cape Cod and came down to what are called the Monomoy Shoals That's an area that we're very familiar with. We hiked along there a couple months ago. And um it is said that of all the shipwrecks along the whole eastern seaboard of the Atlantic coast half of the ships that have gone down were off of the Montamoy shoals. It's that terrible a spot because it's deep one week and the next week it'll be a sandbar and it's just always shifting. The captain saw that they were being driven toward a sandbar. It's November. The ship will be destroyed. Everybody will perish. So desperately, in his skill and in God's mercy, he was able to turn the ship around and head back north. to escape that and put into Provincetown Harbor. But this produced another problem because they had no charter for in other words, there was there were no laws. They were uh not under the British laws there. They had no charter from them. And so in one of those moments of genius in history Because half the people on the ship are not believers, they have no interest in submitting to the Puritans' laws Uh probably William Brewster produced this little document that's become known as the Mayflower Compact that was the first document of free people to draw up a government that would be appointed by them and voluntarily submitted to by them. And amazingly enough, it worked. And it tremendously influenced the thinking of future American history and laid Christian foundations for the ways that our laws and leaders were appointed. But now they had the question of where they're going to settle, and there's a lot I need to just cut through here. But they got into this little thing called a shallop, just a big long boat. Theirs had a sail 32 men get into this thing to explore counting uh clockwise Cape Cod Bay. So let's look at the next. They start up here uh along in Provincetown. They went into the Provincetown Harbor, come down along this area number of adventures which we don't have time for. But as they got over this to this area, uh a tremendous ice storm hit. So here's these men unprotected in his little boat and uh it's it's sleeting and hailing and their clothes are like boards and they're shivering and uh the pilot says I think this is an area I know, so let's put in here And they couldn't see, it was getting dark. As they begin to pull in, they hear the roar of breakers. And the pilot says, uh, I don't know this area. I was wrong. Uh so we're gonna perish because they're gonna be driven into the breakers by the breakers and all perish in the frozen waste of this area. But somebody saw right here is a little island And again, by God's sustaining mercy, uh totally unexpected, they were able to put into what's called Clark's Island, and uh they were so glad because they thought they had all They were at the moment of perishing. They spent a miserable night freezing on that island, but at least they were still alive. And in the morning things cleared, and they saw that this actually was a rather pleasant harbor And so they moved over here to Plymouth Rock. And you see in the next uh map uh what the area basically looked like. They went from there down to here and they saw that this was actually a a cleared area of a gentle hill with a little fresh brook that moved down there. And the amazing thing was it was all cleared Uh what they didn't know at that time was that uh three years ago one to two thousand Indians had lived there and cleared the whole area and settled it But the smallpox that the white man brought to them had wiped out the entire tribe. Nobody was left. So here was a land that nobody wanted. The Indians didn't want it. They were superstitiously saying, you know, it's a bad place to live And it was cleared and unclaimed. So they saw that as God's provision, brought the people back, and began to settle it. Now it's into December. They weren't actually able to even begin to build and settle until December 25th. That was the first day of work Uh the strangers weren't very happy about that, but they forced them to uh join them in beginning to build on Christmas Day. And um so they began to try to build up this plantation. Now Again, it wasn't a bad winter in 1620-21 for New England, but it was far worse than they were used to in England. They had very little food and they began to die of scurvy, tuberculosis, pneumonia, malnutrition. Six died in December. Eight in January, seventeen in February, thirteen more in March. Only five out of the eighteen wives survived that winter. Because they sacrificed themselves, only three out of the twenty children died because of the sacrifice of the parents. They built a common house for shelter. On January 14th, it burned to the ground. Why, Lord? This was our only shelter. No record of complaining, no record of bitterly cursing and grumbling, they simply rebuilt and continued on. The sailors on the Mayflower refused to share their beer with the pilgrims. Bradford asked for that because it was safer to drink than the water. They refused to share it. They lived much more comfortably on the Mayflower. And then the sailors began to die. Half the crew died, even though they lived under much better provision. The pilgrims tended the sailors in their sickness, even though sometimes only five or six of the pilgrims were even well enough to work. The rest were all lying sick and too weak. Finally the captain said, Give them all the beer they want. I think it was partly out of it, you know, we're all dying off and maybe God's not happy with this decision, but also they saw this the love and the gentleness of the pilgrims. And then on March the sixteenth, suddenly in walked an Indian who spoke English. And he was the s the means that God used to save the colony. His name was Squanto. He taught them how to fish, how to plant corn, do a number of things. He also became their ambassador to a number of the other tribes so that they were able to make treaties and friends, although uh Squanto was, it turned out, a very mixed blessing toward them. Don't have time for that Talk about that more in the middle hours we got into the details. They were able that next year to plant a pretty good crop. And so at the end of somewhere at the end of September or the beginning of October, they celebrated with a three-day Thanksgiving feast with 90 braves. and uh rejoiced together in God's provision for them. Uh th they established unique treaty among white men and Indians of that time, a treaty of peace that lasted for forty years of mutual respect. and even though fragile and tested at times, endured. Bradford became the governor, and through God's using him in his wisdom, his compassion, his strength, his justice uh was able to guide that congregation in contentment and thanksgiving and perseverance through years of establishing themselves on that beachhead Many times the pilgrims risked their lives in order to tend the Indians when they were sick, and modeled the contentment and thankfulness of those who know how to be thankful both in plenty and in want. As they came into the next fall, another ship came into the harbor. Good news is thirty-five more of the fellow pilgrims from the Leyden congregation. The bad news was they brought absolutely no provisions. Nothing. They were stunned and deeply disappointed because what were already very meager rations now had to be reduced by half. and they went into another winter of a starving time. Along with the ship and those that were came as hungry and needed to be fed was a very nasty letter from Thomas Weston. accusing the pilgrims of bringing their hardship upon themselves because of their laziness and their ineptness. That really hurt. He demanded that they send over payment and pelts and supplies, and they gathered everything they could, everything that they had gathered through those previous months, loaded a ship the fortune ship and sent it back as a major part of their payment for the merchant adventurers. That ship was captured by the French and they lost 100% of all that they had saved in those months. Why, Lord? Why? But they continued to trust God To persevere, to give thanks for what they had and get through that next very difficult winter They were starving by the spring, and over the next four months, Weston sent four more ships full of hungry people with no provisions. He capped it off, adding insult to injury by coming over with a group of people and saying, you must help us to establish a rival trading post. And even though that was the height of arrogance, they agreed to do it and they did it. And Weston continued to beg from them and get their supplies, steal from the Indians, complain, malign them, write back to England that these were lazy, shiftless people who weren't worth anything Very difficult and and Weston was one of the most despicable characters in all of American history. And yet in all of Bradford's writings about him, he's very gentle toward him Because he was a man of contentment, a man of thanksgiving, whose eyes were on Christ and not on those who would try to abuse him. Amazing. But just time for one more story. Come to the third season of planting, 1623 now. They get their crops in and hoping that finally they'll be able to have a decent harvest so that they're going to be able to get through the next winter. Come to the third week of May and the rains stop. Absolutely cease. End of May. No rain. All through June, hot, dry, not a drop of rain. Go into mid-July, still no rain. The crops are all withering. Everything's about to perish. They hit upon this idea of having a day of humiliation, fasting, confession, and prayer. It's a hot, dry day, just like any other day, and they all gather together and they cast themselves on the Lord. Lord Our only hope is you. Lord, save us. We're desperately in need of your mercy. I cry out to him. And though that day was as sunny and hot as any other, by evening it began to cloud over And then came the rain, not just a day, and not with winds and destroying uh floods, but fourteen days of gentle crop-saving rains. The harvest was saved. The Indians were so impressed with that that many of them became Christians and were known as the praying Indians because they saw that their God hears and answers prayer. That was the second Thanksgiving that they held, far more dramatic than the first one that we popularly recognize in recognition of God's mercies. That was the last of their extreme hunger. They divided up the plots of land after that so that there was private enterprise and they found that the production vastly multiplied. So much so that their children became quite prosperous. In fact, in writing of the history of that time, Cotton Mather said, religion begat prosperity, and the daughter devoured the mother. Because it's sometimes easier to be content in the difficulties and the want than it is in the prosperity. In the second generation, the children much abandoned their trust and their simple following of Jesus Christ. The rich are often less thankful than the poor, aren't they? And you and I don't suffer anything like the pilgrims, but things aren't perfect And we look at this week and we say, yeah, but this isn't right, and that's not correct, and can't have this person for dinner and that person is coming for dinner and and on and on and we look at our circumstances. And they point us back to the scriptures. Paul says, I've learned to rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. I've learned with my anxieties to come to Him with thanksgiving and petitions. That the God A peace will come and rule my heart as he takes care of me, providing in my need. In verse 19, Paul says, My God, will meet all of your needs according to his glorious riches in Jesus Christ. Primarily the spiritual needs that you and I have the need for salvation paramount, the physical needs that outflow from all of his other mercies. And so I ask myself as I've read these things, read them every year, I ask myself and I ask you, what are you complaining about? What am I complaining about? What disturbs my thanks today and this week? What's robbing you of your contentment? What do you complain about during this coming week? Consider the pilgrims. Consider Paul. But most of all, consider Christ. For I am able to do all things, that is, live in contentment in all circumstances, through him who gives me strength. And you look at Jesus Christ as your sufficiency, Christ in his past, his death on the cross for your sins, so that you would be forgiven and given new life and adopted as his children. Christ in the present who gives you his spirit to sustain you and his presence with you every day to take care of you, to hear your prayers. and to be sufficient for all your need. And Christ in your future, the hope where he shall gather and when he comes back and takes us to be with him. where he will wipe away all tears, and our contentment will neither be dependent on our circumstances nor transcend them. We simply will be a content people because there will be nothing to be discontented about And we will be in his presence forever and ever, giving thanks and praise for his mercies. And so this week, let us learn to rejoice in the Lord. To take your anxieties to the Lord and to be content in the Lord. Let's pray. So our Lord, we grumble. And we confess that. Our expectations are so high because we have so much And I think, Lord, that when we tend to read Paul, I've learned to be content both in want and in plenty. We say, yeah, the plenty we can understand, the want's difficult. But for us so often it's the other way around. Poor people seem to be more thankful than rich people. Our expectations are so high and so self-centered. Lord help us. Those that are suffering, those that are in difficult and discouraging circumstances. And those of us who complain over the things that are not perfect, to find our sufficiency in Christ. Fix our eyes, Lord Jesus, upon you what you have done, what you are doing, and what you will do that is sufficient for contentment and for us to be thankful. Teach us in our hearts, even now, in Jesus' name. Amen.