Well I was still able to get up the steps there this morning. You notice I don't know noticed any difference after the men's retreat. Uh some of us are a little more tired. Aware of muscles that uh may not have used for a while, screaming pit games till one AM in the morning and playing and It was a lot of fun though. I don't regret any of the aches or the loss of sleep. And uh very indebted to Steve Green, John Van and Hoovel for bringing an idea to reality Thanks a lot, guys. Okay. Few things demonstrate that money does not guarantee happiness, like the lottery. There's been many articles in recent years about how winning the lottery reeks uh havoc rather than happiness on those the lives of the winners. Let me give you just a couple of examples. Evelyn Adams won the New Jersey lottery, not just once, but twice, 1985 and 1986 to the tune of $5. 4 million. She says winning the lottery is not all it's cracked up to be. Today the money is all gone, and Adams lives in a trailer. We're taking William Bud Toast. He won $16. 2 million in the Pennsylvania lottery in 1988. Now lives on his social security. He says, I wish it had never happened. He was totally a nightmare. A former girlfriend successfully sued him for a share of his winnings. That wasn't the only lawsuit. His brother was arrested for hiring a hitman to kill him, hoping to inherit a share of the winnings. And then goes on with other troubles. Within a year, he was $1 million in debt. Now he lives quietly on $450 a month in food stamps. Says, I'm tired. Lotteries don't mean anything to me. We take the fellow who did some research on lottery winners, and he said, in general I can say people either lose their money and keep their family and friends or Lose their family and friends and keep their money, but then there's a number of people who both lose the money and the family and friends Recent article, January of this year, the Washington Post magazine cover article, Lotto Trouble, Powerball. Subtitle How the Biggest Undivided Jackpot in History Wreaked Havoc on a Man, His Family, and a Wide Swath of West Virginia. Once again, the Bible shows that it's wisdom in how to live successfully uh is true against all common sense of our world. I mean, how many of us would say, yeah, man, I don't want to win the lottery? Whoa, what a curse And yet for the lives of people who do, it has been a curse. But that's not what our world says. God's word says, in contrast, what Tim read, verse 6, godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into the world, and we can take nothing out of it. But if we have food and clothing, we will be content with that. People who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people eager for money have wandered from the faith and have pierced themselves with many griefs. Believe that? Here it is. What the gut says and what God's Word says, but it's borne out in the testimony of those that experience it. Now, I want to pick up Paul's thought in verse 17. After he goes on through this. Verse 17, Paul says, Command those who are rich, that's you and me. In contrast, comparison with people in other parts of the world, other times of history, all of us are rich. Paul says, command those Columbia Presbyterian who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant, nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain. But to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. Command them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous and willing to share. In this way, they will lay up treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age so that they may take hold of the life that is truly life. I want us to see two points from those three verses. I'm going to give four general principles about money, final application, and then an illustration. First point, fix your hope on what is certain. That's what Paul says in verse 17. Notice verse 17 is a contrast. It's a contrast. In which he states the negative first in two ways. He says, first of all, do not be arrogant. Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant. Arrogance comes from our self-confidence, doesn't it? I am superior to you because I drive a newer car, have a bigger house and more self sufficient whatever it is, but it's also very self-diluted. Arrogance. Think of um The scandal in Philadelphia last year, major financial scandal, at the center of it was a lawyer who was worth millions of dollars. He was very arrogant. Finally was indicted on conspiracy. Within six months he was dead of pancreatic cancer. Man who thought he was invincible. We're so arrogant. Our arrogance, of course, isn't so obvious. You and I, I think, generally, uh Our arrogance is more subtle, demonstrated in the way we may look at or think about poor people in Howard County or in Sandtown And how they wouldn't be like that if they were more like us. Certain arrogance. Second thing that Paul warns about is To hope, he says, uh in material wealth, which is so uncertain. Don't be arrogant and don't put their hope Your hope, my hope in wealth, which is so uncertain. Again, think of the Powerball winners. Give you another example, fellow Jack Whitaker Jack Whitaker won a record $315 million in the Powerball lottery. Can you imagine? That's a nearly a third of a billion dollars by picking the right numbers. Well, um, did it make a happy man? Was the wealth very certain? Went out and bought an SUV Had a half a million dollars sitting in it, parked outside of a strip club. Money was stolen out of his SUV. In January, had another hundred thousand dollars stolen from a car uh sort of slipping through his fingers there, you know. He's charged with hitting and threatening to kill the manager of a bar In September of last year, his home was burglarized and a dead body was found inside. Man's life is full of woes and all so uncertain. To me, I think some of the most dramatic uh evidences of the uncertainty of riches is good old California, its mudslides and its forest fires. I mean, who here has not seen some multi-million dollar home sliding down a hill into oblivion? Or some home reduced to tinder in a matter of moments in a raging fire. Um are you aware that your wealth, my wealth? Could so easily disappear. Medical bills? A lawsuit Robbery. See, you and I don't just depend on God to enable us to acquire wealth. We depend on him to keep what we have, to preserve it, don't we? We're dependent on him day by day for all that we have. And so Paul contrasts that arrogance and that confidence in material wealth with hope in God. The implied contrast is God who is certain. And also he states who is generous, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. He provides our food, our housing, our clothes, our medical coverage. He provides the things that we don't have to have money to enjoy, like the dogwoods and the azaleas in Maryland and May. cookouts with friends. You know, I thought about on the men's retreat as we were playing softball and volleyball and Frisbee football and soccer and all these things. And then sat around, had steaks together. I thought, man, we are rich. The relationships of the guys and just enjoying that time together. Rich. God is not intending for us to be ascetics. He provides all things richly for us to enjoy. But to be able to use those things and not think, I've acquired them, I have them, I can preserve them Then there's the anticipation of heaven, the eternal delights that's set before us. And so he moves us on in that in the thoughts of the next verse. Because there the second point is he says to fix your investments in what is solid. Verse 18, command them to do good, be rich in good deeds, be generous and willing to share. Four things he tells you and me to do. Do good? Of course that's directed to you and to me as individuals, but I I also believe that we have not given enough acknowledgement of how that is directed to us as a congregation corporately. To do good. If you were to go up to the giant or the safe way and you just conducted an independent, informal poll And let's suppose you asked 50 people, what do you think of Columbia Presbyterian Church? Are you glad it's here? Are you neutral or or you think that it's a negative influence in the community? What kind of response do you think you'd get? My guess based on people I talk to is that most people would be in that middle. We'd be kind of like, Columbia what? What's Presbyterian? What do they do? I don't know. You know, we're irrelevant to most people's understanding. They don't know anything good we do or anything bad we do. Unless they got kids in upward basketball, maybe But uh my dream is that there'd be a day when we would learn as a congregation that we would Continue in ministering the gospel, not only to be able to minister to our pain within the congregation, but also to mobilize ourselves to minister to pain and problems in the community. And I believe that you as a congregation are eager to be led in this. I think the Sandtown Project is evidence of that. We're looking for opportunities to mobilize together So that we can bring what Paul says here, good deeds, rich in good deeds. to the community. Being rich in good deeds is in contrast, you see, to the world's riches. It's talking about building a people portfolio Where we invest in people, we invest in the lives of people, rather than simply in ourselves God forbid that the facility we build is an investment in ourselves. It's a base of operation for a community center to minister in our community. So we hope to be learning from the things that we're doing in San Sandtown to be able to do those kinds of things, do things to minister in the community here in Columbia so that our vision would be of a day when Howard County would say, we may agree with them, we may disagree with them on what they believe, but we're glad they're here because they obviously contribute to helping us to solve the problems. of Columbia and Howard County. Wouldn't that be great? As an opportunity, Jesus said that they would see your good deeds and glorify your Father who is in heaven. You notice he goes on even more connecting it with money where he says, be rich in good deeds, and then to be generous and willing to share. That is to imitate God in your gratitude who has given you so much. He talks about in verse 13, 16, Jesus who Offered himself, gave a good confession before Pontius Pilate offering himself as a sacrifice for you and for me, that you and I offer ourselves Some of you in the Sand Town project, some of you working with Upward. You know, last Thursday they had the meeting for Upward planning for next year. That's how much organization has to go into that. Planning for next season now. And for the various ministries we have here, recovery ministries The idea is that we would not only be recovering from our own Phariseais and arrogance and brokenness and weakness, but that we'd be mobilizing together to take that gospel of Jesus to the community In doing things so that people want to listen, they can hear, and that we can bring the good news of Jesus Christ to those outside, right? Isn't that what we want? Being rich and generous, willing to share, he says. So we'd see our new facility as a as a worship and community center. On Sundays, worship and discipleship and training during the week, community activities. More training, recovery, various ministries. Notice what Paul says results when we do this. Did you do these four things in verse 18? He tells you what results in that in verse 19. In this way, Paul says, they will lay up treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age, so that they may take hold of the life that is true. Life states it in two ways, two results. One, laying a firm foundation of treasure for eternity, and number two, laying hold of real life Now that real life idea there, the life that's truly life, is an intriguing thought because what Paul does is he takes the way we think and turns it on its head. You see, I think for most of us we would say if you want to talk about substantial wealth, real tangible, concrete life wealth with substance, you're talking about here. You know, give me uh a house on the beach, give me uh the car that I would like to have, or a better house in Howard County, or the things that I can touch and feel here The things that are the promises of eternity, those are more ethereal, seem more theoretical. You can't touch them, it's just kind of ideas. You see, what Paul's saying is it's quite the reverse. He's saying the things that are here are what's insubstantial, because they're transient. Uh there's no endurance to them. You know, you can you put your finger through them and they just they just kind of disappear like the lottery winners, you know. But the things which are eternal, those are the substantial things. Those are the things that endure. Those are the things that don't fade away. Those are the things that are real. So Paul's trying to challenge the way we think. In fact, there's an amazing truth here which should revolutionize the way that you and I think and the way that we live if we really believed it. And that simple truth is you can't take it with you. But you can send it on ahead. Isn't that amazing? Paul's telling you and me here we can invest in eternity. You can't take it with you to eternity, but you can invest in eternity. Let me illustrate that. And how we our thinking is so screwed up. Let's suppose you think back when Kathy and I lived in Ireland in the year 2000, we lived there for three weeks Now let's just suppose, let's imagine that I had a lucrative job there, which I didn't. I was trading pastorates. But let's suppose I had some lucrative job there in Belfast and they said, you can make a fair amount of money here. You can't take any of it home when you go back to Maryland. But you can send any of it home that you want to while you're here. So while we're accumulating the money, what do you think we're doing? We're saying, well, you know, this house that we're living in here, how about we remodel the the kitchen and we'll put in a new bathroom and do all these things? Because you know we're going to really enjoy that for a couple weeks. You know, what will we do? Obviously, the way we think is you know, send it home, pack it home to Maryland. That's where home is So send it home. As long as we're comfortable here for the three weeks, great, praise God, but send it home. What do we do? We invest in the place we're living in for three weeks. Remember I told you about the sign when you come into the state of Maryland in most roads Welcome to Maryland. Enjoy your visit. And I always try to remind myself, that's to me. That's not just to the out-of-staters. I just visit here. You and I are just visiting Maryland. Home is there. And Paul says you can invest there Instead of investing here. Not totally either, or we invest here. But he says if you think in terms of what lasts You invest there. So let me sum up these things in four general principles. Quite simply, very simple. Number one, trust in God, not your money or your investments. Trust in God. Really gut sense, Lord, my trust is in you to take care of me. Now does do Kathy and I save for retirement? Yeah, we save for retirement. We say for retirement in partly when the word doesn't even mean much anymore. You know, redirectment is the word that's often used. We t we want to acquire some things that'll give us more freedom so that uh at a point when you guys say, you know He's starting to forget who we are in the third point of his message or something, you know. We there's freedom to do some other things, you know. Uh so it it gives you a freedom. But you know, there's everybody's gotta come before the Lord and say, What do we do for retirement? What do we do for this? How much of we save, what do we invest, what do we buy? If you want some help in that, let me uh suggest to you Dave Shearer's course, Crown Financial Ministries course that's going on right now during the middle hour. That is going on next week in the middle hour and weeks after, a few weeks. And that could be turned into a a a summer small group program for ten weeks if you're interested. If you are go bug Dave, don't bug me, and uh see if something like that can get started. Second principle, be aware of your arrogance and my arrogance, superior attitude toward those that have less. I believe it's sin to feel superior even to a street person made in the image of God because we have this idea that street people are people that simply screwed up and Don't realize how many street people were college graduates and lived in similar circumstances to us. Think of uh J. C. Watts spoke to our men's retreat yesterday and Grew up in a poor background, talked about how God had given to him a solid work ethic from his parents. He was given certain opportunities that enabled him to succeed. Those things weren't things he somehow manufactured. They were gifts. God had been good to him You and I, whatever you've acquired, whatever educational opportunities, whatever values you gain from your parents, God has blessed you with that. You and I need to thank Him. And to show that we're grateful if we're arrogant and if we feel superior to other people, that shows that we're giving credit to ourselves. Paul warns that. Recognize, you and I Have what we enjoy because we have a heavenly Father who's been gracious and kind and been disposed to give to us things he hasn't given to others. Thirdly, reflect upon God, reflect God's generosity in gratitude to him for his generosity to you. The concrete way of showing our gratitude to Him is by giving. In fact, the only real antidote to materialism is giving. Because giving shifts my attention from myself to God and to my home in heaven. That's where my heart is Fourth final point: set your affections in on eternal treasures, grasping opportunities to store up more. Capstone Campaign, Missions, Sand Town Project. These are all opportunities for investing in heaven. You remember the message I preached back in January before you all remember that? It was about, you know, living for the line, not the dot. This life is a dot Heaven eternity is an infinitely long line. We live in a world that's obsessed with the dot. And so our minds need to be changed by the Holy Spirit. To live for the dot for the line. Given our own proclivity, my natural tendency is to live for the dot And that will look so foolish five minutes after I die Or you're for the line, not for the button. So we're asking you to take some time today. This is the day of Setting aside for some prayer before we come to present our pledges next Sunday. We're asking you to take some time to be with the Lord. Think about these things. Think about Psalm 115, Malachi 3, Ephesians 1, 1 Timothy 6. Read through these passages, any others you have in mind, but just meditate. And here's just a suggestion, you know, I'm maybe too late for you, but you know, do however you want to do. But if you had the opportunity, this occurred to me it would be kind of a I think a really good plan. Get together with your family, your friends, your spouse, your cell, your small group, whatever. Spend maybe a half hour together. Just pray and talk a little bit together. And then everybody just go off. Be alone. Be alone for the Lord for maybe an hour. Read those passages. And let me urge you when you read those passages to think on Jesus. Think on his sacrifice for you. Ask the Holy Spirit. To change your heart, to live for the line, not for the dot, because you and I can't do that. Even just thinking of these passages isn't gonna do it. Or if it does it, it'll make us more self-righteous and legalistic. It needs to be gospel-driven. Think on him. And then after the hour come back together again. Share some things that the Lord's shown you and pray together for a little bit. And then our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Next week we come and present our pledges that will be in sealed envelopes. Nobody's going to know here what it is we give. For what we pledged for three years. But it's between us and the Lord. And so in this final opportunity, um we see that we're wanting to sacrifice our temporal wealth for three years as an investment in eternal dividends. And I encourage you, I urge you to come Saturday Friday for the gathering that we'll have It's going to be a time of fun. Fun for the kids. Going to do a lot of fun things downstairs. And fun for the adults. We're not going to just let you kids have fun. We're going to have some fun upstairs. I'm not even going to tell you what we've got planned. We've got to make sure we can pull this off. But we're going to do some fun things. And it'll be a new video giving you some new information and a lot of stuff there. You know, even if you're not part of CPC, come on and join us. I'm sure you'll be glad that you were part of it. Finally, that you would trust God, not your cushion. Trust Him. Trust Him. Live for the line, not for the dot. I want to close with an experience that I had last summer That deeply affected me. When I was going to Westminster Seminary between 1964 and 1967 A couple of times a week I would drive up Willowgrove Avenue in the Chestnut Hill area north of Philly, and I would sometimes notice uh large gates along Willow Grove Avenue Let's uh take a look. I have these pictures, uh hard copies in the back for anybody who wants to see clearer afterwards The iron gates weren't there, but just the two pillars were there, and they sort of call attention to themselves. I didn't know think a whole lot about them and um Then last August I was teaching a course at Westminster, and my custom when I do that is uh to go out with the students for dinner and lunch together and so this one particular night, taking three guys in the car, we'd gone out to eat and one of the guys was a real history buff of a uh pastor from Virginia and he said uh before you go back to the seminary drive down Willowgrove Avenue a little bit. He said I'd like to show you something So I drove down and he took us to these gates. And he said, this used to be the old Stotesbury estate, which was called Whitemarsh Hall. It was built back in 1916 to 1921. Took five years to build it. And now let's go ahead and start getting a glimpse of it there. That's what it looked like Now, it's easier to see in the hard copy if you want to see it, but you get the general idea here. This is one huge palace. But think when you're looking at this, that's only half of it Stotesberry decided when he built this thing, he wanted to make it so mammoth that it would look bizarre if he built it all above ground. So half of it's above ground, the other half is below ground, that you can't see. Those columns that you see in the front entranceway are 50 feet tall. This was quite a place, it was 325 acres. Let's see the next picture. This patterned after Versailles. This is looking from the house toward Willowgrove Avenue. The driveway was one mile long of formal gardens. See the formal gardens from the next shot too also. These are the formal gardens coming up to the house. This was one mammoth place It cost nobody knows exactly how much it cost. They think somewhere between two and twelve million dollars, had 147 rooms 45 bathrooms, no waiting in the morning. Three elevators. Take a look at the ballroom. Next shot. 64 feet long. Had a uh organ with pipes that were three stories high. Keep your heart out, Tom Allen. Had his own gym. He didn't have a refrigerator. This is a nineteen 16 it was built, he had a refrigeration plant, had his own movie theater, plus a bunch of other amenities. You can look at this place if you want to just go on to your web um Go on the internet and Google White Marsh Hall. And I'll take you right to this. It's the first site. And there's more pictures, as I say, I have in the back. But briefly I want to just tell you the story of what happened This place was built by a successful, that's an understatement banker by the name of Edward Stotesbury. He was an associate of J. P. Morgan. He was one of the associates of Drexel Banking for, you know, Drexel Institute and all that in Philadelphia. His income in nineteen nineteen alone was five point five million dollars. By nineteen twenty-seven he was worth over a hundred million dollars He claimed he had never read a book, but don't tell your kids. White Marsh Hall was just one of his three homes. He had another one in Bar Harbor, Maine, and a third one in Palm Beach, Florida There's no scandals associated with this guy. He was shrewd, but he was respected. He dearly loved his wife, Eva. In fact, he had a special phone in his office that she was her direct line to him. She could interrupt him anytime to talk to her. He could serve 600 people for tea in Whitemars Hall. He did it with her many times. It cost a million dollars, over a million dollars a year just to maintain this mansion. and 70 full-time gardeners. But in the 1930s, something strange happened. He began to spend money compulsively Nobody knows what he spent it on. The only clue as to his motivation was the fact that he had a stepson who loved Franklin Roosevelt. Stotesbury despised Roosevelt and he said, I will not leave you my money to give to your friend Roosevelt. Let him get it somewhere else. And so he spent in an incredible amount. He spent so much money that the $100 million, when he died in 1938, he was worth $4 million. He had spent all the rest of it. Four million dollars was not enough money to even maintain this estate. And so his wife sadly had to close it up and move out, dismiss everybody. And it immediately, of course, began to deteriorate Let me show you what I mean. Next, this is the foyer coming into the main entrance, marble. Um the ballast grid the I mean it's just beautiful. Look at look at that. Again you can see pick better in the picture. That was when they were living there. When I was driving past that place in the 1960s, this is what that same place looked like. That's just 40 years later. They finally tore it down in 1980. There's nothing left. Well, there's not quite nothing left. Actually, it was rather bizarre. Because um, you know, when you think this was built, finished nineteen twenty one, this was in the early sixties So that's just forty years. The first home we bought in Colombia is now over thirty years old. That's a very short period of time. Um But now what does it look like? Well take a look in the next shot. Those are the fifty-foot columns that were in front of the front. You see, now there's nothing left. Just some homes, typical average homes, nothing, absolutely nothing left of the mansion. Or take a look at the formal gardens. That's all that's left. Is it one little gazebo area there? And the stonework. Nothing else. All to all gone. Um last summer we drove around through the area, went down one little cul-de-sac, and uh everything looked like just the typical suburban American community. You come to the end of the cul-de-sac and there in the circle, in the middle of the cul-de-sac, is a thirty-foot statue fountain. A little strange, but you know, those are the kind of things that you see there. Just little remembrances of what used to be. I have never seen a more dramatic example of the passing of this world's glory. This was one of the most magnificent homes that had ever been built in America. Royalty came to visit it from other countries. And it lasted less than twenty years. It was gone. I mean, even Versailles Is nothing in the light of eternity. Nothing has so impressed me about the fact that this world's glory turns to an ash heap, and one day it will all be burned to make way for the new heavens and the new earth. So the question is quite simple. Which world Is your heart wrapped up in? Which world are you investing in? Let's pray. Oh, our Heavenly Father. We so gravitate to live for the body. And your word Shouts to us the words, the wisdom of a loving heavenly Father, I've given my son to you and for you so that you can live for the line. And not the dot. Lord, wake us up to see how brief this life is To see how transient its glory, that we would live for the line Lord, I pray that you would enable us to take that time this afternoon to get alone with you to consider what we're living for and what we're investing in. Whether we're building financial portfolios or people portfolios. And Lord, that you would speak to us about the participation you want us each to have. In the capstone campaign or just in our lives in general, Lord, we want to present ourselves to you. We want you, Holy Spirit. To transform our affections. We ask that you'll do that for the sake of The honor of Jesus Christ in our lives. Amen.