Recap some of the things that I spoke about in terms of the view of the life of the prodigal. Because this week the focus is really not so much on the prodigal himself, but it's on the older brother. And a title that I came up with later than publication is Welcome Home, a look from the older brother But to set the scene for this, I want us to think again of the time that Jesus was with Levi, Matthew, the tax collector, and he was calling Matthew as a disciple. And Jesus was gruntled, was was disgruntled by the response of the Pharisees at that point who came to him and said, Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners? Here's a man he's calling as a disciple, one of his chosen twelve. And the Pharisees and the scribes were saying to him, Why do you even eat with these people? And he's making him a disciple. Jesus' response is: It is not the healthy who need a doctor. I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Later on in chapter 15, the same sort of message is coming from the Pharisees as we see in verse 2. In verse 1, Jesus was with the tax collectors and the sinners who were gathering around him. And in verse 2, the Pharisees say again, this man welcomes sinners and eats with them. Jesus hearing that sets off on a series of three parables. He speaks of the parable of the lost sheep. The shepherd who has a hundred sheep realizes that one is gone, leaves the 99, finds the one, and celebrates. He then goes to speak of the parable of the lost coin, a woman who had ten coins. In a small house. She loses the one and she spends all day looking, sweeping, hunting for that coin. And when she finds it, she celebrates. And Jesus then moves on into the parable of the prodigal son, the parable, if you would allow me, of the lost son. And that's our focus today As we looked last week, there's really two names for the prodigal in this parable. There is the name of the prodigal, which is true of verses 12 through 17. And there is the name the younger son. He's introduced to us in verse 11 as the younger son. It's actually verse 12. The younger says to his father, Father, give me my share of the estate. He then is clearly the prodigal because he takes what he wants. He asks for wealth so that he might enjoy it. He takes and bankrupts his family, taking one-third of the family estate, one-third of the family business, takes that capital and flees. He says to his father, I want your money, but I do not want you, and I do not want your rules. And he flees. He goes to a far country where no one can oversee his behavior, and he lives a very immoral life. The term in the Greek there that says in verse 13, wild living, is a term that really means totally amoral. He lives as he wants to live. In verse 30, we see that his brother condemns him, saying that he spent the money with prostitutes. There's no refutation of that, but there's no confirmation. All we know is that he left his father's home with his father's possessions, and he lived as he wanted to live. He's not a good guy. Last week I called him a jerk. I think the name still fits in this context. I mentioned how at this point, looking at his life, I felt like the older brother. Because here is somebody doing something so wretched and reprehensible I can't draw close to him. And I don't assume that you can either. But he doesn't stay in verses 12 through 14. For you see, God works a remarkable transformation in his life. He comes to the end of his money. Has no more money left, a famine hits the country, is that Providence? He has no way of simply surviving on his own, and he's forced to go out to a landowner. And he's forced to feed pigs, a job that is reprehensible to a Jew. As bad as this guy is, culturally inbred in him was a hatred of unclean animals. I'm convinced. And for him to feed pigs was a horrible fate. But even more horrible than feeding pigs was the fact that the pigs could eat and he couldn't. He had not even the food that the pigs ate. He longed for that, we see in verse 16. Let me read the passage. Verse 15, so he went and hired himself out to a citizen of that country who sent him to his field to feed pigs. In verse 16, he longed to fill his stomach with the pods that the pigs were eating. But no one gave him anything. This guy is in the lowest of lows. God has orchestrated circumstances in his life so that he has no hope. Until he comes to his senses in verse 17. And that's exactly the way the NIV describes it. When he came to his senses, he said, How many of my father's hired men have enough in despair? And here I am perishing. Again, we spoke last week of the fact that that term in Greek perishing is apoluming, and it means both a sense of death and of judgment. It isn't simply saying, I'm starving to death, it says I am doomed. I'm gonna die and my father's wrath is upon me. And at that instant God works a transformation in his life, away from being the prodigal who was proud and selfish, brought to a low, to being the younger son, because he says in verse 19. Verse 18. I will set out and go back to my father and say to him, Father, I have sinned against you and against heaven. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Please make me one of your hired men. He understands his sin. We talked last week at length about the fact that he didn't say, Father, you know, please accept me back. I sort of blew it and I'd like to come home. He says, I'm a sinner. I am unworthy of my relationship with you. I'm going to die here. I need you to save me, but I don't expect you to bless me. And he went home. He understands his unworthiness, he understands his total dependence, his inability to take care of himself, and he's now the younger son. Not only does he think about doing this, but he gets up and he goes. He truly repents. And you have to understand, in order to understand the rest of the parable, you have to understand that here a conversion has taken place. Now Jesus is speaking in a parable, and he's not yet died. He's not yet demonstrated his work to accomplish redemption. But what's clearly happening here in hindsight is a story about how God works in the lives of his people, and how it is Jesus who has made possible this kind of conversion. In our understanding we know that if it were not for the power of the work that Jesus has accomplished on the cross and in the tomb, we would have no hope. But here Jesus himself is speaking to Pharisees, and his main point isn't how to come to God. His main point is the relationship between the prodigals, the religious correct people. As sinners in God. And so don't try and take this and make it a major story about how Jesus isn't present in the gospel in the Prodigal Son, because that's not the point. The point is that God wants to speak both to the prodigal and to the older brother. And so as this new creature Returns to his father. And again, one thing to look at is 2 Corinthians 5. 17, where Paul speaking of this in hindsight. Says, Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old things passed away, behold, new things have come. He is no longer the prodigal. You have to understand he is now the younger son. And so he comes to his father. And in verse 22, we see the event of that reconciliation. In verse 20, we see that while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion. In verse 22, but the father said to his servants, Quick, bring the best robe. Put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let's celebrate. Let's have a feast and celebrate. For the son of mine was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. That gracious reception on the part of the Father was totally unexpected by his son. The younger son couldn't even finish his rehearsed statement. He says, when he's in the fields, I am unworthy to be called your son. Please make me a hired servant. The furthest he gets when he's speaking to his father is, I'm unworthy to be called your son. Because the father has already embraced him. Is smothering him with kisses, is calling for the servants to restore this one to the family. And you have to understand that this is a total restoration to the family. He's not simply saying, welcome back, let's have a feast and then we'll discuss where you stand. He's giving him the best robe. The robe of honor. He's giving him the signet ring for his hand, which means the seal of authority. He's giving him sandals for his feet A sign of membership in the family. And he's giving the fattened calf the greatest celebration he could have as the son returns. He is a part of the family. He is a person of position. The father has understood what has happened in the son He doesn't even let the son get it out, but he's embraced him, he's brought him back, and he understands that this is the new creature. Because you see the father represents God, and God is the one who worked to accomplish that transformation. But here is where we begin to focus on today's message, because as we are reintroduced to the older brother, there is a tremendous tension that develops. And this is the focus of what Jesus is saying to the Pharisees and to the scribes. To set the stage, one thing you have to understand is that the older brother is indeed the welcome son of the father. The parable begins in verse 11 by speaking of a man with two sons. In verse 25, we read that the older son is called the older son. In verse 31, we see, My son, the Father says, you are always with me, and everything I have is yours. One of the problems I have with this parable is the fact that it is so clear in speaking of the relationship. Of the older brother to the father. Jesus doesn't come out and immediately condemn the Pharisees and say, you guys are religious hypocrites. He does that in other places. But he speaks to them gently. He speaks to them as ones who need to be encouraged to respond the way he wants them to respond. The father speaks to the older son gently. He says to him, My son, you've always been with me. Everything I have is yours. You see, he's also clearly revealed in this parable as the one who had stayed to work. He displayed his loyalty. Outwardly he kept every command. In verse 29, it says, All these years I've been slaving for you and never disobeyed your orders. This son has been faithful externally. There's a hint in this verse of the relationship between the Father and the Son. In the sarcastic And wretched tone that the son speaks to his father with. But he's clearly the son. The father does nothing to give any indication that he might be less than the son. In verse 31, there's a seal that says, Everything I have is yours. For you see, this is not only the Son, but he's the firstborn, and he's the heir. And the Father is saying, you're secure. Don't worry about this. You're my son, and I will protect you And so it's clear that that the father has a very deep heart for his older son. Which is a good point. There's another point that counterbalances that. And that's where the tension comes in, because on one end he is clearly the son, but on the other, he refuses to be a brother And that immediately creates attention. Look at how he responds to his younger brother. Verses 28 through 30. He realized from 25 to 27 he's come home, he's heard the music, he's heard the dancing, he sees what's going on, he's told by the servant that his brother has come back and that his father is celebrating. And the immediate response that we hear is the older brother became angry and refused to go in. He refuses to acknowledge that his brother is his brother. He goes on in verse 29. No, in verse 30. He speaks of what he's done and how he's related to his father, and he says, but when this son of yours He won't acknowledge his brother as being his brother. This son of yours, that's as close as he gets. That speaks of the tension. That speaks of the broken relationship and the resolution that needs to come because he clings to his father and to the possessions that his father has given to him. He clings to his claim of obedience and faithfulness to his father, of being the firstborn son, but he says, this son of yours. His father's trying to talk him into coming in and celebrating We can tell from the way he speaks and responds that his response is something like this. Celebrate? You want me to celebrate because he's back? You want me to come in and have a feast that should have been in my honor but in his? You want me to celebrate when he's come back to plunder the house again? You don't understand. This is not a time to celebrate. It is a time to weep and to wail, to rend our clothes and to cover ourselves with ashes. The son hates his brother so much that he will not acknowledge that he is a brother. He's been hurt, yes. This son, this younger son who was the prodigal, deeply hurt him. He's looking at the family investment and he sees one-third of the capital gone. He's slaved for however long this guy has been away. He's tried to rebuild the family business and he's seen what he's done and he's felt some success. He's now feeling somewhat secure because at least he can't do any more to hurt me. And the son comes back. Not only does the son come back, but the father embraces him, gives him the signet ring. Slaughters the fattened calf and says, I'm glad you're home. Come in and be part of the family. And all the fears that the older brother had are brought to the surface, the wounds are reopened, his security is ripped away from him. You see what he's really saying here is I can't trust my father. I can't trust my father who's supposed to provide and protect me He's given away a third of the family estate. There's reasons to believe that that was a sort of requirement. But now he's welcomed him back, and all that I've worked enslaved for is no longer safe. I can lose it all. I can't trust my father to take care of me. He won't even give me a goat. Listen to him. All these years I've been slaving for you and never disobeyed your orders. Yet you never gave me even a young goat so I could celebrate with my friends. But this son of yours Who squandered your property with prostitutes comes home, and you slaughter the fattened calf to give him a feast. Think of the older brother. Do you identify with him? Is there somebody in your life that has hurt you so that you fear God bringing about a reconciliation? This older son is living under a system of works. He's saying, I am the firstborn, therefore two-thirds of whatever we have is mine. I am the faithful son. I have stayed, I have labored, I have worked, I have built this up, I earned it. I'm worthy, it's mine. Last week the sin that we saw in the prodigal was that he first thought he was worthy of what he received. He didn't have a relationship with his father because he thought he was worthy of what he had and didn't need his dad. The older son is saying the same thing. He looks at the younger son and he says, this fool has lost everything. He's left. He's taken his money, he's squandered it, he has nothing left, he has no hope, and I'm certainly not letting him back in to do it again. He can't come back. I won't let him. I won't enter the house. He cannot take what is mine I can just hear the older brother thinking in his mind, okay, if he can ask for what's his, I can ask for what's mine, I become the authority, and he's out. The problem is the father is still in control. The problem for him is he cannot be an older son if he will not be an older brother. I want you to think about that. This older son cannot be an older son if he will not be an older brother. What Jesus is saying to the Pharisees in this parable is that you think you have kept the system of law. You think you have earned your position and you have a secure relationship with God because of what you have done. You are the firstborn. You are the Jews. You are worthy. You've been faithful. You have earned God's admiration and his respect. And these sinners who failed cannot come back. And Jesus is saying, you don't even understand the system. I who stand before you am the reconciliation that the sinners need and that you need. I am your hope. I am the way. I am the truth, and I am the life. Jesus doesn't resolve this story in the parable. The older son is left Standing discussing the situation with his father. That is key because the Pharisees are the ones who have to resolve the tension. The Pharisees have to decide, will I accept both my younger siblings who are sinners, who Jesus has come to bring to God, and will I accept the grace that Jesus is offering to me? The Father here brings us Jesus' message in the parable Tom earlier said that it was necessary that we celebrate and then sort of thought, well, maybe it's not necessary. The Greek makes it clear. In verse 31, or verse 32, it says, but we had to celebrate. In the Greek it says, celebration is necessary. It is incumbent upon us. We cannot avoid it. For you see, if you are a child of the Father, You must celebrate when he celebrates. You must receive those he receives. You must welcome home your younger siblings We can do that because we have been transformed. We're not left like the older brother thinking that we can live in a work system. God has shattered that. Our only hope is the work that Jesus has accomplished on the cross and graciously applied to us. Ezekiel speaks of, I will take away your heart of stone and I will give you a heart of flesh. I'll wash you with clean water and you will be clean. I'll put my spirit in you. Clearly, God does that in the children he calls. He shatters us. He breaks us Because God has done that in me, because there is a welcome home that I can receive. I must celebrate. You must celebrate with God bringing home new children, children whom He loves as deeply as He loves us. The celebration is necessary, and we can celebrate because we have received that welcome. We can celebrate because we know that that conversion is real, it is deep, it is unshakable. We can celebrate because our Father is trustworthy. We don't have to fear that the promises He's made to us will be limited, hindered, or taken. By others coming home. We don't have to doubt that God wants to take care of us. So let me ask you this morning, Which of the characters in this story fits you? Last week we spoke of the prodigal prior to his escape, during his escape, after his return, but today we also have to talk about the older son. I don't think any of us are going to claim to be the Father. We're not so audacious as to claim to be God. But which of the sons are you, and at what stage in their life? Are you still fleeing God? Are you still seeking the material benefit and the freedom to use that material benefit in whatever way you want? Are you still thinking that you are the one who has the right? To be your own boss, to live your life as you desire. Are you off in that wilderness in that far country working for the landlord? Wishing that you could eat the food of pigs, realizing the depth to which you've fallen? Have you returned home hoping for some sort of gracious response, trusting in the character of your father? Have you come to that point of being inside the house, celebrating with him because he has loved you with an everlasting love? He has brought you back to himself and you can delight in his love for you. Are you the older brother standing outside the house grumbling because you now have tremendous fear? That everything that you've held to is falling apart. Are you facing the conversation with your father where he says, your fears are true because I want you to celebrate? Are you coming to the point of resolution? Where you've decided will you be both son and brother or neither? Let's pray. Lord Jesus, I pray that in these next few moments You would show us ourselves. You give this parable not in order simply to show the goodness of your relationship to the prodigal. But Lord, you show that we as prodigals who have returned really have to make the decisions of the older brother Father, help us to see how wondrous and good it is to be your son or daughter. To have that relationship with you that promises an eternal celebration. Where your love is showered upon us and we're free to respond without limit in loving you. But Father, I pray that we would understand that it is without limit. And that as we love you, we can trust you. And we can love our siblings. Father, I pray that you would open our eyes to the glorious message of the redemption that Jesus is bringing and has brought. I pray that we would not hoard that good. That we would not cling to it, fearing that others might upset our comfortable relationship with you. Lord, I pray that whatever unforgivable sins we struggle with, you would open our eyes to realize that they're not beyond your power. Whatever hurts we've been given by others, inside or outside of the family, that you would open our eyes to realize that those people and those hurts are not beyond your healing. And Lord, I pray that you would work in our lives, that we would be agents of restoration. Not older brothers who refuse to enter, but older brothers who call, who go and invite. Who spread your truth and who demonstrate your love. In Jesus' name. Amen.