Well, some of you may recall that last Palm Sunday we meditated on John nineteen, verse thirty, Jesus' triumphant last words on the cross, it is finished. And you saw that um that is where he mightily proved that no one took his life, that he voluntarily laid it down, because you don't shout when you're suffocating, and that's how you die in crucifixion. And so we saw that at that moment he was reflecting on all that he had done. He saw that all of his act of obedience and keeping the law had been completed He had thoroughly passed the probation period, was therefore eligible as an innocent lamb to substitute for your sin and my sin, to passively be obedient, to pay for all that sin that you and I deserve to make payment for. And at that moment he was saying, I have endured the equivalent of an eternity of hell of all of my people, and it is finished, it is sufficient, it is enough At that point, Jesus was declaring that it was time that he could then lay down his life. Imagine what it would have been like if you had been there. The sky is an unnatural dark, as if the heavens themselves are angry. You hear him Kirk in a barely audible voice because his mouth is so swollen from dehydration. I'm thirsty. When someone gets a stalk and they have a sponge, they soak it in some soured wine, and they pass it up to him and touches his lips, and he gains enough moisture. To be able to shout out in one last declaration of triumph, it is finished! Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And then silence. He's dead. There's no movement No motion, no words. Who could not be deeply moved By thinking of someone so obviously innocent of all the charges, who has so suffered and died thus. Well, I hope that you're satisfied now, you who so viciously followed him and insisted on his death Who even prayed for his executioners as they nailed him to the cursed tree. I hope you're satisfied. A couple weeks ago he had raised Lazarus from the dead. And now he's dead. And who's going to raise him? And you remember last year when we looked at this, we noted that Jesus did in fact die on Friday. And that's evident from the next verse of John chapter 19, verse 31, because it says it was the day of preparation, and the next day was to be a special Sabbath. The Greek is Great Sabbath or High Sabbath, and that refers to the fact that this was a Sabbath during the Passover. So let's have the scripture on the overhead here now. You can see that. Notice that starts off as says a special Sabbath or a high Sabbath uh Sabbath during the Passover week. And so then the next part of the verse says, because the Jews did not want the bodies left on the crosses during this special Sabbath They asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down. And here we enter seven verses that are usually skipped over at Easter. Uh they're skipped over because um they don't seem very important and it's uh not really easy to make a whole lot of sense out of them But I would suggest to you that they contain some important and precious truths to encourage your faith and your love for Jesus and understanding of the gospel. So listen up as we go through them. What's interesting is that you have two things happening here. You have the soldiers being told to do something that they don't do And then they're not told to do something that they do do. And both those things are important in understanding the gospel. It's also important because for your faith you can see how God is so in control of every detail of history and therefore of your life. And that's a great comfort. First of all, then notice what the soldiers did not do. That's the first blank. What they did not do to Jesus, they did not break his bones, even though they're told to. So that's the first thing. Notice they're commanded to do that. It says there in verse 31 that they asked Pilate to have the legs broken and the bodies taken down so as to not pollute the Sabbath. The soldiers therefore came and they broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus and then those of the other. Very interesting to notice how scrupulous the Jews are in every detail of purification through all of Jesus' trial and Death. You remember how in chapter eighteen verse twenty eight it says that they wouldn't go on to Pilate's uh turf because uh they would pollute themselves and not be able to observed the Passover, you can imagine how that endeared him to them to know that being on his pavement would so pollute them that they couldn't take their Passover. And uh you notice on this case, um what they're doing is they're extracting from uh Deuteronomy chapter 21, verses 22 and 23 the uh law of God that says that um somebody who hangs from a tree is cursed cursed of God. And therefore their bodies should not remain there overnight, lest it pollute the land. And uh so they are very precise Because they say by our logical deduction the cross was a kind of tree. We even use that phrase, hanging on the tree. And so uh this is a tree and his body can't stay there, so make sure it's down by sundown. You know, it's interesting how religious people can get very precise, isn't it, about how everything ought to be done in church while they just simply exclude the Son of Glory Here's these Jews that are so precise on all these little details of purification, crucifying the Messiah sent by God. And so, brothers and sisters, let me just along the way of this warn you, beware. That in seeking to establish your own righteousness by the details of what's right and what's wrong, That you don't shut out of your life Jesus, who is your only source of true acceptable righteousness before God. Religious people can be among the most obnoxious in the details, can't they? Well, you notice that uh even though they're um very precise about this, um They tell them to go break the legs, and uh that elicits from us a why breaking the legs You have to understand the crucifixion caused death by one of three means: either by dehydration, or loss of blood, or suffocation. And if someone had been crucified and only was on the cross for six hours, then that probably wouldn't be dehydration or loss of blood. So the likely way of death would be by suffocation. Now the Romans generally uh didn't break the legs of their victims Um they would let their victims hang there for days. Sometimes a man hung on the cross for two or three or four days. And uh then he would finally succumb and then even after that they would still let them hang there, their bodies rot on the cross and be devoured by the vultures. And they thought that that would be uh instructive to the people who wondered whether it was worth it to disobey the Roman government. Pretty gruesome stuff You see, the way the breaking of the legs worked was the Romans had an iron mallet, and the only way you could breathe when you're on the cross, and this is where we get the word excruciating means literally out of the cross is the way you would breathe is to lift yourself up on the nails in your hands and in your feet to open your chest cavity to be able to draw in air And so you had to use the strength of your legs to do that. And when they wanted to hasten the death, they would take that metal mallet and they would smash the legs so hard that they would crush the legs. And no longer could the person press down on the legs. But as terrible as it may seem, the pain of crucifixion was so bad that the victim actually welcomed having their legs smashed. to bring on a soon death of suffocation. Archaeologists have found a man who had been crucified north of Jerusalem about that time And they report that one leg was fractured, the other leg was smashed to bits. And so this was something that was done where there was a need to hasten the death But they don't do it. Now why don't they do it? Not because they have pity, but the Bible tells us Two reasons why they didn't do it. First of all, because he was already dead. Verse 32, soldiers therefore came, broke the legs of the first man who had been crucified with Jesus He screams out in pain, succumbs, then those of the other likewise. But when they came to Jesus they found he was already dead, and they did not break his legs So this is confirmation from the Roman government that Jesus is dead. He is not in a swoon, he is actually dead. But the second reason John wants us to see why they did this is to point out something about the gospel. And that is that prophecy forbade the breaking of his legs. You see, it says there in the blue, they did not break his legs. Now, Dick, if you could bring that up a little bit, take a look at verse 36. These things happened, so the scripture would be fulfilled. Not one of his bones will be broken. And so that's the reason. Now what's that referring to? There actually isn't any verse in the Old Testament that says Messiah's legs will not be broken. John's referring probably has in mind three scriptures in the Old Testament. The first one is Exodus chapter 12, verse 46, which is the instruction on how to take the Passover And it says it must be eaten inside one house. Take none of the meat outside the house. Do not break any of the bones. Two rules. Got to eat it all inside. And secondly, don't break any bones of the lamb. And so John is saying here quite clearly that Jesus is the Lamb. He's that Passover lamb. He's the one that is the fulfillment of the Passover. In Numbers chapter nine, In verses 11 and 12, you read also about the taking of Passover. They're to celebrate it, the Passover, on the 14th day of the second month at twilight. They're to eat the lamb Together with unleavened bread and bitter herbs, the bitter herbs reminding them of the bitterness of sin, and they must not leave any of it till morning, or break any of its bones. And there again you see. Uh two rules. This time, don't leave any till the morning. You have to eat it all that night But then again, this mysterious regulation, why? No reason given, don't break any of its bones. It's the only rule repeated, both cases. So what is this saying? Clearly it's saying that that which will be the fulfillment of this, because all the Old Testament feasts and regulations were types pointing toward God's provision. This one cannot have his bones broken. So if Jesus has his bones broken, then he is not the fulfillment of the Passover Lamb. But there's probably another passage that John has in mind also with this, and that's Psalm 34 and verse 20. Psalm 34 is also not a prophecy. And uh it's simply a general statement about God's care for his people. And particularly how God cares for those who are his righteous ones who are precious. And it says in verse 19, a righteous man May have many troubles, but the Lord delivers him from them all. He protects all his bones, not one of them will be broken. And you say, well, that's a nice promise. I no Christians will ever have their bones broken. I did you ever say a Christian didn't have a did Did you ever see a Christian with a broken bone? I have. I broke my ankle, both of them, two different occasions. So Christians do break their bones. Uh so what's what's God saying? He's talking here about the protection of his righteous ones, and as a general statement Uh it's like the sparrow falling, you know, they they fall, they die, Christians break their bones, but but God is protecting them. The bones are not broken without God's oversight, his care for that person. And it's saying that the righteous one, you see, any Jew reading this would have looked at that and said, Oh yeah, that's like the Passover lamb. None of the bones broken. And John is saying, you see, that Jesus is that truly righteous man. Who, as the true Passover Lamb, will in fact not have his bones broken as God singles him out and shows This one bears all the troubles, all the sorrows of his people. And so God preserves him. As the true Passover Lamb. John saw that happen. He says in verse 35 The man who saw it has given testimony. His testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth and he testifies so that you also may believe. But notice also, this is what they're told to do and they don't do because prophecy forbids it. But then notice also what they did do. They pierced his side, where they pierced his heart. Notice they're not commanded to do this. They're not told to do it, and yet they must do it. Why? Well, first of all, because it proves once again that Jesus really was dead, irrefutably Y Perse is dead and then he's not just in a swoon for those that say after his resurrection. He really hadn't died Or for the Muslims who say that he didn't really die, or the docetist heresy of the first couple of centuries that said he just appeared to die. John is demonstrating, proving, he was dead. How do I know? Well, because the Romans put a spear right through his heart. Verse thirty three. When they came to Jesus they found he was already dead and they did not break his legs. Instead Just to make sure one of the soldiers pierced Jesus' side with a spear, bringing a sudden flow of blood and water Now, the fact that there is blood and water means that he pierced his heart because the water is the serum in the pericardial sac. surrounding the heart. So it went through the sac, into the heart, downward flow, he's dead so there's no blood pressure, downward flow of the blood and the serum or the clear fluid. Proving irrefutably that Jesus was dead. If nothing else had killed him, this surely would have. But more significantly, John is saying because prophecy required it. Prophecy demanded it So you see there, the red, one of the soldiers pierced Jesus side, but the spear brings forth sudden flow of blood and water. As another scripture says, they will look on the one they've pierced. The scripture has to be fulfilled. Now, in this case, John has a specific passage in mind, and it's Zechariah 12. 10. Zechariah twelve is a passage out of chapter eleven is contrasting the false shepherds with God the true shepherd of his people. And God is the true shepherd of his people, Zachariah says, is going to bring grace upon Jerusalem, his people. And so we read in chapter twelve and verse ten, and I, that's Yahweh, the Lord, God Himself speaking, I Will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and supplication. They will look on me, the one they have pierced. Now who is the Lee? It's Yahweh. This is God speaking. You see this amazing prophecy? John is saying here that Jesus is God. He is Yahweh. He is the fulfillment. They will look on the one, God Himself, whom they have pierced. Another one of those very clear statements of Scripture of the deity of Jesus Christ. An amazing prophecy. God sovereignly arranged for a Roman soldier who is told to do one thing. To instead do another in order to fulfill Scripture, the piercing of God Almighty And then you had this strange phenomenon described in verse 34, the sudden flow of blood and water. Now what is that referring to? Much has been preached on this and written on this, uh what it was, what it means And it is not a minor point, even though you don't usually hear much about it, because John again goes into some detail not only uh to tell you about it, of all the gospels, he's the only one that does, because he's the only one that saw it, of the disciples. And he says in verse 35: the man who saw it has given testimony. His testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth, and he testifies so that you may believe. So John is saying, this is not a detail, this is important. It's so important. I want you to know I saw it with my own eyes. Blood and clear fluid, looking like water, coming out. What was it and what does it mean? Well, first of all, let me tell you a couple things that I think it didn't mean because there's a lot of ideas that have circulated down through history. some of them fairly bizarre. Let me give you some of the ones that uh were not so bizarre and uh perhaps um reflected some good thinking. Uh I think Augustine, certainly one of the greatest thinkers, Christian thinkers in the history of the church, uh, didn't hit the mark this time when he said he thought that it meant that the water signified the church because that was baptism and uh that was coming from the side of the second Adam who was sleeping the sleep of death signified by the blood Good shot, nice try. Not sure that's what it's talking about. Tertullian said it refers to the two sacraments, the water referring to baptism, the blood referring to the Lord's Supper. Unfortunately, New Testament never refers to the Lord's Supper as blood, so um not a whole lot of evidence for that. Maybe a little closer to the mark was William Stroud, who in 1847 said that this was proof that Jesus literally died of a broken heart. He wrote that because the blood of the heart had separated from the serum, that is the clear water, in the pericardial sac around the heart, that indicated a ruptured heart. And therefore, Jesus had died literally of a broken heart. That has many advocates among evangelicals. If there was any truth to it, we must be clear to know that the broken heart would have been the effect of his death, not the cause of his death Because John is very zealous to show us that Jesus laid down his life. He didn't die of a ruptured heart. A fatal flaw and pun intended for that uh hypothesis, uh, but maybe there's something to it. Another one was by a fella A. F. Sava, who in 1957 wrote that um the flow of the blood and water or serum was because of the intense torture that Jesus had suffered, the severe injury to his chest cavity through the tortures, especially the scourging, causing the fluids to separate. which is, he says, medically demonstrable. And he says that's very significant because it not only shows how much torture Jesus endured for us But it shows the historicity of the account, because John would not have known medically about that phenomenon, and he simply reports that he saw blood and water or clear fluid. And therefore, you see how reliable his account is, because he's reporting something that medically could be demonstrated that John would not have known about. Well, examine that on its basis. I I think what is more significant though is what Scripture says and how this fulfills what John's talking about So what does it mean? Well, look what John says. He says this was to fulfill scripture that says they will look on the one that they have pierced. Now that's from, as I said, Zechariah chapter twelve in verse ten. But if you read that section, At the end of that section, just five verses later, you come to chapter 13, verse 1. And in the Hebrew, there's no break, so it's all the same idea. And after saying, They will look on me, the one whom they have pierced, a few verses later, Zechariah says, On that day a fountain will be opened to the house of David. and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and impurity. Ah So now you have this idea of a fountain. This piercing produces a fountain of cleansing. What does the blood of Jesus Christ do? Hebrews chapter 9, among other passages, tells us that blood is necessary for the cleansing of all the articles in the tabernacle. Blood is needed, the sprinkling of blood is needed for cleansing. Blood is needed for life, Jesus said in John 6, you must drink my blood to have life. Blood is necessary. In order to produce the forgiveness of our sins. And that is combined with this idea of water, which in John is a very significant idea. The idea of water and purification and the spirit. For instance, in John chapter three and verse five, he says the You can't be born again unless you are born again, excuse me. You can't see the kingdom of God unless you are born of water and of the Spirit. Remember in John 4 when Jesus was talking to the Samaritan woman, he says, uh, she's talking about Having to come to this well, she wished she didn't have to do that. Jesus said, if you knew who it was that's talking to you, you could ask for him and he'd give you living water. I'm the fountain, he says, the spring of true water, living water. You remember John 7? At the end of the feast of booths, Jesus stands up at the water purification ceremony and he says, If anybody here is thirsty, let them come to me and drink. For out of, from me, out of his inmost being will flow streams of living water. John says, this he spoke about concerning the Spirit. Whom would be given when Jesus was glorified. John 17 says his glorification was his death on the cross. And then you all of a sudden think of passages like Ezekiel 36, where God says in the new covenant I will give you a clean heart, and I will put a new spirit upon you. So, this idea of cleansing by blood With the water signifying the new spirit to come into that clean life, to take it over, to produce a new life, is a very prominent idea in John. And I think when John saw the water, the clear fluid, and he saw the blood, he thought of Zechariah 12 and 13. They've pierced him And he is that fountain of cleansing. This is the fulfillment of the covenant of God not only Forgiving our sins, but giving his spirit in the refreshing waters of his grace and his cleansing in our lives. And so the so what there you see is that uh the Passover lamb is given for your forgiveness, and the fountain of life Signifies your purification, your new life, the life of the Spirit that is given to you in the gospel. Now, let me ask you personally, does that give you joy? I mean, what does that do when you hear that? And I would suggest that if if in your heart there is not A tingling sense of exhilaration. I have been cleansed by the blood of Christ. His life becomes to me a fountain of living water. And maybe it's because you're not really in touch with your sin. We spend so much time trying to minimize our sin. To ignore it, to not think about it, to just go on and think about the positive things, then when we get out of touch with that, The gospel doesn't seem very powerful or relevant to us, does it? But if you think About your life, reflect on the immorality that would have characterized Some incidents in your past or the impure thoughts that you have or have had. The gossip Where you've talked about somebody else behind their back because you wanted to get back at them Or perhaps you criticize someone because you need to feel superior to them. You need to establish your own righteousness by comparison. At least I'm not like And on and on and on it goes. The manipulations to get your own way, the need to control, and on and on. And how do you feel when you're honest about those things? If you're like me, you feel dirty, don't you? And you see, when you're really in touch with that, then all of a sudden the fact that out of Jesus' death There came blood to sprinkle your conscience clean. There came water The water of the Spirit to purify you, to give to you a new life that is pristine, clean as a new baby, that is pure and innocent before God. Then all of a sudden you realize that your joy comes from the gospel. Your faith in Jesus is what issues forth, expressing itself in love to him and other people, and you're free From the bondage of the law in all its precise details of aughts and scrupulous self-righteousness To the freedom of creative abandonment and expressing love to Jesus and other people. Because the gospel, brothers and sisters, says you are clean. You are clean Say it together, we are clean. We are clean. Do you believe that? Do you believe the purification that is yours through Jesus Christ? Do you understand why hymn writers down through the ages in reflecting on this precious truth have written things like there is a fountain filled with blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins? Where sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. Jesus, keep me near the cross, there a precious fountain flows to all a healing stream. Flows from Calvary's Mountain. Rock of Ages. Cleft for me Let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood from thy ribbon or pierced side which flowed be of sin the double cure. Cleanse me from its guilt. And its power. Let's pray. Oh Lord, forgive us that we have not valued the blood of Christ That we have so tried to excuse ourselves and prove ourselves To make comparisons with others that try to make us feel good about ourselves, that we have lost touch with our pollution, we've lost touch with The filthiness of our own sin and inexcusable thoughts and behaviors. We try to clean ourselves up in our own eyes and maybe in your eyes. And so the blood of Christ doesn't seem very important. Lord, show us once again Jesus. As he's died there. And as John saw from that spear that went right through to his precious heart with blood and the water that flowed out Speaking to us of the cleansing power of your death. And of that life of the Spirit to purify us and to give to us a new record. The Spirit who leads us by love into creative abandonment to Jesus rather than the preoccupation with keeping the details of the law. Oh Lord, speak to our heart about the freedom and the clear conscience that we have in Jesus Christ. Not for anything that we have done, but for only what you have done, that everyone here would be resting completely and entirely and solely In that alone. For in that alone comes our freedom and our joy. Thank you, Lord, for the freedom of the gospel. Thank you that you are in the details of history to demonstrate these truths. Those soldiers had to do exactly what you decreed that they would do to make the point that you wanted made for the glory of your name. Lord, we pray that you would send us Through this afternoon, to pray to you, to seek you, to know that we have access to the throne of grace through the blood of Christ in these next three hours. And to serve you this week as those who have been forgiven, cleansed, and transformed by the power of the Spirit. May we see this historical sign, witnessing to us of the objective fact of our own cleansing and freedom and new life. In Jesus Christ. May none of us miss that. And all God's people said, Amen.