O Saints of God of Columbia Presbyterian Church and a happy 2004 year to you all of you. I don't know what it is. Um every New Year, first Sunday of the new year, they have me up here. uh to preach the word to you, which is okay with me, but I'm running out of stuff of ways to introduce a new year. So they're gonna have to start getting someone else. And as I thought about how uh to Begin uh what word could I share in other words to uh uh to encourage you as you start off now the 2004 year Um again I think I may have shared this a few years back, but it's my personal uh habit and tradition For me to meditate on what I I have I hold to as my life verse, uh the passage of scripture that so dearly speaks to me From Philippians chapter 3, verses 1 to 10, the words of the Apostle Paul, I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection. The uh the the desire of the uh saint of the apostle, the great Paul, wanting to know Christ more each day of his life. That that is fantastic. I I love that Um so I thought I could preach from that, but I think if my my memory serves me right, I I think I did that already for you. And um Uh, I don't know if I could do that again. I'm uh the fear is that some of you may remember what I had to share a few years back. So I couldn't do that Um I thought maybe what I could do, a part of me then uh thought I could uh do something out of Exodus thirty-three That's sort of what I look at as being a very parallel idea to what Paul talks about in Philippians chapter 3. But then another part of me really wanted to do something out of the book of Revelation. Um to start off the year, preach from something that ends the Bible. I thought that'd be kind of a nice ironic twist of things. But uh it really was sort of a a a war within me, you know, a part of me wanted to preach from Philippians, a part of me said to to preach from Exodus. Another part of me said to preach from Revelation. It's sort of the multiple personalities within me kinda warring against each other. It kinda reminds you of a certain character in the Lord of the Rings. Part of me just wanted to go boom, boom you know, and uh just start to uh uh struggle with that. But um a as I prayed about it My heart was led to another very meaningful passage of Scripture, and that is Psalm 57, what uh we read here this morning. This uh is a psalm that I have spent some time in the past years to to really meditate on. Uh and in fact uh when um When 9-11 occurred a few years back, uh I was leading the the Thursday morning concert of prayer, um and at the moment of nine-eleven um The following Thursday for our concert of prayer means which by the way I really encourage you all to come and and join us for. Um it it i I decided to change up what I had planned to do and in fact do a small, very brief devotional to Psalm fifty seven. And ever since then um I have had a desire to really unpack the richness of this psalm of of David as we are found here within the the uh words of Scripture. And so today what I'd like to do as a way to introduce the new year. As a way to encourage you as you plan out the new year, I'd like to share with you a word from Psalm 57. Now Psalm 57 actually begins not quite with verse 1, but you have in your English translation Bibles a preparatory note in the opening of Psalm fifty seven, something that reads for the choir master or uh a music director uh to the tune of Do Not Destroy uh to David Amique Tom I haven't the foggiest idea what any of those things mean. Uh I I I tell you now. But what is interesting and what is fairly significant is really not so much those opening uh uh sections, but the the historical setting of Psalm 57. When he fled, he being David, when David fled from the presence of Saul into the cave. the cave of Adulam. The record here, the historical setting that is found in 1 Samuel chapter 22. So the background of Psalm 57 is a story that perhaps many of us know very, very well. David His whole life, you could say, in the very early stages of his life, was was fairly typical and normal, not really that uneventful, not not really spectacular, nothing really stood out as being extraordinary. You could say very much that he was a very regular, normal, humble little boy, a shepherd, doing the work uh for his father And yet it was this small humble servant of God that the Lord was so pleased to use to demonstrate. His might and power and the wonders of his mercy. Thus by the grace of God, David was lifted up near the throne of Israel itself, the chosen people of God. And now this young shepherd boy who is unknown by this world, treated essentially as a commoner, insignificant in the eyes of so many, now was no longer treated that way By the power of God, he now shared company with the mightiest of men, a hero of heroes, a champion of champions. This one-time lowly shepherd boy, who was ignored and known by none, now was the object of a favor of God, adored and loved by all. Or so it seemed. For lurking in the background of David's life was Saul King of Israel. But Saul was not quite the typical, prototypical king. He wasn't living up to his vows or living up to the picture of the ideal kingly office type No, in fact Saul was very different from that. He was rather Saul the envious. Saul the tyrant. Saul ultimately became the executioner, wanting in fact nothing more than the blood of his faithful servant David shed by his own very hand. And so David finds out about uh Saul's scheme, and so he flees. And Saul now is on a royal hunt, as if hunting for human flesh. And so David, the only place where he can find refuge is in fact in a cave, a place where they put dead people after they have passed corpses. And so now here is David, at very young stage in his life, who once was very much at the right hand of the king of Israel, in the court of the king, a place of noble prestige and honor, now dwells. Dwelling in the place of the dead. What in fact would David do? What in fact would he think? What would he do? What are some of the thoughts that he would have Perhaps a more question, a more important question to ask is, what would you do? What would you think? What are some of the thoughts that you would have if you were looking at similar situations where the next day that you would wake up would be a day guaranteed of threat despair and trials. What would you do? As I thought about uh 2003, in one uh opportunity I had to uh to uh talk with my family about it. I asked my family how was two thousand and three? I don't know if you are in the habit of doing that every new year to kind of evaluate what had happened in the previous year and to kind of plan out the upcoming year. Um I'm still somewhat of an idealist. I still make resolutions to break, well hopefully not to break. But to hopefully fulfill in the upcoming year. But as w I talked about it with uh my family, my kids, you know, it was a great year. I mean they they were talking about of course this was right after opening about ten to fifteen Christmas gifts each. And so they But as I asked my wife, she looked at me with a real blank stare and said, It was hard He was a hard year. And I being, you know, the typical sensitive husband that uh that all men are known to be. Um Kinda wasn't sure exactly what my wife was talking about. And so as we talked about it, I realized, yeah, two thousand three for our household, it was kinda rough Uh our son broke his arm, uh a number of fixing them up things that we had to do in the house. We had our basement waterproof, financially was tough uh just the strain of of homeschooling for the kids. Yeah, it was a it was a tough year. And as w I was talking about it with my wife, I began to realize that in two thousand and four nothing is really gonna change. 2004 now all of a sudden began to be very dubious, threatening. I began to have a mild sense of anxiety and despair. How was two thousand and three for you? And how are you looking at the dawn now of a new year? What are some of the thoughts that you are having? Was 2003 a rough year, perhaps, that is causing you some level of anxiety as you begin this new year? This may be the case for us. This was not the case for David. For David in the middle of his us of his pressure, of his trials. did not wail, he did not complain, he did not weep. What in fact did David do? He wrote a psalm. He wrote a song. Psalm fifty-seven This song here, and it records the mindset, the heart of David himself This morning, I'd like to share with you all what is a very special message to me, a message that I continually need to remind myself. A message I hope that will give you some hope. A message that I hope will give you some proper, good, godly, Christ-Center perspective as you enter into 2004. Psalm fifty seven, you could say, is roughly breaking up into three stanzas. The first uh stanza is verses one to about halfway through uh three The second stanza is from about four to six and the last stanza you could say is from about seven to eleven. You just follow the these little say laws that you have there. No one exactly knows e rough exactly what those say laws are doing, but I think to some degree maybe Maybe those are stanza martyrs. And that's the way that I'm suggesting that we read Psalm uh fifty seven um this morning. And so Psalm fifty seven is a third stanza really ends with it's real mighty exaltation of praise. But that is not the way the psalm begins. And in fact, it begins, verse 1, be gracious to me, O God, be gracious. A desperate plea, an unashamed plea for help and appeal to God Here, David doesn't begin the psalm like he may have begun other psalms. He doesn't begin with a nice exaltation of praise unto God that you find in some other psalms. He begins here. in utter desperation. It's not like what you read in Psalm 8 verse 1 where it says, O Lord our Lord, how majestic is your name above all of the earth. It doesn't begin like what you have in Psalm fifty seven in Psalm 105, 106, and 107. Praise the Lord, O my soul, all that is within me, praise your holy name. Or in fact the Psalms from one forty five to the end of the book of Psalms, which each Psalm there begins and ends with the line, Praise the Lord. And so in fact in Psalm 150, every line of poetry begins with Praise the Lord. You have Psalms where you have these exaltations of majesty and of praise where the name of God is lifted up. But that is not what is happening here in Psalm fifty-seven. Psalm fifty-seven begins in desperation, an urgent need It begins in despair. It begins in appeal. Be gracious to me, O God. Be gracious. In verse 2, I will cry out to God most high. I will cry out in desperation to him. And in fact, when you look in sections 4, in verses 4, 5, and 6 Verse five there has this one uh praise, one word of praise, be exalted above the heavens, O God. Your glory is over all of the earth. But that is such a difficult thing to figure out exactly what it's doing there, because if you look at what precedes verse 5, you have this phrase, the sons of man are fiery flames, their teeth are spears and arrows, their tongue is a sharp sword. This is desperation, folks. This is danger. This is threat to his life And then right after verse five, they set a net at my feet. My soul bows, meaning it is being forced down by my oppressors, by my adversaries. In the midst of all of this chaos. You have verse 5, be exalted, O God. The plea of David, be exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let thy glory be over all of the earth. This second stanza, in essence, kind of captures the situation that David is in. He is surrounded. He is in trouble. He doesn't have time to begin his song with a nice flowery beginning. He needs help. And he needs help right now. You know, sometimes when we pray, and I don't know if you do this, but I catch myself even doing this in my quiet times of prayer in my prayer closet. Where I will still, even though there are things in my life where I am in utter despair, in utter desperation of need, care for the Lord's mercy to be poured on upon me, upon my family. My wife, my children, some of you that I that I work with. I still kind of have this habit of kind of beginning with this browly beginning. It's just someone other than myself is really listening. Some other person is really listening. When we pray to God, He already knows the request that we lift up to Him before we even pray it. He knows what is that is in our hearts, in our minds, the things that we may try to keep secret from each other we cannot keep secret from the Lord If there is a need that you don't want us to know, you cannot hide that from God. You stand before Him, you bow before Him in prayer, with Him knowing every little detail of our lives. We have no time to some perhaps some of us. To begin with a nice flowery beginning. We are in desperation. We need help. A modern J translation If you don't help me, oh God, I am in big, big trouble. I need you, and I need you right now. That is the situation that you find David. And it almost immediately after you have this urgent plea, what you have now is now that faithful comfort that comes from God. And at times it's not really immediate. And in fact, as I was thinking about this last night, I think I would want to rewrite my outline that you have here And take out the word immediate. And the reason why is because at times it really is not immediate. Perhaps some of you are in fact going to very difficult trials, hardships. Difficulties that don't seem to make sense and it seems perhaps that God is not acting. There is no immediacy to his grace, that nothing has changed. His ways are not our ways, his thoughts are not our thoughts. And what he has ultimately planned, I do not know. But what I do know is this. He will, in fact, comfort. He will in fact be gracious. He will. When he does that will be according to his perfect timing, according to his perfect will, but he in fact guarantees that he will be our comfort. So in verse one he says David cries out that he want ye help. Be gracious to me, O God. Be gracious. And so his soul finds refuge in the Lord. He says, I will cry out to the God, and God will be the one who will complete things for me, accomplish things for me. You see, before that line and thought was popularized in any movie, it was right here in the Bible. You complete me It is the Lord who is our comfort. He is the in the picture there you have in verse 4 is a picture of David lying down, sleeping, resting. In the midst of lions who are ready to devour him, his enemies, the sons of man around him, are like fiery flames. No, they are like swords and spears. They are like a sharp sword in the midst of all of this. Utter attack, David still has confidence to be able to lie down and have enough confidence in the Lord to be able to even fall asleep, to rest. What is it? How is it that David can do this? What is it that he understands, that he gives him so much comfort and peace? In the midst of utter chaos and threat to his life. Look in verse 3, where it begins there by saying, He will ascend from heaven and save me. It says that he will send from heaven. It doesn't say what he will send, it just simply says that he will send, and what you are told is the place from which God will send this thing. It is coming from heaven. It is coming from his kingdom. In other words, what it is that God is going to give to David, to you, for your source of comfort is not a product of this world is a product of his world, the kingdom of God, of heaven and of heaven um alone. And then in the the uh second part of verse uh three there, it tells you now what in fact he will send. He will send, he says, his loving kindness and his truth, or his faithfulness. The words there are the Hebrew words chesed and emet. He will send his chesed, he will send his emet. Now this word chesed is is very tricky in terms of how to translate. Most people seem to try to understand this as being the Old Testament equivalent to grace The Old Testament word for grace is this word, Hesed. Um that's I think heading in the right direction, but Hesed really has a much more of a covenantal understanding to it. The covenantal promises that God is going to that God had made in the past, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, God will in fact be true to fulfill. So whatever it is that God is going to bring down from heaven for David, it has something to do with a covenantal promise. It is embodied in something or some one that is promised from God to his people. And whatever this one thing or person may be, it is a person who the Psalm fifty seven says, will in fact save Not only is this one person now the fulfillment of God's covenantal promise, it is a a an act of God and that His truth. His faithfulness. You see, God is faithful. Even the midst of all unfaithfulness, even when it seems difficult and it seems like he is not working. God is in fact true. And in fact, there's a verse in the book. Book of Romans, chapter 15, verse 4, that says that all these things have been written, meaning the Old Testament, all of these things have been written to you that you may in fact have hope. What does the Old Testament talk about? It talks about God's dealing with Abraham, with Isaac, with Jacob, with Joseph, with Moses, with David, with all the sons of David, with his people Israel. It talks about God's dealing with all of these people. And in spite of their forfeiture of God's grace, in spite of their unfaithfulness, God was always faithful to them. And if God was faithful to them What the Book of Romans is saying is that God will still be faithful to you. That is the hope that we have, that God is in fact true to his word. The Hebrew word amet again can be translated as truth. God will send from heaven his covenantal promise and truth. God will send from heaven his truth And you see that embodied in the one who is called the way, the truth, and the life. Did David understand all of this? I don't know. I he may, he may not have. He understood that something was coming from heaven. But we who now sit in the fullness of time in the fullness of the revelation of God now know that we can in fact have hope in the midst of despair because of the one who called himself the resurrection and the life. And David, because he understood these things, David, because he began to see that in fact there is hope, it's no wonder that he can utter the words that he says in verses 7 to 11. And when you read that section, in verse 7 to 11, what you find is that there is no mentioning, not even an inkling, not even a clue of hardship or despair. It begins in verse 7 with this plea, My heart is what I have translated as prepared. It is ready. It is firm. Most of your translations will have something that talks about steadfastness, and my heart is steadfast. And I don't think that's heading in the right direction here. I think what's happening here is that God that David is saying now, after understanding who you are, Understanding what you have done for me, my heart is now ready. It is now ready to go But what is it ready for? It is ready for song and appraise. Let me sing and now praise you. He begins and continues on by saying, Awake, O my glory. And again, here your translations are really off. They're talking translating this word as soul. Awaken, O my soul. I have an idea of where they are getting this idea of soul, but it is clearly not there in the original text. It is awakened, oh my glory. Now the different nuance there really oh my soul is really kind of talking about David himself. Awaken oh my soul, he wants to waken himself up because he wants to be eager to do something But here the picture is something very different. It is awakened, oh my glory, where the glory of God is pictured as being covering the all of the earth. It is almost like a direct a direct uh speech to God Himself. Awaken, O my glory. Awaken, O Lord. Now it's not that David here is really talking about the Lord who is sleeping in in any literal sense, but what you get here now in the sense of David is a real heartfelt aggression. Aggressive action. He wants needs to do something. He needs to praise. He needs to worship. He needs to exalt the name of God because of what he understands of what David uh what God is, who God is and what God God has done for him. He is so eager that he can't just sit in idleness. He's got to shake something up and so he's it's almost as if he is shaking God to wake up to receive the worship that he wants to give to him. Awake, harp and lyre. Now the harp and lyre were the instruments that David used to to write his songs, to to uh to use that he used for the praises that he lifted up to the Lord. He wants to worship. He wants to exalt the name of God. He is eager and he is ready and he needs to do it because of the excitement and the passion and the love in his heart for the Lord God Almighty. This harp and worship really now becomes the instruments that become used even within the temple worship later on. And the picture that you get here of let me sing and praise, awake, O harp and lyre, this desire of David to be able to want to praise the name of God, you get a similar image in the book of Job, where Job in the midst of all of the chaos and and despair and darkness that is around him, you have this one small phrase that just is is is In the midst of the darkness, what does the Lord give to you? He gives to you a song to praise his name for, to uplift your spirits, to give you a sense of hope. And then David says this very ironic phrase of Let me now awaken the dawn. And the irony is just so clear. Man does not awaken the dawn. It is the dawn that awakens man. Now, how many of us have uh perhaps tried to get an extra 20 to 30 minutes of sleep after waking up in the early hours of the morning just to be bothered by a ray of stuff? Sunlight piercing through our window that keeps to to find our eyes, but no matter where we seem to want to move within our bed. We do not awaken the dawn. It is the dawn that awakens us. But here is David who was saying, Let me awaken the dawn. I want to awaken the dawn. Meaning that David is so ready. He has so much of a desire in his heart to praise the name of the Lord. Understanding who he is. What he has done, that he cannot just simply twiddle his thumbs, wait there in the night for the day to come. He urges, he begs, he pleads for the day to come because he is so ready to pray. I have a question that I'd like to ask you this morning. What is it that gets you up from day to day? What is it that um motivates you to crawl out of your beds from morning to morning? Perhaps for many of us it it uh is uh work. Uh perhaps for many it is um our children To some degree, these are noble things, things that we must do, things that we in fact we do do. But for David, it was a desire, a desire that could not be suppressed. to praise the Lord. A desire that was pent up within him that he needed to get out and exalt the name of his God. And so he says, let me give thanks among the nations. Let me sing among the peoples. Opportunities are before us all the time to share the good things that the Lord is doing within our midst. Opportunities, perhaps, even tonight in our Lord's Supper, for you to share the things that are doing. God is doing in your lives. Perhaps as an upwards testimony to share that thing that the Lord is doing in your life. But David here cannot be silent. He cannot just sit in idle expectation. He aggressively urges the day to come, for he is eager to worship the Lord. Folks, I don't know what 2003 was like for you. I shared with you a little bit of my family and and what the past year was like for us. Perhaps for many of you 2003 was very similar. Difficult, hard. Perhaps for others of you, it was a very good year. A year that was filled with surprising blessings. How was it socially? Perhaps for some of you academically, uh financially. How about spiritually? I don't know what the year was like for you, but regardless of how it was, I do know what 2004 can be like for you. It can be filled with exaltation. Praised. Hope. Because we have the God of hope. Life at times I feel And I use this analogy at times. It is like a Bible study. The Lord is our master teacher, teaches us every day, and is continually teaching us every day through the circumstances in our lives. The situations in fact we face, the people that we meet. He teaches us very clearly through his word. We at times are just too hard-headed, uh hardened apart perhaps, to always know what it is that he is teaching He is teaching us who we are. We are desperate people. He is teaching us who he is. He is the great God. And when we can understand that and come to a deeper appreciation of that, like David, how can we not Like the words of the Apostle Paul say, I want to know you more. That knowing you, Jesus, knowing you There is no greater thing. What I want in 2004 is just to know you just a little bit more Just a little bit. And that would make the year all worth it. To come to that knowledge with hope, because 2004 can now be a year where you can make Psalm 57. your song. And it is not just David who says these words, but you can now also join and praise with him. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, not under, not in the midst, above, for your glory is over all of the earth. Let's pray together. Father, thank you. Thank you for Jesus Christ. Thank you, Lord, for that such that so gracious gift of eternal life that you gave to us. Lord, through your son. And thank you, O God, that you were pleased to give it to us by faith and not, Lord, by works. And thank you, O God, for your abundant mercy that continually flows We are people in need of mercy. You are a God who is so gracious to give it. It's a good match, and we love you, Lord, for it. And we ask, O God Uh and I ask, O Lord, that you may be here with all your people. Cause us, O Lord, to look in the 2004 year. As we dawn now the start of a new year, perhaps, O Lord, it's easy for us to despair before things even occur, but to help us, O Lord, to know that you are there in our midst. And with that, O God, fill our hearts with hope and eager expectation to see what in fact you will do That we even long for these days to come, so that we may truly praise you. And so, God, be with your people this day in all the things that we do, O Lord. May your name be lifted up and exalted. And so hear our prayers for we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.