It's uh Presbyterian church. My wife is a Presbyterian. Her father was a pastor in Boulder, Colorado I met her out on one of our ships. We have two mission ships. I met her out on one of our ships in Singapore, chased her halfway around the world, from Singapore to Denmark, and took two years. That wasn't part of the ministry program, that was extra. And uh we've been married the past twelve years or so and have uh two boys. We're based right now with our US base in Atlanta, Georgia And that's a cross-cultural experience, I can tell you. So uh it's been amazing to be based down there Before I share um and open up God's word, let me just uh mention a few books to you. Who's read this book? Let the Nations Be Glad. Anyone read this book? You think it's a good book? Who else has read it? Brilliant book, Let the Nations Be Glad, by John Piper. He's t he's a pastor, but he's one of today's God's prophets. And I think in your little um insert, it's uh says something here about missions. Let me just read this opening paragraph to you. Missions is not the ultimate goal of the church. Worship is Missions exist because worship doesn't. Worship is ultimate, not missions, because God is ultimate, not man. When this age is over and the countless millions of the redeemed fall on their faces before the throne of God, missions will be no more. It is a temporary necessity, but worship abides forever. And if you want to get a big view of God and his love for the world and his desire for the world, this is a brilliant book. for you to read. Now this is kind of for the thinking person, which I know most of you are, but uh another book that's brilliant, particularly for people, you know, if you're just still trying to get on first base with God in his world is this book called Catch the Vision 2000 and the breakthroughs today that what God is doing around the world. Today a hundred thousand people will be swept into God's kingdom. Today 500 new churches will be planted around the world. And some people think missions is boring. Wow. This is a brilliant book, Catch the Vision Two Thousand. Another thing we encourage people to do is to get a world map. How many of you have a world map at home? Wow, brilliant. But this is for the rest of you I've just been on a trip to Barbados. We had one of our mission ships logoff two was down there. And I came back home. One of them you know what excited me? My son Simon, my older boy, he's ten. He said to me, Daddy Come up to my bedroom. Came up to his bedroom. He has a bunk bed. He's on the bottom bunk 'cause he's heavier. And um he said, Look up there and At the top of his butt looking up, there was this map of the world that he put up. And he said, Daddy, when I wake up in the morning, there's the world and I'm looking at the world And I want my sons to become world Christians. A great way to do this is to have a map of the world. And uh to put it on a wall or in front of a television or um There's no room, just put it on the ceiling. You know, often, you know, young people you have your walls plastered with everything, just usually a space on the ceiling, and uh then you can wake up and see the world For God so loved the world. Here's another great thing to do to help you to pray for the world. If anybody can fold this, I've never I've been twenty years and I've you know I should have a course on how to do that. Anyone can fold maps? Could you fold maps? Sir? Don't so you? Who's a mat follower? Who has the guest of Mat Folder? Oh you do. Come over here. Come here You can fold maps. Your presbyters. You can go get that map and fold it. That map's yours. It'd take me too long to do it. One of the most brilliant things to have with you to help you pray for the world is these little prayer cards. And uh here's Japan. You've got a team in Japan, haven't you? Here's Japan. It gives you information on the front, a little map, and uh some points for prayer on the back. These are great. Carry around your purse, your pocket. And uh I have them on the dashboard of my car, I play for the world. People look at me, they trace my driving. And um But these are brilliant little cards. When you're in a small group, give everybody a prayer card, get everybody praying, rather than one person praying and everybody nodding off. I know that doesn't happen in your church, but these are great little prayer cards. Let me just mention a couple of other things that are Wow. Do I just have to stay in one place? Boy, I got behind myself. I met a woman just about a year and a half ago, Lois Moday, spoke at one of our conferences in in the Netherlands, Holland, and uh she one day was her husband like ballooning, and he got in the balloon with two friends. She she watched the balloon go up, hit power cables, burst into flames and come down. And she walked over and there were the sc charred bodies of her husband and two friends And in her late forties, this attractive woman said she found herself single. And a whole new ball game. And she wrote a book called The Snare, Avoiding Emotional and Sexual Entanglements. Because she went to a conference and the Christian speaker afterwards gave her the eye. And she went back to her room and realized she needed to make a new covenant with God. And this is a brilliant book on avoiding emotional and sexual entanglements. I shared this book in a meeting last weekend. A woman in her fifties came up to me, hardly the body beautiful type, but she says just this last week She says, I found it very easy. I could have given a man the eye. And uh she picked up this book, brilliant book called the snare, avoiding emotional and sexual entanglements. Women get involved emotionally, then physically. Men get involved physically, then emotionally. Just one other little book. When I first joined OM I was given this book, The Disciplined Life. Little book, 'cause it wasn't very disciplined, so it had to be small. And uh somebody said, Richard, you have enough chaos in your life to create another world out of. And I picked up this book and I read the first section that said The Place of Discipline in the Christian Life, which was on the principles. So I said the second part was on the practicals. So I skipped to the second part of the book. And then it said, begin by reading the entire book through, including the introduction, if you've not already done so. Some of you will spot the title of this chapter while scanning the contents and recognizing that becoming a disciplined person is the goal, will suppose that to read only this chapter will be sufficient. Such an attempt may be symptomatic of your need of discipline, which at that point I didn't like that book Anyone who caught that book? You need a discipline? Amen. Discipline doing what you know to be right when you don't feel like it Also not doing what you know to be wrong when you do feel like it. The converse. Great, great book. Well, over these 20 years I've had the um privilege of visiting all kinds of churches I've spoken in big gothic-like buildings. I remember Pakistan, a throwback to the colonial era, this huge cathedral, great pillars. This church went on forever. And I'd spoken in little mud huts. Well you get the mosquitoes before they get you. I've spoken in all kinds of meetings with all different kinds of worship styles. I remember the wildest meeting that I ever went into was a gypsy church. You ever been to Gypsy church? It is a moving experience. There are no seats, because they're kind of semi-nomadic. It was almost kind of like a a sort of a campground type thing. And it was amazing. There didn't seem to be a beginning to the service or an end. There was definitely no agenda. And everybody just kind of moves around. And when they start to dance, the women would all start moving in one section, all the men in the other. And I was a very conservative Britishist sitting there And saying, Wow. And all the women wear every colour of the rainbow. The men don't, but the women do. I mean this jacket would look totally dull in that setting And it was just an amazing, moving experience seeing all these people, when you speak, they all just move around. Yeah. It was amazing. A few weeks later I was in Germany in a church where it seemed nothing was moving I remember there were the chimes of the clock, you know, at eleven o'clock. Doing, doing, doing, then God was on. For the hour, and at the end of the hour, they went doing doing doing and the service finished. And this service it started 11 o'clock sharp, it finished 12 o'clock dull You ever been to that kind of meeting? I hope not recently. Very different kind of worship style. But friends, whatever the style of building, whatever the style of worship, there's a common characteristic of most churches. You know what it is, you know what it is They're inward looking. They're looking this way, not this way. You know why that is Because they're made up of people who are looking this way, not this way. Which way are you looking today? And there's a phrase that I heard a number of years ago, one of those phrases that kind of hit me between the eyes Left me staggering that says this we will never turn the world upside down until we turn the church Inside out. You like that? We will never turn the world upside down till we turn the church, which is you and me, inside out. And that phrase, turning the world upside down, it comes from Acts 17, verse 6. Where Paul is in Thessalonica is a small band of people there. They've been there just a few weeks. And some people come up to them and they say, You people, you are turning the world upside down, and now you come here. And here was a group of movers and shakers. That means they moved and the world shook. Today the world moves and we shake. The big bad world. And we're doing the shaking. But here was the church in Acts that was doing the moving, and the world was doing the shaking. Why were they on the move? Many reasons. One they had a message. They believed this was the only message that could change people's lives from the inside out. They also knew the power of the Holy Spirit, not just as a night doctrine, but they could put a little tag on and say that's my due But they knew the power of the person of the Holy Spirit had come on their lives, in their lives, filled their lives, and took them all over the world. They knew the power of the Holy Spirit. And something else. They came from a different kind of church. They came from an inside out church. You've been looking at it the last couple of weeks. In Acts 13. This amazing church in Antioch. And I thought when I'd heard your pastor was speaking on this for two weeks, I thought, well, I should do something totally different But as I kept thinking about it, I thought, well, I'm sure he's lined up the nails and put them in. All I'm gonna do today is take a hammer and just give 'em a little pot each. Bang them a little more in this morning But this church in Acts, in Acts thirteen, this Antioch church, I call it an inside-out church. A church that was not looking this way, but was looking this way And you've already looked at this church. What's interesting about this church? It has mixed leadership. Now, in this church at Antioch, there were prophets and teachers. Today we have many teachers, but few prophets. Teachers bring the general word of God, the prophet brings the particular word of God to a particular group at a particular time for a particular purpose. The teacher is the expositor, the prophet is the exhauter. And in this church there were mixed leaderships. There was multi-giftedness in the team of leadership. And there were prophets and teachers. I've often been in churches where either it seemed no one was leading. That's fun. Or one person is running the show. I remember going in a church where it was a woman, and when she said jump, they jumped, especially her elders. And they were a group of men, they were all leaners, not leaders. But here was a group, the plural, leaders, different gifts. And that's key to an inside out church. You've also seen that they were diverse culturally. There were people from different cultures that were gathered together. Barnabas, Simeon, who was called Niger, black skin, African. Lucius of Cyrene, Syrian, very different colours of skin, very different culturally. I'm with a church in Atlanta that is a real mixed-up church. Blacks and whites, blacks and whites on leadership, Indians, Hispanics The only one in the area that's like that. Otherwise you go to your black churches or your white churches And an inside out church needs to love different cultures I want to see where they can, a church that's mixed. You know what Billy Graham said the number one sin in America is? Racism. Interesting, huh? A couple hundred miles from where I live, nine black churches were burnt down not so long ago. Was it that football player with the Green Bay Packers? What's his name? Reggie White? Pastor of one of those churches that burnt down And racism is alive and well. And you and I are all racists. Don't like that, but we are. Actually. I mentioned this last week in the church, and there were two people, two Mexicans, a mother and daughter sitting there. And of all the people in the meeting, they were the ones nodding their head. They understood. They understood. We're not quite first class, these two Mexicans. Not something they heard outwardly, they just saw it. You know how you show you love somebody of another culture? You eat their food and learn their language. To go and find somebody of another culture. Eat their food, learn their language. Learn their phrases. Greet them with in their language And see what happens. Usually it takes a secular rider. In fact there are more prophets among secular riders because they tell things like they is. And he said this. You know what the church in the South was taught? To love Jesus and hate niggers. And it takes a secular writer to say that. Isn't that amazing? Love Jesus and hate niggers. And here was a church that was mixed racially and was had got through some of that stuff. Here was a church that meant business with God. Here they were getting together and they were worshipping the Lord and fasting. Wow. Here was a church that was praying and fasting. Most churches are playing and feasting. You mention a meal, zoom! You mentioned fasting, zoom! Warp speed, out of here. I mean you mentioned fasting today, you're extremist You're an extremist, you're odd. You okay? You need to see a doctor or somebody to check you out? You know, just amazing, huh? I mean you can't have fellowship today without coffee and donuts. Huh? Friends, if we gathered around in prayer like we do in food, wow! What a church. But here was a church that was serious and meant business with God. Now watch out when you mean business with God. Because things will happen. Because God will take you at your word. And he says, While worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said One of the reasons this church was an inside-out church is because the Holy Spirit was the boss. The Holy Spirit called the shots in this church. The Holy Spirit was the CEO in this church. He was a senior pastor in this church. He was the head of the board The Holy Spirit said You see, the Holy Spirit is a great mover and shaker, actually. He's the one that moves. And where to shake. Now that may not be the best way of putting it among Presbyterians You know A. W. Toza? Any of you know him? Called a 20th century prophet. Died a few years ago. He said this about the church. He said today, if you took the Holy Spirit out of the church, 95% of what was happening in that church would continue as normal. Only five percent would stop. You know, the programme's just come on, carry on. In fact, many people would not even know the Holy Spirit left because they weren't sure he was here in the first place But A. W. Show said this, you take the Holy Spirit out of the book of Acts and out of the Church of Acts, and 95% of what they're doing would stop Because they didn't have all the budgets and the buildings and the conferences and the ships and the books and all this stuff I know the Holy Spirit is controversial, but I like what Billy Graham said. I don't care what you call it, as long as you get it. You can call it whatever you want. Baptism, fullness, anointing. I don't care what you call it, as long as you get it And friends, you and I need a new infilling, a new anointing, a new empowering with the Holy Spirit. Because programs are not going to do it, are they? It's going to take the power of the Holy Spirit. And here was a church that was open to the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit spoke and said, Set apart from me, your two best men. Paul and Barnabas, for the work to which I have called them. See the Holy Spirit, He calls for the for his work. The church doesn't do the calling. And the Holy Spirit was speaking there and saying, Set apart for me. And even then, name them by name. Wow. Woo! Wouldn't that be interesting this morning? Now that may not be part of our theology. Wouldn't that be interesting if you your name got named this morning? That would wake you up in a hurry, wouldn't it? Woo! But it was a bit like that Wednesday morning for me. Didn't name me by name, but I felt God was saying to me, so what are you doing for God? And I thought, what do you mean what am I doing for God? I'm in Bible school, aren't I? Huh? Writing papers, aren't I? Excuse me. He said, So what are you doing this summer? And I knew it was the voice of God speaking to me. And the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me. And when the Holy Spirit is moving, he's going to speak to individuals. He's gonna stir individuals Because the Holy Spirit is not sort of, you know, just sort of He's focused, he's specific. He's intentional. He's not just kind of floating around And he speaks, and he speaks specifically to people for particular tasks and ministries. And in churches sometimes they say, Well we got Mary over here. She's a bit of a you know a bit of a bit of a problem, a bit of a pain. You know, why don't you take her? Maybe it'll help So Mary is going to be transformed from this pain over here to this blessing over here. Or they'll say, hey Joe. Joe he's not doing much. You know, kind of help him. So Joey's going to be doing nothing here and over here he's going to do something. It's going to be an amazing transformation And I say, look, if you ain't doing much over here, you're going to do less over there. If you're a pain over here, you're going to be a bigger pain over here And the Holy Spirit finds people who are moving, who are doing something. As Jesus walked by the sea and found two some people fishing and said, Come follow me and I'll make you fishers of men. Give up your small ambitions. And often when the Holy Spirit's speaking, he's saying to somebody, give up what you're doing, give up that small that focus. I have something bigger and better for you to do. May scare the life out of you, but start moving. Stop moving. And the Holy Spirit is looking for people who are being a blessing over here. They can be more of a blessing here. People who are who are doing something here can do something over here. That's what he's looking for. I was in a church in Canada, the church was so upset with God that he'd spoken to their senior pastor, who was now a missionary, in Romania. They were so upset One of them said, you know, he should have taken somebody else. Took the senior pastor. Imagine it. The cheek of the Holy Spirit. Huh. I don't think he even went through the board of elders first. We have a pastor on ON. Been with us ten years. And uh George Vower, the founder of our mission, invited him just to go visit the teams in France. By the way, it's a setup. Just just just just visit the you know, just just visit the teams in France. It's been a ministry, you know, just just have a great time So Don went over there and uh it was a setup Because here was a town or a city of 200,000 with two small evangelical churches. He'd just come from his church outside Chicago That was 11 acres, gonna build a new Bible school, with a fast-growing church. He'd been the student pastor there and had been pastoring it for 18 years And while he was there, the Holy Spirit spoke to him and said, Give up your church. And the next missions conference, they had an annual missions conference. And there was a call to come forward, and he and his wife stood at the front first And everyone was because he was standing the wrong way. He was standing this way. You know, normally he's this way. So they all think it you know turn around. You know, wrong way. And he hadn't you know, he hadn't said anything. And then other people came forward, and then there was some prayer and people I mean the pastor was part of the furniture, you know, he went with the seats. He'd been there eighty years God moved him out. So watch out when the Holy Spirit is about. Because he might just speak to you. And he might just move us out of our comfort zone. Now I know this message is not the stroking kind, because often I need more of a smoke than a stroke Some of us are looking for a big call, all we need is a big kick. But the Holy Spirit spoke. One of the marks of an inside out church. And one other The people are obedient to God. They're not just open to God to let him speak, but they're obedient to God when he does speak. You can be open, Lord, we're open. We sang a song, I'm available. Just don't speak to me. Here am I, Lord, send my sister But it says then after fasting and praying, so they did want to wait on God and confirm that calling, and that's biblical, test the spirits But when they knew it was of God, they laid hands on them and sent them off. Now the church that's looking this way, you know what it does? It has the ministry of laying on of hands as well. As the inside out church. But their ministry of the laying on of hands is It's a ministry of holding back And when a brother or sister starts to sense God is speaking, the ministry of holding back. And some people had that ministry. I took a team and I was going to a church in Sweden. And the pastor said, I've changed my mind, you're not coming. That was amazing, he was quite candid with me. And I said, Well why? you know? He said, Well, if your team comes Some of the people, especially young people, will get excited and want to go. He said, I know really get excited is our youth leader. And he's a great guy and I want to keep him And we never went to that church. He had the ministry of the laying on of hands to hold people back. I've met wives who had that ministry with their husbands. Uh-uh. I've met husbands who have that ministry with their wives. Uh-uh. We're doing fine right here. I've met parents who had that ministry with their children. Uh-uh. I don't want you to go with some funny group like OM. OM means only maybe. You know, I want you to be upwardly mobile. Yeah, the Ministry of Holding People Back Now something to be held back. So here was a church that laid hands on them And sent them out. Even if they would in a sense lose something by that. But our loss is your gain. Our loss is your gain. But you know what I found with churches that have that approach of sending people forth, but the Lord brings people to replace them. But when he speaks to people about moving out, he can bring others in or gift them for particular tasks to fill their place. Because if the Holy Spirit is speaking, he can take care of all the business And this church in Canada has a wonderful pastor now. To replace the one within Romania. But I love this church And I'm sure as your pastor has highlighted this beautiful combination of those who go And those who send. And the majority of senders. It was Paul and Barnabas, the minority, that went out. The majority are senders, but it's this beautiful combination of goers and senders. You see, the question today in mission is not whether you're going to get involved. That's not the issue. That's not the question. You know why? Because Jesus never asked that question That is not the question today for you. Whether you're going to get involved in some way in mission. We weren't given a question, we were given a commission We weren't given options to choose into, we were given an obligation. The issue is not whether we're going to get involved, the issue is how are we going to get involved. And an inside-out church is a church that says every person is involved in mission. Every person is involved in reaching the world locally where we live, our Jerusalem. The church is involved nationally, it's Judea, its country. The the church is involved regionally and it's Samaria And in its ethnic communities. And the church is involved globally to the ends of the earth. Local, national, regional, global. It starts here, but it doesn't stay here. It keeps moving out. To the ends of the earth. See, and the question is not whether you're going to get involved, but how. How And that we all have a part to play to be part of an inside-out church. And friends, when I'd met this kind of church, It is a happy church. It's a glad church. Churches that are looking at their neighbors. People that are living in their comfort zone. Wrapping themselves up with extra blankets of insurance and security. People are saying, Well, I'm going to get my acts all together Then God, I'm ready to be involved in some way. Friends, if I waited till my act was together, God would never abuse me. Funny fellow like me But I believe as he's spoken to some here, he'll speak to others and say, shh, start moving. And the rest of you he'll say, Be sending. Be sending Can be through praying for somebody daily or week weekly giving. That part of your giving goes to them. Monthly you drop them a line Could be quarterly, you give them a phone call. Or send a little love package, care package. Annually you'll remember their birthdays and anniversaries But you'll link with someone and say, Daily I'm gonna pray for you. Weekly I'm gonna give to you, even if I collect it up and send a check once a month. Monthly I'm gonna drop you a line. Send an email Quarterly I'm going to give you a call. Or send a love package. Annually. Hey, you're part of the family. We're going to remember your birthdays and anniversary. That's too much for an individual, do it as a group. Do it as a group. Do it as a team. We will never Turn the world upside down until we turn the church, you and me, inside out. But as the church is turned inside out and mobilized, so the world can be turned upside down and evangelized. Amen. Lord, we thank you for your heart today. We thank you that you're an inside-out God. We thank you that you're a God today who's not wrapped up in yourself. If I can say that reverently. But you're a God who soul of the world. But you sent your son. You so love the world That you sent and send your church. You so love the world that you sent your spirit to empower the church. You so love the world that you send people out from your church. The Paul's and the Barnabases. You so love the world that you get the rest of your church to send them out. And support them and be one with them. And oh Lord, may this be known as an inside-out church. May this be known as a church that's increasingly Not wrapped up in itself, but wrapped up in your world, locally, nationally, regionally, globally. And Lord, this will be a glad church This will be a church filled with your presence, filled with your power, filled with your purpose, filled with your passion. Lord, turn us inside out. Turn me inside out, Lord. Ask us in Jesus' name. Amen.