And after Jacob blessed Pharaoh, Pharaoh asked him, How old are you? And they do not equal the years of the pilgrimage of my fathers. Combined that with the ancient world's deep respect for age, and Pharaoh asked him what seems to him the most respectful of all questions in verse eight And there's a general disregard and disrespect for age in our culture. We are young heavy. It's when I visit my mother, who lives in the same house and the same community that I was born in, where people have all grown up together. And as you and I look at the eve of a new decade and of a new year before us, let's learn from how Jacob looked back on his life to get some perspective. But that I am to leave a prosperous trade in the flower of my life. Our lives are going and going and passing so quickly. The saddest of these, it might have been. It's clean, lies before you with all the potential of what God wants to do in your life, and nothing prohibits you from making that the absolute best Of all the gifts that God has given you. So we trade our lives for those memories as we live each golden day, and the flowers we grow in our garden may have petals bright and gay, or they may be dark and depressing things if we live our lives that way. And so he says, I long for the permanence of home, but I'll be clothed with a glorified body. Do you long for that? You want to go home. I'd like to give the opportunity, if there's just one or two people, who would like to just share anything that God's been speaking to you about in that, and then we'll close together in prayer as a congregation. But Father help us to realize that for all of us our years are a pilgrimage, a journey on the way home, in that place that Jesus has prepared for us. Help us, Father, to assess our lives as we look at nineteen eighty, to be able to take inventory at those things which have intended to cause us to look at this life Genesis chapter 47, the story is picked up upon their arrival in Egypt when Joseph seeks to introduce them to his friend the Pharaoh. You see bro Joseph is presenting his brothers to Pharaoh, and uh it's a time of uh certain kind of chit-chat, you know, they haven't uh met each other, they don't anticipate that this is going to be a long and hearty relationship, and so he wants to uh have some pleasant discussions. How old are you? to be at leisure for these reflections. And I think of time and I think of life, and I sometimes wonder why that time can't be stayed and enjoyed without loss, as the sun and the earth and sky. They did not receive the things promised, they only saw them and welcomed them from a distance, and they admitted that they were aliens and strangers on the earth. I don't have a country of my own. And make each day count for Jesus Christ. You take those things that are needful for the journey. Do you ever want to notice how much you acquire junk? But we know about it now. That as he would do that for you, that you too would have the grace to see these things for what they are, and not to be discouraged too much, to make the trip home, to to remember that And therefore, of our lives, and where our lives are going. to seek to make better use of our days. In New Year's at the passing of time as it's recorded to us in Scripture. with the first text from Genesis chapter forty seven verse nine. is of course you remember that Joseph had been sold by his brothers as a slave and taken to Egypt, where God blessed him and he was raised up as Prime Minister, and a means for many people during the time of famine to be preserved. And so we read in Genesis chapter 47, beginning with verse 1. Well, that's already been established, and so Pharaoh goes on and says to Joseph, Your fathers and your brothers have come to you, and the land of Egypt is before you. And they do not equal the years of the pilgrimage of our fathers. So Joseph settled his father and his brothers in Egypt and gave them property in the best part of the land, the district of Ramesses, as Pharaoh directed. And find out about the neighbors and her friends, people who are dying, people who are looking at life quite a bit differently from the way I look at it, with just a couple of young kids. From what ours might be. And so what does Israel, whose name also is Jacob, say about his life? He looks at himself here like as he's on his uh deathbed almost, but he lived for another seventeen years in Egypt, but even at death at a hundred and forty-seven. These are his words that are quoted by William Law, preserved in his book, A Serious Call to a Devout and a Holy Life. And perhaps had I visited any of you in my condition, I should have had the same thoughts of you. But we lament the young that are taken away in the progress of their fortune. When a man is dead, what do anything signify to him but the state that he is in then? And that fruit fly might look at the daylily and think that's something to be grasped after. The days when the family was together, the days when he hoped and dreamed dreams of what he would be like in that land And he remembers how he threw away all the family harmony because he wanted the birthright, because he cheated his brother out of it and obtained his father's blessing, was driven from home as a refu a refugee, a one who was escaping his brother's wrath. The years have gone and I can't get them back. Patriarchs sojourned in Canaan. Sojourner, as I live my life out before your face. Sojourned in the world. doesn't even have a place to lay his head. For us that he purchased. Dwell with me forever. He's not talking about Canaan, he's not talking about Mesopotamia where his grandfather had come from. We're sojourners in this world. eleven and twelve to say that because of that you were excluded from kingdom citizenship. In Second Corinthians chapter five, verse one, speaking of the body, he says, Now we know that if the earthly tent So that we might go home to be with our Lord. can be a citizen of both kingdoms, the kingdom of this world or the kingdom of Jesus Christ. Or is a pilgrimage on your way to the home that's prepared for you in Jesus Christ? It will so soon pass. In the light of eternity. So may I all say how brief was that span that God called me to live faithfully in, in honor to my Lord And on the other side, therefore, abstain from sinful desires, with this in mind, and be weaned more from the world in nineteen eighty Well, hopefully you don't try to take everything in the house along. to millions of people that we have never met, none of whom we'll ever f see again, probably. Al spoke of five or ten years seeming like an eternity. I can really become impressed to think that a year ago he had set in motion a chain of events, the purpose of which, at least in our lives, was to prepare us so that we could really understand and accept and apply this Not only should we have our eyes set on the destination, but that the destination has his eyes set on us. Let's pray. Our years are so often difficult, and yet, Father, how much we have to be thankful for as a congregation and as families compared to so many other people in the world as home and as a residence rather than as a pilgrimage. To enjoy this world and this life, but to enjoy it as travelers rather than residents. Brothers come down for food, Joseph makes himself known to them, and then he invites the whole family to come down from Canaan down to Egypt for the following five years of famine to provide for them there. They also said to him, We have come to live here awhile because the famine is severe in Canaan, and your servants' flocks have no pasture. Know of any any among them with special ability, put them in charge of my own livestock. Joseph also provided his father and his brothers and all his father's household with food, according to the number of their children. God's word to us. a little bit. Maybe with a staff in his hand and old Jacob. in years and can add that to us as a body of Christ people. My years have been few and difficult, and they do not equal the years of the pilgrimage of my father. He says, first of all, that his years were few, secondly, that they were difficult, and then thirdly, notice how he refers to his life as a pilgrimage. eighty, Jacob is thinking of himself as a relatively young man. was quite a bit younger than his father or grandfather. Or eternally separated from all light and peace, can any word sufficiently express the littleness of everything else? What folly of the silliest of children is so great as this? And I wrote at that time, I was born in nineteen forty three that puts me at thirty six, save you the calculation. Went to Laban, his uncle, and for twenty years cheated and was cheated by him, allied and deceived, and lived a life of bitterness. Father, he neglected his responsibilities, and the effect of that are were a daughter who was raped and bloodshed as the result of that. deceived the father and said that he was dead, and how he has lived in grief all these years because of the family disharmony. A family together again, and God is gracious in my sin. And that is the way years are lived. Poem that's meant a lot to me called Memory Garden. to dwell temporarily, to be a stranger in some place. So each one may choose and invest his time. In Genesis 19, 9. They sense that he's different, that he doesn't really identify with the things that he does, and so he's called a stranger. Land of promise in which you have sojourned become to you a possession. ever more difficult than the years of Jesus. faces, he was despised, and he didn't esteem him. Was cut down, laid down his life, and bore our sin, bore the punishment that you and I deserved. Jonas, we're on a pilgrimage in our lives in this world. This date, because Hebrews chapter eleven tells us that this is precisely the case with us. Is it your family? Eternal house in heaven, not built with human hands. For death? A certain longing to arrive at our true home, to leave this place where we're simply temporary travelers. You have died and your life is hid with Christ in God. to go home. We're pilgrims. Remember that if your life is very difficult, if your circumstances are extremely difficult for you to bear right now, whether it's in family or whatever it is, it will pass Difficult are those circumstances at home that God has called me to live in. Purpose, you're enjoying that trip. Amen. Be aware of how many things it's so easy to acquire. Word of scripture, word of application, or a word of praise. How little we should trust the things of of our world and our in our life. Here, you'll have an opportunity for just one or two of you to briefly be able to share that this morning. Whether or not that's true, most of us do see this as a significant landmark in our lives. The records indicate that the Egyptians were not a particularly long-lived people. My goodness, you don't look a day over a hundred and ten. And in many cases, our families are tucked away at great distances from us. That I learn that that's where my life is headed. Age in order to live with reality. Jacob is basically saying here, I've lived a mere 130 years. You could double the average age of seventy or so, and that's how long Jacob lived. So what if you and I live a mere 20 years, or 80 years, or 140 years? For if in a few days or hours I am to leave this carcass to be buried in the earth and to find myself either forever happy in the favor of God It's like a blip on the line of eternity and time. They all sink into an equal littleness, and the soul that is separated from the body no more laments the loss of business than the losing of a feast. It blooms in the morning, and when the sun goes down in the evening, it's gone. But what a humbling moment for us when we look back at what we hoped we would be and see, in fact, what we are Jacob, no doubt, in saying this, could have reflected upon the days that he played with Esau's brother in Canaan. How God brought him to the end of himself, how God then brought him to know him, and even in the service of God, how he still saw the fruit of the life that he had begun to sow continue to work its way out. Let's take a look at 1980 and the eighties and seek that we do not simply work out the patterns of sin that have been set, but that those things are changed. And the more I think, the more I am sure that nothing can ever be lost. For nothing can ever be lost. He calls life then a pilgrimage. Later on, but I want to just give you the drift of the thought through this so you can trace it. Same word that's used there. What about you? made like his body, and will be with him forever. And that for one of us generally, uh, we will have our husband or wife die before we do, and we'll be left without them. is destroyed. Become sojourners and pilgrims in this world. But there's always that longing for home. Barren land. But you fill out that application, what that means in your life. Don't preach another sermon. Because it was a year ago that he caused a mechanic to do it to make a mistake on our car's engine, which we had lived with for the past forty hours on the highway. And we made a trip that we really didn't think we'd be able to make because we knew we couldn't trust our vehicle. particular message. uh so practical and helpful and so willing to use events and and and to put us both through extremely trying circumstances as he has been. It is certainly true that those saints who most keenly have their eyes fixed on Jesus' coming and home are those saints who very often we would not choose their circumstances, but their joy in the Lord is precious. As those who are moving through this world, headed toward the home that you have prepared for us. young before I have raised an estate. Blooming for simply one day. The passage we heard earlier this morning, Ephesians chapter two, brings this whole thing out. Very briefly then, first of all, consider that you're a citizen of one kingdom and a stranger in the other. During this brief time. How much more so, you and me? That you have for me by the grief that appears in your countenances, and I know the thoughts that you now have about me. When I first looked at this verse, which frankly is why I even did this message this morning, I was looking back on some of my thoughts in the past. Well to understand that you have to see the sojourning climaxed in the sun, the true Israel, and that's the third thing, that's not listed there. our infirmities and carried our sorrows, and yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. Is where God is, and they're identified with Him, therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God. And therefore, there isn't anything permanent of that which we possess on earth except one thing. Brings to my mind too the fact that uh I think for all of us sometimes God gives us difficulties so that we'll long for a home war Follow our God, how we long for that and help us, Father, to be specific in our application in each case, to honor you. And in this culture, there was a great respect for age. That's not the way it happens here. And yet, so what? And in the perspective of eternity, what are they worth? You see, Jacob can't call this place his home, because a world that doesn't acknowledge his God can never be home for the person who's identified with that God. as aliens and strangers in the world to abstain from sinful desires. Remember, a sojourner is a traveler. Who, in reflecting on his life, spoke of it as a pilgrimage, a pilgrimage of few years and of difficult years. My years have been few and difficult. What's 1980 going to be for you? We're on a pilgrimage. Things, career goals, lifestyle, self-orientation. Living as if this world were our home and our residence. And Lord, how many of us can identify with that assessment? Just for a minute or two after the message this morning, if anybody has a scripture or very brief application to share or some word of praise to the Lord in response to the message that you will But it it's it's five parts of an annual seasonal series that will begin to look at Christmas for Messianic prophecies, the Christmas story, uh, this morning, uh beginning to look at that Sunday between Christmas and Is there any dream like the dream of life which amuses us with the neglect and the disregard of these things? Feasts, business, pleasures, enjoyments all seem such great things to us, while we think of nothing else. He says that twice in that verse. Who isn't an Israelite? Secondly, we see that Israel sojourned in Canaan. When you think of that which is permanent to you, what is it? We identify with that saint of old who waits for us to be gathered together with him to the Lord Jesus, even Jacob. And so in the years ahead, I want to take one of these each year and take a look at these and the Sunday just before New Year's. And perhaps longer in the life of that fruit fly, in terms of its proportion, than you and I will ever own a home. Follow this along your bulletin outline now that I finally got mine out. In verse 23, when God's talking about the use of the land, he says this: the land must not be sold permanently, because the land is mine, and you are but aliens and my tenants in this land. And that seems like I just wrote that. Many people live as if their family is permanent. He's referring to his body. Give thought to this during the next week and seek to measure your time carefully. That's the third thing. I am weak, but thou art mighty. But he passes on with one other thing that's instructive for us before we leave this text, and that is notice what he calls his life. That's why in John 14, before he goes to die on the cross, you see, what does he say to the disciples? And we certainly know what it means to be a sojourner, because from here to Missouri and Beck, we traveled through a land we didn't know. We're going to consider verse 9 this morning. There is absolutely nothing in you that is requiring you to blow 1980. What if you knew that you were to die in nineteen eighty? And so what's the thing that you ask? And then uh Pharaoh notices Jacob. And so that's what God's picturing for us here as our lives. You look at a daylily. That's why Paul says in Philippians chapter three that he says, our citizenship is with Jesus, and so therefore we eagerly await his coming, so that our bodies will be Secondly, remember that as you begin this a new year, and as it's a new decade in this case, how few are your years upon earth. Now contrast that with uh probably how such an exchange would go in our day. Notice what he says in verse 9. There is a home. I'm looking for one. Are you and I at home in a world that doesn't acknowledge the rule and the reign of our God? What a comfort to the Christian to realize however difficult are my circumstances, it's a pilgrimage I'm on. And so God's people are sojourners in the land of promise. And yet is there mixed with that natural abhorrence of death a certain tug, a certain longing for home Jesus sojourned in the world. Jacob in fact uh stayed in Egypt. As a matter of fact, if you're ever without your body, I don't want to be around. Just move. That in the bulletin after the sermon, there is listed an item that says Congregational Response. He's a sojourner. The Sodomites call Lot a sojourner, using this word, the same word that Jacob uses here, an alien in their midst, even though he lives with them. We lack, therefore, the perspective, the important contribution of the perspective on life that the Scripture says is part of the contribution of those who are older. Five, ten years to us seems like an eternity now. But as the trip gets longer, there's still that tug. Pharaoh asked the brothers, What's your occupation? My life set a course of sin, and that sin has worked its way out. And the fourth thing, which is listed as third there, is to remember then that you're a sojourner through this world, and therefore a pilgrim must travel lightly, with his eyes set on the destination. Every time we move, we just look and say, How did we ever acquire so much stuff? We look at 147 and you say, Well yeah, that is quite a bit older than us. In Genesis 28:4, the land of promise, where Isaac is blessing Jacob, he says to him, May this land which is a land of the land. You take those things in order to make the trip comfortable. You see, the scripture takes a very different view of age from what we do today. He says, The years of my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty. He's an alien. That's why he said in chapter tw chapter one, verse twenty one, that for me to live is Christ and to die is gain, 'cause then I'll be home. A God that can do things like that pretty impressive to me. Actually, I want to break this third thing. And yet suppose you and I were a fruit fly. That longing to travel lightly, so that we can be weaned from the world, so that we're not looking at this as our home, and those things that cling to us. And that home is the kingdom of Jesus, the kingdom that He purchased with His blood. What is a tent? That's where your life is. Well, of course, Pharaoh says, Well, by the way, what do you guys do? When we consider death as a misery, we only think of it as a miserable separation from the enjoyments of this life. If they're lived without a recognition that they're short and few, then it's only one life, and soon 'twill be past, and only what's done for Christ will last. Well then the question comes: is there no home for God's people? Why? And then the author of Hebrew says, now what's he talking about? That's why Paul says in Colossians three, that we're to wrap our minds around the things above, set your affection on, he says. Hold me with thy powerful hand. And so this morning I'm going to begin the third part of a projected seasonal series. If all we look at is youth and all we seek to relate to are our peers, we have a very lopsided view of reality. This word for pilgrimage that he uses here is from the verb gur, which means to sojourn. Few and difficult were the years of his pilgrimage. Remember when you go on a trip? Now, some people I know do, but hopefully you're not trying to lug along the television, the pool table, the couch, uh and everything else that you think is absolutely necessary. You know, and that's the way it would go today. Let's close now by singing a hymn that's so appropriate for this, hymn number 501. This year, this past week, I uh looked through the scriptures and found over thirty references to time and its passing, the brevity of life, and associated subjects for us to consider. What is seventy compared to a hundred and forty-seven in the light of eternity? And the 70s have come and gone. Which is your home? Then Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went out from his presence. A daylily blooms for exactly one day. For our days are indeed so few in the light of eternity, and our perspectives should reflect that. Okay. What's it going to be for me? His days were few. It's a pilgrimage I'm on. And Pharaoh saw him as an extremely old man. Jacob's days were few and difficult. That I learn that, in fact, to deal with reality, I must take that into consideration. These things are now sunk into such mere nothings that I have no name little enough to call them by Now that's not God's intention. And in him we see the sojourner of all sojourners. I can tell you twenty hours can seem like an eternity. For time is a part of the cost. He's a sojourner with you. Jacob said, I am on a pilgrimage. And they forget that our children will grow up, that our children will leave us as good and right When we look back over our lives and think what might have been in the 70s, God has forgiven that. Is it your home? We might seek to strip ourselves more effectively to live as pilgrims, as sojourners. As we look at this new year, let's ask God to wean us from the world, to abstain from the fleshly lusts that cling to us. And Pharaoh, perhaps, in fact it's likely, that Pharaoh had never seen anyone so old before Remember the beginning of that? New Year's is a time to take stock, to take inventory, to set goals for the new year Jacob said to Pharaoh, The years of my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty. That's something to really set my attention on. But the years have been difficult. That's why Peter says after describing the church in first Peter two nine and ten, after talking about what the church is, he then goes on and appeals to us in verse eleven. And Jacob said to Pharaoh, The years of my pilgrimage are a hundred and thirty. You yourselves look upon me with pity, not that I am going unprepared to meet the judge of the quick and the dead The famine only lasted another five years, but Jacob lived out the other seventeen, the rest of the seventeen remaining years of his life in Egypt. I want to add just one point in that. Is there a longing for home, to go home? Joseph went and told Pharaoh, My fathers and brothers, with their flocks and their herds and everything they owned, have come from the land of Canaan and are now in Goshen. And this is the wisdom of our manly thoughts. But now in Jesus, he says in verse nineteen, you have been made fellow citizens with the saints. It's a place for temporary occupation. Paul says, even my body is temporary. There's Jacob leaning on Joseph's arm. In fact, Jacob lived seventeen more years Genesis chapter forty seven verse nine. Well now, get the picture that's going on here. Because that difficulty, that rejection, was what he took for us. And we'll get to be able to discuss that as groups this evening. Lengthening shadows bring memories of days that have passed us by. And he would begin to talk about how he had kept his youth so well and uh begin to expound on uh what his secret was for this youthfulness and why he'd thrown so all But now, my friends, my thoughts are no more like your thoughts than my condition is like yours. And you see the idea there is that Abraham, Isaac and Jacob all sojourned in Canaan. I'm going to go through a number of scriptures in this section, and we don't have time for you to turn to them, so don't even bother to try and turn to them. Israel also, when it had possessed the land, was still a sojourner in the land. Something to be enjoyed as we move through the journey. So for many of us, we have very little and often artificial communication and contact with older people. Our poor friend Lepidus died, you know, as he was dressing himself for a feast. Well certainly not that. What God's calling us to do in the eve of 1980 is to reflect on the fact that it's a pilgrimage John Greenleaf Whittier wrote of of all sad words of tongue and pen Bread of heaven, bread of heaven, feed me till I want no more. Lord our God, we speak to you this morning as pilgrims and as sojourners. One of the things that our congregation lacks is older people Jacob says, my days are few. How do you view your life here as a residence? That's not home. You want to get home. The time is the garden of memory, and life is but part of the cost. In Genesis 12, 10 the word is used where Abraham left Canaan for a time to dwell temporarily in Egypt during a famine. Is he talking about Canaan, perhaps? Many of us only really see older people when we visit our families And we look at our lives and those things that are so important to us now In Ephesians two says, You were citizens of this world. But rather Hebrews tells us instead they were looking for a better country. What is it that characterizes your life on a trip? Uh it was extremely difficult and And then Joseph brought his father, Jacob, and he presented him before Pharaoh. 120 years to them was an unusual and astounding age. This is why you see in 1 Chronicles 29:15, David says, Lord, we're sojourners before you. In the prime of life at the age of thirty three, he was cut down, crucified, and laid down his life for us. Jacob said to Pharaoh, The years of my pilgrimage are 130. It might be something like uh How old are you, Jacob? How does he view it on the eve of great transition, coming into a whole new life here now in Egypt? For He has prepared a city for them. Ephesians two tells us that the Christian has passed from his citizenship from one kingdom to the other. I don't think Al realized it, but it's come to my mind that God knew at least a year ago he was going to speak this message to us. And so, because of that, Jacob's answer is quite a bit different Your servants are shepherds, they replied to Pharaoh, just as our fathers were. For what is there miserable or dreadful in death, but the consequences of it? And he's one who's living with you as a stranger. That's why he says in verse 3, you see, meanwhile we groan, longing to be clothed with our heavenly dwelling. And now we're upon the 80s. Jacob says not only that my lives my days were few, but he says secondly that they were difficult. Our years are so certainly few. What do you do for a living? First of all then, notice verse 9. And so we look at that in a matter of days. And you enjoy that trip. In 1728, a man by the name of Penitens was on his deathbed at the age of 34. A fruit fly only lives for a matter of a few days. For Isaiah fifty-three says that he was despised and rejected by men, a man of solar and familiar with suffering, like one from whom men hide their feet Many of us will move ten times or more through our lifetime. And yet, how very brief is that time. When I consider the ways of God I'm going to prepare a place for you. And I do pray that He will continue to be If I could have that daylily, boy, what glory would be mine. So that instead of our being forever alienated from God and wandering without a home, Jesus prepared the home for us. It is the one thing that you will always have with you because it is you. All of us have a certain abhorrence In the name of Jesus. Compared to Abraham, you see, who died at the ripe old age of 175, and his father Isaac, who died at 180. I was born in nineteen forty three, and it's already now the end of nineteen the nineteen sixties, and next week will be the seventies. Our days then, if his or few, are much, much fewer The years of my pilgrimage have been a hundred and thirty. Is he talking about Mesopotamia? God's bringing me through that. You want to get back to where you can really relax. That word there for difficult means full of toil and trouble, full of hardship and trial. In Leviticus seventeen the word is used five times in verses eight to thirteen to refer to the person who's living in your midst. In Hebrews chapter eleven, verse thirteen, we read that all the people were still living by faith when they died, talking of the patriarchs. How do we apply this to our lives? That's a word of encouragement, number three. His intention was our years would not be difficult. And each one must live with his memories. They've been few and difficult, and they don't equal the years of the pilgrimage of my fathers. Shall now please let your servants settle in Goshen You know, we just think it seems like Christians ought to move every once in a while, just to get rid of all this stuff. And you realize that is twice as old as you and I can expect to live? You can be honorable, you can be faithful to God in seeking Him in that year before you. Set some goals for 1980, some goals of what you long for God to do, to seek to move toward. Are we always going to be sojourners? Remember in Luke 9, person wanted to follow? You think how melancholy a case it is to see so young a man and in such flourishing business delivered up to death. And I passed along one writing, looking at Genesis 47:9. Even my body speaks to me of the fact that I'm a sojourner and a pilgrim on this earth, because it gets old and it decays. And because our home is in that kingdom, fourthly, you see, we sojourn in this world. Yeah, that's a safe way to begin. And who of us would say that it's worth great time and priority for us to set our affection upon a daylily? And Paul says we know that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed, we have a building from God and he Now the context of this first consideration of time This is not home. Now this is Israel, God's chosen. And God has been gracious to me in just these last months to receive back my son alive and to have Is there any folly like the folly of our manly estate which is too wise and too busy? And Jacob looks back and he says, My years have been difficult. Um because it really has, and it's really brought to my mind, and I think my wife says well, just how transient things are now and how We have a youth cult in our day. So far now Whether they're 30, 70, or 140, they're few compared to eternity. That if in nineteen eighty Jesus would come again or you would go to be with him, there'd be a great delight and desire. When you boil it all down, it comes down to living as if this life were all that there is. You don't go on that trip always just saying, Oh boy, I wish I was home, boy, I wish I could get back. It's been said that no one ever regarded New Year's Day with indifference. He's looking at his friends gathered around his deathbed, and this is what he says: I see my friends the tender concern. One thing. Settle your father and your brothers in the best part of the land. How his sons turned in jealousy upon one of their brothers and sold him as a slave. And I will one day look back on that. So C should be that Jesus so And so Jesus was a sojourner for you and for me. No. Thank you, John. People who say such things show they're looking for a country of their own. Which is it for you? Or do we look for his city, the place that he's prepared for us, and that's our home? Guide me, O thou great Jehovah, pilgrim, through this. Feed me till I want no more. And Jacob would say, uh Would you believe that I'm a hundred and thirty? It's going to be a permanent place, a room in my Father's mansion, where you'll be with me in You want to get back to your friends because you miss them If you don't understand all these beginning of series that I'm doing, that's okay. And we want to begin this morning. And so that's what he says in verse three. My years have been few and difficult. What is it? It's a time to consider the passing of time. But what is eternity's perspective to a mere seventy years? I must learn from the perspective of my mother, of those people who are her age. Notice three things that he says about his life. And we didn't know the mistake was made And here's a fellow who's standing before him at the ripe old age of 130. Before we pray Are we always going to wander? This is what you were like. Uh But as soon as we add death to them Says in verse 15, if they had been thinking of the country they had left, they would have had opportunities. What did Jesus say? My years have been few and difficult. Now do you realize you've never sinned one sin in nineteen eighty yet? I want you to notice four things about this word. To a fruit fly, the duration of a day lily is quite a long thing. They didn't own any of it. That is a heavenly one. So it's certainly not your house that's permanent to you. Whatever years you've lived have been the years of your pilgrimage so far to this. Do you think it's now part of his trouble that he didn't live for the feast? Everyone wants to look young, wants to appear young. And you and I look at the fruit fly and we say, How ridiculous. Your body. And I pray that We're a pilgrim, sojourners in this world. The foxes have holes and the birds have nests, but the Son of Man And the brothers uh then respond that they're shepherds and uh talk about that. He calls it a pilgrimage. And what does Paul say about our bodies? We seldom mourn over an old man that dies rich. In Leviticus chapter seven uh Leviticus chapter twenty five. These are the people that you were identified with. The word means literally to wrap your mind around the things that are above, because And when I look back on that ten or twenty thousand years from Let's sing to God's praise. My years have been few and difficult. That's our citizenship. It is no trouble to me now to think that I am going to die. Not one of us. So it wasn't really their land. You know, move across the street or something back and forth so that you can just But what's most most permanent to you on this earth? He never went back to Canaan. When we become fellow citizens with the saints, we immediately Now Jacob lived two of our lifetimes. For verse four says, surely he took And looking at life from my perspective. I've reaped what I've sowed. Let them live in Goshen. Because of us Jesus sojourned And because that heavenly country, the kingdom, You see, he's not really part of Sodom. They've listed all there in your bulletin. Why he says in Psalm 39, I'm a sojourn. Him 501. That's our home. Your body, you see, is the only thing that follows. Whose li whose years were This is what Jacob was saying. And Pharaoh would throw up his hands, he said My wife is even confused at this point. It was only theirs by promise. But hopefully if the trip has a problem, What is it in your life? First of all, that the patriarchy. He then goes on in verses. He chose five of them. And because of that Dear friends, I urge you. How few. We're sojourn. What do you take? Look them up. Therefore