This morning, the World Mission Task Force has brought a special speaker to remind us, uh remind each of us in our call in missions. uh personally and corporately and see what God is doing among the Persian uh ministries, the Persian people that's uh modern day Iran. Our speaker today, Reverend Len Stewart, was born in Tabriz, Iran, to uh medical missionaries. He was one of six children that grew up on the mission field, speaking the language, knowing the people. And now he has been called back to be regional director with the world or mission to the world ministry. He is the regional director for that ministry. After growing up, he served as Intervarsity Christian Fellowship on staff with Alan Harris. They knew each other and they worked together. Following that, he went to Westminster Theological Seminary and got the Master's Divinity degree and then served as pastor. He spent 14 years on the mission field in France. When he came back to the States with his family of six, his wife Julie, they settled in the senior pastor at Bereen Presbyterian Church in Delaware, and then pastor of Proclamation Presbyterian Church up in Philadelphia. So this morning as part from as part of the World Mission Task Force and to the glory of God, please welcome Reverend Len Stewart. Thank you, brother. Thank you. Well it's a privilege to be it's a privilege to worship God with his people and I am having a lot of fun being back here. I was here about ten years ago once. And um so thank you for having me. Um I invite you now to the Word of God in Acts chapter nine. Going to be reading from the English Standard Version, Acts chapter 9, beginning with verse 1 This is the account of the conversion of the Apostle Paul, who at first was called Saul. Hear the Word of God. But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked him for letters. to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem Now, as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him, and falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, Saul So why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But rise and enter the city and you will be told what you're to do. The men who were traveling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but seeing no one. Saw arose from the ground, and although his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. So they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. And for three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank. Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Here I am, Lord. And the Lord said to him, Rise and go to the street called Strait, and at the house of Judas, look for a man of Tarsus named Saul. For behold, he is praying. And he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he might regain his sight. But Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much evil he has done To your saints at Jerusalem, and here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on your name. But the Lord said to him, Go, for this, for he is a chosen instrument of mine, to carry my name. before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. For I will show him how much he must suffer for the sake of my name. So Ananias departed and entered the house And laying his hands on him, he said, Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you On the road by which you came, has sent me, so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit. And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight. Then he rose and was baptized And taking food, he was strengthened. For some days he was with the disciples at Damascus, and immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogue, saying, He is the Son of God. Amen. This is God's word. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we pray that you would strike our hearts with the sword of your Spirit. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, life is full of surprises, as it was for the Apostle Paul on that road. Saul thought that he was a man of God until he met God himself, Christ, on the road to Damascus. Saul thought that he was a powerful zealot Until God broke him and he had to be led like a blind person to Damascus. Saul thought that he was a good person. Until he realized how horrible his guilt was as an enemy of God by his persecution of the church, which was his shame for the rest of his life. Saul thought that he was good at saying prayers as a rabbi until until he met Christ and began to pray true prayers for the first time. Saul thought that he could see until God made him blind and gave him new sight in God's light. Saul thought that he had much to be proud of until he met Christ, and everything he became that he had became worthless compared to the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus. Saul thought that he was a good, true Jew until he met the brothers who loved him with God's love in Christ. Saul thought that he was full of zeal for God until the joy of knowing Christ filled his soul. Saul thought that he was alive. But he was dead in his sins until he was made alive in Christ and initiated into a new life according to God. I'm tempted to say thought Saul thought he was a good Presbyterian, but I won't say that. Anyhow, you know, I thought that Life was boring. I remember when I was a kid sitting in church, so bored with the whole thing and looking at the ceiling, counting the tiles, and just trying to distract myself and and then they sang this glory be to the father and to the son and to the holy ghost as it was in the beginning is now And ever shall be world without end, Amen. And I said, Oh no, it's always going to be this way. I I couldn't wait to get out of church. It's very boring for me at the time Until God came into my life as well. I discovered that even though God never changes, there's always a new freshness, a new excitement, a new lesson. God is at work in our lives. Life is exciting according to God. And Paul learns some important things at his conversion. I just want to mention some of them. The first thing Paul learns That he is in a personal relationship with Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. He didn't know that at first. God came into his life sovereignly And said, I'm your Lord. And he calls out, Lord. Saul Saul was called by name by the risen Christ into a relationship of worship and obedience and awe and joy. Called from being a persecutor of the Church of Christ. To a prisoner of Christ, a bondservant led by hand, to be given over to his former enemies and welcomed into the body of Christ. Imagine the trauma of this introduction to Christ the Lord. The power of the awesome authoritative voice of Christ which knocked him down, still ringing in his ears and haunting his conscience as he sits in the darkness of his sudden blindness. Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? The dreadful fear of wrath. because of the guilt of his being found to be an enemy of the Lord, and the horrible images of persecution and martyrdom that he had Perpetrated and the confusion of his learning as a fine rabbi that now must be redefined and reworked and reprocessed. And of course the memory of his participation in the dirty politics of Jerusalem, the loneliness of three days of prayer and fasting and waiting upon God. I can imagine his rabbinical search engine mind going through Old Testament texts and thinking and wondering and seeking to understand. And I I like to think that he might have thought of Hosea 6. 1. Come, let us return to the Lord. He has torn us to pieces, but he will heal us. He has injured us that we will But he will bind up our wounds. After two days he will revive us. And on the third day he will restore us that we may live in his presence. There is the heavenly peace that Jesus brought to this newly regenerated soul. And under the weight of this peace, He asked, Who are you, Lord? I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. Now get up and go into the city and do what you are told. So he waited in silence. His first contact with the body of Christ, the body he had persecuted, would be the soft laying on of hands by a brave, gentle believer, Ananias. Who prayed and brought God's revelation to him. Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here, has sent me so that you may see again. And be filled with the Holy Spirit. Immediately something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he could see, and he got up and he was baptized. And Saul received the Spirit of God in the Age of Pentecost. Saul received Christian baptism, the early form of the sacrament. Saul was introduced to the church. He submitted himself to the leadership and the elders and the primitive structure of the early church. He was not a self-made apostle. He received this word from God that he was being called to this ministry. And so he would wait upon the Lord and worship. It's interesting that God said to Ananias, go to him because He prays. That's amazing. He prays. And God rushes to Saul to answer that prayer with his comfort, with his explanation, with his healing, with his concern. He's waiting upon God. I like what George, uh what Campbell Morgan says about waiting upon God. It's something that none of us do very well. Waiting for God is not laziness. Waiting for God is not going to sleep. Waiting for God is not the abandonment of any effort. Waiting for God means first activity under command. Second, readiness. For any new command that may come, and third the ability to do nothing until a command is given He learned, Paul learned that he has been called into a relationship with Jesus Christ. And God does these things in such a surprising way. You know, about four years ago, my wife and I were walking down Chestnut Street in Philadelphia. We had gone downtown to see a French movie Because at the at the riffs. And uh we we stopped in this place for a bite. It's called Aromatic House of Kebabs. So we we stopped in there and there's Fatima Khanim and her daughter Helen who run the place. They're Iranians. So I I spoke some Persian with them and they were so excited they immediately adopted me as their son. And they you know, we had a great time talking and uh we we we we we just had a great time. And Helen says, Well, you know, when she found out that I was in ministry, she says, Well, you know what, I uh don't talk to me. I don't believe in God. I I'm not religious and you know I but my mother, she reads the Quran all day over there. You can talk to her. But I'm mad at God, she said You're mad at God or why? And she would say now in God's providence, well last night we went and saw the movie The Passion of the Christ. And God allowed his son to die on the cross. I can't understand it. He should not have done that. Why did God allow his son to die on the cross? She was really worked up about this. And so Julie says, Well let me talk to you. So Julie talks to her and I was talking to Fatimay who doesn't know English, and we developed a friendship, but you know, God just came into their lives And what happened down the road slightly was that one day Helen calls me up and she says, Len, my mother had a vision from God that Jesus And Moses came to the restaurant. And they sat right down there now where she's reading the Bible. And they wanted food. And she was so shocked that Jesus came to the restaurant, she didn't give him any food. So we're bringing food to church on Sunday. Anyhow, to make a long story short, they came to the Lord and we baptized them. You know, God just comes in. By the way, if you ever want to go to the aromatic house of kebabs on Chestnut Street in Philadelphia, tell them Lynn sent you, they might give you a discount. So now that Paul see Paul learns that God is his Lord and he's in this relationship. And then the second thing he he learns is that um He is in a program of preparation for sacrificial service. God has a plan for his life. And this plan is a program, constantly pro of preparation for service. You know, uh God says, this man is my chosen instrument, and God has plans for ministry for Paul, and he's going to be persecuted. uh f for his cause. Sa Saul thought that he had a glorious cause until one was given to him by the cr by Christ And I have a couple of thoughts on this plan for preparation for service, this program that God has. First thing is that this preparation for service comes through providence. Paul's life had been so prepared for this. If you think of his background, all of his life now would come to fit together. He received such an exquisite education as a rabbi and at the at the hand of at the foot of Gamaliel the great teacher. Um he would use every bit of his background, his ling linguistic backgrounds. It's interesting, for instance, in Acts twenty-one, when Paul is defending himself, he switches to Aramaic. And all of a sudden the people hear him speaking in Aramaic and they all calm down. See in God's providence, God had given Paul many experiences. I I used to think that Persian was a worthless language that I knew and I poo-pooed the whole thing, Persian and Turkish. I grew up speaking them. I wanted to learn French, you know, something with class. And I and I I completely forgot about Persian for years. Little did I know that God would call me to relearn it and get back involved with Persians. Now I'm in love with Persian again, and I know that I have a tremendous opening with Persians because I speak their language. It's part of God's providential provision in my life. And and um Paul was a a great a a uh a Jews Jew, you know, he was a Hebrew of Hebrews. He had so many gifts and experiences that he could bring to this ministry And he would later write, We know that all things uh in in all things God works for the good, for those who fear him, who have been called according to his purpose. I'm wondering if you realize this for yourself. That God is using every experience in your life. The good ones, the bad ones, the hard ones. The easy ones, that you are a creature in Christ Jesus, being prepared in all of your experience. Nothing is wasted. Nothing is for nothing in your life. Whatever experience you've had, whatever giftedness or trial or difficulty, tragedy, all of these things are being used to prepare you for more service, to be able to help more people and bring the gospel to folks. Paul experienced terrible rejection and pain. The pain of rejection and loneliness that he he had. He lost everything for the gospel. He would lose all his status. of a fine, promising leader in Israel. He would lose much of his family support and would be alone. He would be hated by the Jews, feared by the Christians, shunned by his family, called to suffer in preparation for more suffering. Immediately there were plots to kill him, we see, and when the Jews could not defeat him in debate, they decided to kill him, and he would follow in the footsteps of his Savior. We know that Jesus also was trained for ministry through suffering. Hebrews 5. 8. Although he was a son, he learned obedience. Through what he suffered. Jesus learned obedience through what he suffered. All of these things working together to be a training program for more service. My son is in the Marine, so it was taught, you know, pain is weakness leaving your body. And uh that you know, all of the all all the pain in our lives, God's using that as well. Embrace it in God's will and learn from it and grow and see how God will work. It's expect pain because you are being prepared to serve. You know the famous statement, I think it's a C. S. Lewis statement. God whispers to us in our pleasures. We like that. Speaks in our consciences, but shouts in our pain. It is his megaphone to a deaf world. So Paul is learning that in providence and in pain, God is working. You know, I um Peter van Gard is an Iranian fellow. He he his real name is Fedidun. He he was driving trucks between Tehran and Europe years ago He had a family and two kids. He had a trucking company, zone truck driving carpets to Europe and computers to Iran and back and forth, making a lot of money, having a good time. And then the revolution came He was a royalist, he loved the Shah, but the revolution came and he saw women being stoned to death in the streets, he saw horrible things that he can't even talk about. He came to hate Islam And he was driving back from Europe one time and his mother calls him and she says, Don't come back here. They're here to kill you He never went back to Iran. He got his family out, they walked through the hills of Turkey or you know for six days. and got out of Iran secretly. They ended up in Copenhagen, Denmark, where they became refugees and got work and learned Danish and became Danish citizens and he drove buses in Copenhagen for years and and and but when he first got there they had a third child. And he was sitting in his little living room in the apartment in Copenhagen, and he hears a voice as he's holding his child, and the voice says, You need to baptize your baby. Three times he heard his voice, you need to baptize your baby. And he goes into his wife and says, God has told us to baptize our baby. What's that mean? It means that God's a Presbyterian for one thing. But uh so they they got the yellow pages out and uh found a pastor they didn't know much about church or anything And they call a pastor up and the pastor says, well, are you yourselves baptized? Are you Christians? No. So they got together and eventually the whole family comes to Christ and is baptized. Now Peter changed his name to a Danish name, a Christian name, Peter. And Peter, with all of his background and all of his experience traveling around Europe, learning languages, he's a very tough guy. And he becomes very active as a Christian, and he gets involved in debating the Muslims in Denmark. And he gets involved on television debates. Ten times on television. He debates with Muslim imams destroying Islam on television. The guy's really brilliant. Twice they've tried to kill him But you know he's been used in a wonderful way. Right now Peter is leading a small group of Iranians who are worshiping and studying together and I've been over there twice to encourage them. But see, all of his background just kind of came together for that wonderful opportunity. Um so God God uses providence and he uses pain And he uses the church. You know, Paul joined the church right away. And in the church he was discipled and helped and prayed for and strengthened. And Uh we're we're committed to the church in our ministry because God uses the means of grace in the church, the elders of the church, the authority of the church, the sending power that God gives the church The church was very important to Paul right away in preparing him for future ministry. So Paul learns, you see, that he's in this personal relationship with Christ. And that he's in a plan of preparing for sacrificial service. And this was going to require, thirdly, bold obedience. Paul was going to have to do bold obedience in God Life according to God's way is full of holy risk taking, stepping out in faith. Not risk in the sense of chance, but risk in trusting God, the way Peter did when he stepped out on the water and Jesus called him to walk on it. In verse 20, it says that once he began to preach in the synagogues that Jesus is the Son of God, and they decided to kill Paul for that. We know that in history many people have suffered for the gospel. There are many martyrs in Iran today. And we know that, for instance, Uh all of the apostles except for John were martyred in in some violent way. And so it's it's just part of being a Christian. Being a Christian means you're going to suffer for the Lord You know, we live in this culture that says you're supposed to have the American dream where things work out right, you have the right insurance and the right job and the right retirement plan. And everything's working out just fine. And you shouldn't have problems. But God says, No, in this world you're going to serve me and you're going to give your life, and there will be pain and suffering and struggle because we're in a spiritual war. And Paul is learning that he's supposed to take bold obedience steps for the Lord. You know Last September I met some Iranians who had just come from Iran and and they were telling about the how the church is growing there in a tremendous way, especially through house churches Small meetings in homes. And they tell this true story. Here's a house church. They're meeting on a Wednesday night. Seven, eight, nine people, they come to a little apartment in the complexes, you know, and uh De Parliament of Iran had just voted that apostasy deserves the death penalty, so if you become a Christian, you're condemned to death theoretically. And so the host says at this family small group, now when you sing, sing softly. Let's not sing too loud. Because we don't want anybody to know we're here. Well, they don't sing softly In fact, the next morning a knock comes on the door and here's a lady and she says, Well, I live right underneath you, and I heard you singing last night. Are you Christians? What would you say? Who me? Yes, well come on in. She comes in and they sit down and they share and uh the the the two ladies talk and And, you know, she explains the gospel and so forth and and this lady says, Well can my family come too? And so there that's how church growth takes place. And then a few weeks later, another knock comes on the door. This one is unbelievable. Here's a man standing. He says, I received Jesus standing outside your door. What? Well he explains. He says, you know, I work for the government. And I've been listening to you folks now for some time and I had planned to turn you into the government and get you in deep trouble. Of course it would have been a feather in his own camp. He said the day I tried to call, none of the phones worked, and then there was a vacation or something and I I had to wait. So I decided to come here and listen to you to get more incriminating information. And as I was listening to you sing and worship, I realized you have something I don't have. And I wanted it And as I was standing here, the Lord Jesus appeared to me in a vision and said, You need to believe and repent and go in there. So I this he he walked in as a brand new believer. This is how the church is growing in Iran. But you need to be bold. You need to be courageous in a place like Iran. And Paul learns that that's exactly what God has called him to, life according to God. is to be in a relationship with Jesus Christ, and which you understand everything in your life is working together to prepare you to serve Him in bold steps of obedience. Some of you are facing issues in relationships that require a bold step of obedience, and you're putting it off. You're not dealing with it perhaps the way you should Some of you are facing other areas of disobedience. God is calling you to take a bold step in obey. Some of you need to decide as a family to have devotions together That's a bold step of obedience for a man sometimes. There are so many areas of our lives where God is calling us to step forward and obey Him and enter into obedience and the joy of it all. And that's what Paul is learning about life. That's what the Bible teaches us here. That God has called us to this. Well, um The Lord is at work. May He call each of us. May we hear His call. May we understand that he's called us to live according according to God. You know, one of the things that I think young people fear the most in our culture today. I'm not young, I know I I probably don't know what I'm talking about, right? Young people are scared to death of boredom. They can't be bored. They've got to have a movie going or their iPod going or you know their their cell phone going or you know they've got to be doing stuff. They've got to be distracted Uh Blaise of Pascal once said back in the 1700s, the problem of people is they don't know how to sit alone on a chair and be quiet. Hasn't changed, has it? You know what, young people, life is boring unless it's according to God. You know? But when you give your life to Christ and say, take me and use me, and I want to be prepared to serve you in whatever it is, life becomes an unbelievably exciting and wonderful and meaningful, powerful experience of great joy. Come to him in a new way if you've never had and say, Lord, you're my Lord. You're training me to take bold steps of obedience. Whatever the ones are that I should take, show me now and go forward and enjoy. With great victory, boldness, and life and joy in God. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for calling us We thank you so much for all the ways in which you have blessed us through providence in our lives. We thank you so much for the things that you've called us to do. Many of them could be very difficult, but we we thank you for the importance of them and the meaning of life for your glory. We commit each other and ourselves to you now and ask that you would help us. Thank you for the example of the Apostle Paul. Thank you for the power of your spirit. Thank you for your holy word. Thank you for your work in our lives. We trust you. In Jesus' name, Amen