For a while in the last uh year or two, it seemed like the pro-life movement was getting rather tired, didn't it? And yet, as we now come to observe the 22nd anniversary of Roe v. Wade, we see the abortion issue and the pro-life movement in great ferment. And there's a number of concerns with that. It was just two years ago, this weekend, that newly inaugurated President Clinton Signed five executive orders that wiped out most of the gains of the previous 12 years of the Reagan-Bush era in which he did such things as to lift the moratorium on federal funds for fetal tissue transplant research, He took away the board the ban on the abortion pill RU 486. He also reversed the 1984 ban on giving aid for groups that promote abortion internationally and some other things. The thing that remained in place was the moratorium on research involving human fertilized eggs or embryos. Not very surprising, that is now under attack also just last month. NIH voted to receive funds from the federal government in order to be able to conduct embryo research and, as they said, under compelling circumstances, to create embryos, human embryos, simply for research and then to destroy them. With a post-election finger to the wind, NAE Washington Insight reported, President Clinton said, no, I don't think we'll do that right now. And he directed NIH to not receive such funds from the government. But that doesn't prevent them from purchasing them in the private sector. Also, there has been news recently of not only now the possibility of an abortion pill, but abortion vaccines. I don't know if you've heard of these, but these are vaccines which attack an embryo days after conception and wipe it out. And it the vaccine can be given simply in an office and last from two to five years. So that a woman may come to the place where she can abort as many as twelve babies a year without ever even knowing it. In terms of government, locally Our new governor, Paris Glandning, has said that he intends to expand Medicaid funding for abortions in the state of Maryland. Nationally, we're seeing an increasing severity of the government in punishing those who not only provide uh perform rescues at abortion clinics But even those who simply do sidewalk counseling or involve themselves in peaceful protest. And it said that the frustration of the escalation of the penalties for such activities is driving some people to violence. And this is at least in part some people say what accounts for such people as Paul Hill and John Sally Salvi and in the last two years there have been five abortion clinic killings. Both sides expect that in the years ahead we'll see more of this. In fact, some people talk about a coming civil war in terms of abortion and pro-life. Paul Hill himself, it is reported, has said that he is the John Brown of the coming pro-life civil war in America. What do we say to this kind of violence? I want to speak to that later on, but before I do, and let me also mention that Another concern I have for that violence is, as you know, we live in a time not of reasoned discourse, but of images and sound bites. And I think one of the most difficult things about the violence that we're seeing is that it gives the image of all pro-life people as kind of a fringe crazy group. And that image has a way of sticking and and it becomes a a red herring as you try to discuss the issue of abortion with people because you're immediately associated with people who are violent or who have these kinds of convictions. But before we consider those issues from scripture Let me uh also say before I have another one of those messages where people want to crawl out the aisle before I finish, that there have been some positive sides. Within this firm. A number of encouraging things that are happening. For instance, in this past election, there were the greatest gains for the pro-life movement in the entire history of the movement. in the House and the Senate. In the House there were thirty-nine seats gained by pro-life forces, giving a total by The National Abortion Rights Action League's own count of 218 anti-abortion votes, as they call them, in the House versus 146 pro-abortion votes. 218 to 146 now, with 71 votes that are mixed and unpredictable. In the Senate, we gained five seats Bringing a total of 45 pro-life votes versus 38 that are committed to pro-abortion votes with 17 that are unpredictable. And one pro-life senator has said it's actually better than that. On the other side, we see that the news tells us that being pro-life politically is death. That certainly was disproved in this last election. We also see that the media tells us that most Americans are in favor of the administration's position, and some of you are probably aware that focus on the family. Tried to test that thesis back a couple of months ago. They tested the administration's position, stated that whatever your position of abortion, most Americans believe that it's the woman's choice. and that there should be the freedom to practice that within this country and even to fund it when the person cannot pay for that. They Commissioned an independent research group to test that, had ten categories where people would identify with one of ten statements that they thought most described their own position. The first five were started out with the statement, abortion is wrong, and then various qualifications. And then the last five, abortion is permissible, and then various qualifications. The first four statements were the strongest of the pro-life position, and 55% of Americans identified with those positions. Versus 26% that identified with the abortion is permissible permissible, five statements So that it's almost two to one in terms of the general statement that abortion is permissible versus abortion is wrong among the Americans who were uh pulled in this with a very small possible error of sampling. And then when they took the one position that they thought described the administration's position now, abortion is permissible for any reason, the woman chooses at any time during pregnancy. There should be no legal restrictions of any kind and the government should pay for the procedure if a woman cannot afford the expense. Six percent of Americans polled were willing to identify with that statement, and only five percent of women. So if we believe that we're losing, you know, and things are getting so discouraging, uh, that it's really kind of a lost battle, we ought to go on to other things, then that's a deceitful that's a deception. Brothers and sisters, do not buy that. We are not in a losing battle. We are in a position where there is, in fact, a lot of support. in the kind of position that we hold as believers saying that human life, pre-born or post-born, is sacred. And that that is not even a political death position to hold, but rather that there is a lot of support for that in our country But beyond all of that, as we know, we as Christians do not go by what is popular, we do not go by what is likely to succeed. What is important to us is what does the Word of God say? What has God Himself said about this? And so I would like to look at a passage this morning that we've never looked at on this issue before. Genesis chapter 9. It's a classic passage concerning the sanctity of human life, perhaps in all of Scripture, the most definitive. And that I'd like to look at that and see what God says to us there. It's especially impertinent to us in light of the recent violence and the questions that are raised by that violence. It's a very helpful passage because in this passage, God is making, stating three definitive commands. And so we need to remember, as Dick read to us this passage, that this is God speaking to us. This is not a political statement. This is not something at a pro-life rally saying, this is my opinion. Here's what I think that is right, it seems to me, it feels like this. This is God who made us, the author of life, speaking to us. And the context of this address is that he's speaking to Noah after the flood. The Ark has come to rest. The rest of the human race has been wiped out. And there is a new beginning now. And God speaks to Noah at the dawn of this new beginning of the human race. And he gives to him three commands. Now it's important that you and I understand that, because we need to see that this is not part of the Mosaic law. This is not something that has been abrogated in the New Covenant. This is a statement of universally binding principles for all of human history. And that that is important to see as it's stated to Noah as the new head now of the human race. These are binding eternal principles. And here's what God says to him: three things, three commands. The first command is to produce life. Now you see that that command, I'm not going to read the whole passage because Dick just read it, but look at the particulars. The first command is stated in verses 1 and 7. And that's a frame to the passage. The passage begins and it ends with this command. produce life. Then God blessed Noah and his sons, saying to them, Be fruitful and increase in number and fill the earth. Then verse seven, as for you be fruitful and increase in number, multiply on the earth and increase upon it. So the issue here is life, the matter of life. There is no life. Life's been wiped out. It seems that God doesn't care about life. He's destroyed everything: men and women and animals and birds. Everything has been destroyed from the face of the earth except this one family. And all and of course one pair of each of the species. But God now says, I am concerned for life. Reproduce. It's a reiteration of Genesis 1. 28. It was stated at the beginning of the creation. This is the new creation now. And God is saying, again, produce life. Life is the concern. But unlike the first creation, in this position, death and the dread of death is inevitable here. This is now a creation that is under the curse. And so God says in the second place, there's two more commands. The second one is to consume life. You're now in a position to consume life. Very interesting. Look at verses 2. First of all, at verse 2. Verse 2 is simply a statement of fact. It's not a command, but it's the context. The fear and the dread of you will fall upon all the beasts of the earth and all the birds of the air, upon every creature that moves along the ground, and upon all the fl fish of the sea. They are given into your hands. There's a dread of the creatures, a dread of the animal creation, now for man's dominance And then notice what he says in verse 3. Everything that lives and moves will be food for you. Just as I gave you the green plants, I now give you everything. Now, that's the first of the two subcommands about this consuming life. There's a positive and there's a negative. The positive is that you can eat meat. Now, that's in contrast, it would appear, to what God said in Genesis chapter 1. If you turn to Genesis chapter 1, In verses 29 and 30, God said, And I give you every seed-bearing plant on the face of the whole earth, and every tree that has fruit with seed in it. They will be yours for food. And to all the beasts of the earth, and all the birds of the air, and all the creatures that move on the ground, everything that has breath of life in it, I give every green plant for food. Many commentators believe that this is a statement saying that lions and tigers and bears didn't eat meat That the digestive system at that point was like other animals that simply eat grass and green plants. That all animals lived and thrived on green plants and not on meat. during the time of the Garden of Eden before the fall. But now God is saying, in contrast to that, notice verse 3 again of chapter 9, everything that lives and moves will be food for you. And then just in case you think that he's not referring to what he said before, he gives the contrast. Just as I gave you the green plants, I now give you everything. In Deuteronomy, God says, you want some meat, go out and have all the meat that you want. And so this is a statement that tells us clearly that principial vegetarianism is not based on Scripture. Just a side point for us to notice here. Can't develop that very much. I say principial vegetarianism because some people say I just don't think meat's real good for me or I want to, you know, purge my body or do something, have certain desires. But to say that it's wrong to eat meat does not have any basis in Scripture. God says here very clearly, and he says in Deuteronomy 12, meat is fine to eat. In fact, the Passover involved the eating of a lamb. So God's specifically saying here something that has changed from the Garden of Eden situation But there is a negative to this, and that is in verse 4, but you must not eat meat that has its lifeblood still in it. You cannot eat blood. Now there's no reason given here. The reason is given in Deuteronomy chapter 12, where he talks about eating meat. Let me just give you one verse from that, Deuteronomy 12, verse 23. Why can't you eat blood? God says there in Deuteronomy 12, but be sure you do not eat the blood, because the blood is the life. And you must not eat the life with the meat. Research has shown, of course, that blood is the essence of life. It's what nourishes the body, it's what carries away the wastes. The essence of life in a living being is in the blood. And God is saying blood is the symbol of life or of death. And so we'll come back to that in the significance of that, what that means in this passage. But first of all, now let's go on to the third command to see that. The third command, after saying produce life, you can may consume life. The third command is to protect life Protect life. And that we see in verses 5 and 6. And for your lifeblood I will surely demand an accounting. Alright, now he's just said, don't eat blood. Blood is the symbol of life. That's sacred. For your life's blood, I will surely demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting from every animal. And from each man too, I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man. Whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God has God made man. Three things to notice about this. First of all, notice that an animal that kills a human forfeits its life in that process. In verse 5. For your lifeblood, I will surely demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting from every animal. That is, any animal that kills a person is to be put to death. That's God's command, whether it's a a dog or whether it is uh a lion or whatever it is uh in a wild or in uh a civilized area. Uh this is not something simply because that animal is dangerous God's not simply saying, you know, an animal that's tasted flesh may have a taste acquired and develop that, and so it's dangerous. No. God says because of the sacredness of man's life. And that's what he goes on to develop. Look where he goes on. In that second part of it, he says that a human that kills a human forfeits his or her life. And he specifically ties that in with the sacredness of life. And from each man too, same kind of idea, I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man. Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, reason, for because in the image of God has God made man. And so it's because of the sacredness that God says that I require the life of anyone who takes the life of another human being. Now notice three things from this command. First of all, notice that it is a demand. It is not saying you may choose to go to this extreme. He says, whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed. This is a command. It is a requirement. The capital punishment is not something that's up for a vote. It is because we live in a society where we can only enact laws by vote But it's a conviction that's based upon Scripture. God says, whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed. This is required by God because of the sacredness of life. That's how sacred life is. And then he gives the reason. That's the second thing to notice about this. The reason for it in verse 6. For in the image of God has God made man. The reason, of course, is because life is sacred, because it is made in God's image from the moment that it is human. From the moment that a life is distinguishably, that it is inherently human, that life is sacred because it is made in God's image. And any human, from the moments it's alive within the womb, is human. It doesn't become human at some place along the journey. It's not at eight months it's human, at seven months it wasn't human. In six months before that it was simply a mass of protoplasm. At every point along the line it simply develops and grows, but it is at every point the same entity. It is a human being from the womb and in the womb. That baby learns to wake and sleep A baby develops favorite positions in the womb. If you shine a light on the mother's womb, the baby will turn and look to that light. It's sensitive to sounds. If you play pleasant music, the baby will turn its ear and listen. It'd be interesting to kind of try different sorts of music, you know. I mean I try that on our animals, play classical music, you know, and then we have some of the other music comes along and see which which of the animals want to come and lay down. Well a baby will turn and listen to certain kinds of music. The baby distinguishes its mother's voice Studies have been done to show that if you play the mother's voice just after the baby is born, it will distinguish that voice from other voices because it's gotten used to it in the womb. And the baby is uh sensitive to all kinds of stimuli as a human being. It is simply pre-born at that point. But I believe the Genesis 9 Verse 6 applies to pre-born life as much as it applies to postborn life. That this life is sacred. It is made in God's image. And so we see that just because there is such a common taking of life, there is a danger for us to think that it's not sacred. You know, something's done so often you get desensitized to it. The fact that there are 4,400 abortions a day in this country makes us think, well, it must not be that bad. And so we look at things in terms of how common is it to give us the idea of how terrible is it or how acceptable is it? A baby born in this country has about a one in three chance of being killed before it ever comes to term. That doesn't make it any less heinous in the sight of God, who says that that baby has been made in God's image. Only occasionally do we see something happen that jolts us in order to understand that that baby is a human being. Recently, a woman in Florida was wanting to get an abortion. She already had a child. She couldn't pay for this child. She thought she was stuck. She didn't have enough money to get an abortion at the clinic. This was in Florida And so what she decided to do in her desperation was she took a gun and she shot herself in the womb. You may have heard the story. It turned out she shot the baby in the wrist. And so the baby was delivered to an emergency cesarean, and the baby lived for 15 days before she finally died of underdeveloped kidneys. The woman was then charged with murder. Now, William Raspberry, in an editorial that he wrote on this, said it would be much more consistent in this country if she was charged for practicing medicine without a license. She was simply seeking to abort the baby. But somehow when you shoot a baby in the womb and it comes out and you see that baby is very alive and very human, abjar your sensibilities to what goes on every day in many other ways just through different techniques, burning the baby to death or doing pulling it limb from limb or whether various other methods that they use. But God says that taking human life, whoever sheds man's blood by his blood shall he be shed And here we need to notice the third thing about this, the agent. Who is to do this? It doesn't say who is to do it It says, by man shall his blood be shed. Can we conclude, therefore, that Paul Hill and others have the right, in fulfillment of this verse, to say, if the state's not going to do it, I will do it. I will take in my own hands to fulfill Genesis 9. 6. God says this is what's to be done, and therefore it is not wrong if the state's going to abdicate its responsibility. for private citizens to in to uh involve themselves in this. Well I say absolutely not, because if you look at what this text says, by man shall his blood be shed, God then develops that in other parts. of the Old Testament. We don't have time to develop this now, but I give you the scriptures to look at it on your own if you care to. But the the person who was to fulfill this was called in the Old Testament the redeemer or the avenger of blood. That's a term given in Leviticus 25-25. It was the person who was the closest relative of the one who had been killed. And that person was, it was not some paid executioner, it was a kinsman, it was the close relative But that close relative was given authority by the law and those who ruled in order to do that. If you look at some of the scriptures that I list there, they list whether it is a case of manslaughter where you can't do this, there were places of refuge to go for that. or whether it was out and out murder. God distinguished very carefully whether it was first-degree murder, second-degree murder, whether there were witnesses, all kinds of restrictions. that were placed upon this. But if those restrictions were fulfilled, that person was given authority. In fact, they were required to go and to avenge the blood because of the sacredness, not simply as a deterrent. It was a deterrent, no doubt about that, much more than people will acknowledge today. But it was because of the inherent sacredness of that life that had been made in God's image, that the blood of the person who had taken it had to be shed. Now, when you come to the New Testament, we do not have a theocracy, and there is no avenger of blood. So in the New Testament, Romans 13 is very clear that the agent to do this is the state. That's why Romans 13 verses 1 to 5 says the sword has been given to the state in order to carry out justice. Now it's very significant that the sword that's given to the state that Paul's talking about there is the Roman government. A very unjust government. In fact a government under which abortions were practiced very frequently. It was common. And the Roman government did not, in fact, punish those who had taken the lives of those who were aborting their babies. But Paul does not say anywhere that we should rise up and that we should take the matter into our own hands in Romans 13 or anywhere else. In fact, if you want to see an excellent development of this, the January New Horizons that I listed there are denominational magazine, there's probably a few copies still on the back table. has an article on the ethics of civil disobedience. Excellent article. And it goes into this to show that where Christians may practice civil disobedience is where we are being commanded to sin. If you're being commanded by the government to have an abortion, or if you're being commanded by the government to perform an abortion, then it's right to say, I cannot sin. We must listen to God rather than man. Now, some people say we're not being commanded to sin, therefore we have no right to practice civil disobedience. And I'd say that's true, but we're getting perilously close in the funding issue, aren't we? Because you and I are being required to fund abortions, and if Paris Glen Denning has his way, we'll be doing it a lot more in the state of Maryland. And so we need to plead with government, please don't push us. Don't force us into a position where, as believers, we must follow our conscience in this and disobey the laws of the state of Maryland or the United States. Don't press us. We do not want to take that course. And we need to plead for that before that becomes the issue, so that if it becomes the issue, we've tried everything possible, every alternative. Because we need to realize that we live under the authority of the state as long as it does not command us to sin. And it's for each of us to decide when we believe that the state has crossed that line. I'm giving you some guidelines of my own understanding of that now. Finally, let's come back to the issue here of not eating blood. You notice in this, there is a hint of the gospel. This is point C. He says in verse 4, You must not eat meat that has its lifeblood still in it. Why is that? Because Deuteronomy 12 says the life is in the blood. And here you have a hint of what Messiah will do. We're not to eat blood because blood is sacred and it speaks of life. The whole sacrificial system of the Old Testament was based on the shedding of blood. And so we see that sacred the sacredness of blood in verse 4, not to eat it, because the blood of the lambs and of the calves that were slain. Was an indication that that's how serious sin is to a holy God. That there must be the shedding of blood in order for that sin to be forgiven. But when we come to the New Testament, we understand, of course, that the simple blood of animals could never substitute for human blood, because human life is infinitely more sacred. And so in the New Testament, we see also what's hinted at here in verse 5, the substitution principle. In verse 5, you see that I will demand an accounting for the life Of his fellow man, whoever sheds the blood of man, by a man shall his blood be shed. So what this is saying is the blood of the guilty must substitute for the blood of the innocent. But when you come to the New Testament, you see Jesus, who comes and he keeps the law perfectly, not only in the keeping of life, not only in the protection of life, in the honoring of the sacredness of life, but in everything that he did. to love those who were sinners and to do good to everyone. But Jesus steps forward and he says, I the innocent will substitute my life for you and me, the guilty. And so when Jesus went to the cross, he was substituting blood for blood, his blood for your blood. And so when you look at the so what's that we see down here, what this means for us, the lessons for us, recognize that all of us deserve the death penalty. Every one of us have violated God's law. Whether you've had an abortion, and I know that in a congregation of this size, that there would be some of you, we've had people even as part of our congregation, testify to us publicly. Of the abortions that they've had and of the healing that God has brought in forgiveness through Jesus Christ into their lives. And so if you are in that situation this morning, the gospel offers to you forgiveness, the same way it offers to every other sinner in this room. Through the shed blood of Jesus in our place. That Jesus Christ has died, the innocent for the guilty, so that you and I, the guilty, would be declared innocent and forgiven for everything. that you've ever done wrong, at everything that I've ever done wrong in his sight. And so if this morning you haven't tasted of that forgiveness, let me plead with you beside any other issue. Come to Jesus Christ for the forgiveness that comes through his blood. The blood which is the symbol of his death, crucified and then risen, to show that that death was sufficient payment for your sin and for mine. Secondly, notice in this that the fact that life is sacred means to us that because it's sacred from the point that it is human, Reflecting the fact that it fulfills the condition of Genesis 9. 6, that is made in the image of God, we must do everything that we can to protect that life. Therefore, we must stand against abortion on demand. We must stand against fetal tissue research. We must stand against the development and the distribution of abortiface contraceptives. If you want to know more how we can be mobilized for this, there's a yellow insert that's in your bulletin that is written by Dan Colvin of our Community Impact Committee here at Columbia Presbyterian It states who's on that committee, uh the fact that they serve us to lead us in legislative and other ways to be as public citizens within our community an influence for light and for salt. For righteousness? And if you're saying, how can we mobilize? What are the issues? One of the problems is we can't all do everything. And so we need a few of us who will lead us and say, let's get on this issue in the Maryland legislature. Let's write. Let's go down there. Let's do what's necessary. This one's key. And we need some of you to help us, to lead us in that. And so if you're interested in that, contact Dan or the others that are listed there to help us as a congregation. I need that help. I can't keep up on every issue We need some of you who have a particular zeal to help us in doing that. And then finally, thirdly, we need support systems. We need support systems not only to change the image of the pro-life movement, from simply being anti-as Steve Green says in his January article, but also being pro-life. But we also need support systems because Christianity Today, in the most recent issue, did a survey of a number of women who had had abortions, and they found that the number one reason why they actually, when the bottom line came to it, why they had the abortion, even though in almost every case the girl, she might have been a teenager, she might have been in her twenties, had a a a repugnance about doing this. That in every case it was because she lacked on a support system against the pressure that she was getting from her boyfriend, her parents, or whatever else. It was not primarily financial reasons, it was a support system that she lacked. And things like Crisis Pregnancy Center and Laurel and other places help to provide these support systems. And I know Heather had great joy in uh being a counselor down there, our daughter when she was working there as a volunteer. And they are always looking for help in that. You'll hear some more from Alicia about what that work is. So that's a possibility and the positive side of what we're to do. But then finally, the last thing, of course, is that we can all pray. We pray in our Thursday morning concerts of prayer occasionally for this. But to focus our prayers, we're reminded this weekend of this issue that God will turn around. The orientation of our culture from a dismissal of pre-born life to an increasing view of its sacredness. We are not fighting against a vast view of the public that says that life is uh pre-born life is cheap and it is not to be protected. The Roper uh survey done for the focus on the family people shows that in general there is a view of a high regard for the sacredness of life. It's just that we need to be pushing beyond that, that this life needs to be protected in various ways. And we need an increasing view of this. And so it's never going to stay the same. It's always going to be moving toward a greater cheapening or a greater sacredness. We need to be praying and then asking God, what are a couple of things? that I could do this year. If you could use me in all the other things I'm involved in. But just a couple of things this year. To see that you will in fact be a God who is pleased by the we your people honor the sacredness of life. As you stated here in Genesis 9. Let's pray. Lord, for each of us, this means something to Consider in response to this passage. Help us, Lord, to be clear in our thinking about what is right and wrong and violence and civil disobedience. But Lord, as we even extricate ourselves from wrong actions Deliver us from retreating into non-action, through confusion, or through dismay. Lord, we thank you for the things you're doing within our country, that there are so many who have given themselves a great sacrifice of time and money and effort to lead us in this We pray, Lord, that you would enable the bulk of us to be good followers and obedient in ways that we can help, that you would raise up some of us to be leaders in this. To help us to focus and be mobilized on the key issues. That we might be a people who recognize that just because the taking of life in this country is so common does not mean That it is not something that is utterly offensive to you. That life, because it is made in your image, is sacred, sacred to you, and therefore that it needs to be sacred to us. Lead us, Lord, and direct us, forgive us, in whatever ways we have violated this, that we would know your forgiveness and know your power And what you we see you calling us to do in this next year. For Jesus' sake. Amen.