And seeing these testimonies uh is a wonderful, a wonderful thing. You know, Paul said to the uh Ephesian elders, he says, I have not hesitated uh to teach you uh the whole counsel of God. And and when I was hearing the uh the version I guess of the kindergarten through second grade uh give these uh kind of summaries of uh the the prophets and the minor prophets and I mean wow what a great uh what a rich heritage um so So you're blessed. So we're going to be looking actually at the call to uh to faithful uh scriptures and uh teaching and doctrine. And uh let's let's pray as we uh look at this passage in 1 Timothy 4. Lord Jesus, you said to your hearers, uh, if you hold to my teaching, uh you are really my disciples. Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. And so we gather before you now to learn from your word, from your teachings, that we might know the truth and experience your freedom. We confess we live in a world of so many deceptions that bind us, confine us, and often kill our spirits Would you through your spirit open deaf ears, open blind eyes, soften callous hearts that we might see, hear, and understand and live in your freedom? Your psalmist said, I run in the path of your commands, for you set my heart free. Free us, Lord, through your word and your truth. Do it even through this weak vessel. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. And so as Wayne uh has mentioned, uh You have uh occasionally uh been uh working through uh First Timothy. Uh um and uh this is one of Paul's final letters uh to his uh young lieutenant Timothy, he sent to Ephesus to provide leadership for that young church that they might know how to live and to conduct themselves as the household, the pillar of truth in the world. Paul tells Timothy that he is in a fight, but it's a good fight, and for him to be faithful to that At the beginning of 1 Timothy, Paul actually charges Timothy to deal with some of the false teachers. in the church. He said, I urge you when I was going to Macedonia to remain in Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrines. And like a bookend, Paul returns to this theme and he gets more specific about exactly the kind of uh false teachings that were being espoused there in Ephesus. So let's look at 1 Timothy 4, starting with verse 1. Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons, through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared. who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth For everything God, for everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving. For it is made holy by the word of God in prayer If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith. and of the good doctrine that you have followed. Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness. For while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance, for to this end we toil and strive, because we have our hopes set. on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of those who believe. Command and teach these things. Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example. in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, and purity. Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation, to teaching. Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you. Practice these things. Devote yourself to them so that all may see your progress. Keep a close watch on yourself. and on the teaching. Persist in this, for by so doing you will save both yourself and your hearers. This is the word of the Lord. It was our first date. We were walking barefoot on the warm sand along the beach in South Carolina in front of the Park Ranger lighthouse there in Fort Sumter, Charleston. Maria worked there as a historical guide, singing Civil War songs and giving tours. I saw her sing and perform in a restaurant one night where she sang a song that she wrote, As I Am. You have found me and brought me home. You have taken me back time and time again. You have given me your strength when I had none of my own and through it all. You take me as I am. Now of course she was singing that uh words to her Savior. But in my heart I said, being captivated by this 20-year-old singer-songwriter, I'll take you just as you are. Now somehow I got a date that first night. And uh but uh there but uh there was a issue. I was a seminarian in a Presbyterian seminary, and I learned that she was Roman Catholic and she was leading in a folk mass. And I knew that before we had any thought of a real future, I needed to know whether we were compatible in our beliefs. Now my heart was already way ahead of my head. So as we strode along on the beach, as the sun was setting, I asked her a couple Diagnostic questions. I said, what would you say is the ultimate source of authority in your life? Would you say the Bible, or would you say the Bible and the church? Without hesitation and with some bewilderment, she said, well, the Bible. Of course, I said, yes. And then I asked her, Well, how do you believe you are saved? By sheer grace alone and Christ's work on the cross alone? Or by Christ's works and your good works, like going to church, going to confession, taking communion, etc. And she again said, well, by grace alone. And in my heart, without showing too much enthusiasm, I said, yes. Now I don't remember uh much else except there was a flood of hope that sprang in my heart. Now you might ask, well, what's the big deal? Why do these particular beliefs matter? Because what you believe about God, what you believe about the scriptures, about Jesus, about the clear teachings of the Bible matter. Paul ends this exhortation in Timothy. Keep a close watch. Take heed. Hold fast. Pay close attention on yourself and on your teaching, your doctrine. Persist in this, continue, persevere, for by doing you will save both yourself and your hearers. Now of course Paul was not suggesting that Timothy could save himself or his hearers, but that the teachings The doctrines, the truths of what Paul was teaching, that Timothy was teaching, God's word as demonstrated through his devoted life, these things Christ would save. And so the gospel presented in the witness of Timothy's life and the word of the gospel that Timothy was speaking would save his hearers. I need to say that you know God is not limited uh in working in any kind of churches. I mean, even in churches that have been really far gone. where the truth is still being expressed. In some ways, Christ can be manifested. And we should pray for those that are in such places that they would experience Christ in his reality and in his truth. There are no perfect churches and there's no perfect denominations. We only have a perfect Savior with a perfect word. Yet doctrine The teaching of the scriptures concerning Christ, concerning the Bible itself is critical. And Paul reminds this to Timothy. He says, if you put these things Before the brothers you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and in the good doctrine that you have followed. Paul says that Timothy can be a good servant, a good servant. minister if he is trained in the words of the faith of the good doctrine. And Paul he uses an adjective. uh to describe the doctrine. It is the good doctrine. And it is the precious, commendable, noble, excellent teaching. uh as opposed to bad or wicked or evil doctrine. Paul uses this article, good doctrine, and says the good doctrine. At this time in the unfolding history of the church, there was clearly a norm, a doctrine in which distinguished false teaching from true teaching. Other terms that were used, the faith, the truth, the good deposit, the gospel, these statements reveal that there was a body of doctrine, essential teachings that existed and was agreed was the agreed standard by which all teachings could be tested and judged. It was the teaching of Christ and his apostle, the glorious gospel of the blessed God in which I have been entrusted, he says in 1 Timothy 1. 11 And right before this chapter, in chapter 3, verse 16, Paul talks about how believers should behave in the household of God. the living uh the pillar, the buttress of truth. And uh he expresses this uh declaration, this poetic declaration uh or confession of faith that was embraced as the core summary doctrine. In verse 16 he unfolds it. Great indeed we confess. is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels, proclaimed among the nations, believed in the world, and taken up in Now, uh in a short while we're going to be reciting the Apostles' Creed. I believe. This I believe. This is what the early church in here in 1 Timothy 3, this would be a creedal statement, I believe. And great indeed, we confess. And so here Paul calls Timothy, and he calls all disciples, all followers of Christ to know, to guard, and to train themselves in the good doctrine. And I must say that a major part of the research of this sermon has come from John Stott's commentary on 1 and 2 Timothy Titus called Guard the Truth. But as Paul begins, he gives a sober warning. He tells them, expect disturbing departures. Expect disturbing departures. He says in verse 1, now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and the teachings of demons. through the incerity of liars whose conscience are seared. And Paul here warns that there are and there will be and will arise false teachers who would deny what the church confesses. Some people are abandoning the faith and are embracing various falsehoods. And that word to abandon is the word that uh is the word from the Greek apostasize Apostasy, abandon. The latter times that the Spirit is talking about in the last days that Jesus inaugurated in his coming and which we are still living in. uh and will be consummated uh uh unt when he comes again. But Paul tells Timothy that this will happen. This is the spiritual battle. Uh this is part and parcel of what it means to be in the good fight. Expect this, even as we grieve it. even as we work to correct it. Jesus predicted that that in the last stage in Matthew 24, many will turn away from the faith. And will betray and hate each other, and many false prophets will appear and deceive many people. You know, Jesus, he talks in uh John 10 about uh the Good Shepherd uh as uh in distinct uh in distinction to the thief. The thief comes only to still steal and kill and destroy I came, that they may have life and have it abundantly. He says, I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays his life down uh for the sheep, but he who is a hired hand and not a shepherd who does not own the sheep sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters. He flees because he's a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. Unfortunately, I've seen churches that have had hired hands who do not care for the sheep, and ultimately they get exposed. There was an article written about the signs of wolves in sheep's clothing and how you might be able to detect them. One is wolves misuse the scriptures. Wolves speak against spiritual authority that's placed over them. Wolves are always right. Wolves are argumentative. Wolves do not seek all the information they need to make the decision. They will only listen to what supports their opinion. Wolves vie for for vie for power. Wolves undermine the work of the church disciple making. Wolves are unwilling to admit when they are wrong and never apologize or ask for forgiveness. Wolves are proud. Now we need to be careful about how quick we come to any conclusion about whether we're dealing with a wolf. and not merely a naive, uh, uninformed, immature person. Because Paul makes it clear in 2 Timothy 2 That the Lord's servant must be kind to everyone, able to teach, not resentful. Those who oppose him, he must gently instruct in the hope that God will grant them repentance. leading them to a knowledge of the truth, and that they will come to their senses and escape from the trap of the devil who has taken them captive to do his will. But Paul does not coddle wolves. Paul does not coddle wolves. He calls them out. He watches out for them and he deals with them. Titus 3 says, warn a divisive person once, and then warn him a second time, and after that have nothing to do with him. You may be sure that such a man is warped and sinful, he is self-condemned. You know, Jesus says in Matthew 7, 15, watch out for false prophets. They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly They are ferocious wolves. By their fruit, you will recognize them. But the key thing about Wolves is that they are false teachers. They distort the truth. And as Paul says in Acts 20, 30. Even from your own number, men will arise and distort the truth in order to draw away disciples after them. So be on your guard. I I have I spent some time just thinking about the number of uh brothers, former con leaders uh who have denied the faith or left the faith uh in my in my uh time. And I have a list that's too long to actually go through, but I can just share with a few things. Uh when Marie and I were engaged, the pastor mentor who was over me who did our premarital counseling. who became an adjunct professor of a primary seminary, who became a model church planter in the PCA. uh ultimately uh left his wife, uh was in an affair, uh he was disciplined by the Presbytery, had uh they pursued him to repent, to return. He refused. They ultimately had to, besides suspending him from the Lord's table, had to uh excommunicate him. Uh and I remember hearing a brother in the process of the appeal uh to have him come back with weeping. He said something to the effect that he has never been, has never felt so more spiritually alive than in his process of desertion. Um many of you uh maybe in my generation a person that had a huge impact On me as a teenager and my early years of faith was uh Bill Gothard Uh and many of you maybe re maybe remember that name though it's the uh the Institute of Uh Youth Conflicts and or the Institute and Basic Life Principles. And there's, you know, he had to step down some years ago because there were allegations of over thirty women that uh uh believed that he was uh sexually abused them or sexual harassment. Uh I grew up listening to Harold Camping. How many here remember Harold Camping? You know, he had a tremendous uh teaching ministry, and I listened to him all the time, but then he started prophesying about the exact time that Jesus was going to return. And then he said that the Holy Spirit has left the church and that believers should leave the church. I mean, these were people that I had huge esteem for. Um and so What Paul is saying here, what Jesus warned us of, is something that continues to happen. And he is telling the church for believers not to be surprised. Expect that this will happen. You know, this has been a hard week in the PCA in the loss of just tremendous leaders. I mean, Tim Keller. Harry Reeder and actually another brother, the Lord took home, Steve Smallman Sr. , who was the pastor of McLean Presbyterian Church. He also, the Lord also took him home. These were giants of the faith, giants in terms of their uh teaching and gifts, uh just tremendous. But there was also another loss in the PCA this week. And this was when uh a very prominent teaching elder uh had to step down uh from the pulpit of a prom a primary church uh because uh he had created a toxic workplace culture. And he acknowledges, he said, uh really, uh I verbalized insensitive and hurtful criticisms of others. I've used social media and the pulpit to quiet the sentient viewpoints, and I've manipulated facts to support pasts that I desire. I appreciate his willingness to uh own what had happened, but this brother had to basically he's on uh indefinite suspension. And you just realize that this is the temptation. These are the realities that we are living in. And I I am, it's a sober thing for me as I think about it because Satan doesn't rest. You know, he is constantly coming after uh leaders and and pastors. And so Church, please be praying for your leaders, for your elders, for your deacons, for your officers, and for the pastor that God's going to call into this pulpit uh pray uh because uh satan does not sleeping and he will find the chinks in our armor and he will seek And I think about Paul's words to in Galatians 6, brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourselves lest you too be tempted. And so be on your guard. We must be on your guard. So ferocious wolves are reality in the church. Watch out, Jesus. Paul says, watch out. uh expect such disturbing departure. But Paul reminds us of the best way to protect and to guard our hearts and minds against deceptive teachings. And he says the way you do this is to consume good doctrine. Consume good doctrine if you put these things in verse 6. Before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed. Paul tells Timothy to be the good servant of Christ Jesus by being trained. And that's a word of being nourished up, to be fed up, to be fattened, to make growth, to train, to educate. to form in mind. The best person, uh the best way for a person, they say, uh to detect counterfeit money is to study uh heart the real deal, the real McCoy, the authentic bill. Then you will be able to detect subtle departures. So the strongest way for a believer that wants to guard their hearts and to guard others. is to know the scriptures themselves. Stott said, behind the ministry of public teaching lies the discipline of private study. All the best teachers have themselves remained students. They teach well because they learn well. Before we can effectively instruct others in the truth, we must have really digested it ourselves. But where how do we detect false error? How can we uh uh uh parse these things out when we start hearing them. Paul supplies two fundamental tests that are applicable. And the first is the theological test, the doctrine of creation test. Okay. And so he brings up the one of the heresies that were being propagated in the church in Ephesus about marriage and certain foods which the false teachers were forbidding. But he said these are gifts God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and who know the truth. And so the principle is plain. How can anybody despise marriage, let alone forbid it, when God instituted it? How can anybody command uh abstention from certain foods when God created them to be received with thanksgiving. What God has made and given us we are to receive and to be thankful for And what God said in Genesis 1 after he created the man and the woman, he says, it is good In the sixth day, he called them to be fruitful, to increase in number and nephith, which is about marriage, is about sex. And it's about propagation, uh, all that God created. God said all that he had made, it was very good, exceedingly good, precious, and beautiful. It doesn't get any better than this. It's fantastic. It's awesome. You know, it was a book that was written by Dan Allender and Tremper Longwith, two seminary professors. uh concerning God's creation of sex. And he says the title is God loves sex, an honest conversation about its sexual desire and holiness. Christians should understand this and and understand the beauty and the glory that God had created. Such as this. The principle is plain. How can anybody despise marriage, let alone forbid it, when God instituted it? God made, called them into being by his word, instituted them by his word, declared them good. He made them and declared them good. And there's a double call cause to receive them with joyful gratitude and thankful prayer. You know, I think about uh creation and uh a lot of times when we think about heaven we think about an ethereal uh place. Uh but it's more concrete than we can imagine. You know, Jesus after he rose from the dead, he had meals with his disciples. He was creat creating breakfast on the beach with his disciples. And then at uh Isaiah 25 he gives a picture of heaven. On this mountain, the Lord Almighty will prepare a rich Feast of rich food for all people, a banquet of aged wine, the best of meats, and the finest of wines. That's an amazing thing to look forward to. God's truth, God's beauty can be seen throughout the world, and we should give thanks for where we see it demonstrate it. Uh G. K. Chesterton, English writer, poet, philosopher, dramatist, he said, You say grace before meals. All right. But I say grace before the concert and the opera. Uh, and grace before the play in the pantomime, and grace before I open a book, and grace before sketching painting, swimming, fencing, boxing, walking, playing, dancing, and grace before I dip the pen in the ink. Paul reminds us that we should recognize and acknowledge and appreciate and celebrate all of the gifts of the Creator. To reject these, according to Paul, is to abandon the faith, and it insults the Creator. Some of you might be familiar with this book, Douglas McCleavey. I wrote Every Moment Holy And he has all these uh liturgies for uh regular daily things, a liturgy for changing diapers. uh a liturgy for laundering, uh for keeping bees, uh for washing windows, a liturgy for sunsets, uh for the first snow, or before a yard sale. I mean, very creative. But notice carefully, however, that what Paul writes, it is not that everything is good, but everything created by God is good. This is an indispensable qualification since not everything that exists has come unsullied from the Creator's hand. For the creation was followed by the fall, which introduced evil into the world and spoiled much of God's good creation. Indeed, the creation has been subjected to the frustration and is even now groaning in pain. We therefore need discernment to know what in our human experience is attributive to creation and what is attributed to the fall A flagrant current misuse of creation argument is the claim that the practice is of certain sexual engagements or uh uh of marriage uh definition, re defining marriage, these things uh have become in our society uh against what the scriptures are clear in their teaching. A person's desire does not legitimate that it is good. Some desires are wrong, and some desires are against God's creative order You know, the Pharisees came up to uh Jesus uh because they wanted to know if if uh if if it was okay to divorce a wife uh for any cause. Uh and he says, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? He said, Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God is joined together, let man not separate. And they said to him, Well, why did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and send her away? And Jesus says, because of the hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives from the beginning. Uh it was not so. But from the beginning it was not so. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another commits adultery. And the disciples were struggling with this, and they said, well, if such is the case, a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. And Jesus said to them, not everyone can receive this saying, but only to those whom it's been given. He says, For there are eunuchs who have been so from the birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs For the sake of the kingdom of heaven Let the one who is able to receive this receive it. In that instruction of Jesus, he makes it very clear what God's original design was. and what the purpose of marriage was, and that it's a sacred union between a man and a woman. But we recognize that many can't receive that. Uh and what we need to be is a people that love people and model this countercultural gospel of good news in our marriages, in our families, that people can see this and that we can be a winsome people to a world that is very confused and there's so much uh loss. So What we find here is a hermeneutic. This is the hermeneutic that Paul gives us interpreting the scriptures in the first and primary rule of hermeneutics is the analogy of faith. The rule of scripture is to interpret scripture. Sacred scripture is its own interpreter. So the Bible itself is its own authority. If you want to know whether something is true, go to the Scriptures and find the Scriptures to give clarity on this. That is your first cause. No part of Scripture can be interpreted in such a way as to render it in conflict with what is clearly taught elsewhere in Scripture. There was a uh you know some people take verses out of the scripture. Uh here's a here's one of my favorite ones. Uh Ecclesiastes 10. 19. A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes life merry, but money is the answer to everything. Yeah. Say what the Bible says that, you know, money is the answer to everything. But we know from the rest of Scripture that that uh that That's not true. Okay. So how do we discern and protect and guard ourselves in this good doctrine? By consuming, by being regularly nourished, by feeding in the scriptures themselves. This is the most important thing for us to feast on the Acts 20 sells to the Ephesian elders, Paul says, Now I commit you to God and to the word of his grace, which can build you up and give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified. But the final thing that we can learn about what to distinguish between truth and false is to be trained in godliness. This is the ethical test. The ethical test Godliness. Train yourself for godliness. Set believers an example in speech, conduct, love, faith, and purity in verse 7 and 12. Paul said that in verse 6 that a good servant of Christ Jesus is trained in good doctrine. And Paul makes it clear here what good teaching and what a good minister looks like. Stott said this, by the way. He says, I have always loved this expression. Jesus Christ has ministers of all sorts, good, bad, and indifferent. But I cannot imagine a more noble ambition than to be a good minister, a good minister, a good servant of his. And so this is what Paul is telling Timothy, and he's telling them to be consumed with and to nourish himself in good doctrine. And Paul moves from nourishment image of a child feasting on good food to the athlete in training. The athlete in training. He says, for while bodily training is of some value, godliness of va is of value in every way as it holds promise for the present life and for the life to come. And the word for training here is gymnasia. That's the Greek word where you get for gym, uh gymnasium. And of course Timothy knew the images in the Olympia of Rome who and and those athletes who had trained and worked out. And there's there's good benefits in working out. There's good health benefits in eating well and working out. They have some value, Paul says, but godliness. God-centeredness, God revering, record respecting, worshiping Christ-centered life, that is what has And so Paul here is encouraging Timothy uh uh to be strong, not in himself. but in the grace of God, to fan into flame his gifts, to not neglect his gifts, to be diligent in the matters, to give himself wholly to them, so that everyone can see his pro his progress. And so he ends with the Last verse, watch yourself, your life, and doctrine closely. Persevere in them, because if you do, you'll say both yourself and and your hearers. I like what uh I like the translation of the message of Eugene Peterson. He says, keep a firm grasp on both your character And your teaching. Don't be diverted. Just keep at it. Both you and those you hear will experience salvation. And so, church, give yourselves to the good doctrine. Study it. Consume it. Be nourished in it. And watch your life. That your life would conform to it. that you would set an example uh before uh those that see you every day, your neighbors and your co-workers and your classmates, that they might be able to see The incarnation of the word of truth made clear and evident and know Jesus Christ, who is your Savior and can be their Savior Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you give us these strong words of Paul to Timothy. This is a deep passage is a lot in here. God, I pray that you would use these words to re-ignite our hearts with a strong commitment. to know you through your word. That God, your grace would grow deeper into our hearts, in our minds, and that we would be faithful witnesses in the world. And we pray this in Jesus' name.