About over now. Back to school Tuesday. Try to get things back to some sort of normalcy. You know, somebody once said there's only two things to worry about. That things will never return to normal. The second is that they already have. You know, as we think about going back, I I think about this last Christmas season noticed, did you notice how many resurgences of old Christmas albums have been made into CDs. Uh along with uh Kenny G and with um David Lance albums, you were seeing a lot of uh Nat King Cole and Frank Sinatra. Now I've never been a Frank Sinatra fan, I'll tell you. But he does have a few good Christmas songs. And one of my favorites is the one that has kind of a haunting melody that expresses a longing that's not just appropriate to Christmas, but also to the new year. It's that one, have yourself a Merry Little Christmas. And you know, in that there's a line that says, From now on, our troubles will be out of sight. And then there's another line, it goes a little further. It says, From now on, our troubles will be miles away. Of course, my favorite line in that one is that uh we shall all be together if the fates allow. You have good Christian sentiment there or Christmas. But this idea of, you know, it's been a rough year. We've been through all this stuff, but from now on Our troubles are going to be out of sight. From now on, our troubles will be miles away. Nineteen ninety five is going to be a lot better than nineteen ninety four. I mean how many of you would say you'd like to live over nineteen ninety four? Well, you know, I'm not going to take a poll, but You know, for a lot of us, you look at that and you say, well, there's a lot of stress. I'm sure hoping that 1995 is going to be easier. We have friends that we haven't seen since 1978. And every year we write Christmas cards to each other, and they always append a fairly lengthy note to it. And I always know when I get the Christmas card from this particular couple, it's going to say basically the same thing. It's going to say Man, this was a tough year. I am really stressed out. I don't know how I can go anymore with a year like this. I sure hope the next year is gonna be better. Every year, for this is like, you know, 18 years we've been getting the same message. You know, uh in fact I before I saw it, in fact this year didn't even come 'til after Christmas. He's really stressed out this year, you know. And before I even opened it, I thought, you know, I know it's good. Sure enough, goes on two pages. Boy, this was a tough year. You know, sure hope next year's gonna be better. Well, do you feel something like that? Do you look with anticipation, say, you know, I know that there's nothing magical about the turning of a new calendar, but somehow in my mind it's a new start. And you're hoping this year is going to be better. Well, if you're like me and you want that kind of hope, there's a very helpful message from Romans chapter 8 that speaks to this. And gives us insight that I think we need on it. So if you haven't done it already, turn to Romans chapter 8, in verses 28 to 39. And let's hear God's word as he speaks to us, and then I want to unfold some of what this is saying to us. Romans chapter 8, beginning at verse 28. And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to His purpose. For those God foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the likeness of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those he predestined, he also called. Those he called, he also justified. And those he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? Who will bring any charge against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. Who is he that condemns Christ Jesus, who died more than that, who was raised to life, is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble, or hardship, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword As it is written, for your sake we face death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. No. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present Nor the future, nor any powers, neither height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Now you remember that in this passage, Paul has an earlier part of chapter 8. Said that you and I have been delivered from the spirit A bondage to fear unto a new spirit, the spirit, the Holy Spirit of sonship, adoption, whereby we can cry daddy to God. And that by that Spirit you and I are sons of God, awaiting an inheritance of a renewed creation where all our troubles will be over. They will be more than miles away, they'll be totally out of sight. And at that time, all things will be made new. But before that time, in the waiting for that, he says, the Spirit helps us in our present weaknesses. And it's right after that that he gives this verse one of the most quoted in all of Scripture, Romans 8, 28. And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to His purpose. I think no verse in the Bible has been more abused than this verse. No verse is richer in meaning and yet has been more scorned by people in heartache. Now, this verse has been glibly quoted and scornfully rejected to the point where many of us are kind of afraid to quote from it. For fear that we'll be automatically assumed to be superficial, that it's just a glib kind of quote, and Satan wants to rob us. Of the hope and the joy that there is in the truth that's conveyed in that verse. But for many of us, it's difficult to read that verse. And why is it? Well, first of all, we need to see that there is a basic principle for 1995 that's given to us. And that is that God intends everything that will happen this year for your good. God intends everything that's going to happen in 1995 for your good He says, We know that in all things, in 1995, God is working for the good of those who love him and who have been called according to his purpose. Now our problem with that verse is that it seems to mock some, perhaps in your case, much of your experience or the experiences of people that are close to you. What possible good could there be in losing a child? What possible good could there be in unceasing pain? What possible good could there be in seeing a very pleasant person transformed by Alzheimer's into an unpredictable tyrant? What possible good could there be in numbers of things that disappoint us, that cause us pain? And we haven't experienced deep down in our lives a sense that this really was for my good. And so we read a verse like this, and it seems to mock us. Now, obviously, if this is God's word, and it is absolutely reliable, because God Himself is speaking it to us. Then there must be some deeper insight here, something deeper about the good than you and I are generally seeing And fortunately, we're told exactly what that is because it's in the next verse. So the second thing that I want for us to consider as we head into this new year The second point is that you and I need to see a deeper, see deeper into this good purpose that God has for us. And that's what he says in verse 29. For those that God foreknew from eternity, he also predestined to be conformed to the likeness of his son. That he might be the firstborn among many brothers. God's purpose, then, he tells you, that good purpose is to conform you, your character, into the very likeness of Jesus Christ. That means that there is a There is a purpose that God has for your life that overarches any other particular calling or any other particular question about a decision you need to make in career or anything else. The most basic statement of God's will for you is to be conformed to the likeness of Jesus. And there is no greater purpose than that. God Himself could not have conceived of a greater purpose than the one He has for you, to conform you into the likeness of Jesus. to make you every bit as loving and secure and content as Jesus Christ himself. Do you long for that? You say, boy, there is nothing that could be better in my life than to experience that What circumstance, what could I have that would matter as much as God transforming me to become a kind of person like Jesus was? A person who was undisturbed by circumstances, a person who lived in perfect harmony with his heavenly father, perfect trust, perfect peace. And what that means is that to God, your loving Father, there's a basic principle that He's going to operate by in 1995. And that is that character is more important than comfort. Your character is more important to him than your comfort And you and I may not at first like that, but the fact is that God is stating to you and to me That my purpose is to transform your character, and sometimes when that conflicts with your comfort, I'm going to choose the character. Now when you and I see that, we realize that, in the words of Philippians 3 10, that transformation of character, that being given the mind of Christ, will not occur without suffering. It's not going to occur in our comfort. That doesn't mean that God doesn't desire our comfort. It doesn't mean that He doesn't want us to be a joyful and content people. But what it does mean is that because of our sinful natures, because we have such temporal priorities, God is in the process of through the suffering, removing our pettiness and our short-sighted priorities to get a bigger picture of what life is really about. And if you want to get a reminder of what really is important, visit a hospital And people who are in a hospital or get involved in hospice or something where people are saying, you know, all these trivial things that I thought were so important have receded because now I'm dealing with basic issues. And the Lord wants us, because of our own good, to be seeing these basic issues more clearly. And so there's things that he has brought into your life in 1994 and things that he will bring into your life in 1995 that will not be comfortable. And sometimes the pain is so overwhelming that you and I need to see what he then assures us of in verse 30. And that's the third thing. We need to see his promise of accomplishing that purpose in us. And that's what he tells us. In verse 30, he says, And those that he predestinated. That he determined would be those who would be brought into Jesus Christ and forgiven their sins, he also called, and those he called he also justified, and that means he forgave them their sins. And those that he justified, he also glorified. That verse is promising to you and to me that every last child of God who was ever called to faith in Jesus Christ and given new life. is going to be in fact made exactly like Christ in character. What a promise. You may look at your life and say, uh I don't know, I'm not too promising at this point. But he says he promises no one is going to miss out on that. Glorification is really simply the completion of the process. of sanctification, which is that transforming of your character and my character to become more like Jesus. And he says, every single one that he has justified, he will glorify. And so you know that whatever 1994 was, it was one step forward and two steps back, and 1994 seemed like a disaster to you spiritually, or you're not even sure what God was doing in 1994. And you're discouraged. You look at 1995, you say, but in the long run, if I belong to Jesus Christ by faith, he is sure to accomplish that purpose. I will be like my Lord Jesus in all of his glory and all of his victory and in the contentment that he himself knows in a unique way that I have only begun to guess at. So this is the assurance. But here's the rub, the fourth point. What about the process in getting there? What about the process in getting there? And here's where I think that as many Christians we have misconceptions that I think Romans 8 is trying to address, and I'm trying to help us to see as we look into the beginning of this year. And I think the basic question that we ask as Christians is the one listed there in your bulletin outline. Shouldn't life get easier as I mature as a Christian? I mean, doesn't that make sense? Shouldn't life get easier as you become more mature as a Christian? I think we sometimes think of Christianity as kind of like a sport or a game. You know, it's sort of it takes you a while to master the basic rules and the moves. And once you have those down, then the rest of the time it is kind of refining your technique. So Christianity is, you know, it's difficult when you're a new Christian to kind of master the basic rules and the moves of the Christian life. But then once you have those down, that may take you a few weeks or a few months of intensive discipleship. Then the rest of your life just kind of refining the technique of that. And that means that life should get easier because as your faith gets stronger, you should be able to trust God more easily. And as the flesh gets weaker, you should be able to obey Him more easily. Therefore, if you are in fact walking a bit more consistently according to God's principles, as they're given to us in Scripture, you're seeking to obey Him more. Shouldn't life simply get easier? Because you're simply living a little bit more each year God's way. Therefore, as you progress in that and as you mature in that, life should get easier, right? Wrong I mean if we walk according to God's principles, life will have less adverse consequences to us than if we're not. So I'm not saying that. But I think because that's true, we tend to think therefore life should get easier in general I know that's not been true of my experience, and it's not been true of any mature Christian that I have ever talked to. Think of your own life as I think of my life. When I was a new Christian, I came from a non-Christian background. And so the the Christian life had a lot of different values from my home. And I thought, well This is all kind of new to me now. It'll get easier when I begin to think this way. I just it's all hard now because I don't know the Bible. And I remember as a new Christian, I wanted to devour scripture Because it was all so new. And I wanted to get into that. And I thought, once I know the Bible, once I've read the whole thing, it'll get easier. Well, certain externals did, but not my heart. Then I was a student. And as a student I thought, boy, life is rough now, you know. I mean no money and you know all this pressure of grades and all this stuff that you it'll be easier when I graduate and get a job You know, then I'll be in the world and all the school pressure will be up. That'll be easier, you know. Some of you are chuckling already, you know. What happens? You know, you get that job and and as you get the job you think, well now I'm just getting started in the job. It's rough now because you know I'm just getting established, but once I get into this job and get used to it, then it's going to get easier And what happens? You need to go on for more education. There's more pressure as there's more responsibility. And more and more of that kind of stuff increases. You think, when's it going to get easier? And then maybe you get married. I got married. And I thought, boy, I don't know how to be a husband. We moved five times in the first four years of our marriage. I thought, this is tough. When are we ever going to settle down? When we settle down, then life will get easier. Then our marriage will become easier. Then kids came. The sleepless nights, the diapers, and more diapers, and unending diapers, and the confinement, and the whole reorientation of the schedule. And you say, well it's tough right now, but when they get older it's going to get easier. Right? And then they become teenagers. Why are you laughing? I don't need to say anymore. You enjoy them and it's fun time? But do you say, well, but it'll be easier when we get through this. And then what happens? You become part of what's called the sandwich generation. Your kids below you, the generation below, is leaving, and they've got a lot of needs and have a need a lot of care and help getting established in their own lives. At the same time, your own parents are getting older and questions of housing and what are they going to do in their retirement. A lot of decisions, maybe difficulty and some failing health. Lot of care that's being given there. Reversal of roles. Now they need you more than you need them physically for certain things. And then you think, well, now I'm beginning to go through a midlife crisis and I'm beginning to grapple with the fact that certain goals that I had, I'm never going to achieve them. Maybe once I get through this and settle down and come to terms with all this stuff, life's going to get easier. And then you move toward your own retirement. And you got your own decisions to make. And you don't get around quite as well. And there are certain limitations and more aches and more things that you're losing in parts of your body and various things that just don't function the way they used to. And finally you say, when's life going to get easier? I've been saying this all my life. It's going to get easier. What does Paul say to us? He says in this passage, God has a good purpose for everything in your life. No statement about when that is, whether you're a teenager, whether you're a kid. Whether you're in your middle twenties or whether you're in retirement, he simply says at this point God has a good purpose for your life. And that purpose is to conform you to the image of Jesus. W You see, one of the things that you learn as you begin to come to terms with the fact that it's not going to get easier. I'm kidding myself to think that there's some point where I'm going to coast, is if we coasted. We become apathetic and self-reliant. The fact that life doesn't get easier means we don't have to worry about becoming apathetic and self-reliant. Isn't that good news? God is using at every point of your life certain stress points so that you must rely upon Jesus. Now look how Paul puts it. He says there in the fourth point, this matter of the process, look at the kinds of things that he paints that lie ahead for us. First of all, in verse 33, it says there's charges. People are bringing charges against you. Who's going to bring any charges against those God's chosen? Verse 34. There's people condemning you. Perhaps you're condemning yourself. Who is he that condemns? You're not doing things right. There's always the condemnation. You're falling short. And then, besides that, there's simply the personal troubles in verse 35. Look at the beginning of verse 35. Who's going to separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship? He doesn't say, yeah, that stuff's going to fade away. No, trouble, hardship ahead, or perhaps even more surprising, you're going to have difficulties because you're a Christian. Not in spite of the fact you're a Christian, not that they sort of creeped in from your pre-Christian existence, but because you're a Christian, there will be verse 35, persecutions Of all the people that I have read and studied, I can't think of a Christian who is closer in his walk to Christ than Jonathan Edwards, a man who is deeply devoted to the Lord Jesus. As a pastor in 18th century America, he came to the radical conviction that the Lord's Supper was only for believers. He began to implement that in his church. He was hounded, persecuted, vilified, and finally lost his congregation because of his stand for Jesus Christ. There'll be things that you'll do, perhaps in 1995, where God will lead you to take a stand and draw a line and say, this is something I can't do. And it's going to hurt. You don't think of yourself as persecuted, but when you're rejected, when there's something that happens that's difficult to bear because of that stand Then you need to go to the scriptures that speak about God's comfort in persecution. And know that that shouldn't surprise you and me. This world is not our home. We will not be comfortable here. And then he goes on to speak about just participation in general societal difficulties. Problems on a societal scale like national disasters. Verse thirty-five again. Trouble, hardships, persecution, or famine, or nakedness, these are things that aren't just us. This is simply because we live within a society where there is famine, where there is economic depression. Where there is difficulty. And we participate in those things. And Paul says that's the reality. Or, not simply natural consequences, but human violence. He ends up verse 35, or danger, or sword, or guns, or muggings, or rapes. For all kinds of things that we fear because we know that Christians are not immune to human violence and depravity within this world. And Paul's a realist. He says, this is the kind of world we live in. And he says, don't think that from now on our troubles are going to be miles away. 1995 has come, it's all going to be better. When Jesus comes. And that could be next week. Then it will be better. But until then, you and I live in this kind of a world. Now, before you all crawl out of here on your hands and knees and never come back, there's got to be some good news in this, right? George promised you that there at the beginning. So let's look at the fifth point. What is it then? What hope or encouragement is it that God gives us in this kind of a situation? Three things for us to notice from this text. First of all, that God Himself is for me. God Himself is for me in every one of these instances. Verse 31, what should we say then in response to this? Indeed, what shall we say in response to all this? If God is for us, Who can be against us? In other words, what does it matter who's against you if God is for you? He who didn't spare his own son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? Who's going to bring any charge against you? It's God who's justified you. You see what Paul's saying there He's saying you're living in under charges, you're living in tension, you're living in people that don't approve of what you do, you're living in all of this. But you need to remind yourself, God doesn't accuse me. The heavenly Father has justified me. What proof is there of that? The proof is simply that he didn't spare his own son, but he sent him in my place, so that he would curse him and accuse him. And if I've trusted him as my Savior and my Lord, God has justified me. He's removed my guilt. He is now for me and not against me. And so because of that, that he didn't spare his own son, how will he not with him, his own son, the most precious thing that he had? Freely give me all things. What are the all things? The things that relate to conforming me to the image of Jesus. All those things that are for my good in that perfect purpose of making my life to be more like the Lord Jesus life. And so you and I are often like a son who saw his father's will, and his father had given to him his 500-acre estate and everything that he had. But he worried about whether his father could provide for him his next meal. God has said, I have given to you heaven. I'm going to transform you in a transformed world. Can you trust me for 1995? That I'm for you and not against you this year? Whatever it seems, I don't accuse you. I'm working out my purpose in your life. Trust me, I'm for you. Secondly, we see this next year. The basis of that in the blank is the historical death of Christ, in case you missed that, is the basis of my justification. Secondly, you see that Jesus is interceding for me. In verse 34, who is it? Who is he that condemns? Who is he that condemns you and condemns me? Jesus Christ, who died more than that, who was raised to life, is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us. The second hope that you have in applying this hope of what Paul gives to us here is to know that not only has Jesus been cursed on the cross for you, but he rose again. And he is right now at the right hand of God, interceding on your behalf. for every need in your life, even those that are too subtle for you yourself to understand. We pray, Lord, help Lord, help me to cope with this. Help me to get through this. Help me whatever that your fears are and anxieties for 1995. But Jesus is interceding. He has a different agenda, but his agenda goes far deeper and far more wholesomely. Into God's purpose for your life. Do you trust the kind of Jesus who walked through the pages of the gospel to be interceding for the particular needs of your life in this next year? Do you trust that he has your good in mind? I think sometime this year it may help if you and I picture When you're in that time when you're wondering what in the world God's doing, picture Jesus in the heavenlies. Picture him there interceding, applying the work of his cross. To your life, when you're condemning yourself to know that God Himself is saying, I don't condemn you, why are you condemning yourself? Jesus is saying, you're all confused, and the Spirit is helping you, as he says earlier in this chapter, to know how to pray, but I am perfectly praying. That God's purpose will be accomplished in your life. Can you rest in that? What's the proof that Jesus is interceding for you and for me? The proof is his historic resurrection. That's what he says in verse 34. It was he who died. Not only did he die, but more than that who was raised to life. That's how we know he's at the right hand of God. And the evidence for the resurrection is the evidence that you have a Jesus interceding for you in 1995, that God's perfect purpose will be accomplished. And then finally the last thing, your third hope, is that his grace is sufficient to make you more than a conqueror. His grace is sufficient to make you more, not simply a conqueror, but more than a conqueror. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ, verse 35, shall trouble or hardship, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? As it's written, for your sake we face death all day long. We're considered as sheep to be slaughtered. Sometimes that seems to be the way it is. No, but in all these things, in these things, you see. It's not in spite of, it's not to avoid these things. It is in these things. It is through these hardships. That we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us. Amen. Feel that, brothers and sisters. It's the promise of God for your life. Why? Because he has told you, as he says in verse 37, there, who's going to separate you from the love of Christ? All these things, and then you go back to verse 32. No. He who didn't spare his own son, but gave him up for you. How will he not then with him graciously give you all things necessary in whatever 1995 holds for you? That in these things, whether they are death or life or angels or demons or the present or the future Or any powers, all the anxieties of whatever 1995 could hold. None of these things will be able to separate you. not only from his objective love for you, but also from the ability to feel and to know that love that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And so you'll know that he goes on before you. He has a purpose. He's never turning his back this year. Nothing's going to catch him off guard. This happened to me when God wasn't looking. He allowed it, but he didn't have anything to do with it. No, no, no, no. All the things that are going to happen in this year, God is participating and He's working through those things. To accomplish a purpose for you and for me. Not only do we look at his death, his resurrection as the hope, but also the accumulation of experiences In previous years. And that's why each Lord's Supper, as we'll do tonight, there's an opportunity for us to share and to encourage one another with what have we learned in this past year about God's hand in our lives. In order to see, yes, he was faithful in nineteen ninety-four. Maybe I didn't feel it the way I should have. Maybe I look at nineteen ninety-four as a blur and I say, What in the world was God doing? I don't have any idea. But I hear my brother and sister. and I hear God was doing something in them, and I say, yes. Maybe I need to look a little more closely at this past year and trace God's ways in my life. Because in 1995, there may be times when you feel like he's going to be spinning you around like a magnet. But the purpose is so that as that magnet stops, it always orients itself toward north. So your life will always turn back to Jesus as the pole start. I remember of a woman, a hearing of a woman who had been Living in a barrier island, and one night she was observing a huge loggerhead turtle came out of the sea. And that turtle came and w you know crawled up onto the dunes to lay her eggs. And this woman left the turtle so that she wouldn't disturb her before she was finished, but came back the next morning to see if she could find a nest. And instead she found all these tracks that were going not toward the sea, but away from the sea, into the dunes. The dunes were already as hot as asphalt by mid-morning, and finally she found the turtle there, struggling. Sand caked on her, half dead, half baked. And so she poured some water on that big turtle. She wasn't able to, of course, move it. And then she went off to find a park ranger to see if he could rescue it. The ranger came in a jeep, and to her horror she watched as the ranger took these big tire chains and wrapped them around the front flippers of the turtle, flipped the turtle over. And then hooked the chains up to the back of the Jeep and took off through the dunes, with a turtle getting slammed back and forth, sand pouring in her mouth and her eyes, thought her neck was going to be broken from being tossed backwards. And she ran after the Jeep down to the beach, and uh when the Jeep stopped right at the edge of the water, he released the turtle, and she was still alive, and the water began to wash over her. And then the waves began to revive her, until finally a wave came that made her buoyant enough that she was fully revived and swam back into the ocean. And this woman who was observing this, who was a Christian, said, as I saw that I realized in my own life, sometimes it's hard to tell whether the hands that have flipped my life upside down are killing me or saving me. But as a Christian, we can know the purpose. 1995 may not be easier, but with Jesus, we know it will be a good year. Let's pray. Lord our God, we trust you that this next year will be a year that whatever it holds for us, and for some of us, it will be an easier year. For some of us it won't. But we know, Lord, that whatever this year will hold for us, whatever joys, whatever enjoyments, whatever pleasures, whatever difficulties. That you have a purpose in each thing that is happening. Open our eyes that we might see it, that we might trust you, that we might participate in that purpose. We give ourselves to you for that now, in Jesus' name. Amen