Ephesians. And uh just recently I was reading what he uh preached on Ephesians 2. 7. That was the Sunday before Christmas. Hey, you know, Sunday before Christmas? Next verse is Ephesians 2. 7. Why do I mention this? Well, because you maybe when you came in this morning, you picked up the sermon outline and you saw, what's this guy preaching on? It's Easter. Doesn't he know better? Why in the world is he preaching on Job? You know, I want my money back. Why would I preach on Job 14 on Easter Sunday morning? Well, because I believe The Job 14, verse 14, asks a question that's extremely relevant to Easter. It's the question that you see there. Open your Bibles if you have them, and um if you haven't turned to them already, please um Turn and also pull out your sermon outline, it'll help too. That question in verse 14, if a man dies, will he live again? And you see, I've titled this sermon, The Life's Most Important Question. Because you think of all the questions you can ask of your life. Will I get married? Will I have kids? Will my kids turn out? Will I be successful in my career? Will I maintain my health? If I'm not in good health now, will I regain my health? How will my retirement go? Will I be secure? Yeah, all kinds of questions you could ask. But next to that one question, When I die, will I live again? That's the personal question for Job. If a man dies, will he live again? When I die, will I live again? You think about it, all questions beside that are trivial, aren't they? The real bottom-line question is, when I die, will I live again? I find that every time I do a funeral, that's a question that comes to people as they go past the casket, if it's an open casket funeral. And whatever else people are thinking about as they go past the body, one thought that generally occurs is, where is that person now? Ever find yourself thinking that if you're at a funeral? Where is that person now? If I could only know, then I would know life's most important question. I'd know the answer to it. And what's interesting to me is that in our culture, in most kind of generic Christian culture kinds of funerals. Whereas there may be no recognition of the authority, of the commands, of the truth claims of the Bible, when we go to a funeral, we want to hear the pastor say something hopeful based on what the Bible says about resurrection and heaven and the person is in heaven and we have this kind of sense of a vague hope. It's nice to know they're in heaven. Now, I don't follow the Bible any other time in my life, and I don't obey it, and I don't really believe that it's trustworthy, but I like to believe That when it says that there is life after death and that we're going to go to heaven, well, that's that's good to know. Makes me feel good to hear that But more and more such a hope rings hollow in our culture. Uh you probably noticed that in the last uh week uh both Time and US News and World Report had cover articles on the identity of Jesus. Who is this Jesus? And uh most of the article was talking about how Jesus was simply a man. One fellow by the name of Marcus Borg wrote a book recently called Meeting Jesus Again for the First Time. He says that Jesus was a spirit person, a subversive sage, a social prophet, and a movement founder. I don't know how long he did research to come up with that, but Spirit person, subversive sage, social prophet, and movement founder. That's pretty profound. Yeah, remember the uh Washington Post article It wrote, uh reporter asked a theologian recently, uh, what if Christ didn't rise? The answer the person gave was, if Jesus' bones were found tomorrow I, like most Christians, would continue to go to church. It really wouldn't make much difference. You see, it's this idea that, well, who knows if the Bible's true and who knows what Jesus is as a person. You know, i we can't really answer those things. But we like to believe that when Job asks that question, if a man dies, will he live again? And the Bible says yes. That there it's true. But you see, it doesn't work. You can't pick and choose and say, well, I believe that the Bible's right at that point, but who knows if it's right anywhere else. You see, any kind of hope in a resurrection, any kind of hope that we have in life after death is tied to whether the Bible can be trusted or not. Because I suggest that there are really only three kinds of ways that you can answer Job's question. If a man dies, will he live again? When I die, will I live again? One is to answer that question apart from the Bible. Senior sermon outline. That's the first kind of way. The first way you can answer that. You just ask the question and you say, well now I don't really believe the Bible can be trusted. I don't believe the Bible's true. My college professors all debunked that, you know, and so we know that the Bible is just men's thoughts, but what real hope do we have in that? The answers to that go back as far as, at least in written history, to Plato. Plato recorded Socrates' thoughts, his teacher, just before he drank the fatal hemlock. And Plato asked him, uh, what do you think about life after death? And uh, you know, I don't know how many have read Plato's dialogues lately, but you know, just to remind you what Pl Socrates said on that occasion. was basically, well, you know, you think about it, and when you look at the seasons, you have spring and summer and fall, and then you have winter, and it doesn't end there, does it He comes back to spring again. And we see the new life pushing up. And so by analogy, it seems like the way of life is for there to be death, life after death. Where he says, look at seeds. You know, a seed falls from a tree and it falls into the ground and it seems like it's dead, it's gone, decays. But then out of that seed comes new life. And, you know, by analogy, I guess that's a kind of a basis for a hope that there will be life after death. Well then there's the old one that everybody loves, you know, the old caterpillar Good old caterpillars. Only one thing good caterpillars are for is for analogies of resurrection, you know. Thing dies and it looks like it's dead, it's in the cocoon, but out comes this beautiful butterfly. And by analogy it seems like maybe then There's hope for life after death. Plato ends by saying, these aren't proofs, of course, but they're simply glimmers of hope in the face of mystery. Poets have used that same kind of reasoning, you know, to say, well, it seems like life just must go on. It just can't stop. So there's this urge, this sense within us that we don't simply die when physically we go into the grave. But not all poets were so helpful. Not all poets were so hopeful about that. Take a guy like Edgar Allan Poe. Now Poe was considered to be a mad genius. He wrote a lot about death. Poe wrote about grieving over the beautiful dead maiden Annabelle Lee, other of his poems Probably the most disturbing of all is his famous poem, The Raven. Once, upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary, Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lure, While I nodded nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping, as of someone gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door 'Tis some visitor, I muttered, tapping at my chamber door. Only this, and nothing more. Ah, distinctly I remember It was in the bleak December, at each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor. Eagerly I wished the morrow. Vainly I had sought to borrow from my books her cease of sorrow sorrow. For the lost Lenore, for the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels named Lenore, nameless here, forevermore And Poe goes on to describe how he's grieving for this beautiful maiden Lenore, and he asks this bird, Will I ever see her again? And the bird answers, nevermore. He presses the bird. Well, what about this or that? And continues to press, will I see her? And you know the refrain, quoth the raven, nevermore. Finally, he really loses it with the raven Prophet, said I, thing of evil, prophet stilleth bird or devil, whether tempter sent or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore, desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted, on this home by horror haunted. Tell me truly I implore. Is there, is there Balman Gilead? Tell me, tell me I implore. Quoth the raven, nevermore. And the raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting on the pallid bust of palace just above my chamber door. And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming. And the lamplight o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor. And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor shall be lifted nevermore He ends in despair. He says, There is no hope that we have, that there is life after death. If a man dies, shall he live again? Post says there's no hope. We move into our current generation of postmodernism. And you find that that cynicism that says that there really isn't any hope Because the existentialists and others have told us that there really isn't any basis for any kind of hope today. You take a Film producer like Ingmar Bergman, who was producing films back in the 60s and 70s, one of his most definitive statements that has produced the basis out of that realm of thinking for our current view of this. From this movie, The Seventh Seal, there's a dialogue between the night and death. The night says, Do you hear me? Death says, Yes, I hear you. The knight says, I want knowledge, not faith, not supposition, but knowledge. I want God to stretch out his hand towards me and to reveal himself and speak to me. Death has sense. But he remains silent. Night. I call out to him in the dark, but no one seems to be there. Death Perhaps no one is there. Night. Then life is an outrageous horror. No one can live it in the face of death, knowing that all is nothing. And what is the answer that our generation gives to that? Think about it. What is the answer? It's books on post-death experiences, isn't it? It's the new age thinking. The spate of books that we have today that says, well, you know, there's people that have come to that brink of the grave and they seem, for all that we can see, physiologically to have died. And then what do they say? Oh, I saw this tunnel of light. And at the end of this tunnel of light, there was this friendly being welcoming me to come. And so you see, it's okay. There's life after death, and it's friendly. You don't have to fear it. Until you realize the basis of this is just a pure subjective kind of hope. It simply projected that longing that we have, and that is then discussed and reported and made as if this is some sort of empirical data for life after death. But in reality, apart from the Bible, there is absolutely no foundation for any kind of hope of life after death. None whatsoever. Hope. But no answers. Now in contrast to that, look at how Job answers this question. Now Job was a guy with problems. And so he was asking the deep questions. And all of chapter 14 really revolves around this one question. It's in verse 14. When or if a man dies, shall he live again? Now look how Job answers it. Four parts he gives to his answer. He gives four analogies. But these analogies, notice, are more in the spirit of Poe than of Plato. First of all, he says, life's like a flower. Verse 1 and 2. Man born of woman is a few days and full of trouble. He springs up like a flower and withers away. Well, it's like a daylily. Blooms one day. Blooms in the morning. By evening it's gone. So his life's like a shadow. Verse 2, like a fleeting shadow. Just passes by. He does not endure. Thirdly, he says he's like a condemned man. Verse 3. Do you fix your eyes on such a one? Will you bring him before you for judgment? Who can bring what is pure from the impure? Life is like a condemned man, cause of his impurity, ready to be judged, hanged, condemned. No one. Then he says life's like a hired man. Verses five and six. Man's days are determined. You've decreed the number of his months and have set his limits that he cannot exceed. And so look away from him and let him alone till he has put in his time like a hired man. Job saying that You just put in your time, work hard, you know? Not he who dies with the most toys wins. He who dies with the most toys dies anyway I think of um just last Easter James Thompson was writing of a good friend of his, Ed uh Prince, who was a healthy and successful businessman who had put a lot of uh effort into focus on the family and its ministries. And it was just about a year ago, just a little over a year ago, that he had walked into a business meeting, they had had a conference, it was a successful meeting, he was exuberant, left the meeting, got into the elevator, went down one floor, I opened the elevator, he was dead. Dead as stone. One moment alive. The next moment dead. That's what Job's saying. Just don't you're here? You're gone Says his number of his months are determined in verse five. You notice that? You ever think of how many more months you're going to live? If it's ten years, that's only 120 months. You think how fast fast a month goes, you know I mean three months since Christmas already. Three months you know we're in the fourth month of this year. If you live twenty more years, it's only two hundred and forty months. See, I hadn't thought about that. It's kind of depressing, right? Life is so quick. You think Job's grim? He's just getting started Look at it. He picks up from this verses 7 to 12. He says, hey, at least there's hope for a tree. You know, even as it's so grim, I c I always have to smile a little bit when I read this because, you know, here's Jove, he's gone on and on about life. It's so you know he's well, at least if you're a tree you got some hope. If it's cut down, it's gonna sprout again And his new shoots will not fail. I've told you about our sycamores and our willow trees. Boy, is that true? We just cut down another sycamore tree. I'm waiting for that thing. One day I'm gonna go to bed and I'm gonna wake up the next morning. Gonna be another tree there Job says that's the way it is with trees. Its roots may grow old in the ground and its stump die in the soil, and yet at the scent of water it will bud and put forth shoots like a plant. But contrast, man dies. And is laid low. He breathes his last and is no more, as water disappears from the sea, or a riverbed becomes parched and dry. So man lies down and does not rise. Basically saying, man, death is not like a tree, but like a parched riverbed. When the water runs out, it's gone. Barren. It's dead. Nothing to revive it. Say that's the Bible? I thought the Bible was supposed to have good news. Look at his longing in verse 13. If only you would hide me in the grave and conceal me till your anger is passed, God if you just Forget me until this is all over, and then you would remember me to let me live. And so then that's the context you see of his asking that question in verse 14. If a man dies Will he live again? If a man dies, will he live again? And then Job posits two statements of hope. Now notice, after all this hopelessness, two statements of hope. He says, first of all, all the days of my hard service I will wait for my renewal to come. You will call and I will answer you. You will long for the creature that your hands have made. He's saying you've made me. And there's going to come a time when you're going to call for me because I'm precious to you. You've made me. And you'll call for the creature that your hands have made. And then the second hope that he has after saying, I will be with you after death, is the statement that I'm going to be without my sin after death. Look at verse 16. Surely then you will count my steps, but not keep track of my sin. My offenses will be sealed up in a bag, and you will cover over my sin. You see, in this, Job is stating something of tremendous insight. What he's basically saying is that death is not natural. See, death is not something inevitable as a part of nature, but death is tied to sin. Death is because of sin that intrusion upon humanity. From our own disobedience. But Job's saying, My only hope of life is that I will be separated from my sin. And then it's as if after verse 17 there's a pause as he wants to pursue that thought. But he has no way to pursue it. How do I separate myself from the sin? You just said in verses 3 and 4, how can you bring purity out of what is impure? And so from that, what's he do? His fourth part of his answer is he lapses back into hopelessness. Look what he says in verse 18. But As a mountain erodes and crumbles, and as a rock is moved from its place, as water wears away stones, as torrents wash away the soil, so you destroy man's hope. You overpower him once for all, and he is gone. You change his countenance and send him away. If his sons are honored, he doesn't even know it. If they're brought low, he doesn't see it He feels but the pain of his own body and mourns only for himself. So Job says In the face of it all, I really have no assurance. That's the Old Testament perspective. Then you come to the third way of dealing with that question, and it's the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ comes as the hope of the prophets. Turn to John chapter 11. And see what Jesus says in answer to Job's question. Verse 14. Will a man die? And when a man dies, will he live again? Jesus answered, given at the grave of Lazarus, a friend of his who had just died. And Jesus comes to that grave. And notice what he says in verse 25 and 26. He says, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even though he dies, directly related to Job's question. And whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this? Notice three things about his answer. First of all, Jesus is saying here that resurrection is a person. Resurrection is a person. I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even though he dies. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you Jesus, who comes here in spirit to say to you, I am the resurrection. He doesn't speculate on whether there's life after death. He doesn't discuss and analyze the evidence pro and concerning Job's question. What does he do? He comes with compelling authority and he simply states, I am the resurrection and the life. Because I alone, of all men who have ever died, have come back from the grave. Jesus comes and states with authority that he is the life because he has risen. And because Jesus has risen, he says that life after death is not some inevitable pattern of nature. It is tied uniquely to me who has conquered death. And so the second thing to notice about his answer. is that resurrection is by faith in the person who has been raised. It is only by union with that person, Jesus, that there is resurrection. And that is by faith alone. Again, look what he says: I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live, even though he dies. And whoever lives and believes the second time in me will never die. Then, do you believe this? And so resurrection is not some pattern of nature. It is not something that we look at and say Well, you know, there's hope that in general people will live. Jesus says, You want to discuss resurrection? I'm the only one who has experienced it. And I tell you with absolute authority that the only way to have life after death is by faith in me. Who can give you that life after death? And it's because, you see, Jesus understood the connection that Job was making between sin and death. Job says, How can you bring purity out of impurity? Then he postulates this hope, Lord, you will call the one that you've made, and I will appear before you with all my sins wrapped up in a bag and thrown away. But Job had no way of answering that. He didn't know how that could ever happen. Who could imagine? I mean, think from Job's perspective. How could you imagine God solving that problem? You and I who have sinned and are under his judgment and that judgment is death. To say, how can we, who by nature are sinners, ever get rid of that sin to have life? But Jesus comes as God's unique provision to take upon himself that sin. Because he's perfect, he is not subject to death. Jesus would never have had to die, for he had never sinned. But when Jesus took upon himself your sin and my sin, He was volunteering to die the death that you and I deserve in our place. But only in the place of the one who chooses to be joined to him in that hope. You alone are my hope. And so as Jesus dies, he is dying in the place of everyone who says, I die for my sin. I have no hope for Jesus. And Jesus comes to you and he says, I am the resurrection and the life. Because I have taken sin. You look through Luke, and I've listed the verses there. If you do the meditations, you'll see those for the meditations of your quiet time this week, where time after time in Luke, Jesus again and again and again connects his resurrection to his sacrificial death. There is no resurrection apart from dealing with the sin problem. Because the only person that God can have in his presence is a person without sin. And that's why Jesus says, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me to take your sin upon me. To have died for that sin and provide for you life. In me alone resides that life. And so if this morning you and I are resting in faith in Jesus Christ, we have the certain hope of resurrection. But notice the last point. Resurrection is a free offering requiring a personal response. Requiring a personal response. You see again, he who believes in me will live even though he dies, and whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Then he says to Martha, and through her, to you and to me. Do you believe this? That question, do you believe this, doesn't simply mean, do you believe that this is historically true? Jesus rose. It's a very personal question. Do you rest in me as the resurrection? You notice that he begins in verse 25. He says, I'm the resurrection and the life. In the beginning of verse 26, he says, and whoever Lives and believes in me. There are no exceptions. And if you sit here this morning and you say, but but you don't know my life I'm not a religious person by nature. I've screwed up in this and that area. I'm not clean. I don't have anything to offer to God. I'm not like the other people here whose lives seem to be together. My life is a wreck. I've turned my back on God so many times. Seems like there's been times when I've sincerely wanted to follow him and just hasn't worked out. I'm not like the people who can really rest in this There's no asterisk there. Jesus says, whoever. Whoever at this point, whatever your life has been up to this point, whatever it has been like At this point, on Easter Sunday, 1996, Jesus said, There can be a new beginning for you. Whoever believes in me And all it involves is that believing that Jesus alone is the one who can remove the sin from your life because he took it upon himself. And therefore deliver you from God's judgment, and deliver you from death, and be your life. Do you believe this? We said last week, belief is not easy. Belief means leaving behind all of the things that I want to offer to God. As a ground for his accepting me. All my accomplishments, all my sincere desires, nothing but the work of Jesus. But that hope changes everything. If you're resting in Jesus this morning, that changes everything else in your life. Because if you answer that question, if a man dies, shall he live again? Yes, I have eternal life because of Jesus. Nothing else is the same, is it? Every other question falls underneath that one main question. Think of the Sudanese Christians who last Easter celebrated, singing in a dance, He has risen, He is risen. They were in a refugee camp. Weeks before, had experienced the burning of their homes, the raping of their wives and mothers, murder. But they were singing, he's risen, with the hope of the resurrection. In nineteen seventeen After the communists took over Russia, they sent around the intellectual communists to debate the priests publicly in order to shame them and to discredit Christianity. In one village, the communist came and he gave all the reasons why the Bible was superstitious foolishness. The priest refused to debate him, but when the communist was finished, he turned to the people and he said, Christ is risen. And all the people with one voice said, He is risen indeed. And it was the end of the discussion. Brothers and sisters, Christ is risen. Amen. Let's pray. Lord our God, we see again this morning that the one consuming question of our lives is when we die, will we live again? That's more important than anything else. Because if in fact, Lord, you have risen And have given to us eternal life, everything else of your nature and the trustworthiness of your word, and all other answers to our life. Are secure. We may not understand them. We don't know them. But the fact is that there is such abundant evidence, Lord Jesus, that you have risen. And that makes all the difference. Lord, we pray again for this moment to affirm our faith and conviction that you have and that we belong to you. And if we are not sure That you would seal to the heart of that one in doubt right now that you are the resurrection and the life, and to trust you.