We are called to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, who has come as the light to lead a people out of darkness Some of you who were here last week heard me say that it was the first sermon in an Advent series. Of course I should have warned you that I recognize that Advent is four weeks, not five. But I wanted to start a week early. So I'm sorry if I tripped any of you up. But today is the real start. There you go. Of Advent. But the series is not, the series is the same, and that is the light and the darkness. And what does it mean, practically speaking, that the incarnation has taken place? What does God want us to learn from it? And uh we are looking specifically at John chapter 1. I'll be reading this morning, chapter 1, verses 1 through 13, but specifically spending time in verses 4 and 5. Jesus as the life and the light of men And last week, practically looking at how, in fact, the incarnation enables us to address the problem and the darkness of depression. This week specifically we'll be looking at its application as it relates to the darkness of doubt, recognizing that doubt can come in many different kinds and ways. But you'll see this morning that I'll be looking at one way in particular that shows itself in three questions. But let's turn together in John chapter 1. If you have your Bibles with you. Uh let me just state that if you don't, that's okay. We do have the scriptures available for you if the screen's in front of you. But I also want to say that if you are a regular part of this body, a member regular attender, let me encourage you. To bring a Bible with you, whether it is on a device or as a hard copy, because uh we're not always going to provide everything that we're reading from on these screens. Sometimes it's distracting. Sometimes the Lord does things in preparation that maybe didn't make it into the PowerPoint, but I still want you to hear and follow along if you can. So we don't want these the availability of the scriptures being presented before you on screens to keep you from bringing your Bibles. Let me just invite you to do that. It's not necessary, but it would be a blessing if you could, I think. John chapter 1, beginning in verse 1 through 13. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it. There came a man who was sent from God, his name was John. He came as a witness to testify concerning that light, so that through him all men might believe. He himself was not the light. He came only as a witness to the light. The true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world. He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. Yet to all who received him, to those who believe in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision, or a husband's will, but born of God. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Lord, by your Holy Spirit, together with your word, which is living and active. We ask that you would open our eyes, that we would see wondrous things in your word. Help us, we pray. In Jesus' name Amen. This morning I want to together look at these verses, and as I said specifically, it will be looking at verses four and five. With the desire to look at Jesus as the light of life, or light as life, looking at the incarnation. And specifically asking what then does it mean in him was life in regard to his incarnation, and then secondly, suffering, that is the rejection of light, rejection of Christ as the light. And then the application, the darkness of doubt. Does God provide? Is God enough? Does God love me? Looking specifically then at verses four and five, if you don't mind, let me read it again. And it is this. He says That in him, John writing, here in him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it John has said in just four or five verses, and specifically these two, a whole mountain of truth which we could have a lifetime of Sundays and not be able to plumb the entire depths of what he is saying. He's already opened in these opening in these verses specifically looking at and declaring the divinity, the eternal nature And the work of Christ as a part of the triune God, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, when he says these words, in the beginning was the Word. Meaning the Lagos, the wisdom of God. That Jesus is the word capitalized, logos, the word of God, God expressing and revealing himself not as an abstract idea, but in the person. of Jesus Christ. And he says that in the beginning was the Word, and that Word was with God, looking at that Jesus shared with the Father an eternality. That Jesus in his incarnation didn't suddenly just appear on the scene. God did not create Jesus. He was with God. And he says that he was with God in the beginning. Well, the beginning of what? The beginning of creation. Which is where he turns next when he says that through him, through Jesus. All things were made. Without him nothing was made. That has been made. Looking at the economy, if you will, the way in which God works, that God who speaks things into existence and into creation by his very word. We learn that through the Gospel of John, it is Jesus who is the word. That through Jesus and his work as the part of the triune God is at the center Of the creative power of God. But do you know that is not even the central purpose for why John writes these words John then turns to look specifically at what Jesus is, yes, what he did as a part of the Godhead at creation, his sharing of God's divinity, his sharing from all all eternity, God's uh uh a divine nature as god he goes here specifically to what jesus was to do and here he takes the turn when he says in him was life and that life was the light of men Jesus in his incarnation, I want to present to you this morning this idea for your consideration That in his incarnation, Jesus had in view his death and resurrection. What is so interesting about the teaching of Jesus Himself is that we do not see Jesus directing his disciples to celebrate his birth. Not that celebrating his birth is unbiblical, but we do not see Jesus going around saying, Remember my birth. What he does tell us to do is to remember his death To look and remember his resurrection and to look for his coming again. It is because for Jesus to speak of the incarnation was to speak of his death. Drawing on one of the early church fathers, Saint Anselm, said it this way. He said, Christ's incarnation was with the view of his sanctification. What does that mean? It means that Christ's birth took place with his death in view. This is central to the whole understanding of the New Testament, to the, obviously to the gospel writers, because here John is establishing that this light was life. We heard it last week when we looked at what the psalmist said. When he said in Psalm 27, For God is my light and my salvation, linking God as light, the giver of light, and life. With the nature and the work of salvation. Here the gospel writer in referring to Jesus is saying that as light Coming from God as the expression of God, as the word of God, as the wisdom of God, Jesus is salvation. That is Scripture saying in shorthand, we can't understand Jesus coming and being clothed in flesh without understanding what he came to do. This is central not just to the gospel writers. It was central to the prophecy concerning Jesus. We hear it in Matthew. You shall give him the name Jesus. What, so that you give him that name because he was going to be a cute kid? Or that he was going to grow up and be a very good carpenter No, you would give him the name Jesus. His very name at his his birth was going to be, for he shall save his people from their sins. Jesus' incarnation is connected intricately with his death. We hear it in the preacher of the Hebrews In the letter to the Hebrews, we see in chapter 10, the preacher referring to Jesus in chapter 10, verse 5, where he says this. Therefore, when Christ came into the world, he said, Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, but a body you prepared for me. With burnt offerings and sin offerings you were not pleased. Then I said, Here I am. It is written, about me in the scroll. I have come to do your will, O God. Here, the writer to the Hebrews is saying that Jesus had a self-conscious understanding as the divine Son of God that when he takes on human flesh He will do so actively obeying the Father's will. Here, you have prepared a body for me. Now note what he does. Jesus through the Jesus in his teaching, Jesus in his life, and the preacher to the Hebrews is saying, What? That sacrifice you did not desire. Meaning you do not desire burnt offerings as in the old way. But rather in Jesus' incarnation, a very new thing will happen. That Jesus, this body you have prepared for me, is saying, I am preparing myself by taking on this body to be a sacrifice. Notice again what he says. Therefore when Christ came into the world, Jesus wants us to hear. that his incarnation is with his death in view. Why is this important? It is because of all the other major religions of the world. If you go and look for a birth account of their main leader, if you're able to find a birth account, you will not notice such language That from Jesus' very inception into existence was with the understanding that he would be greeted with anguish and suffering. And not with fanfare. Which leads to this second point That his birth is connected with his death, but he also understood that between his birth and his death would be a life acquainted with suffering. That is with the rejection of those around him. Jesus knew that he would be rejected by those, as John tells us here, those who were his own people. Isn't that what John says when he says he was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. Notice the contrast. That Jesus came into the world as one through whom all things were made, but he was not received as such. But he did so willingly, knowing that he would be rejected. Isn't that what he says? Verse 11: He came into that which was his own, but his own did not receive him Jesus recognized and knew that he would be rejected. He understood the brokenness Of family relationships. He understood the brokenness of relationship even with those who call you friend At his moment of greatest need, his friends turned on him. Those who would, he came to proclaim the truth and the glory of God's grace. Would reject him. We hear this and we're prepared for it from the Old Testament. For in Isaiah chapter 53, these are the words that we read. Who has believed our message? To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? He grew up before him like a tender shoot Like a root out of dry ground, he had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him, nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and familiar with suffering. Like one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised and we esteemed him not. This is what Jesus willingly took on. This is what theologians have called Jesus' active obedience. They also have a phrase to refer to the work of Jesus or his obedience. It's also called the passive obedience of Jesus. Let me quickly distinguish the two. Both are understood not as being against one another, but together. And it is this, that the passive obedience of Jesus is seen by his work on the cross, where Jesus gave himself over To the active rejection of those who would place him on a cross, where Jesus passively received the wrath of God because of sin on himself, though he was sinless. Jesus gave up his spirit. He passively took the accusation and the punishment for sin he did not commit. Now, while that is an incredi incredibly inexhaustible reality and truth of Scripture Also connected with it is why and how Jesus even was able to be on a cross. And that is his active obedience. That Jesus recognized that this is the body which you have prepared for me, and that he would come into the world as a man greatly acquainted with sorrows and with rejection, understood that that very rejection was a part of his obedience. That he would not be recognized as the creator. He willingly gave up his glory to take on the image of a servant. Why would he do that? Another great theologian, John Calvin, put it this way Neither as God could Jesus experience death, but nor merely as a human could he overcome it. It would require God the Son, who was with God in the beginning, who was God, To take on human flesh, a divine nature, and a human nature together in one person without mixture, for the glory of God to be that. Which is the only way of dealing with the suffering and anguish of humanity because of sin, Another writer said this that Christ, in redeeming us from it, that is sin In redeeming us from it had to be made it. Referring to the great teaching of 2 Corinthians 5, 21, he became sin so that we might become the righteousness of God. Meaning he took it on, but he willingly was obedient to the Father and was perfect in every way. To demonstrate in his active obedience, as well as as his passive obedience. That there is no other way. Now I was Listening to someone who gave the illustration like this. Imagine for just a minute that uh you have a young man and young woman Who are uh really in love and uh they're going on a nice walk together down by a river and uh this young man's walking next to this young woman and he says, You do you know how you know I I love you so much Yes, I I know you love me. No, no, I I r I really need to show you how much I love you. Okay. So he takes himself and he throws himself into the river and dies drowning. What would the girl think of that? Would she sit back and go, Wow, he really loved me? That would not be the conclusion. In fact, she would probably come to the conclusion after a great sadness. That something is wrong with that picture. Why? Because it's not rational. There are other ways of demonstrating your love There have been plenty of other ways this young man could show his love to his his girlfriend, maybe by gifts or or through action or through something, whatever it might be, fill in the blank. There are many other ways of showing your love than taking his own life. So why is it not irrational for Jesus to actively obey and then to passively obey to give himself for us? Was it to show his love? Yes. But it was more than that The reason why it is perfectly rational, the only rational thing to do, is because for Jesus he understood there is no other way to redeem sinful humanity from sin. There was no other way. He was actively obedient, but that would actively lead him to the decision of giving himself over to the cross. It wasn't enough. If someone is in jail, you can't go to a judge and say, I have a really beautiful golden retriever. Who's willing to go into the jail cell if you'll set the other person free? Right. The judge would say that's absurd. Why? Somebody who's a human being has to pay the price for the crime Someone has to be in the place. In other words, to be freed from a gel cell, the door has to open from the outside in. The incarnation is God's declaration to the world. You are dead in your transgressions and sins, and you are blind to it. I'm opening up the cell. Door, and I'm coming in. And he makes the decision to take on our sorrows, to take on suffering actively and willingly. There are many illustrations by which I could show you how Jesus does this. But the one in which I want to show you this morning is specifically leading us to dealing with the problem and the darkness of doubt. Work with me for just a moment by looking at Luke chapter 4. If you have your Bibles, turn there. If you don't, please listen along. Luke chapter 4, verses 1 through 13. This is about the temptation of Jesus. This is obviously early on in his public ministry. He's just been baptized, and here we hear the words of Luke recounting. Jesus going into the desert. Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit in the desert. Where for forty days he was tempted by the devil, he ate nothing during those days, and at the end of them he was hungry. The devil said to him, If you are the Son of God, tell this stone to become bread. Jesus answered, It is written, Man does not live by bread alone. The devil led him up to a high place and showed him in an instant all the kingdoms of the world, and he said to him, I will give you all their authority and splendor, for it has been given to me, and I can give it to any one I want to. So if you worship me, it will all be yours. Jesus answered, It is written, Worship the Lord your God and serve him only. The devil led him to Jerusalem and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. If you are the Son of God, he said, throw yourself down from here For it is written, He will command his angels concerning you to guard you carefully. They will lift you up on their in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. Jesus answered, It says, Do not put the Lord your God to the test. When the devil had finished all his tempting, he left him until an opportune time. Jesus, I want to maintain and argue with you this morning, in his act of obedience, was willing to be presented with the reality of doubt. Because I believe embedded within these three temptations are three questions by which I want to go into application this morning. First, does God provide? Is God good enough? Does God love me? Do you hear it in the opening temptation that Satan goes at Jesus with, which is, does God provide? You are surely hungry. All you need to do is to simply turn it into bread. Jesus has to consider. Do I have enough? Do I need to do this? What is his answer? His answer we see, of course, he says it is written, man does not live by bread alone. But what is that founded on? It is founded on what Jesus would later express. The reality is this: that though I am though I am, he says, I am not alone, my Father is with me. He would say that at the point at which his disciples had fallen asleep when all he asked them to do was to pray. He says, I am not alone. My Father is with me. The question That Satan is tempting Jesus with is will God provide? Jesus' answer is he already has. He is always with me The second question: Is God good enough? Is God enough, rather? In other words, all you need to do, all this is yours. What kind of father do you have? I mean, come on. You're out here, you haven't eaten. I am right here. I will give you everything. It's mine to give. Here Jesus is being presented with the temptation. Will God alone be his father? Will he bow the knee? Is God enough? Jesus Answers over and over again in his active obedience and at the moment of his greatest despair in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus declared, Take this cup from me, yet not my will, but your will be done. The answer is God is all. Father, my Father is enough. And the third question, does God love me? In the presentation of the temptation, he's simply saying, Hey, come on. You're God's son. Throw yourself down. If God loves you, He'll watch over you. Jesus says, it is not Good to put the Lord your God to the test. Upon what foundation can Jesus answer that? It is because one chapter earlier, at Jesus' baptism, we hear these words declared. When all the people were being baptized, Jesus was baptized too, and he was praying. Heaven was opened, and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven. You are my son, whom I love. With you, I am well pleased. He did not need to test the love of God his Father for him. For it had already been declared. So do you see? As I said earlier, doubt can come in various forms I'm not foolish, so foolish to think that there aren't other doubts outside of these three, but I will tell you, pastorally speaking, these are the doubts that I hear in so many different conversations that I've had. That in one form or other, these questions plague not only the Christian, but also the non-Christian. Does God provide How can I trust him? Is God enough? Can't he just be one of the many things I give myself to? Does God love me? And if you think that Christians are immune to this Those of you who are sitting here this morning who know this question, you know that the Christian is not immune to it. One of those Christians who is not and was not immune to it was the writer of some of our greatest hymns, William Cooper. William Cooper, though a faithful and gifted Christian, deeply doubted God's love. Nearly to the point of despair. In his early 30s, he attempted no less than three times to take his own life, but he was unsuccessful. Because he was plagued with this doubt. He believed that though he was saved by grace Of the Lord Jesus Christ through faith, drawn to God by God's power, Cooper believed that he would be the only elect person in human history. Who would make it to the final judgment day where God would say to him, I never knew you. And by God's grace, he provided Cooper with another close friend. That close friend was John Newton, the writer of Amazing Grace. Cooper and Newton, despite Cooper's great doubt and great struggle, would actually, over a 10-year period of time, write 348 hymns. Which include, there is a fountain filled with blood. Oh, for a closer walk with God. God moves in mysterious ways. And sometimes a light surprises. And if you go back and you read those hymns And you read their rich words and think about the life that was behind writing them, you will see that the Christian is not immune to doubting. Does God provide? Is He enough? Does He love me? What Cooper needed What we need this morning is to apply this truth. But there may be more ways, but I will suggest there are two ways to apply this. One is completely wrong. But oh so easy. And the other I want to direct you to. The one way that is oh so easy is to hear, in fact, that Jesus in his suffering. In his willingness to face these doubts and these questions and these temptations has given to you and given to us an example that what you need to do is you need to just believe. You need to trust more. You need to be faithful. Isn't it easy to do that? That maybe what we need to hear is that Jesus has done it, therefore I can do it. But when I look into my own heart, and when I look into the writing, into the life of someone like William Cooper, I realize that the problem is I can't do it. You see, let me go back to the active obedience of Christ. You see, when we say in this church, and when we preach from the book of Ephesians, when it says. That you are saved by grace through faith. And this is not of yourselves. It is a gift of God. It's referring, yes, to grace, but it's primarily referring to the word faith in that sentence. We preach and we teach and believe that faith is a gift. But what faith? I want to maintain to you that the great teaching of the scriptures, the work of Jesus at his point of temptation. It is this. It is the trust of Jesus in your place and my place. It is the faithfulness of Jesus in your place and in my place. It is the love of Jesus that he had for the Father in your place and in my place. My point is: the faith which we receive as a gift is the faith of Jesus. He didn't just go to the cross for us. He obeyed for us. And what I need most And I believe what you need most is to hear, not trust more, be more faithful, love more. It's to hear and to maybe finally receive. I can't. But he did. It is that solemn foundational truth that we preach and teach. That the gospel is the power that comes into a human life through the gift of faith, through the work of Jesus in his life and in his death, in his resurrection. That through Jesus we are made children, but it is through Jesus that we're seen as children. Therefore, we can say, Lord, here is my doubt. Forgive me for my unbelief, but help me to believe That Jesus is the one through whom the Father sees you. It's not you plus Jesus It's not Jesus' faithfulness plus your faithfulness. That is not the gospel. It is Jesus plus nothing. His faith, his trust, his love Which is why Jesus came to save not the righteous, but sinners But he does ask us to do something. Receive it It's a gift. And in the season where we talk about gifts, this is the gift. From the words of John. He came to that which was not his own, but his own did not receive him Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right To become children of God. Children born not of natural descent, nor of a husband's decision or a husband's will, but born. Of God received the gift of the light and life of men Who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. Let's pray. Lord our God, by your Holy Spirit and Word. I pray that you would make our hearts and minds able to receive. This light, this salvation that has come into the world. Lord, the darkness of doubt is real It can obscure our view of you, but our doubt never obscures your view of us. Because of Christ, who is obeyed for us. So, Lord, help us to receive that gift. In Jesus' name. Amen.