Good morning, church. My name is Bob Bierkus. I'm the pastor here at Columbia Presbyterian Church, and I'm delighted to see all of you here on this Lord's Day. Today we have a text I've been looking forward to looking at with you for uh months now. It's from Luke chapter 8, and it's a text that we might look at as just this sort of strange collection of sayings of Jesus just sort of thrown together for maybe no good reason. How many of you have a junk drawer in your house? Now uh visual acuity is not my strong suit, but I should have seen more hands. I guarantee you if I go into your house, there's gonna be one drawer that's just got all sorts of stuff in it that you didn't know where to put. And sometimes we look at some of the parts of the Bible, especially the gospels, and think, well, these are just a bunch of sayings of Jesus just kind of thrown together because they didn't quite know what to do with them. And at first reading, the text we're going to look at might feel like something of a sacred junk drawer. Oh, it's far from that. And we're going to see that together. Please join me in prayer before I read for us from Luke chapter 8, beginning with verse 16. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. We thank you for its beauty and for its truth, that it is utterly reliable. And we thank you that with your word as our foundation and your gospel as our message and your glory as our goal, we cannot go wrong. Father, help us to be shaped by such things. So, Lord, we ask that you bless the reading of your word. Make us prize the reading of it more than anything else, other than your very presence. And Lord, we pray that the preaching that follows Inasmuch as it is faithful to your word, Lord, may it be blessed to us as well. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 8, beginning with verse 16, the Word of God. No one, after lighting a lamp, covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light. For nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light. Take care then how you hear, for to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away. This ends the reading of God's Word. In studying this text, these three short verses, One of the first things that a deep dive into the Gospel of Luke will reveal is that Jesus is using three separate proverbs. And the thing about Proverbs is that they invite us to use our imagination. And the other thing about Proverbs is that they sort of require Context and direction. Imagine for a moment that you see me at the store and I come up to you and I say, you gotta fish or cut bait? And you're thinking, well, I know that proverb. That means I have to make a choice. That means I have to actually do something or prepare to do something. But what is it in reference to? Or if I say, hey baby, you gotta make hay when the sun shines, if that doesn't have context and direction, it can mean almost anything Jesus uses these proverbs, by the way, several times for different reasons Each of these proverbs occurs one other time in a different context just in the Gospel of Luke. If you think about the lamp on the sand saying in Luke chapter 11, verse 33. This is what we read there. Jesus says, No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, so that those who enter may see the the light. Your eye is the lamp of your body. So now he's taking that. common proverb and applying it to you as a particular individual and how you have to be enlightened on the inside. Very different from what we're going to see in a moment from Luke chapter 8. Or what about Luke chapter 12? In Luke chapter 12, we read this, beginning with verse, uh we'll begin with the end of verse 1. Beware the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known. Therefore, whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the housetops. There Jesus is using this proverb, this idea, nothing is covered up that will be known, that will not be known. This idea that truth will out Think if you've seen Jurassic Park and the mad scientist says life will find a way. Well, the facts find a way. Your attitudes, your thoughts, the things we say in our inner chambers, they find a way. And that point is made by Jesus on multiple occasions for different reasons. But what about the last one? If we find in Luke chapter 19 In verse 26, Jesus tells the parable of entrusting different amounts of talents to different people. And at the end of that he says, I tell you that to everyone who has more will be given, but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. You see, these were proverbs These were statements that everybody understood had a ring of truth and a sensible meaning if they were directed appropriately. And Jesus uses them to great effect here. And when you think, well, what is that effect? When you're reading a difficult passage of Scripture, You're having your quiet time, you're doing your Bible reading with the rest of the church, you're in your small group, and you're thinking, boy, I don't quite know what to make of this text. Step back and ask yourself this question. Is there anything this text is asking me to do or commanding of me? And here we have an immediate, easy answer. Because in the midst of these three proverbs that Jesus uses Flexibly, we have one imperative. Take care then how you hear. Listen carefully. That's the command. And the proverbs are grouped around that, supporting it Notice the relations of the first two have to do with lighting a lamp and the revealing of secrets. Therefore, take care how you hear could be translated. And then we have, for those of you seminary students, and we have a couple here. That wonderful thing called a henaclause. Say it with me. Henaclause. It has a ring to it. Most of you just missed out on the opportunity. Now, that is a statement that says an immediate reason. Be careful, therefore, looking back at the last two, how you hear for To the one who has, more will be given, the one who has not, even what he thinks he has. Will be taken away. So all three of these proverbs are focused on this one command: take care how you hear. Listen carefully stands at the heart of this otherwise, sometimes maybe we think disjointed collection of three proverbs. We are to listen carefully. And each of these proverbs upon reflection helps us to understand how and why it is that we should. And the first has to do with the intent of the speaker. The first proverb Jesus says here Is no one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand so that those who enter may see the light Take care then how you hear, if I may jump from the first proverb directly to the point. I want you to think about how daunting a thing it is to really listen. To really be careful in how you hear. How easy it is to be noticing that someone else is talking, but be really spending your time formulating what you're going to say when it's your turn. How easy it is to be distracted and think about 15 other things. I remember when I was a student at University of Maryland, back in the late 80s, I decided I really wanted to learn my history, but I had the most difficult time. Paying attention to what Dr. Coburn was saying. He was the rock star uh Tudor Stewart, English history professor, which was my area of concentration, and he spoke with one of the varieties of English accent. I never never learned which And I found that in order to listen carefully to him and to drive out all of distractions, I had to literally have a spiral-bound bounder and write down every word he said. Being careful to hear requires great effort, but it's possible And one of the reasons why it's possible is because the speaker intended it to be possible. I was at Camden Yards the other night, and I marvel at the fact that those guys can, the pitchers, they can throw the ball 97, 98 miles per hour. And I think to myself, man, if I were up against that guy, I wouldn't stand a chance. And I don't see well, so I might not have the wits to jump out of the way. But it wouldn't help me hit the ball. But then I thought to myself, but what if it was one of those great professional all-star pitchers? And he was pitching because he wanted me to hit the ball and knew where I was going to swing What if it was the greatest pitcher in the world who said, Today, Bob, I'm I tell you what, today I'm gonna throw you a pitch that you can't miss. I'm gonna put it right here. You just swing the bat like this or that and and it's it's a done deal. So great is his skill at pitching that if he wanted to I might have a really, really good chance of hitting the balls. Have you ever thought about life that way? If you wonder why why some of those same pitchers that are going from getting ten strikeouts a game go into semi-retirement and become batting practice pitchers and all of a sudden every pitch they throw goes over the fence? It's because they want it to. What if you had a God who didn't pitch balls but pitched words, and he did it so that People like you could see a metaphor for hearing in literally every culture we have written record of. Understanding equated with sight. No one, after lighting a lamp, covers it with a jar, puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand so that those who enter may see the light. Jesus is giving us these three Proverbs, focused on this command to listen carefully, immediately after He has told the parable of the four different kinds of seed. The point of that parable was to distinguish between different kinds of hearers. The hardened listener, the shallow listener, the divided listener, and the sincere listener. And in that parable, it is he who is speaking the word of God. And now he immediately pivots after explaining it in the presence of the crowds to his disciples, and we know he's still at the same place because of what follows, and we're going to look at that next week. But Jesus is still in that same venue and he's telling now this proverb in which he is the one who is lighting the lamp and putting it in the center of the room so that people can see. Be careful then how you hear. Pay attention, because it is God Himself who is speaking through Christ. And he speaks so that we may understand. No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light. God came in Christ to put truth on a stand. And in the preaching ministry of Jesus, it is declared in terms that we Can and may understand. And ultimately Jesus Himself was put on a stand so that we could understand, comprehend, see and hear what his message was to us. The intent of the speaker, his intent was that we hear and understand. Therefore, I am extremely boldened to listen well. I don't need to back away from the batter's box of the reader of scripture I can enter that box with great confidence because the one pitching those words is putting them right in my sweet spot. Isn't it the case that although there are many things, many nuances, many details of Scripture that are so mysterious and so far beyond you, isn't it the case? That the great theme of Scripture, that we are to repent and put our faith in Jesus Christ, isn't that crystal clear to you Isn't it plainly obvious that God is in Christ reconciling the world to himself, and he is drawing and winning and wooing your soul to himself? As the greatest lover, father, mother, friend, captain, author. Isn't it clear? Because God has made it so. We have a lot of difficulties with the details because we don't want to submit. But the message of the gospel is clear, because the intent of the speaker was to make it so No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light. For, here's our second proverb. Nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light. Take care then how you hear. I want you to think for a moment about this idea that everything ultimately gets revealed. We certainly see something of that when we pick up our papers or open up our media feeds And there's a story about how the boys were finally found buried in the walls of the Tower of London. Going back to my English history days, some of you know the reference, a crime that was committed. Centuries ago can't be hidden forever. Sooner or later it comes to light. Not everything will come to light in, to use the old English word, the assizes of this world, the courts of this world, but the day will come when every secret Is utterly revealed, completely known. The day will come when the books are opened up, we read in the book of Revelation, and the dead are judged according to what they have done. Now What have you done? See, it doesn't just say according to some of what they've done. It says what they've done. For me, honestly, as God is my witness, that is a terrifying thought. Horrible thought. But for the one hope that then there was another book opened, the book of life, and all whose names were not written in it were thrown into the lake of fire You see, everything we have done has been meticulously recorded in the most permanent method available to the ancient imagination. God couldn't have said he's got video evidence, wouldn't have meant anything to them. But we may be certain that in the timeless speaking of his word, the point he makes in Revelation and elsewhere is that everything we've done, including the motives and feelings in our hearts, the wicked imaginations and the skepticism and just brutal thoughts we have in our mind, all of that utterly laid bare, utterly damning. All of it is going to come out. And what a sad, sad thing it would be to discover that My name was not written in the book of life, that I had not repented of my sins and put my hope in Christ the Savior See, Jesus is making the point that because everything is going to be made clear, we ought to be very careful how we listen. And the two senses of that include, on the one hand, that idea Jesus has made in several places in his public ministry that we get away with nothing, but also the fact that This gospel is going to be made clear. Listen well now. Because whether we protest and deny and resist the truth today, There will come a time when that is not possible. When we take our place among the many millions of humans who have ever lived, created in the image of God, And have our knees bended before the throne and say, Lord, King of Kings, God, to the one seated there. Woe is me if I'm ushered away from that place into another. I should take care how I hear. I need to be mindful that the speaker intends me to understand, therefore I can listen with optimism. Because there is a certainty to revelation, which means I ought to listen now, not later. And lastly, there's this what I call a cumulative nature of truth This is added on to the end. Take care then how you hear, for to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away. Oh, dreadful words. Dreadful words. And this gets to the fact that to the one who has, more will be given The one who hears well, who understands, they will grow in what they learn and understand. But the one who does not Even what they think they know prove to have been false. This isn't an idea that is unique to Scripture or even to Jesus. Aristotle lived before Jesus. And Aristotle famously wrote that if you mistake, and this is a very liberal paraphrase here, if you make a mistake at the beginning, How great is the error at the end. You see, if you we all understand this. If you if you decide, I'll give you a great example. One time I was going to help my mother out, since we understood something about the relation of Mother's Day and Father's Day, this is particularly appropriate. I was going to make cornbread. And I read the instructions and it said get a 9x9 pan. That's 9 inches by 9 inches. I just grabbed any old pan. And all of the instructions about baking time depended upon, evidently depended, upon the depth of that batter in said pan. One mistake at the beginning rendered an entire glorious box of jiffy cornbread mix utterly useless. One mistake at the beginning, you do everything else right. And you get no breakfast. I want you to think about one mistake at the beginning. If you're building a house, the last place you want to cut corners is in your foundation. How many times when I was in high school and we took our exams on these Scantron forms, can I get a witness? Scantron forms, and how many kids in my class would fail to put their name on it and get a zero? One mistake at the beginning renders everything useless. You're in a chemistry lab. And you forget to use sterilized. What do chemists use? Test tubes? Tubes, flasks, belong to beakers, that's right. Think about the importance of getting it right Listening well so that you can learn more. Accepting so you can grow. And think about the alternative. Romans chapter 1 Is a all chapters of the Bible are timeless, but boy, to think about a chapter that's relevant today. All of the troubles that in here and the people upon whom the wrath of God is being poured out even now One thing at the heart of it. They suppress the truth in unrighteousness. That means they hear and they reject. And it's a rejection that doesn't have to do with, yeah, I just don't get it. They might say that that's the case. But what God, the Spirit, knows to be happening is that the truth is clear because it was put forward sensibly It's going to all come out and be proven to be absolutely reliable, because that's the nature of truth, so it ought to have been listened to gladly. But it did not suit the hearer. So in unrighteousness, in a morally contemptible manner, They took truth that was revealed and declared to them and pushed it down. And how much energy, dear brothers and sisters, do we spend uselessly trying to force the truth of God down to the ground in those areas of life where we struggle. And if we would take that energy that we use in suppressing the truth and apply it towards a better end. How much more blessed and glorious would be our lives, our lives, our families, our neighborhoods. You see, at the heart of this call to listen well, we have these ideas that because it's possible, because it's preferable Because it's good. Do you ever think about listening to the Word of God that way in your quiet time? You ever think about listening to God that way when when when preachers come behind this pulpit on this platform and declare the Word of God and preach the gospel? Do you think about it in your car as you're listening to Uh Christian radio, if you do that, hear speaker. God is speaking And he, the expert speaker, is speaking to you so that you might see. All that he said is going to be ultimately revealed eternally. Therefore, listen now. And if you don't listen now, even the things you understand will at the end of the day prove completely useless. But if you do accept this great message, That God in Christ has come to save sinners who repent. Oh, the glorious truth that will be built upon the foundation of the gospel in your life. the things you might do, guided by the word, led by the Spirit This text to me is an invitation. An invitation to me to, as my father used to always exhort me, Bobby, clean the wax out of your ears and listen up. And that was 50 years ago, but I still hear it. What about you? Do you hear your God saying? Urging you to, hey, get rid of all the things that are stopping up your ears. Listen to me. Trust me in what I've said. Follow me in the instructions I've given. Believe in me when the world disappoints you. Are you listening carefully? Boy, what a wonderful thing to discuss at your next community group. Is your life and this world making more and more sense to you? Do you find that. You're beginning to understand the curtains beginning to drop and more is being added on to what you know because you understand the gospel. The authority, the sovereignty of God, his providence? Or do you find yourself increasingly bewildered and without any kind of a compass or an anchor in your life drifting Wondering which news source to believe, who you should hate, I would urge you, take care how you hear the Word of God. Do you strive, dear friend, to interpret the context of your life through the truth God has declared? When I have difficult issues arise in my life, I have what I have presented in different seminars. I've presented it as a decision funnel. Imagine a funnel, if you will, the kind you might use to pour 10W40 into your uh your engine. And at the very top of that funnel is a screen. And that screen is the Word of God. Below that is a screen that says the Council of Many. And at the very bottom is a screen that says, what do I want to do? The very first thing, and I won't talk all about the decision funnel now, but the very first thing whenever I'm facing a quandary or a difficulty in my life or a decision has to be made, the very first thing I do What does the Bible say? What does the Word of God tell me about this? And the heartaches I have managed to avoid when I've done that. And the heartaches I have had to experience when I have not done that. You have similar experiences? Listen carefully. Won't you join me in listening carefully? Take heed how you hear, because God has spoken in Christ to you in ways that will be utterly revealed And in a manner that will set you up to learn all that you need to know. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would make us expert listeners. careful to hear. Lord, we are very expert when it comes to taking your words and finding ways to Make them say what we would like to hear. Father, we pray that you would make us far more expert, not at forming the scriptures to match our opinions, but Lord help us to take our thoughts captive and so listen to your word. Lord, that our thoughts become biblical. Not that the Bible becomes like us, but that we become like it, because it is your word given that we might become like our Savior Jesus. We ask this prayer in Christ's precious name. Amen.