Great. Well it's um good to be with you this morning. Good morning. Nothing wakes up a group of people like looking at poetry. So get ready to be awakened to the most amazing Sunday school time you've ever had. So you're going to be j bouncing off the walls for worship. So let's pray. Father, we thank you for The gift of faith. We thank you as well, Lord, for the gift of the imagination. And we thank you, Father, for the great literature of the world. Father, we thank you that you've given us minds to comprehend, to engage To have insight into and to even apply things that we learn from the great authors. We thank you particularly this morning for the power of poetry. For I recognize, Lord, even as a follower of Jesus Christ, I have failed to see the beauty. Completely of the poetic form. For without the poetic form, we would not have the Psalms. We would not have Genesis 1 and 2. We would not have the great declarations of Philippians 2 or Revelation. We thank you, Lord, for poetry. We thank you also, Lord, for particularly the work and poetry of George Herbert. Who faithfully sought to take what he knew and learned, not only in his formal education, Lord, but from his own time with you in your word. And to then take that with a literary imagination and to apply it to the life of faith. So teach us this morning as we learn together the power of literature and the life of faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. So, first thing, um if you are uh interested at all about um Uh uh w one of the well let me m phrase it this way. Uh one of the seminal works in the last twenty five years that looks at first the life of the mind and the Christian is the book called The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind. Has anyone heard of this book, The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind? Okay, you have If you have not read The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind, let me encourage you to pick it up. I warn you, it is a critique. of the failure of the American church to use the mind that God has given us to engage uh literature, to engage the world, and to simply respond oftentimes uh to arguments with emotion Francis Schaefer said that one of the greatest dangers that he could foresee, this is back in the late 1970s, early 1980s. One of the greatest dangers that he foresaw for the American church at the end of the 20th century was this. The loss. Of truth, or rather, the supplanting of truth with emotion. Phrased like this. Why do you believe that the Bible is true? Well, because I believe it. Or I feel that it works for me. This is an argument that is often used When talking about the truth of Scripture or when engaging intellectual ideas, that is shallow at best. And misses the ground of faith. Thanks be to God that the truth of Scripture is not based on my emotional response or my intellectual capability of understanding all of it. Because we can't. We've give been given an infinite God who has given us an eternal word. And it is an amazing thing to have the human mind and the human heart read that word and then to be able to to comprehend it. It it's it's very difficult outside Of the work of the Holy Spirit, we can only begin to scratch the surface. And even some would say that Scripture itself is like God's baby talk to man. It's God's loving, gracious condescension in using language that we can understand about what He is like. But not only do we have a difficult time in understanding Scripture, and by the way, I put myself at the head of that line, we we also wan wonder what role does the Bible play in the In the pantheon of literature. I was very blessed in having a professor at Wheaton College, Dr. Leland Riken, who taught how to read the Bible as literature. How many of you have thought about Scripture as being literature? Okay? And How often then, now this is honest, how often when you are reading it are you appreciating its literary value? It's very hard because oftentimes, unintentionally, with great commitment, we turn the scriptures into a divine lexicon, or if you will, a Wikipedia. Like I have a question and the scriptures are going to answer it. Or we treat it like a big divine phone book. We're looking for an answer, we're just looking for the right place to find it. But we forget that in fact the Bible is a form of literature that uses all different kinds of literary forms. that are meant to teach us about the biblical context, the context out of which the writers were writing to understand their worldview. So when you're reading Genesis 1 and 2, many of the many of us have not understood it to be Hebrew poetry. Oftentimes, when we hear the word poetry, we don't think inerrant and infallible truth. But it is very possible, the scriptures do it all the time, in declaring in f in infallible, inerrant truth through strong literary forms. Hebrew poetry is one of those. Now how many of you, be honest, how many of you, when you have a free moment or you you enjoy reading, how many of you enjoy reading poetry? Okay? Few of you. And just out of curiosity, for those of you who and by the way, this is no shame. All right. So we're just we're this is not, you know, this is not college literary class where we're just gonna like, well, you know, you're just not don't belong here. But it For those of you who don't are not particularly drawn to poetry, can you share with us why not or why it's been more difficult to engage poetry? Come on, Brie. Yes. Because we are not taught to appreciate it in our public Oh. I would beg to differ on that point. I would beg to differ on that point. I read more more poetry in my public school education than I did in the first two years of college. So it just happens to be, it might happen to do with where and what educa at what public school system, but but very clear. We're often taught not to appreciate it. Yes, and then Bill. Yes. Hold on one second. It's hard to understand. Thank you, Bill. understand it to but you try to get the the thought of the author. The thought of the author. Right. No, I I don't know if you heard that. I'm a linear thinker. I want to be told, I want to have it given to me straightforwardly, not told what to think, but to to be given very clear arguments in very clear ways, in ways that you can engage with. So that you don't always have to like, you know, get out the microscope and try to uncover the meaning. Okay, it takes effort. Yes. It takes too much time and it's not valued enough. Okay, so I have one singular argument for why many Americans And I I because I can't speak for the rest of the world, why many Americans, and particularly American Christians, uh do not enjoy poetry. You ready for this argument? We haven't had that one teacher who was so passionate. Who is willing to go down below the, you know, to challenge us at that level, uh and to be able to show us the beauty of poetry as a form of beautiful literature. And when you are, and I think this is the case in most of life. That when we run across that teacher, because many of you as I even as I mentioned that, you remember a teacher somewhere that inspired you, either from Computer science or electrical engineering or art or music or what have you that gave you a glimpse, a vision. That would enable you to say, this, this is great. Now, maybe you wouldn't spend the rest of your life doing it, but it became a window through which you saw something beautiful. And you wanted more of that. Yes? Oh, somebody had their hand back. Okay. You're an English teacher? Okay. But often it's because you're not gonna like it. So often that's an answer to you speak your mom, your grandfather. Yes. Your sister, your mother, and I agree with that in the teaching Very good. All right. So what we're going to do this morning is um I also want to uh uh the the Scandal of the Evangelical Mind is one book. Another book is and this is a brand new book uh and I can't speak for the whole of it. I can only speak for certain parts. The author is phenomenal. One of the best uh writers in the English language and who is a committed uh deep Christian, Alistair McGrath. Alistair McGrath is the reason for my being here. I believe that God used his three talks on recovering the idea of the Christian call in the early 1990s. that after that final talk I went back to my dorm room and I said, I think you're calling me to seminary. I think you're calling me to the ministry at least. So let's check this out. And so I'm very grateful for Alistair McGrath. His new book is called The Passionate Intellect: Christian Faith and the Discipleship of the Mind. The passionate intellect. And some of a good bit of what I'm going to say today is from one of those chapters. It's called The Gospel and the Transformation of Reality. looking particularly at the poem uh and poetry of George Herbert, who is a 17th century pastor, reformed pastor, who is also a poet. whose poetry was first discovered to be beautiful and eloquent, but then went completely underground on a scholarly level But only in the last hundred or so years has it been recovered. And then over the last three decades, there has been a great deal of scholarly work done on uh Herbert's poetry, but I'm going to be looking at one poem today, and I do have copies. The other one is just a freebie. that I want you to take that is uh one of my favorite poems by Herbert. It's called Love 3. And uh I've quoted from it before here. And so uh if you're interested, you can find uh if you're a Kindle fan or um If you're not, you can go to the library. His most famous compilation of work is called The Temple. In the book, The Temple, you'll find most of Herbert's poetry. But the one we're going to be looking at more in depth today is called The Elixir. Okay? So can I have a couple of assistants, please? I have 50 copies. of both, and they're together, so when you pass them out, you can pass them out, you know, in twos, if you will, because the elixir is the first and love of the three is the second. Eric, thank you. Did you understand that this instruction? Elixir's on the top, the number two is there you go. Oh, and I'll need one of those. Thank you. Alright. While these are being passed out, let me introduce you to this idea. Romans 12:1 and 2. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your minds. Throughout his writings, we find Paul reaffirming the transformative power of the gospel, its capacity to change human lives, including the way we understand the world. And we behave within it and toward it. So let me repeat this idea. Throughout his writings, we find that the Apostle Paul Reaffirming the transformative power of the gospel, its capacity to change human lives, including the way we understand the world. the way we behave in it, and thirdly, the way we move toward the world. So the New Testament uses a wide range of images to describe this transformation, many of which suggest a change in the way we see things. The way our eyes are opened and a veil is removed Acts 9, verses 9 through 19 tells us of Paul's conversion. Also, 2 Corinthians 3. 13 through 16. If anyone has their Bible, would somebody be willing to open that and read that? 2 Corinthians 3, 13 through 16. Can I have a volunteer? Anyone? Anyone? Thank you. John Sigmund. That's okay. I'll give you the chance. 2 Corinthians 3, 13 through 16. When you're there, I'll be right back to you. We are unable to see things as they actually are unless we are helped to see. This is an important point of many philosophers who emphasize that, quote, by opening our eyes, we do not necessarily see what confronts us. Our minds are continually active. Now not watch this, fabricating and anxious, usually self-preoccupied Often falsifying veil, which partially conceals the world. So we move out into the world, we move out into reality, and so oftentimes our minds are so active and so anxious. that they actually form a self-preoccupied, self-falsifying veil. And unless someone comes in And shows us the veil over our eyes that we are failing to see reality as it ought as it really is. We fail to see what is in front of us and what confronts us. This veil must be removed, our eyes must be healed, and both these are works of divine grace, not human skill or achievement. To use a way of thinking characteristic of Augustine, divine grace heals the eye of the heart, allowing us to see the world as it really is, rather than in a fragmented and distorted manner. Second Corinthians three, thirteen through sixteen, John. Please. But their minds were hearts, for to this day when they read the old covenant, that same veil remains unlisted, because only from Christ is taken away. Yes, to this day when Never moves the thread, a veil lies under their burns. But when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. The veil is removed alone by Christ. And particularly he's using as an example of that those who were Paul's brothers in sisters in uh in Judaism who refused to see that the outstretch, pierced hands of Jesus Christ were the hands of their Savior. But they could only see the law in Moses, and they failed to see Christ in his fulfillment of that law. But he notes that his compassion is still for them because he recognizes that unless Christ comes in and removes that veil, it remains. So, theology then is about discernment, seeing reality in a certain way and attempting to resolve its ambiguities. through an interpretive framework. So what we do is we look at scripture. Theology enables us to study who God is and about about God and we use the scriptures as the highest authority as a framework through which we look at and study who God is and how He has revealed Himself. Now, in what way does the Christian gospel so enhance our capacity to behold things that we may discern the footprints of God in the sand, the tracks of his passing and the walkways of life? And his presence and power in our everyday experiences. Theology helps us understand and discern the footprints of God in our daily lives. And to see his presence and his power. While we should never neglect the importance of reason and understanding, which theology requires the use of reason and understanding While we should not diminish that or neglect its importance, we must also value the power of human imagination as the gatekeeper of the human soul. Let's when you think of the imagination, what comes to mind? Story? Okay, what can you flesh that out for us? Why does why does that come to your mind when we think imagination? Okay. Okay. What else comes to mind when we think of imagination? Fantasy. Fantasy? Very good. Anything else? Invention, thank you. But if I do something my imagination, So it's it it's different from everybody. Right. It it can be. That's exactly right. I mean it it sometimes um depending on how we think, our own experiences, what fuels our imagination. For example Um when I read just the raw lyrics of of a U2 song, some people's going to look at that and they do not they don't they don't see where God is in that. But when I when I read it It is so clear to me that what is being spoken of is is God and even Christ. But recognizing that we have different, we come to things very differently, and we get oftentimes different meanings. So but the use of the imagination can be different for different folks. Oh, flesh that out. It drives our what? Yeah about the uh work together that I think potential focus and name uh Okay. To imagine what might be possible. Okay. One more. Okay, stop. Don't get ahead of me. You're getting ahead of me. Come on. Wait a second. So here's before we get there, I want to ask this question. How does the Bible Connect. Now I I'm not asking you to answer this for other people, but how does the Bible connect with your imagination? When you read the scriptures you put yourself in it. I I really need it in certain activities, but I think that that that um take it. Yeah, right. Okay. So the how how the Bible tells us of things that we cannot see Yet describes them with words that are very pregnant with meaning and imagery is Right. Is engaging the imagination. Other, how does the Bible engage your imagination? Thank you. Others. Yes. Okay. Very good. Exactly right. So here's here's something interesting. Um what percentage of the folks in the Bible were able to read? Do you think? Just take a rough guess. Those who in second first century church, those within the Old Testament, how many of them do you think were able to read? 10%. 5%. Okay, let me ask this. How many then of those who received the Bible did so by reading? What do you think the percentage is? Very small. So most of them have heard the stories. By the way, I don't know the answer to the two questions I just gave you. Except the second one, right? I don't know what the percentage of of you know those who are able lit who are literate. My ma my guess is very small. Um but The reality is most who received the Bible did so verbally. How does that change the use of the imagination? What's the difference between reading something and hearing something? Okay. Both conjure up pictures in our minds, yes? So that's uh when when I when I Okay. Right. I remember the very first time I heard National Public Radio, but I didn't know that's what I was listening to. I was listening to a guy named Garrison Keeler. Okay? The very first time I was coming home from work and uh I happened to turn to a radio station and there was this guy at I don't remember the author's house. They had taken the whole show and were doing it at an author's house in New England. And they were reading that literature and they were acting it out. And my mind just exploded with like just all kinds of images and ideas and I said, I've got to get more of this. And so then I began listening to more Garrison Keeler. I don't listen to him much anymore, but Uh there are so many now I I I still listen to a a good deal of spoken word on the radio. Now I I don't know what it would have been like only getting the news. Through a radio, right? Or g only listening to basketball games or football games via the radio. But Those of you who are sports fans and you're stuck in the car and you're only able to listen to ESTN radio, how does that change your engagement with the game? It does, right? It's radically different. Different parts of the brain are being employed in ways that actually watching it, there are different parts of the brain that are being employed. Now Where am I taking you? It's this. Theology is an activity of the imagination. Now, when we hear imagination, we think that it's somehow less than truthful. That's not the point. That's actually not true. Theology is an activity of the imagination as much as of reason, in which we seek to transcend the boundaries of the given. Pressing upward, outward, and forward. Theology frames the landscape of reality. The Lord our God, the Lord is one, for example It uh the the frame uh the frames the landscape of reality in such a way that our everyday existence is set in a wider perspective. The world, formerly an absolute end in itself, now becomes a gateway to something greater. Theology sets the boundaries But when it does so, it engages the imagination and the reason to give us a wider perspective, farther, more outward, more upward, more. fully than what we can actually physically see. Theology is the use of imagination as it is reason and understanding. So, what we have in the works of George Herbert is a theologian, a pastor, taking the theological framework, in this case Of the elixir, and I'm going to unpack it and then we're I'm going to read it and then we're going to talk about it. It's this. He takes an idea that the gospel changes people. He then takes that theology. He then looks at the world around him, the immediate culture in which he lives. He looks at the literary concepts that are popular during his day. He takes the philosophical concepts of his day. He uses what he can see What he knows to be true from theology, he weds the two in an appropriate way to give us a vision of something greater than what we can see. He takes theology. Uses our imagination to give us a perspective about everyday life that is far greater than what we can see. That is imagination and theology and reason at its best. So, let's look at the elixir you have in front of you. Now I've practiced Fortunately, my literary professors are not in the room today, so I will do my best to read this correctly. The Elixir by George Herbert Teach me, my God and King, in all things thee to see, and what I do in anything, to do it as for thee. Not rudely as a beast to run into an action, but still to make thee preposit. Yeah, get that wrong every time. Prepossess and give it his perfection. A man that looks on glass on it may stay his eye. Or, if he pleaseth, through it pass, and then heaven espy. All may of thee partake, nothing can be so mean Which with the his tincture, for thy sake, will not grow bright and clean. A servant with this clause makes drudgery divine, who sweeps a room as for thy laws, makes that and the action fine. This is the famous stone that turneth all to gold, for that which God doth touch and own cannot for less be told. So here's the question. What on everyday life is Herbert talking about? What are some of the images from everyday life that are picked up in the poem? Not theology, but everyday life. Anyone? Yes. Okay. Go ahead. Yeah, were you raising your hand? Yes, go right ahead. Sh sweeping, cleaning? Yeah. A window? Okay. What else? Anything? Yes. A servant Alright? And one other adjective. Now I'm going to pick somebody. Let's go. One other adjective. What's an everyday adjective? Usually we describe Mondays are full of this. What who said it? Drudgery. So think about it. Sweeping, servant, cleaning, drudgery. These are everyday experiences. that we can see with our eyes, we can comprehend with our minds, that we feel even with our fingers and the tiredness in our bones. Okay? Now On the next level, on the philosophical level, can anyone point out to me what are perhaps some There are three things, three things that he is using from philosophy of his day in this poem. Can anyone tell me what they are? If you listen to Van Morrison, anybody a fan of Van Morrison? Yes. Alchemy, right. So now yes, okay, very good. Can you explain what alchemy is for for our Audience. Right. That alchemy was magic That was able to transmute base metals, base elements into exalted or more beautiful things Okay? Alright, so that's alchemy. That's the process of alchemy. But there are three aspects that he picks up that are part of alchemy. Now, if you're a fan of Van Morrison, let me see. Anybody a fan of Van Morrison? Okay, one of his albums was named after this. More recent, The Philosopher's Stone. Anybody ever heard of The Philosopher's Stone? I'm sorry. Harry Potter Oh Harry, see I I I've I've not watched Harry Potter or read Harry Potter. So there's my imagination has not been touched yet by by Harry Potter. So, uh, this famous stone is a direct reference to the philosopher's stone. Now, the word elixir, does anyone know what elixir refers to? Okay, if you don't. But yes. Right. Elixir actually was the dust that was believed that could be drawn from the philosopher's stone. Okay? And then there's another word, tincture. What is it? It's a it's what? Right. Uh somebody else, there was two people speaking at one time. Like a medicine. Right. So tincture was when you took a mixture like alcohol or something else, mixed it with the dust, and made this i you know this this medicine like thing that if you were to take it it would transmute something of base metal of dust and turn it into gold Alright? So we have the one level, drudgery, sweeping, servant, cleaning Then he throws in this other level of idea of a philosopher's stone, an elixir, and a tincture. Now Let's put it on the theological level. Where and what is God doing in this poem? What does he say at the beginning? What's the first line? Teach me, God and King, in all things to see And what I do in anything to do it as for thee. Teach me my God and King. So God is one who meets us in the everyday. He is infinite, yet he is also imminent. Teach me, my God and King, in all things. He wants to see God, he wants God to teach him to see that he is, here's a great, here's a great big theology word, sovereign. That God is sovereign and present over everything, not just the religious, not just the salvific, but that God is actually redeeming not only his soul, but his everyday life. You see. Teach me to see thee in all things, and what I do in anything to do it as for thee So he shows, he asks that God teaches him to see his sovereign hand, his presence, in his everyday life, but does he stop there? What does he ask him to do in response to that then? Help me to see you in all things and then what? To serve you in all things. Are these biblical truths? That's right. And then he says, not rudely as a beast to run into act to an action. But still to make thee pre-possessed and give it his perfection. He is stating and acknowledging That when push comes the shove, his default setting is to move into everyday action as a brute beast. Rudely running into every action, as if God doesn't exist, as if God is not sovereign, but he says, do not let me do that But still to make thee, in other words, when that word still, but still to make thee pre-possessed That means recognizing that because you are sovereign, because you are the God of salvation, because you have saved me, the truth is everything I do is by you pre-possessed. It belongs to you to begin with. You see. And then he says, and in uh and give it his perfection. Lord, if thee, if I belong to you, everything I do belongs to you, and may your perfect hand be at work in and through me. Yes, John. So pronoun is in that line. I'm not getting into that reverse. God is in the second verse everywhere. Give it his perfection, meaning God's perfection. Well right, but but but but it ta well that's what he's doing. And what he's doing is at one at one point he is he's he's he's meditating. He's both at the one hand asking God to teach him, but at the other hand, imagining life as it is. And he's saying, Okay, Lord, teach me. Not to do things rudely as a beast or to run into every action, but still to make thee pre-possessed and give it his perfection. There is no other perfection for Herbert other than God. So he's only referring to the work of God in that. But he is he's doing a word play, which Herbert is known to do in ways that I can't fully comprehend always. But he is referring to God there. A man that looks on glass on it may stay his eye, or it he pleaseth, through it pass, and then heaven espy. What is he talking about? Right. Right. That's right. Now let's put that in the context of the everyday. The servant, the sweeping. The cleaning. You can see as one serving God, looking at a glass pane, only seeing the dirt on the pane, or while you're doing it, recognize that through it you have an a spy. You see God calling you to this action. You see that this action is pre-possessed by him. So he's calling us to look through the glass, not just at it. Yes, question. But that's right. You know, the the but but nonetheless, um i i I think that the uh that's a helpful point because I I still think that that would be very much in Herbert's mind. Yes. Yes, I'm so sorry. See, she said one way she took it is that also you could become just um focus on your own reflection in the glass. And and to but yet to look through it and see heaven and not just yourself. And I said that's a very, very, very uh real case for Herbert. Yes. Right. And we set the time four hundred five hundred years ago. Right. Right. And what he is describing is what theologians call the already and the not yet, right? So for Paul, he understands that we see through a glass darkly. But yet, we still seeing through. There isn't already what Christ has already done for us What he has taught us in regard to his sovereign hand at work in our actions, meaning to redeem not just us but the work that we do. But we can't, you know, it's not our work is not yet perf perfect. But we still see through a glass, though darkly, and I think Herbert would very much is is pricking up on that very verse and that very idea. And he says, All may of thee partake, nothing can be so mean, which with his tincture. Now here he's picking up on. Okay. So the Lord by his grace. His grace itself is the tincture that then transmutes our base daily drudgery, servant, cleaning, sweeping with his tincture. Touches it and it is no longer mean, but transmuted into something for thy sake. For God's purpose. So, yes, he would recognize that our everyday lives together, the work that we do, is itself can be very full of drudgery. And full of pain and toil, and yet, in the mind and the life, and the imagination and the faith of a Christian, it is the recognition that God actually, by his grace, the tincture. touches us, touches our work and transmutes it into something for his glory. And it will uh it will not grow uh bright and clean that without it Without this tincture, our work will not grow bright. It will not grow clean. We will fail to see its ultimate purpose. If we simply see it through the, if we if we're simply blinded by the veil, that that self-preoccupied, self-falsifying view of reality, that is, that I'm at the center. My needs, my pleasures, or what I'm trying to achieve, they will not grow to be what God intends them to be. Something far greater than what we can actually see. A servant with his claws makes drudgery divine, who sweeps a room as for thy laws makes that and the action fine. So he's beginning to work it out. That what at the beginning was an asking for help, a vision above visibility, a vision of what God is doing by his tincture of grace. To transmute that which is base and full of drudgery into something that is for God's purpose, for God's glory. A servant with this clause makes drudgery divine. Who sweeps a room as for thy laws, makes that and the action fine. Is that clear? Do you see that? Okay, and then he says, this is the famous stone That turnest all to gold, for that which God doth touch and own cannot for less be told. So what is the philosopher's stone? What is he he's now notice what he's doing? By way of imagination, he's taking that which the scriptures tell us that God is about redeeming Our minds and our souls to take our work that belongs to Him, to turn it for His glory. So in this case He's also connecting it to the philosophical arenas of his own day, and what is he doing to them? He's redeeming it. The philosopher's stone had absolutely nothing to do with the Christian faith The idea of elixir or tincture, these are not a Christian per se, in and of themselves, were not Christian inventions. We don't see them in Scripture. These are the the instruments, the inventions of the human mind I might add, of a veiled face. But the presence of elixir or tincture or the philosopher's stone, the whole idea of alchemy. during the time that Herbert wrote was an enormous theme within literature And here we see a Christian pastor and theologian taking a convention from his culture of his day. and saying, nope, I disagree with what how you give it meaning. I'm saying that actually The whole creation of a philosopher's stone, the whole idea of elixir, the whole idea of tincture, is something that is coming from the human imagination because God did not mean for us just to see the world as it is with our eyes. But something far greater. And he redeems the idea and saying it is God who is the philosophers. It is his grace that is the tincture. The elixir is is the blood of Jesus Christ, you see. Yes. Literature with science and through the table of colors, gold and lead connect to each other. Right. And people of a fine colour Right. That's right. Change let it explain. Right. Right. Right. And so in in so doing, he's showing that in fact lead can be turned to gold. And it is the lead, it is the dust of the human life, of the human soul. And when God moves in, he turneth all things to gold. For that which God doth touch and own cannot for less be told. In other words, that last line. What is he saying? That cannot for less be told. What is he doing? Come on, anybody? What? What was that? It's costly. And so what it what is he referring to? What cannot be uh less What is well he's right. Well yes, exactly right. What God has done in Jesus Christ cannot be told for for less than what? Gold. Right. That gold as was of such great value and so highly honored. That it would cost you great wealth. It is so beautiful and so weighty. And so extravagant that God's work, what God has done, cannot be told for less than the riches of what we have. There was another hand up. I didn't want to did someone else have a question or comment? I thought I saw it. Maybe I didn't. Okay, so We're running out of time. We've got to go. So all I wanted to do was to give you two poems. The second one is for you, Love Three. And it is a it's a little bit easier to understand, but I wanted to expose you to if if you had not heard heard of George Herbert to expose you to someone who is was uh profoundly uh committed to the gospel, who was uh educated in the Reformed tradition, there was a pastor in the Reformed tradition whose work is the work of imagination taking his intellect, passionate for Christ, and taking the imagination which God has given, and the theology which he had learned as the framework, and put them all together in beautiful poetry. I commend these works to you. I commend the works of Alistair McGrath, the passionate intellect, the Christian faith, and the discipleship of the mind. um on a very positive way um that I I believe it to be very helpful. I thank you for this uh for your contributions. I hope it's helpful. I hope it's encouraging and may God bless you with many years of studying. George Herbert. May he use it alongside his word to give you a vision of just how beautiful God's grace is. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the kincture of your grace. That turns dust into gold. We thank you for your work. We thank you for your faithfulness. We pray now, Lord, as we take a break here before our worship service, we pray, Lord, that you would take our words. We pray that you would take these instruments. We pray you would take our thoughts, our imagination, by your Holy Spirit and Word, and to transmute them, Lord, into something which glorifies you alone. That we would rejoice that you are in our midst. And may you transform what we can see. By your truth into something that is incredibly infinite and beautiful. And that is the work of Christ. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.