One of the most difficult of all of Jesus' parables for us to be comfortable with is that from Luke chapter 16. Verses 1 to well the parable is verse 1 to 9, the whole discussion goes up to verse 15, sometimes called the parable of the shrewd manager, or sometimes called the parable of the dishonest manager. We're just uncomfortable with this for at least two reasons. One is because it's a parable that commends a dishonest manager. And so it seems as if Jesus is commending dishonesty in this. But the second reason is even more significant why we're uncomfortable with this parable, and that's because it speaks about money. And it raises some uncomfortable questions about what we are living for and whether we are living as if heaven really mattered. I'd like to look at this parable with you this morning. And I would like to look at it under three points. First of all, I want to look at the story. Then I want to look at the point of the story, and then I want to look at the application of the point of the story. So let's first of all begin by reading From Luke chapter 16, God's Word. It's important that we start by reading Scripture, partly because it's important to me that you see that this is God's word to you. I'm not making this up. I'm not sort of springboarding from some text that gave me an idea and I developed some clever thoughts in my own mind at least to kind of say something to you. I thought that you needed to hear. This is God's word to you. My job is simply to open up this word so that you can hear it, trust Jesus, and obey it. So let's first of all, without comment, hear Jesus' words from Luke chapter 16, verses 1 to 15. Jesus told his disciples, there was a rich man whose manager was accused of wasting his possessions. So we called him in and asked him, what is this I hear about you? Give an account of your management, because you cannot be a manager any longer. The manager said to himself, Oh, what shall I do now? My master's taking away my job. I'm not strong enough to dig, and I'm ashamed to beg. I know what I'll do, so that when I lose my job here, people will welcome me into their houses. So he called in each of his master's debtors. He asked the first, how much do you owe my master? Eight hundred gallons of olive oil, he replied. The manager told him, take your bill, sit down quickly, and make it four hundred. Then he asked the second, then how much do you owe? A thousand bushels of wheat, he replied. He told him, take your bill, make it eight hundred The master commended the dishonest manager because he had acted shrewdly. For the people of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own kind than are the people of light. I tell you, use worldly wealth to gain friends for yourselves, so that when it is gone, you will be welcomed into eternal dwellings. Whoever can be trusted with very little can also be trusted with very much, with much. And whoever is dishonest with very little will also be dishonest with much. And so if you have not been trustworthy in handling worldly wealth, who will trust you with true riches? And if you have not been trustworthy with someone else's property, who will give you property of your own? No servant can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. The Pharisees, who loved money, heard all this and were sneering at Jesus. He said to them, You are the ones who justify yourselves in the eyes of men, but God knows your hearts. What is highly valued among men is detestable in God's sight. Oh, find a story. Let's first of all look at just the story part of it. What you have here is a very rich man with a large estate. Who appointed a manager to take care of his affairs? He was kind of his vice president in charge of these affairs in this estate And apparently this guy wasn't doing a real good job of managing it. No indication of dishonesty or anything that was illegal. It just wasn't very effective. And so uh he heard about this and uh the master comes in, calls in the manager, and he says, uh let's look over the books here for the last months, and uh don't look like you're doing a very good job here, so It's pink slip time, sorry. And he's out, given two weeks' notice. What a shock. Some of us here have had the experience of going to work in the morning. And then by evening realize we're out of a job. It's disorienting. What a shock it comes to this guy. Especially since he didn't realize he was doing anything wrong, apparently. And then we're given some insight to a conversation he has with himself. The Bible says he starts talking to himself. And he says something like this. He says, um, man, this is bad. I just lost this office job. And uh, hey man I'm not into manual labor. I'm never going to make it in that field. And I'm too proud to go on welfare. So what am I going to do? He thinks about it and he says, I've got it. I know what I'll be able to do so that when I lose this job and I'm out of here, there's going to be somebody who's glad I'm around when I come knocking on their door So he holds a number of a series of secret business meetings, calls in those who owed the master money. Has him sit down and he says, uh, how much is it that you owe the master here? And he's got the books. And he says, uh, owe him 800 uh gallons of olive oil He says, guess what? Today is your lucky day. We're having a half-fi sale today. Man, I'm knocking off the 400 payoff now, and the cloud the account is clear Kazeth, pretty good deal. So he gives them 400 to release signs to deliver 400 gallons of olive oil, and the thing's done. Has another meeting, calls in another fella. K How much do you owe? Thousand bushels of wheat. Boy, this is your lucky day. We're having a 20% off sale Make it 800. Now you think it's interesting to me, it wasn't a half-price sale straight through. This guy knew how much was going to put them into a grateful position with him And he wasn't going to overextend it. He's kind of playing the ends against the middle. Well, I can give this guy twenty percent off and that'll be enough for him. I'll give him fifty percent off. That's what it's gonna take for him 20% off, 800 bushels a week, great, got a deal, signs up, done. Now what's fascinating to you and to me is that when the master hears about this, what do you think he's gonna do? He's gonna blow his stack, right? What do you think you're doing giving these people these discounts? And that's exactly what does not happen. Jesus says the master came in and he said, hey, you know, I really got to hand it to you. You're pretty shrewd. In fact, you know, I'm almost tempted to give you your job back. I mean, you're thinking ahead. Why didn't you do this a long time ago? But he doesn't do that. He still lets him go. But he commends the way he thought Now, what's the point of all that? Jesus is not here giving a story to teach business ethics What's the point? You look at point B there. The point we don't have to wonder what the point of this is People uh speculate on all of what was going on. Some commentators say that that the reason that the boss was willing to absorb the losses was because he was probably charging illegally high interest and he was glad to have the accounts cleared without any hassles. Whatever that may be, the point is not to speculate on the ethics of it. That's not Jesus' point. We don't have to guess what his point is. He tells us in verse 8. In verse 8, after he dis finishes with The master commending him because he had acted shrewdly, he gives the point in the second part of verse 8. For the people of this world are more shrewd in dealing with their own kind Than are the people of the light. There's really two parts to the point. It goes on to verse 9, but that's the first part. What is he saying there in verse 8? He's simply saying the people in this world live more consistently with their values and beliefs than sometimes the people of light do. That is, they act on what they believe more consistently in some ways. They say this life is all there is, and that's what they invest in. They say this life, you only go around once, this is all you got, and so I'm going to put everything into that. Jesus says, at least that's being consistent. More consistent than the people of light. What's people of light? People of light refer to those whose minds have been enlightened to see and know that there is an eternal life after this life. And Paul, you remember in the statement that's part of our purpose as a church, Ephesians 1:18, prayed that your and my eyes of our hearts would be enlightened to know what? God's inheritance for the saints. Remember that? That's part of our purpose. So Paul is saying that our hearts are enlightened to understand values from an eternal perspective. Jesus is saying the people of this world who don't have that eternal perspective often seem to live more consistently with their values and their perspective than the people who have eternity and their hearts. And therefore ought to be living with eternity as their priority and their perspective. In fact, what you see here is that the goal of this manager was crystal clear. He said, I want to make my life the cushiest I can right here and now. And I've got some financial resources, my masters, which I'm going to invest in that So that I will have friends who will make my life more pleasant after I am taken out of this job. Jesus says, you and I have financial resources. And we are going to be translated from the known here into the unknown, into a future kingdom. Jesus says, are you investing your financial resources in eternity? Are you living with that value? Now, immediately you say, now wait a minute, how can I invest material financial resources in heaven? There's no U-Hauls behind hearses. You can't take it with you. You can't send it on ahead. How in the world do you invest Material money, a paycheck, cash, into heaven. Glad you asked, because that's exactly what Jesus goes on to say. Verse 9 Verse 9, he says, I tell you, use your worldly wealth to gain friends for yourselves So that when it is gone, that is the worldly wealth in this life, you will be welcomed into eternal dwellings. That, I submit, is a fascinating verse. Think about what that's saying. Jesus is saying, use your material wealth to build eternal relationships that matter. That is, gain friends in heaven. You see, we're all going to be dismissed. And there's going to be a group of people when we come to heaven that we will enter into their company and into their fellowship. If you believe in Jesus Christ or trusting in his finished work, resting in that this morning, you believe that this life is a blip. in comparison to the eternity of God's kingdom that you're going to be spending with Him. Right? You really believe that? You really believe this is a blip compared to eternity, that no matter how long you were to live, whether you live 40 years or 80 years or 120 years, it's that compared to what eternity will be. Now, how is it then that you can invest money into something that will pay eternal dividends? I think there's two ways. The first way has to do with sharing. If you're in a fellowship, let's say in your cell group or your small group, There's someone who's in need, or somebody in the congregation in a larger need. And I'm trying to decide how to spend the money that I have in my savings account. And here's a brother or sister who can't afford to give their children new clothes or shoes And so I take $100 from that account and I give that to my brother or sister simply as an act of sharing because I care for them and I care for their kids. And in doing that, Jesus says, you have invested, you see, verse 9, you've used worldly wealth to gain or to deepen a friendship. So that when you go to heaven, here's that person and they say, Boy, I'm so glad to see you. You know? You shared what you had with me. When we were on earth. And you have now produced a certain bond. You've deepened a relationship that's going to go on for eternity. Now, interesting that there is an implication in this that we will recognize each other in heaven. Jesus seems to be indicating here that it is how you use your wealth that is going to directly relate to the relationships that you have in heaven That doesn't mean if you're stingy, you're going to sit off in a corner all alone. What it's saying is that Jesus says, if your heart is transformed by the gospel There will be in that heart a desire to share, and that sharing, according to needs, is going to build relationships. Within the community of believers that will go on for eternity unending. Investing in people is the only thing that is going to outlast the grave. And those relationships will continue, and somehow they'll be affected by that. The second way that I believe that we see this working out He's not only in the sharing in terms of needs, but also in gospel giving. Giving to the local church or a missions agency that preaches the gospel. So that people hear about Jesus Christ and come into a relationship, personal saving relationship with him. If you give money to Columbia Presbyterian Church, for instance, Whatever you would give today or any other day, $1 out of every five goes directly to missions. And most of that goes to foreign missions. Of the other $4, that money all goes to local Howard County ministries of our church. And so here's a kid who's become a Christian through our youth ministry Here's an adult who has come to profess Christ through one of the ministries of Columbia Presbyterian Church. Where here's Mrs. Nakata, who has just recently professed faith in Chiba, Japan, to our missionaries there. Or here's Miguel, who has come just recently to profess faith and join a Bible-believing church in Madrid, Spain through the ministry of Tito Padilla from our congregation. And when you and I give, when you go to be with the Lord, and you enter through those supposed pearly gates. and come into heaven and the kingdom of God's people, there's going to be Mrs. Mikada. There's going to be that kid. There's going to be the person who came to Christ through CPC. There's going to be Miguel And they're going to say, Welcome, come on in. It's so good to see you. I thank God that you were used by him to provide for those who brought me into that saving relationship with Jesus Christ. That's a staggering thought, isn't it? Not only are they going to know you and me, they're going to know all the resources that God used to bring them to Christ. Look again what he says. I tell you, use your worldly wealth to gain friends for yourselves, so that when it is gone, you will be welcomed. Party time into the eternal dwellings. Now you you may question that, but hey, how else can you understand what Jesus is saying? What else can he mean when he says this? That's the point. Now finally, the application of the point. Three points about the application. First of all, verses ten to twelve specifically tell us, teach, that our material wealth is simply a minor trust given to you to prepare you for handling true spiritual riches. Look what he says, verse 10 to 12. Whoever therefore, you see, now we're coming to apply this even more specifically. Whoever can be trusted with very little can also be trusted with much. And whoever is dishonest with very little will also be dishonest with much. And so if you have not been trustworthy in handling worldly wealth, who will trust you with true riches? And if you've not been trustworthy with someone else's property, who's going to give you property of your own? Now, what's the very little that we're being entrusted with? Clearly, verse 11 teaches that's worldly wealth, material wealth. In other words, you and I are given to be stewards of money. And in God's sight, money really is no big deal. I mean to you and me, it's a very big deal But to God it's really not that big a deal, you know? I mean, the only reason money is precious to you and me is because it's very limited, right? It's because you've got to work hard to get it and there's not a lot of it going around and you only get your little share of it and there always seems like you need more and so therefore it's very precious. But to put yourself in a position of unlimited wealth. In heaven, there are no limits. You will never say in heaven, boy, I sure wish I had just an extra 50 bucks. If I only had a little more in the paycheck this month, I could really enjoy that next realm over there and explore it, you know. There will be no such discussion in heaven. And you will see, and I will see what money was really worth. That was just something. It was a minor thing. God said he would take care of us. And so he enabled us to steward it as a minor thing to simply use this life as a school to teach us values. To teach us how fleeting it is, it is not something to despise. 1 Timothy 6 says, God has given us all things richly to enjoy, but not to set your heart on worldly wealth. There's a balance, you see. And you and I are given to steward the little, that which is not worth a whole lot, really. In order that we might understand the limitlessness of the value of people and their lives for eternity. You see, brothers and sisters, what Jesus is doing here, he is not giving you rules for how much to give. He specifically does not say, 10%, or I'm less than that, and you're really gonna, you know, I'm gonna get you. I'm gonna take away the rest of it. And if you give 25%, Boy, are you going to be happy? Because you know, if you do that, then I will make sure that everything turns out and you'll be very prosperous. He doesn't give simple rules like that. What Jesus says is As you understand heaven and you set your heart on heaven, your money follows where your heart is. And the more it follows it, the more you begin to realize the value of heaven. And your heart becomes set upon heaven. And as you give to missions and as you give to the work of the local church, you begin to see how important this is really where it's at, the extension of God's kingdom, that his name be glorified. That there be people, more and more people populating his kingdom in heaven so that when I go I say, praise God, here is a group of people, here's a family, here's a person That wouldn't have come to know Jesus Christ except for this ministry. And that is worth so much more than a few of the toys that I could have accumulated for that much time. You see what Jesus is doing? He is your friend, brothers and sisters. He is saying be in touch with reality. Understand true values. And then he wants for you and me to be freed up to live in the light of those values. When historians if history goes on write about the twentieth century Church historians will no doubt include the ministry of Francis and E the Schaeffer as one of the most significant developments in the last half of the 20th century. And their ministries and their writings in Legree Fellowship influenced a whole generation of Christians, hundreds. And thousands of people from all over the world came to a saving relationship out of despair and guilt and hopelessness, into a relationship transformed by the power of Jesus Christ and his forgiveness and Holy Spirit working in their lives. that continues to unfold in ripples on down now years after Frances Schaefer has died and Edith has really ceased ministry. This continues on and on, up to the highest levels of the power, even in the United States. Jack Kemp's wife, Joanne, for years led a Bible study in Washington, D. C. , based on the writings of Francis Schaefer and how those affect public policy, and Jack Kemp was profoundly influenced by that Why do I tell you all this? Because when they were starting their ministry, they lived in Switzerland in the forties and through the mid-50s in 1955 because they were preaching the gospel. Some people maneuvered to have them expelled from Switzerland. They were to be thrown out. They appealed that ejection, and they had only a few days to appeal it And it looked as if God might work to enable them to stay there and develop the ministry that had not even yet become Libri, but was beginning to show that God was going to do a work through them there. And so in a few days they were able to gain some hope, but they needed in this application a permanent address. They had been ejected from the canton where they lived. They had no place to live. And they were given two days to find a place to put down on their application as a permanent address. After about a day, Francis, I think, gave up and Edith, never say die, went right on, said, I'm gonna I've got two days. Lord, show us a place, gonna find a place contacted every real estate agent up and down everywhere she could think of to find a place. He was about ready to give up, was in tears sobbing. And this real estate agent came along who handled only very expensive properties and he said Would you think of living in Waymo? She said, I never heard of Waymo. He said, well, let me take you there. So he drove her up into the Alps and showed her this beautiful chalet A place that would have been looked like it might have been perfect for what they were going to do. And as he finished he was about ready to take off and she said, But how much is the rent? And he said, It's not for rent. It's only for sale. And then he roared off. And she went into despair again. We don't have enough money for rent, let alone anything for a down payment to buy a place. And then she said she was moved to pray at that moment. God, if you want us to buy this place. Provide a thousand dollars by ten o'clock tomorrow morning. That's the last day. And that was as specific as she got And so the next morning she went back to Francis, didn't tell him anything about, just went back and they were they were pretty well consigned to the fact they were going to leave that day. And they opened three letters. The first two letters were inconsequential. The third letter I'd like to quote to you from. It was from a couple, Mr. and Mrs. Salisbury, who had followed their work, prayed for them, but had never given any money to the work. Mrs. Salisbury said, I have a story to tell you that will interest you. Art came home from work three months ago with a check that was a surprise. The company paid all the insurance premiums for men who had worked a certain length of time and made it retroactive. We went to look at houses to invest in, and as we looked at the beams in a likely small house, I said, Aren't look at those termites. Doesn't that remind you of the verse in Matthew which says, Not to lay up treasures on earth where moths and rust corrupt? Lord said, yes, it did. And I said, Would you be willing to take that literally and invest this money in heaven by giving it to the Lord's work somewhere? And he replied, Yes, Helen, I would. She went on to tell of their praying for clear certainty as to where to use this money, praying for three months what to do with it. Now tonight, she says, we are convinced that we should send the enclosed to you to buy a house that will always be open to young people. The amount of their check was exactly $1,000. It was not simply that God answered the Schaefer's prayer. To provide for them a place that became a base of operation that would affect the church throughout the world. It was that there was a couple who lived by the values that Jesus is teaching here. Who said, we want to take from our worldly wealth And gain friends in heaven who will welcome us into the eternal dwellings. And that's a better investment with a better return than anything we could do here. Contrast that with a statement from Bill Gates in the July, January 13th issue of Time magazine. Where he said, just in terms of allocation of time resources, religion is not very efficient. There's a lot more I could be doing on a Sunday morning. Time magazine was honest enough to print the furor of responses that came to that. One woman said that was the stupidest thing she had ever heard. That in the light of eternity and the eternal riches that Jesus Christ has to offer, she says Bill Gates' $23. 9 million billion, excuse me, $23. 9 billion is small potatoes. Brother or sister, what are you living for? What are you investing in? You believe heaven really matters Do you believe that what you give really affects your life? The relationships that you will have. Jesus doesn't say you will be richer materially. He talks about true riches in contrast with mere material riches. What are you living for now? What is it that Jesus is speaking to you about as you think about your values? You see, money is a terrible master, but it's a very good servant And nothing breaks the bondage of master money like giving it away There's a freedom in deciding, in determining. And even my skin-flinty heart, transformed by Jesus Christ in a more generous wife than I am. Has shown me the blessing of investing in eternity, of giving. You see, if we refuse to give, we're always protecting. If you give, there's a freedom in trusting Jesus and being able to get your priorities more in line. Let me be honest with you. Why am I preaching this sermon today? Yeah, you probably all expect it, Ephesians, right? The reason I'm preaching this sermon today is because this day, April the 13th, had been set aside months ago as the time when our Potential youth pastor candidate would be preaching to us as a congregation in full expectation. We'd have the money in the fund, we'd have the person By April, we were going to invite that person, introduce them to you, and that person would preach so that you as a congregation would be able to say, this, yes or no, we believe, is God's person or not. Currently, that fund, $25,000 that we had established for seed money for their position, is only half full. Only half, and we expected it to be full by this time. Giving this year 1997 has been running $1,100 per week behind the budget. $1,100 a week. Even last week with nearly six uh uh two weeks ago, Easter, with nearly six hundred people here We still didn't make what is needed on a regular weekly basis, $10,000 a week for the ministries, all the ministries of things that are operated here, including missions. Fifteen thousand dollars behind at this point. Now, I am not pleading. I am announcing That Jesus is calling us to a better way. Sure, as we don't give the ministries of Columbia Presbyterian and our missionaries and the rest of those things suffer. Our youth are suffering in the sense that we need the leadership for that team. Someone who's going to work with the youth in the context of covenant families to do a job that will pay dividends for eternity. We don't have it. We're not able to continue to look for someone. So you see, what I'm bringing to you is not a fundraising campaign. I simply decided that if that is where God has us, have we missed his signal? Or have we in fact not been functioning according to the values of eternity? And I put that before you as I put it before myself. If God is convicting us right now of an idolatry, That is saying there is things I'm looking for here, and I'm just living for this, and I'm trying to make ends meet, and I'm not even thinking about the collection as an opportunity to invest in eternity. May God speak to us the wisdom of Jesus. And if we find ourselves convicted by that, I remind you. He's died for sin. He's died for the sin of greed, of poor stewardship, of idolatry, and all the rest of it. Let us come to him to seek his forgiveness. And then let's ask God to teach us how to live in our values in the light of eternity. And to see when we come each week, when the collection comes around, to see this is an opportunity to make the investment of a lifetime. In God's kingdom, to gain friends who, when I die, are going to bring me into that place, and there is going to be the most joyous party. That you and I have ever experienced beyond anything we could imagine. Because that's Jesus' way. Let's pray. Lord, we didn't even get to the last point about how we tend to be defensive just like the Pharisees who love money and sneered at Jesus. And he said, God knows your hearts. And Lord, if there's anybody thinking there's a preacher again talking about money. Lord, you know I don't get anything more, whatever the budget is, whatever comes in for this year. And so Lord, we simply pray that right now you will examine our hearts. To see if we who say that we believe that there is eternal life because of Jesus really live as if that matters Or whether we are very inconsistent, more inconsistent than the people of this age, saying we believe in eternity while investing everything in the blip of time that is now. Lord speak to us not of rules, but of our hearts Lord Jesus, we thank you that with you there is forgiveness. Forgiveness for our self-protection, for our greed, for our short-sightedness. That Lord Jesus, you took that sin for everyone here who's looking to you for that Lord, we pray for anyone here who has never come into that relationship, for whom this would simply be religion talking about money, that you would bring that person to see the relationship that you offer through your death and through your life. That we would have your record, a record of one who gave himself fully and completely. That we would know your forgiveness And that we would transform in our minds the values by which we live, not just speak. That we would be rich in the relationships you intend, because we invest in your kingdom. Thank you for teaching us, Lord Jesus, that when we come to see you, we cannot say, Lord, why didn't you tell us? If we had only known We know. Now work in us, Lord, to hear, to trust, and to obey. In Jesus' name. Amen.