No question that spy activity has increased in the United States. Nineteen sixty-five to nineteen seventy-five, there were no spy convictions in the United States. That was a period of considerable. anti-American sentiment. But between nineteen seventy-five and nineteen eighty-five, there have so far been thirty-seven convictions of spies, and now the Walker case begins. More disturbing is the fact that in 12 recent spy cases, money figured in half of them. U. S. News and World Report reports on a disturbing, quote, new generation of spies ready to sell out their country for cash. These people are very bright. They're capable leaders. People with great potential. But they have no principles. In contrast to that, I would like to speak to you this week and next week about another spy. But a man who almost lost his life because of his convictions and his principles. A man of great conviction. A man who would match 007 with his bravery, his conviction, his courage. In fact, his very name means literally fierce or brave. The man, of course, is Caleb. He was a man who lived all his life on the cutting edge. And I believe that there are a number of lessons for our lives out of Caleb's life, both in his youth as well as in his old age. His youth we consider passage before us, up to age forty. Could I view it, ease, that was still considered his youth. I've just left my youth a couple of years ago. And then next week we're going to consider Caliph in his old age, and that's after eighty. So again, I'll put some of you at ease. You may be offended if you think that old age was considered just after forty. There is a lapse there of what we're told about Caleb's life. But at least we're considered what happened toward the end of his life, continually. On the cutting edge. And I believe there are a number of lessons for us as we track his life for our own lives here. The scene is Canaanish Barnea, on the southern edge of Canaan, there in the desert. Some months before, God has delivered his people out of Egypt. He brought them down to Sinai and there he made a covenant with them and established them as his own people for his own possession. And now he's brought them back up north to the southern border of Canaan in order to bring them into that land. Twelve spies have been sent out on an expedition to survey the land. And these spies have just now come back to report to the leaders and the whole community. We pick up that story from God's word in Numbers chapter 13. beginning at verse 26. Let's then follow God's word as he speaks to us from Numbers chapter 13, verse 26, through Numbers 14, beginning at verse 10. They came back to Moses and Aaron and the whole Israelite community at Kadesh in the desert of Perath. And there they reported to them as a whole assembly and showed them the fruit of the land. They gave Moses this account. We went into the land to which he sent us, and it does flow with milk and honey. Here's its proof that the people who live there are powerful and the cities are fortified and very large. Leben saw descendants of Anak there. The Amalekites live in the Megad. The Hittites, Jebusites, and the Amorites live in the hill country. And the Canaanites live near the sea and along the Jordan. Tail silenced the people before Moses. And he said, We should go up and take possession of the land, for it can certainly do it. But the men who had gone up with him said, We can Attack those people. They're stronger than we are. But they spread among the Israelites a bad report about the land that they had explored. And they said the land that we explored devours those living in it. All the people that we saw there of great size. We saw the Nephilim there, the descendants of Anak come from the Nephilim. We seemed like grasshoppers in our own eyes. We looked like the same to them. That night, All the people of the community raised their voices and wept aloud. All the Israelites grumbled against Moses and Aaron, and the whole assembly said to them, If only we had died in Egypt, or in this desert, Why is the Lord bringing us up to this land only to let us fall by the sword? Our wives and our children will be taken as plunder. Wouldn't it be better for us to go back to Egypt? They said to each other, We should choose a leader. They go back to Egypt. Then Moses and Aaron fell face down in front of the whole Israelite assembly, gathered there. Joshua, son of Moses, and Caleb, son of Jephun, who were among those who had exposed. Explored the land, tore their clothes. And they said to the entire Israelite assembly, The land we passed through and explored is exceedingly good. If the Lord is pleased with us, he will lead us into that land, a land flowing with milk and honey and will give it to us. Only do not rebel against the Lord. Do not be afraid of the people of the land, because we will swallow them up. Their protection is gone. But the Lord is with us. Do not be afraid of them. But the whole assembly talked about stone. Concerning his youth, I would like to speak you about three things. Three things that Caleb had. First of all, Caleb was full of leadership ability. Full of leadership abilities. Numbers chapter thirteen, the first two verses indicate this to us. Go back before we just read, and you and you read there in those first two verses, but the Lord said to Moses, Send some men to explore the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the Israelites. ancestral tribe sent one of its leaders. Now, from Deuteronomy 1, verses 22 and 23, we learned that actually it wasn't God's idea to send the spies in at all. You know that? Sometimes we think God told them to send these spies in and you think, you know, that really messed things up. But Deuteronomy one, twenty two and twenty three tell us that it was the people's idea to send in the spies. And I think there's a lesson in that. Because I think it it his To us of the fact that there are things that God knows that are coming in our lives that we're not ready to understand or bear because we haven't graced a face them yet. And so perhaps the Lord wanted to protect them from seeing those giants until he had done Them in. But the people wanted to send spies in. And the Lord approved the idea. He let them do it. He didn't deter them. He didn't say, No, you may not do this. In chapter 13, 1 and 2, we see that the Lord said to Moses, Go ahead, send these spies in. Into the land. Send the leaders, all leaders. Verse 3 tells us that. So is the Lord's command. Moses sent out from the desert of Paran. All of them were leaders of the Israelites. They were not the heads of the tribes. That's interesting. If you compare the earlier part of Numbers, you find that these were not the princes and the heads of the tribe. And so these must have been the up-and-coming leaders. These were those that were being tested. These were the men who were built great potential. These were the new generation. of leaders that were coming up. It sort of reminds me of a cartoon that I saw recently where there's this older executive talking to his colleague as he sees all the younger executives going back and forth through the office and he says, that young Johnson has a lean and hungry look. Of course, every day today everybody has a lean and hungry look. And that's kind of the way we see things now. You know, you look for those that have a lot of potential that are going to come up in the organization. Because everybody today's competing so wildly it's kind of hard to tell. But Caleb was one that the people saw as up and coming. And it's interesting to notice that it wasn't God who chose these leaders. It was Moses. Moses picked the leaders, and he picked them the best he could. He said, these are the guys that look like they have leadership qualities. Now it's it's interesting. Uh you know, if you were to ask Moses afterwards, Moses I don't think he did too good a job in picking these spines, you know. I mean he'd say maybe well, you know, two out of twelve isn't so bad. I mean look what I was working with, you know. Uh this was a really motley crew. Um but it wasn't those that God had determined. And yet here was a man who appeared to have great leadership, Caleb, and he's brought in as one of the the spies. But he wasn't only a man who in others' eyes had great leadership, he also had great courage. And that's the second thing to notice of it. He was full of courage. You need to use your imagination to appreciate just how true this is. It was a sunny day in July that the spies set out to explore the land. And they set out from that southern edge of the Negev and they went on up through and they explored the entire land, all the way to the northern tip. And then they came back down. Again, and he explored it all through the valleys and the hill country. He imagined that experience, none of them had ever seen that before. It must have been something like Wilson Clark exploring America for the first time. To be the first person To see Niagara Falls or the Grand Canyon, to look upon Mount Hermon, to look through those fertile valleys and fields. And don't think of Israel as it is now. Because Israel at that time was covered with forests in many of its places, lush, cedar. groves, streams and rivers. And so there was not the barrenness and the rockiness that we think of as we think of all of Israel. A lot of it was very lush. And then they come through beautiful Hebron on down to the valley of Escor. And there, they are so astonished by those grapes they've got to take some back. Grapes? What grapes? And you remember the stories just before the scripture that we read, how they had to take one bunch of them and suspend it on a pole. between two men to carry them out. You imagine what those grapes were like? You know, you sit down to breakfast and you have a grape, you know? Get your knife and your fork and I carve up a grape and have it, you know, and and and you know, you imagine what it was like to to tread those grapes for wine. You could turn your ankle on a grape. How lush they must have been. How heavy. You know, people pop grapes in their mouth. I don't know if you've ever done that and they take a grape moose you know to get it in it. Hey one of those things, you choke on it. Full rich grapes. I don't know how big they w were. Maybe it was just that there were so many of them on a vine that it just dragged down so heavily. But the fruit was so lush. So they come back to Moses and Aaron and to the people and they said, Well, we've got good news. We got bad news. The good news is, yeah, look at those grapes. I mean that's just a sample of what there is up there, pomegranates and figs that they bring back and all these things. Look at that. Everybody's mouth rules and they go, yay, yay! So well now the bad news is The place is inhabited, crawling with journals who live in these impregnable fortified cities, and everybody goes, boom. They're whole totally disheartened. They say we can't do it. And what would you have done if you were Caleb in that? that situation. I still remember as a college student in introductory psychology hearing about a famous experiment of a Dr. Ash. Maybe some of you have heard about it. I don't recall the details precisely and I didn't look it up, but it was something like this. He put three sticks of different lengths before a group of ten different members of groups of ten students. And these sticks of different lengths were very plainly visible. And the question that the psychologist asked was, tell me Which stick is the longest. What the students who came into the experiment didn't know is that none of these students were paid to say that the middle stick was the longest. And then this one poor guy who was coming in as the 10th student was the last one to get the give his report. And so everybody say, well, you know, that one's the longest, you know, B's the longest, you know, really A's the longest. B's the longest, B's the longest, you know You know, and get down to the sand, tremendous pressure builds on. What's he going to say? He knows the day's the longest. He can say it. But not Five people have just said that these belongs. You know, one third of the students who went through that violated what they saw and said, Yeah, these belongs. You ever been in a conversation where the whole drift of the conversation? is going totally contrary to everything that you believe and feel is right. Maybe the group's even coming to some sort of a decision. And everything in you is disturbed and you're uncomfortable and you're thinking, I just can't get along with this. It's not right. I don't understand this. And yet everybody seems to be going in this direction. I feel so silly. I don't know how to speak up. I don't know what to say. My thoughts are not really formed. They're gonna laugh at me if I say anything. That's a tough situation to be in, isn't it? I mean who of us hasn't been in that kind of a situation sometimes? And that's precisely the situation that Caleb was in. Twelve spies. You don't hear anything about what Joshua has said. The implication is he He's been silent to this point. And so ten of them have spoken. And all ten say, hey, there's no way we're going to go up and take that land. Unanimous opinion. Let's turn around and go back. So understanding that you can appreciate verse thirty, or excuse me, verse uh eighteen. No, it is verse thirty of uh chapter thirteen. Then Cain silence the people. Before Moses. That takes guts. That takes courage. These fellows have all spoken an absolutely hopeless report, and Caleb stands up and he silences them. With an authority, and he says, We should go up and take possession of the land, or we can certainly do it. And what's the response? Yeah, people tell us, Well, man, if you stand up and you and you turn that drink around and you take some authority, then they'll listen to you and they'll all turn around. And so what happens? Well they redouble the negativess of the report. They say, man, you thought we were negative before. Don't you understand? And then they say this land literally devours its inhabitants. Well, they're really sort of stretched a point. When they've got this idea of you walking the land, everybody gobbles you walking up. And they say, and these people are so big, they were the descendants of Amak and the Nephilim. They're giants. We were like grasshoppers in their sight. And we were like grasshoppers. Grasshoppers in our own sight after we were standing before them. And so the people they just keep intensifying the hopelessness of the situation until finally everybody believes them. And Caleb is totally discreditable. And you read that That night of mourning and wailing and weeping, Caleb not only has stood against the ridicule of the spies, but now he stands against the wrath of all peoples. So after this, mourning. And his weeping and his wailing and his complaining. The people are totally demoralized, they're totally afraid. They're going to go back to Egypt. There seems to be no faith whatsoever. Then Moses and Aaron fall on their faces. And you read that Caleb now joined by Jesus. Joshua. You don't know exactly, but I get the impression that Joshua was hesitant. But now encouraged and strengthened by Camel, Joshua joins him. And so there now in verse uh Chapter 14 in verse 7 and 8 and 9, Joshua and Job encourage the people. And they say that God will lead us into this land. He will give it to us. Verse 9. Only don't rebel against the Lord. Don't be afraid of the people of the land because we will swallow them up. Don't you see what God can do? Their protection is gone, but the Lord is with us. Don't be afraid of that. Now these are people who have been brought out of Egypt. months before. These are people who had seen God do great miracles. All of them had seen this. This isn't a new generation. These are the people who've been brought out from Egypt. These are the people who had seen God bring water out of the rock. had fed them in the wilderness, had taken care of them at Sinai, had spoken out of thunder and lightning and a trembling mountain to share his power, calling them to themselves. They said, no way, we can't believe that God will do it. And so even after this speech, reminding them, Reminding them of God's power, what do they do? Verse 10: the whole assembly talked about stoning them. A scared crab is a dangerous crab. When panic begins to set, In other people. There's no telling what inhuman things they might do. And these people are scared. And so the only thing that saves him is that you read at the end of verse 10. The glory of the Lord. The Lord Himself appears at the tent of meeting to all the Israelites. And then God Himself declares the judgment sentence upon this whole generation who are going to die in the wilderness because of their unbelief, they're going to want results. For forty years, and not one of them over the age of twenty is going to survive to go into the land except two people. And so you read in verse 23 and 24 of chapter 14: not one of them will ever see the land. that I promised on earth to their forefathers. No one who has treated me with contempt will ever see it. But because my servant Caleb has a different spirit And has followed me wholeheartedly, I will bring him into the land that he went into, and his descendants will inherit it. And then he adds in verse 30. Not one of you will enter the land that I swore with uplifted hand to make your home, except Caleb, the son of Jephunah, and Joshua, the son of Noah. Again you see the prominence of Caleb. That's important to remember from the first time. Next week, the prominence of Caleb in this. And then Joshua has added that he also will be saved because of his faith in following along and standing firm in a difficult situation. Now why is it that Caleb has had such courage. Because finally in the third place he was a man full of faith. It wasn't just that he had the guts of double oh seven. He was a man who was full of faith. Caleb followed the Lord wholeheartedly. See there Again, verse 24. Because my servant Philip has a different spirit and follows me wholeheartedly. Why is that? Why was he able to do that? Well, because you see, unbelief has a very short Memory. It forgets what God has done, what God has promised. But if you were to talk to Caliph, he would tell you something like this. He would say, You know what? I walked up through that land with those other spies. I walked through the hills and the valley. Until I came to Hebrew. And it specifies that they went through Hebrew. And he says, as I went through Hebron, I remembered my history. I remembered that it was at Hebrew that my forefather Abraham pitched his tent. It was at Hebrew that God spoke out of a flaming torch between the carcasses of animals split open. And God said, may I myself be so split, the implication of the covenant, if I do not keep my promise, to give to you To your descendants, Abraham, all this land. All this land will be yours. I myself will give it. And then Caleb says, and God raised up Moses. And Moses came to up. While we were in Egypt, and he said, God has called you as the generation to inherit that promise. God Himself is going to give you this land. His very integrity and character stand upon it. God himself is going to be faithful now. You're going to inherit that land. And so Caleb says, I know the God who speaks. How then can I do anything but trust him full, wholeheartedly? I've seen the miracles, I've seen his faithfulness, and I will. That he will be faithful in this promise. And so this phrase is repeated about him again and again in the Bible. In Numbers chapter 32, verses 11 and 12, he reads, Because they, speaking of all of Israel, had not followed me wholeheartedly. Same word again. Not one of the men, twenty years old or more, who came out of Egypt, will see the land that I promised I made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Not one except Canaan, son of Japan, the Kennesite, and the King. And Joshua, son of Lion, for they followed the Lord wholeheartedly. There it is again. Deuteronomy chapter one and verse thirty-six, verse thirty-five and thirty-six together. Calling this says, not a man of this evil generation shall see the good land that I swore to give to your forefathers. Except Caleb, son of Japuna. He will see it, and I will give him his descendants the land he set his feet on. Because he followed the Lord wholeheartedly. Do you know that phrase, follow the Lord wholeheartedly, appears seven times in the Old Testament, and every single reference is to Caleb. The word literally in the Hebrew means old. In fact, if you have a new American standard, you see that it's one of those cases where the no-American standard is a little less readable. That is, we don't talk about doing something full. so much. We speak of doing it wholeheartedly, but literally that is what the Hebrew word means. The adjective full is the kind of word you use when you talk about setting up a jar full of water. Uh it's used of the earth becoming full uh of people. It's use the things overflowing. It means something is filled up to the grip and there's no more room. And so when you do something fully, according to this word, you're doing it right up to the grim. You're doing it with your whole heart. There is no compromise. You're doing it so much to the top, there's no room for anything else. You do it full, completely, wholeheartedly, no room for doubt or double mindedness. That's the intention of it. He's a man of a full heart. His heart is full of devotion. And faith to Jesus. Because he has seen what God has done. And the Bible vindicates it. Caleb was the only one who was right, wasn't he? Because after that generation died off, Caleb experienced the going in. To the land and seeing God fulfill the promise. And he held to. When everyone else laughed at him, when they were enraged at him for his arrogance to try and lead them their father to death. When they thought he was going 180 degrees. In the wrong direction, Cain, along with Joshua alone, was vindicated. Because God is worth being trusted. And so, if there is one point that you should see from canitalize here. It is that Jesus is worthy of your whole, full trust. As they film states it, we may trust him fully. all for us to do. They who trust him wholly find him wholly true. The implication of that to me is that if you don't trust him wholly, you may be disappointed. Because you're mixing your faith in Jesus with that confidence in your own strength. And when you don't trust him wholly, you may back off at just that point when it would have been made all the difference in the victory to completely trust. Him, to stand without the compromise, and to go on a little bit further. See the Lord vindicate himself. Say that you trust him wholly. Find him wholly trust. Caleb my servant has a Different spirit, for he followed me full, right to the brim. No room for anything else in his life. Jesus is worthy of your trust and my truth. He's worthy because he alone is able to meet your needs. And that sin and that guilt in your life that you carry around and it weighs you down and you try to do things to make you feel good about yourself. But you know that it never works because you can never feel good enough about yourself. And the only solution is to turn from what you're doing, to come to Jesus, and to trust him fully, to come and place your trust in him as the only one who can take your sin because of his life, his death, and his resurrection. Because he will meet your need full of him, taking away that sin, that guilt, that pollution in your life. Because Jesus is worthy of your full trust with those worries, those day-by-day giants that you and I need in our life that threaten to devour us. When we see the good land before us, and yet the There are the giants that so threaten. The Lord is saying, trust me fully. Leave no room for anything else. You see, the ten spies erred in the day saw the giants, but they compared them to the realstray. You see that in verse uh 32 of the uh of verse uh 31 of chapter 13. We can't attack them because they're stronger than we are. Caleb saw the same giants. He wasn't naive. But Caleb didn't compare the giants with his strength. Caleb saw them, and he compared them with the strength of the Lord. And he said, the Lord can cause us to devour them. on the defensive. Our God is going before us. And we compare their strength with his strengths. And so Caleb could say with confidence, let's go forward. I don't know how God's going to do it. Caleb didn't know all about the taking his Jericho and marching around. And walls falling down and all the battle. He didn't have that information. You and I have that information. You and I know that Jesus has risen from the dead. He's conquered death. Caleb didn't know those things, but with the information he had. He said, I compare them with my God, and I'm confident to go forward. So what are the giants in your life? Are there giants at work? Giants at work to tell you. That you must compromise on your reports, compromise on your integrity and the way that you do things, compromise on your expense vouchers, compromise in various little ways that threaten to take that still To the brim down just a few notches. Yeah, I'm still following the Lord, but it's not full. And you don't have a clear conscience. Giants who will manipulate you at work as slaves, you know. The more I see the way modern American industry works, the more I conclude that many of us who work within the system are very high paid slaves. You know the the nature of a slave Was that he couldn't control his own life and destiny. That's the essence of it. It didn't matter how well or how poor he lived off. That's about what made a slave. Some slaves lived very well off. The fact is he had no control over whether he could come or go or what he could do. And I hear men come and they will say, Well, I've got to work that many hours. But I had to move because we were transferred. Didn't matter what ministry we had, didn't matter what happened to the family, didn't matter about this or that. I had Choice. And when we say I had no choice, we're saying I was a slave. And Jesus has delivered us from bondage. Jesus has delivered us from the giants. I'm not saying that there are some very difficult decisions. Decisions that we may need to really hang together as a body when we're going to follow the Lord fully. But I am saying that the Lord wants for us to test him, to see him. He wants to test us as a congregation. So that as we look at this whole question of property before us, and we come back and we say, How in the world are we ever going to come up with support for Dan Ivers? Be able to go out to Japan and have a significant part in that and purchase some people. Of property adequate in Columbia area to be able to build. And then to be able to build on that as a center for ministry. How are we ever going to be able to do that? My heart fails me. The Lord says, those are giants in the land. But they who trust him fully find him wholly true. And you look on the back of that bulletin outline, and I'd encourage you to take a look at that and to not just look at it. But this has to mean to fill that out, to think about that. What are the areas in my life where I am most tempted to compromise? And then think of Caleb. And think of how he trusted His Lord, and how worthy Jesus is of your trust in mine. Then the second part said, by God's grace with a heart full of devotion for Jesus, and complete trust right up to the brim. In Jesus. This is what I'm going to do. In this rush of faith, Lord, as I see on your adequacy, your ability, Lord, I want to be like failing. I want to live on the cutting edge. I want to be one of your father. I want to see that you're worthy of my trust, but I want to honor you by that. And I want to move forward. We'll close with just one word of encouragement that I found in my own life. But it's just two easy. weeks ago today that I reported to you that in keeping with our desire to be obedient to Scripture, when uh Doug and Linda McElroy said that Brian, not only now, after six months of not gaining any weight, was beginning to lose weight. I mean the fellow's only a year old. And he hasn't gained weight since he was six months old. That becomes a serious matter. And particularly then when he wasn't eating And when he would eat, he wouldn't hold down, and then he was beginning to lose weight. They came to us and they said, in keeping with James 5, would the elders come and meet with us and anoint him with oil and pray over him? And we see that. But it's in the pastoral context of the dealing with and examining our lives and coming before the Lord humbly together. And two weeks ago we did that. And they called this week. And they've mentioned that since that Sunday. Brian's gained nine and a half ounces. He's only outgrown one ounce. He's eating four meals a day, and he's keeping them all down. And God has worked in answer to prayer because, well, we trust him. He is He's able to meet our needs. He's able to meet your need, too. Let's pray. Lord, how we thank you for your faithfulness. Lord, how we thank you for what you've done in little Brian McIlvoy. Lord, he becomes even more special to us now as a congregation as we look at him as a trophy of your faithfulness. faithfulness. Lord with Doug and Linda, we would never choose these kinds of things. We would never choose the ache and the longing and the anxiety of those months, watching him not gain, and wondering What it is. But Lord, how special now to see you in the inscrutable mystery of your character, choose to use Him to honor yourself as a God who hears and answers prayer. Lord, we pray that He'll care. Continue. We don't presume and just back off now. We know that you're a God who wants us to continue to persevere and to press on. And so we thank you for that. We continue to pray that He'll grow, thrive, and continue on. But Lord, we thank you that you've given to us, given him to us to encourage us to be like him. To follow you fully. Lord, we pray that you will help us to examine those places in our lives. Where we compromise, where we say, Well, the Lord's basically faithful, but I just don't see any way that He could get me through this. Lord help us to know in our own hearts when something is compromised or when it's simply something that's difficult that we must live with. Keep us, Lord, from the guilt that I would make us think that every area where we're not seeing something spectacular happen is an area of lack of faith. But on the other hand, Lord, keep us from rationalizing those areas of unbelief, coming to accept them, and to not press on to honor you with our trust. you would do that, for Lord, we know that we are helpless to find property and to get a place where we can establish a better base for ministry. But we know that you tell us, Lord, that we can trust you fully all for us to do. And if we trust you wholly, we'll find you wholly true. We bring to you then our needs, our longings, our compromises, our sins, that you might change us. We know that there's somebody here who has never even come to Jesus for that forgiveness of sin, which would bring that person to see the delight that there is in the faithfulness of Jesus to take away sin. Lord, what are we doing? We might know your strength and honor you. Amen.