This morning, we conclude our examination of Second Peter chapter. two verse thirteen. But in keeping with his promise we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. We see that again in the context. Second Peter forty three, verses one to thirty three, following in the Bible of Amazon You friends, this is now my second letter to you. I have written both of them as reminders to stimulate you to help and focus. I want you to recall the words spoken in the past by the Holy Prophets and the command given by our Lord and Savior through the apostles. First of all, you must understand that in the last days suffers will come. talking and following the remains of his eyes. They were saying, creation's coming, he cried. Ever since our fathers died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation They deliberately suggested long ago by God's will, the heavens exist, the glory formed a glory, and this one. I water also the world of that time is blended and destroyed. By the same word that settled heavens and earth are reserved for Christ. You repress for the God's judgment and the question of ungodly knowledge. But let's forget this one thing, my friend. For the Lord, a day is like a thousand years. And a thousand years is like a day. The day is not slowing, keeping his promise, and someone is going to slowness. Be patient with me. Well no one's a parent. Nobody wants to come to the present. Heavy to disappear with a roll. The elements will be destroyed by fire and the earth and everything in it would be made by earth. Everything will be destroyed in this way. What can it keep like you to do? We have to move holding God in our look forward as we go with God and see the coming. That they will bring about the destruction of the heavens by fire and the elements may melt and deceit. And in keeping with this parents, we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of life. Take a moment to find people. Well board compared to our minds with little effect. Words like these could never go so long without our presence, discern and awe, moderation, and remember of the nature of the time. Not as well. At many people. We would be moved by your space. At least we can Here is the same thing. The learning, the artists, the country, more extra things. We come before you many needs. And there are different kinds of needs. Very spirit, we know that. Because if you take this there, you can take the other easy. The material of the timer. the basic of the comics and the response, our responses to this comic. The nature of the hope, the basis of the hope, and our response to the hope. As we looked at part one, part one, the lookout of the hopes he started in a world of The world of economic breakdowns, the threats of international, hyperinflationary goals, and the rest of us. The world of political collapse Well, there's international countries, Central America, Green, Soviet Union, Japan, Afghanistan. Middle East, Southeast, Asia. Mixed of all of this. You missed it not only that kind of turmoil but also personal turmoil. Mixed of the things that you missed probably And all these things that you and I are called to look for a new heaven and a new earth, which is going to operate one hundred percent God's will. A new heavens and a new earth in which everything's going to be done by God's will. Because the people of a new covenant with a new name for the new Jerusalem awaiting a new world. A world in which not only would they be made sin, but even be a text system. Now having dwelled on black hope a little bit, I'd like to learn to look at the basics of black hope and then I respond to that hope. Please read on the top of the one in the outline. The battery of the hood. And what is the battery of that hope's apparent? Both of the food is by But in keeping with his promise. In keeping with his promise, we're looking forward to new heavenly new earth and home and writing. It's three references in this process. Susan, that sun, the embrace or two of uh where is the coming to comma. Very plan. The word like slow and keeping to karma become understand slowness Back to the Genesis paper in chapter one and verse four by telling us that through these the Lord has given to us very grave and precious promises, so that through them we might participate in the divine nature and state accepted. But Peter's very big on God's promise. And his question is, why do we hate? And the reason that we hope is because God has karma and you haven't been away and that's not right. That importantly is karma. And he's a God whom we can depend on. A God who cannot last. The very heavens are on earth himself, depend on. How do you want this? And some great power sounds. You can get this to God if you appropriate people Israel. I see your your slaves with Egypt. And I'm going to call you out. I'm going to deliver you from the Egyptians. The mighty slaven on earth if I can. It seemed like a ridiculous promise. Something so great that no one could conceive of a promise like that being fulfilled. And what we know is a bad how that humbles, and maybe it's disciplination. He brought Israel out into the desert. He said, I'm going to bring you into the land of Canaan, the land of a sweet land and a rich land, and I'm going to fetter you. And what do we read in Joshua chapter 21 and verse 43? The record is that the Lord gave Israel all the land that he had sworn to give their forefathers. They took possession of it and settled it. So I gave them rest on every side, just to give one to their four fathers. Not one of their enemies just didn't The Lord handed all their enemies over to them. In fact, not one of all the Lord's good promises to the house of Israel failed. Everyone was forgiven. Israel was unfaithful in the land. If I said when you call on me, I will deliver you. Though you're unfaithful, I'll continue to show myself faithful to you. And so they drive out against me. They continue to be settled in that land and God raises up David and extends the borders of the land. And Solomon to extend them further. And they build a mighty temple, the temple for God's honor, which is a wonder of the nations. And what was Solomon's testimony at the dedication of that temple? 1 Kings chapter 8, verse 56. Solomon begins to praise there by saying, Praise be to the Lord who has given rest to his people Israel. That's what he can. Not one word has failed of all the good promises that he believed he has saved at me. The same God promised to send them as fast He promised to send a Savior who is going to die to the kings of his people, one who was going to take the punishment of David Haven. Did he just promise? Did God fulfill this promise? When I look at the record of the church we see in the New Testament, we see that God sent him. He fulfilled that promise uttered so many times in Messiatic prophecies through the Old Testament again and again and again. God fulfilled that to the letter Jesus fulfilled every promise that God had made for us. Jesus said something else. Jesus said, I'm coming with you. Jesus said in Matthew 24 that I'm going to come at a time when you don't speak for us. And going to come at a time because you've got to be constantly ready because When you guide down, when you can't just think, oh, he's not going to come again, then I'm going to come. If you just have going into the path, the angel promises the word of God. This thing Jesus that you've seen going to heaven is going to come again. What did he see in the head? Writing them letter after letter because the good Jesus who has gone is going to come again. We're going to be given new bodies, and the tenth of an eye we're going to be clothed. We're going to be brought into that new heaven, to that new earth. Thomas Thessalonians, I don't want you to mourn because Jesus is coming again. And Jesus is going to purpose to be living in transformed bodies and going to join our loved ones. Every single New Testament writer speaks of the second coming of Jesus Christ and reiterates that promise. He's coming again. Did he fulfill his promise to Israel? Did he fulfill his promise in sending Jesus the first time? And why is he on our back? with that promise. We will still soon await it for going to be fulfilled just this precipitate that we have come. Your hope and my hope is simply the Holy Spirit. And that's good, so maybe you're saying at this point now, you know about that hood stuff with floating it I remember how uh God spoke to me last week in thinking of the glory of the new heavens and the new earth and what that is going to mean and I really just kind of excited when I think about that and spend time as Christian, but When I'm going through the week, it seems a bit unreal. More like a story book. More like reading about morning. Great place to visit. Nice to read the stories. But I don't really think of it as a real place. Somehow we've started to associate heaven and the new heavens and the new earth with Maria or something like that. So we don't really accept If I demanded a peak, he might be there. Without a toe wheel and a toe imminent, it was trusting the reality of it to break in apart in a moment What's the problem? The problem is here I have brought into the good life of the startup. Discoverization of our age. We bought into the status who says that it's really nice and Peter spent time helping us to understand the status. Look at his line of thought First of all, he told us what the stop is saying in verses 3 and 4. Notice back now in 2 Peter chapter 3. Peter said, first of all, you've got to understand that in the last days, stoppers will come, stopping and following their own evil design. And they'll say, where is the coming from Ever since my father died, everything has gone as it did since legitimate police. You think you must notice By elephant. It is not painting a side point that I don't want you to miss, but the very start is here wrestling implies that users did not come immediately after the requestment. So that people do say that there's going to be a problem. People are going to expect Jesus to come and it's not going to happen one day. And so there's going to arise a problem of people who say, it's been a long time and he hasn't come. But that in itself could be a comfort to you and to me, because if we read all the passages of the imminent return of Jesus, then we have to realize that God did not promise and say that Jesus returned to do just a few years after left. In fact, he's such a passage like this one to say there's going to come a problem for the church, in which there will be stoppers who will say it's been a long time and he still hasn't come And so that's helpful for us to realize that God put that into account. But what does a start is really saying? Their argument is based on what is sometimes called by scientists a closed system of the universe. They're simply saying there is no speaking access. What you see is what you get. And the world that we see is all there is. There's nothing else. And this world is continued just the same over the last thousands of years. And why should we explain That some supernatural fantastic event like the return of Jesus Christ is going to happen. It doesn't make sense. Nobody in this scientific room believes that kind of thing anymore. Very simple, but that's not what he said. He's working on something very subtle. I still remember in my University of Pennsylvania I took a course from a fellow He was one of the world's great archaeologists to be cooked after 20 years in Texas book, an authority on biblical archaeology He was a man who did not believe in the supernaturalist. And we used to go out at hammer and tongue and class itself because there was there was no one else that I remember myself that supported the supernaturalist resistance But always amazed me was the argument that he would use with his coated rock to finally put me in my place. He'd look at me with a riveting smile and say, Mr. Hair Do you realize how few people hold your position compared to how many hold the positions around a thousand? Now even as a pretty naive person, that struck me as a rather curious argument from a scholar to say there's more on my side than there are on your side He wasn't dealing with the evidence. He wasn't taking the Bible seriously. He was intimidating me. He was stalking in a sophisticated, urban way. He was the kind of thing that could get under your chin. You see, what Steve's talking about here is not something that's obvious to be looking and saying, yes, stop the stopper. See where it's up. Write him on. Stop it. We can write him off. Talking about Carl Solgan on TV. He's talking about the kind of people that have great crafters. And in their subtle intimidations, they say to Christians, you don't really believe He sees it is kind of a way, isn't it? And look by the way that person, you and I back off because You are really believed that. And after all things have gone along, you know, pretty naturally over the last couple thousand years. Why do I think it's something so amazing Okay, finally, but are these stories moving perhaps in another realm of reality? Then Peter goes on to tell us that the stop is ignorant in verses 5 to 7. Make it sense. Peter says, now why have they said this? What they're ignoring, it says in verse 5, they deliberately suggest that long ago, by God's word, the heavens existed In other words, he's saying this this word God who promised that Jesus is coming to them, that same word is the word that created the heavens. Not only that he says, but the earth was formed out of water and with water And by water also the world of that time with values been destroyed. By the same word, the present heavens are revered by five new cups for the day of judgment discussion of God in the results Of course. He could say this, he's referring to the days of Noah. He's referring to that time when everybody said that then. Everything continued as it was. And here's this character mower building the clean orbiter on the top of the mountains. Now, how ridiculous can you get? And God is saying, very deliberately forget with that same attitude descriptive in the rings of Noah. People would walk past Noah and they'd say no What are you doing? I'm building your mind. Why are you building on it, man? Because God told me to do it. Well no, what's the earth gonna be doing up here on this mountain? Well you don't know it because God has come. He's gonna come afles and it's gonna destroy the whole earth. And everybody laughs and laughs and laughs and laughs and they all walk away taking their head more. Because more knowledge, but God keeps his promise. And so God told you if he did it. While these people stop, they deliberately forget The delay is no indication of a promise unfulfilled. Noah built that off for hundreds of years. During all that time, people said, oh, now it's 100 degrees. God says, not only is the name, the indication of a time of end for sin. God says, I'm about to make Christmas. And when it comes, it comes suddenly. And as in the days of Noah, just when we think that all things are continuing and there's no supernatural element. As well, as I bring for you and finally. Why is it going to place the heavens and go? Because I'm going to pray that I keep on You see, the father ignore that. They deliberately forget that. They want to forget that because they want to discredit God's word so that they can live their lives without his authority. And every person in this room is in a position of saying, I welcome God's authority over my life. I submit myself to the Bible, and I want to So I resist that. I don't want anyone willing my life. I don't want to submit my life to the authority of anyone. And if I see that the Bible claims to have that authority over me, I'll discredit the Bible so that I can look my life to Bible. Every one of us. Either build ourselves under the authorities gifted by the Holy Spirit fortunate, or we lift that authority over that. A spirit ignore it, they deliberately ignore it. They don't want to believe it. Now in this, votes eight to ten, the verses are eight to eleven He says now I want you to see one thing to come. He said I want you to remember three things. Remember tempting to death because of what the chapter says. Three things Jesus says, I want you to remember. Notice what they are. First of all, in verse 8, Jesus says, I want you to remember that God's time here is not ours. God's counsel is not all. You see there in verse 8, but do not forget this one thing, this one. The Lord today is like a thousand years, and a thousand years, and like a day. Jesus hasn't come for two thousand years now. That certainly proves that he's not going to come It's been so long. After 2,000 years, we silly don't still expect that that's going to happen. He hasn't come in all these lifetimes Might be a few hours. Come and forward one all times and visit the parking. We live by a railway stuff. And if all comes and uh welcomes them, sticking them around some feel things going up and down there. Every once in a while there's a great big huge monster coming down these two lands that could cross a new air to not even notice it. That was a great big blue line down that place. Well that lay out and put off the stuff. Put the other lamp stuff, the Goopon stuff on top of that cat. And he takes his antenna to size. He says, okay, if it looks like a monster, come on down and check and run me over now. And just to say I'm gonna build my house right here on this track. Well, so nothing that happens Instead of five ten. Two hours in the life of an aunt for a long time. Yeah, hang on there all afternoon and think that because of our nothing could ever happen to you everything. What the life of an air could you an argument could have? We are saying so far. That's why I want to give you some inside information. I want you to understand this thing from my perspective. A day's like a thousand years to me, and a thousand years in life again. Two thousand years doesn't mean anything. The promise of business return is our fact exactly as much as we take this moment as it was five minutes after the link of the sake of use of the two heaven for coming in I found it hasn't been the new standard. The second thing, Peter Grace, do you and I need to remember Because delay is like slowness but patience. Delay is like slowness but patience. See what he says. The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise. He contrasts that then with the next thing. He's not slow keeping his promise, or some understand slowness, rather he's truthful with you. Not wanting what he wanted to code. Come to the papers. You know, slowness and pieces is simply a matter of perspective A half hour to a person having a great time is patient. To a person who is undergoing a severe trial is immense slowness I still remember as a little kid going to an amusement park with my dad. And we stood in line waiting for the fellowship. I waited for about three minutes for this ride to get over to the Pharisee. I feel like a very long time. It was very slow for me, those three minutes that I had to wait to be able to get on to the Pharisees When I got onto the perfect, something happened at that time that's never happened to me before or since. Turned out that nobody else was waiting for that perfect wheel and my father began to talk to the guy operating the ferrous wheel and so he forgot all about me. We just let that ferrofield go uh I think I've done that thing for fifteen minutes. But all the time I've gone around and around and around the time, boy, this guy too. No, I thought it's probably right. He's a very decent man down here, isn't he? Giving me lots of a ride because he's so kind and so patient If you look at Jesus' palace only, what you've missed is that as long as the words die, other people are being brought into the kingdom From here I hear the promise of the recovery of Jesus Christ's father. At that moment no one else will ever again be saved. Food of heaven at that moment will be sucked, and no one ever again will come to the country and find life in Jesus Christ. That's a very sobering thought, especially when you consider the fact that of all the people who have ever lived in the history of the world, over 10% are alive today. But we're patience. He might learn that any to pay. But he is gathering people to himself and tell him his patience to know his belongs to return of his heart. So it more. But at some point, God's timing will have ended. Jesus will come. And your confidence will have come to an end. But let's remember as we see the delay of the law, and we constantly think that that means the problem is not going to be fulfilled, but that is simply a little indicating that God's interesting Very pretty thing to Then the third thing when I need to remember is that this coming will be sudden like a fever. It will be sudden and unexpected, like a thief. That's in tell this people come. But the day of the Lord will come like a sea The heavens will disappear with a roar and the elements will be destroyed by fire on the earth and everything in it will be laid there and torn down You think we and I need to realize that God's not going to give us a ten-year warning. God's not going to tell us in some some uh infallible way. Time's getting close. There's only five years left now. Now four years left. Three years left. Somehow we got this idea that that when Jesus comes, we're gonna get a warning. We're gonna know that our our faith will be built up and being able to tell you. Now he hasn't come to 2000 years, but I know that it's only ten years off. Well now it's only five years up. But God is saying, you see, it's it's going to look like he may not come for a long time. But you may be tempted to think, why haven't you come all this time? Moment to say it was going to be very, very obvious. You see, December 7, 1941 was a very peaceful day. And nobody expected that there was going to be a raid on Pearl Harbor to change the history of the war Up until that time, as a lot of last indication was tension here at the time. People could read the phones. So much so that when the raid occurred and all the bombings, people looked back and they said, you know, we really should have known that it was coming. That's where it can be peaceful. Very peaceful. Peaceful morning. Everybody living their lives in a normal life. And Jesus can end. People don't say, you know, we really should have been able to see that our eyes open. If he was coming, could have been very clear. That's why he was going on his mind. You know I'm looking at this world. But when the time comes, God says it's going to be like a speech, it's going to be unexpected. Because he would. He accepted with any time. Jesus comes to be very, very simple. And he has promised and everything. Let me ask you, do you find that God's promise is specific to you? Do you say that Peter, in speaking with his promise, what is intelligence? Would you say, well, promise didn't left? Does God promise enough to meet all of the words alone? Did God promise to meet all of the material and spiritual needs for Christians? Do you act on that college? We do give an electoral account of those pharmaces and then lose by your wrist. We call it common sense. Gotta provide for ourselves. Certainly God calls us to make for the word and to plan to the people. But do we rely on his promises or do we simply try to work things out for ourselves? God is given up his son and seek his son. And he wants to live. Let me ask you also this question. Do you find people to be attempted to? Or do you find that they have answered a question you've never bothered to ask? You haven't really cared that Jesus hasn't come back yet. See Peter's going to compose you to give comfort to people who are having a problem. And he said I want to help you to understand that problem, come to grips with that, why do you have to come with it? It's got to be a problem in order for us to appreciate the new solutions. Sort of like if I were to tell you, you realize that Pops of our hornblower was expected in Columbia last week. Well, if I were to tell you that you might say, well, that's very fine, but I If I have no interest in hexaby hornblower, I can tell us that he has to buy hornblower is expected last week and hasn't yet arrived. But let's suppose that I tell you if your husband or your wife or some member of your family was expected last week. and haven't arrived. No, that's an interest in why that's not the case. Paul of a sudden you're very interested in all the details and the possibilities of why your husband or wife or that person who loves so much is not yet in Columbia. You see the reason why you and I don't find Peter's words so comforting is often because we're not really that concerned if Jesus hasn't returned yet Well, they haven't told you, yeah. We want to accept it. And really sort of just find them to live on their own pay. What a question Peter's saying the the devotion to Jesus, the longing to Jesus, the longing for that new heaven without me should be so great that you should be saying to yourself again and again, Why everyone has Jesus have become again? And we have to remind ourselves. Well, remember it's because God comes to us out of us. Remember it's because of his pleasures. Remember it's going to be very unexpected, and it could be tonight or tomorrow or this week. And that we need to continue to remind each other without reasons, because we're so longing for it, we're so living on tiptoe, looking for it. That's about expect If you consider what's going on, that's the way we do. What else then matters to respond to the hope. The response to the hope that happens. Matters that you could be easily looking to be He gives us three classical effects of the previousness noted from there in verses eleven to fourteen. Three practical effects. Verse eleven, the effect is holy and godly living. Notice what he says. Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people are you to be? Rather live holy and godly lives. What does he mean by that? You see, remember holy in the Bible means to be set apart. Because what Peter is saying is that your lives need to be set apart for him. Godly lives need to be like God So what he's really telling me is you and I need to live with the new age in our lives and in our hearts. We are people set apart for the new heavens and the new earth For righteousness. Here are people who are set apart for that newer heavens and a new earth where everything will be godly, remember? Like God, then God's way. reflected in the way you live and live. If that's where your citizenship is, you reflect that in the way you live. Remembering that you're a phone of you and not a citizen here If you've ever traveled abroad, you may just. Then you go to Europe. If you travel through Europe, you enjoy Europe. You enjoy all of the things you haven't seen before, things you could look forward to seeing, and you enjoy them. But you don't do it as a European citizen. You do it with a consciousness that even though you adapt to the culture that you're in at that point, you're still an American citizen And at least the way you do things is according to the culture you've been brought up in. And when you're going through that, you're looking forward to getting home Because there's no place like home. And you want to go back to your home in America. Peter says that's just the way it is with us. Our home is an idea Godliness by the reflection of our citizenship. See, because you're in this every third, but remember as we said last week, obsolete It's about to be destroyed. And you realize as you travel through this heavens in the earth, if your citizenship in your home is in the new one. And so your lifestyle reflects that. You're set apart to it. And you live like it. Second thing he says, this is you and I long for and hasten today, verse 1. See what he says, we can look forward to the glory of God and see the coming of hasten today. They will bring about the destruction of the heaven side fire, the elements will melt in peace. But in keeping with this promise, we are looking forward. The new heavens and a move. Wasting shape that we're looking forward to. You're hastening. You're literally on tiptoe with dairy expectations. Could it be today? That's where you and I are thinking and living. You know we do tend to be so comfortable. Do we lose the kind of thing about expectations? We saw among others and five years who say things can help us to long morphism. We see them there with this, first of all, Saturday evening Guys, in the book a step further, writes very vividly about this. If you've read the book, you remember the time where she refers to looking out of an airplane window and seeing clouds Because those clouds look like white mountains. They look so real that you could step on them and that they would hold you up. Because we know that That's just an illusion. But if we were to try and step on them, they wouldn't hold us and we'd go right through. That's the way the promises are displayed up. They look very good. But if you try to make them solid and build your life on them, they'll scatter about you. The person says But broken neck, broken arms, broken homes, and broken heart, these things quite are uneasy to those two people's fancies. And we come to know that the hopes of these churches will never come true. But our dead loved one is gone to make life forever. It will never be as pretty, popular, successful, or famous as we have once imagined. It looks like forever. Remove our eyes from this world which God makes could never satisfy us anyway. And set them on the life to come Heaven becomes our passion. Second thing that God uses is the second. Use the suffering. When we realize that we are bound by a certain kind of suffering, a long-term suffering, it makes us long for release. The Spirit is used to speak of being weaned from the world Like a baby being ruled from his mother's breath. Being ruled from Africa's pundit, from suffering, and cause it from heaven, from God's music, loved ones around the floor. Loved ones will die to make it long to the new heavens in the new earth. Riley says also in a book. When I think of heaven, I think of a time when I will be welcomed home. I remember when I was on my feet, what a crazy, wonderful feeling it was to come home after a hockey class How perfect we hear the familiar clang of bells against our backdoors like when it is. We fight away with the sights, the sounds, the smells of once and mouth. Mommy looking with a wide smile as she dipped our food in three bowls ready to be set on the table. I throw down my sweatsuit, the hockey clips, down into the gun and reach out. He turned on his desk, taking off his glasses, he gives him a big pie and asked me how practice is. Our kind Heavenly Father will greet us with good open arms. And brief us our all together will be able to welcome it to us. You want to be a flame, won't you feel? Well we will be the best in responsibility. So whatever things we're going through now. Typically not, it's some passover that you've got to put up with. Don't forraise the Lord and say, How can you be kind when I'm going through all of this? The two victims that God puts us in our minds, the sad delusions, the suffering, those particularly as we get older, die about it in the Lord. If I know you using that to make you know, but I've been having some ears and I haven't completed successfully. Finally, the last thing Because the D and I make it to be found in Him. Verse 14 says, Say unto your friend, since we're looking forward to this, make every effort to be found spotless, blameless, and at peace again. Bear in mind that our Lord takes us to your salvation. Are you thoughtless, blameless? I mean keep your God with Lord. What he's talking about there is not how we live. What he's talking about there is our relationship. So you and I can never live a life that is flatless, lameless, important, according to the PI, the two standards, and fly. He's talking about a peace that we have with him because we are spotless. And the right of the Jesus Christ Because we're blameless, because Jesus has kept the law for us, and he credited through our account that blamelessness So the one person. One person here this morning who is outside of Jesus Christ. They have to thought I'm good for the words you can. Are you ready because you are spotless and blameless and abuse to them? Because you realize that there's nothing that you could do to whatever makes yourself right yourself Only to the feed of three that he blanks. So that when he has come to land, he doesn't come, as he blanks, and those glasses. As we look forward to that day of God and the seed is coming, that day will bring about destruction of the heavens by fire and the elements will melt in the deep. Total, powerless expression. That is moving over to you, by the way to God, by a new life in Jesus Christ, by turning from your sin and trusting in yourself to trust the Jesus only of what he's trying to sin. It is you, and the rest of the faith can say, speaking of his comments, will it control your new heavens? And a new earth, the home of righteousness That will hurt the cleanest. Quite different than this too. There's a given opportunity now for any of you who would like to lead it. Respond to God and praise the God And we are playing loud enough so that we can all hear you and leave it.