If you return to John chapter 13, I want us to remember that this is a second in a series of sermons for those of you who are here for the first time today. We're continuing in a series of sermons based upon Jesus' last conversation with his disciples. The night that he was betrayed by Judas and arrested, he had a series of conversations during and following the dinner. That he celebrated the Passover with his disciples. And beginning in verse 33 of chapter 13, I want to read through John chapter 14, verse 6. My children, I will be with you only a little longer. You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now where I am going, you cannot come. A new command I give you, love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. Simon Peter asked him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus replied, Where I am going, you cannot follow now, but you will follow later. Peter asked, Lord, why can't I follow you now? I'll lay down my life for you. Then Jesus answered, Will you really lay down your life for me? I tell you the truth, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times. Do not let your hearts be troubled Trust in God. Trust also in me. In my father's house there are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you. I'm going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you with me, that you also may be where I am. You know the way to the place where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we don't know where you're going, so how can we know the way? Jesus answered, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me I think it's important to note this morning that Jesus is not simply telling his disciples how to live once he's gone. He's communicating to them the problem that they have now. And that's the problem that we share with them. For you see, we as a humanity Are separated from God. And we need to be with Him and to be at peace with Him. We have an incredible need that says we cannot be satisfied unless we are with God But sin, on the other hand, has created an insurmountable distance between God and man. That's the first blank. This week I spared you, you only have two blanks, and they're right at the beginning. If you need to catch them, you'll catch them quickly. But there is an insurmountable distance between man and God. A distance that we cannot bridge. There is a gap which we cannot traverse. And Jesus is pointing that out to the disciples. He says to them, Where I go, you can't go. You cannot be with me. Peter says he'll do it in his own power. He'll go with him wherever, because he's willing to lay down his life to serve Jesus. And Jesus looks at him and says, No, I'm sorry. You can't do it. And as a matter of fact, you'll betray me three times before the morning. Now we might think that this is a distance that we as Christians are aware of because we understand that wondrous concept of sin. But I challenge you this morning that if those of you who are here do not know Jesus, you too know the distance. You know the gap. And we who do know Jesus also are aware of that gap. It's painfully clear. I've been reading a book lately called Grown-Ups, A Generation in Search of Adulthood. It's written by a woman who is clearly not a Christian. Her name is Cheryl Mercer. It's a very good book. But the whole premise of her book is this. That the post-war generation, post-1945 generation, has grown up seeking to find fulfillment in some way by thinking that they can become the adults they saw their parents to be. They look at life and they say, They've arrived. I haven't. So they try and measure themselves against the standards that their parents set. Do I have a single family home, a wife who stays at home? Kids who grow up and go to college, two cars, a boat, vacations every year. And they struggle. We as a generation struggle for those sorts of things to mark off having arrived. We as Christians try and do the same sort of thing. Larry Crabbe has a book out called Inside Out, one which those of us in this congregation who've regularly been here have heard much about. For those of you who haven't heard much about it, I'd commend it to you. But in the beginning, in his introduction, he has this paragraph. Beneath the surface of everyone's life, especially the more mature, is an ache that will not go away. It can be ignored, disguised, mislabeled, or submerged by a torrent of activity. But it will not disappear, and for good reason. We were designed to enjoy a better world than this. And until that better world comes along, we will groan for what we do not have. An aching soul is evidence not of neurosis or spiritual immaturity, but of realism. You see, we long for a place with God. We know we do not have it Jesus having come as God to man reveals that we are not with God the Father. We don't have that place with him yet. And we ache for it. Non-Christians thinking it can be fulfilled by all sorts of material things because that's what they see. Christians realize we haven't got it yet and we ache for it. Picture for a moment, close your eyes if you must, but picture for a moment what you envision heaven to be. Think of heaven, get it firmly fixed in your mind. As you realize a comparison between that heaven you can picture and the earth you experience, you have a picture of what sin has done. It has created a barrier between man and God. A barrier that Jesus is telling his disciples in this passage that he is going to eliminate. You see, he is going because man cannot That's the next blank. Jesus eliminates this, meaning this barrier, this distance, this gap. And he does it in a number of ways The first of which is he as God comes to man. He is the Emmanuel, the God with us. He is the one who has come from God to man to show us who God is. To whet our appetite. You see, we're transfixed by Jesus. We know who He is. We see a picture of God in Him because He's not God fully revealed. And he's also not us going to be with God in heaven, where our home is. He is God coming to us temporarily But you see, he is going. In verse 36 of chapter 13, he says, Where I am going, you cannot follow now. But the wondrous promise. But you will follow later. He says in chapter 14, verse 2, that he is going to his father's house. In chapter 3, he says, if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you with me. In verse 4, he says, You know the way to the place I am going. In chapter 14, verse 12, he says, I tell you the truth. Anyone who has faith in me will do what I have been doing. He will even do greater things because I am going to the Father. He goes to the Father the next day through the cross. Because he went through the cross and paid the debt for our sin. He can fulfill that promise to take us with him. The cross is an incredible journey. It's amazing to think, and I won't take the time now, but think about what it meant for Jesus God man, perfect in every way, to die on the cross and as we talked of last week, to bear in his body our sin. It was humiliating to Peter to watch Jesus bear Peter's dirt on a towel. But Jesus does more, and he bears our sin on his body. Because he did that, he is now free to take mankind to the Father. He is free to allow us the privilege of joining him on that journey, to dwell in heaven with our Father. And that's what he promises in verse 3. That since he is going, he will come back to take us to be with him. And that's what we as Christians long for. To join him in heaven. To be free of the sin of this world and the sin of our own lives. To worship face to face the Lord and the Father that await us in heaven. Well, not only does Jesus eliminate the distance, but he also offers peace. For you see, we not only need that place with God. But it's not enough to be with him in judgment. It is enough to be with him in peace. And you'll notice throughout that Jesus is speaking in this conversation about peace. He says in Verse 1 of chapter 14, do not let your hearts be troubled. Don't lose the moment in this. He has just told Peter that Peter will betray him. And the next sentence from his mouth is, don't let your hearts be troubled. If you sense a distance with God this morning in your own relationship. Jesus is speaking to you. Don't let your hearts be troubled. It's not your power that matters. He goes on in chapter 14, verse 27, and he says. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled, and do not be afraid. At the end of chapter 16, as he concludes the conversation with the disciples, his last sentence to them is this: I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble, but take heart. I have overcome the world. Jesus not only gives us peace in the now, but he gives us peace in the hereafter. You see, he provides for us both a place with God and peace with God. I almost feel I should end the sermon there because that's so incredible. But Jesus goes on. Not only does Jesus point out the need and promise the solution, but he tells us of the journey. And he alone can promise the peace. He alone can give us the journey. Let me just make one quick comment before we go on to talking about what he says about the journey, and that is that if you think that Jesus isn't the only way And you don't know the Jesus who's speaking to us this morning. And now that sounds harsh. It sounds egotistical. But don't confuse the messenger with the one who makes the truth. The one who claims to be the truth. It is not I who decided that Jesus is the only way. It is Jesus who reveals to us that he is the only way. And the reason he's the only way is because sin is so serious. For you see, if we really understand how horrible sin is, we know that no man can offer any sort of hope of peace with God. Because no man can have peace himself with God. Were that to be the case, Jesus' coming would have been unnecessary, and his death would have been a mockery. And you wouldn't be here this morning because you wouldn't seek peace through him. Well, what does he have to say about the journey Well, first of all, he says that he is the I am. Sometimes we begin to think that Jesus is a good teacher, but he's not God. We fall into the trap of those who said that he never really claimed to be God. He sort of avoided the issue and gave us ideas that it might be true, but never really came straight out to say it. Here he says it. He says that he is. He says, I am the way. The Greek that he uses is redundant. And every place that you see this, I am. Not every place, but I'll list several for you this morning. Many places where Jesus says, I am. He's saying, I, I am. In the Greek, to simply say the verb in a particular form says who did it and what they did. If he'd simply said the verb, he would have said, I am. But he didn't say that. He said, I, I am the way. And he's making a play on the name of God Yahweh. It's completely redundant. It is repetitively redundant for Jesus to say, I, I am, unless he's making the point that he is equating himself with Yahweh. The God of the Jews. He says this in John chapter 6, verse 35, where he talks about, I am the light. He says it in chapter 8, verse 12. He says it in chapter 8, verse 58. In 858, he says, I tell you the truth. Jesus answered, Before Abraham was born, I am. He goes on to say it in chapter 10, chapter 11, chapter 14, and chapter 15. It's not an accident And if you think that this is unclear in any way, listen to the Jews' response in chapter 8, when Jesus said, before Abraham was born, I am. At this, they picked up stones to stone him. They understood he was claiming to be God. There was no question in their mind. But because he was God, they were unable to stone him. His time had not come. And he slipped away. We need to understand this morning that if Jesus' claim to being God is not true, then his following three claims of being the way, of being the truth and being alive are equally false. He cannot be one. He cannot be three without being the one. For you see, salvation required an outside power. As you look at your lives this morning and as you look at the lives of those around you, think of the powerlessness you see. Would you be here this morning if you in your own sufficiency could have peace? Would you realize please the need of those around you for that same peace? You see, we have something incredible that God has given to us, and we need to share it. Their need is as deep as ours. So what does Jesus say about the way? He says he is, and then he says, I am the way. And I think we have a question to ask ourselves this morning. If you were to class yourself as a wanderer or a pilgrim, which would it be? The question that answers that question is: are you aware of where you're going? We are all on a journey. We are all traveling because we are not where we belong. But the question is, do you know where you belong? Do you know where you're going? For those who follow Jesus, who love him, the answer is clear. Jesus gives it himself. He says in chapter 14, verse 4, You know the way to the place where I am going. Not only do we know the destination, we know the way. If you're in Jesus this morning, it is entirely possible for you to know where you're going. And not only that, but to know the road there. In Jesus, we can have assurance. We can have assurance of our salvation and of the God who has given it to us. There's a story, I can't verify the circumstances, but I can certainly verify the truth that the story presents. Of an old woman who was on her deathbed, a great woman of faith. And her pastor came to visit her. And as they were having conversation, the pastor asked her, Do you know where you're going? When you close your eyes in this life, do you know where you'll open them next? And she looked at him with a smile and said, Oh yes. Oh yes. And he looked at her to try and probe. And he said, Well, what if you don't wake up in heaven? And she looked at him with a sad look and said, Well then God would have lost more than I Now the pastor was taken aback by this, and should any of you try to share the same thing with me, I'll probably be somewhat taken aback as well, because my first inclination, as his was, would be to think that that's a statement of utter pride. That God would lose more by not taking her to heaven than he would gain if he took her? And she saw the pastor's confusion and she said If I don't wake in heaven, I've lost heaven. But God loses his honor. For he has promised that those who believe in Jesus will be with him. And God will not lie. We can have that same confidence. We can have that same assurance of where we are destined to end. And that means that you're a pilgrim. You're not a wanderer. For as the Jews wandered for forty years in the wilderness, it was because they knew not how to get where they knew they needed to go. We do not have a question of either the destination or the road. Jesus is the road. He has provided for us that destination. Jesus is the truth. As children of God, we are now free to know truth. And we are free of our bondage to our Father of Lies. There is a typo on the outline, it says the truth of the Father of Lies, and that's not the case. It's truth or father of lies. If you're a child of God, you have the possibility of truth and confidence and peace in the knowledge of that truth. Our society is one which has cut itself off from truth. And we live in a world which has been cut free from truth. In today's society, there are no absolutes. We are a culture that denies black and white truth. There is truth, there is falsehood, I guarantee it to you this morning. I will not agree with Somerset Mom, who as a representative of our society has said this. The only thing I know for sure is that I don't know anything for sure. It sounds humorous, but it's horrible. Can you not know anything for sure? Can you not know that Jesus is Christ, that he is God and man, that he has brought salvation? Can you not know the God who created this world is going to return us to himself and he is going to deal with sin? Can you not know that God is honest and true in what he reveals of himself, both in his written word, in his creation, and most assuredly in his son, who has revealed the Father? If you think that Somerset Mom is an isolated case, let me read to you an example of what Thomas Edison has said. Thomas Edison is quoted as saying, we do not know one millionth part of one percent about anything. We do not know what water is. We do not know what light is. We do not know what electricity is. We do not know what gravity is. We do not know anything about magnetism. We have a lot of hypotheses, but that's all. Given the technological explosion that's taken place since Thomas Edison, we may claim to know more than a millionth of one percent. But I don't think we know a percent yet. Albert Einstein is another example. There was a conversation on his sailboat at one point, and it drifted back and forth from profundities about the nature of God, about the universe and man. To lighter questions. Suddenly Einstein lifted his head, looked up at the skies, and said, We know nothing about it at all. Our knowledge is but the knowledge of school children Someone asked him, Do you think we shall ever probe the secret? And he responded, possibly we shall know a little more than we do now. But the real nature of things, that we shall never know. Never. You can't know those things on your own because you can't discover it. We are not capable of it. We are like Job being questioned by God as he says, Were you there when I placed the world on its foundations? But Jesus is the truth. Jesus gives us that truth, and he reveals to us himself. And the most spectacular thing that Jesus reveals to us is God. He says in his passage, in answering Thomas, Or Philip. Philip asks him, Lord, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us. Jesus answered, Do you know me, Philip, even after I've been among you such a long time? Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Don't you believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? You see, Jesus reveals to us, God the Father, that greatest and most profound of mysteries, Jesus reveals. And we can have confidence in that answer. The amazing thing is we can have confidence in the truth that we know because it's not of our own discovery, it's not of our own derivation, and it's not based upon ourselves. We're incapable of it. But Jesus gives it. Freely. Without the knowledge that we can trust Jesus, we have no peace. Jesus has given us that truth. But Jesus is even more. He is the way, he is the truth, he is the life. And I think this is the most spectacular point that he makes. For as important as it is to know where I have to go. And to know that truly that is where I belong, it's meaningless if I have not got the power to get there. Jesus is the life. Alan oftentimes talks about that 11-foot standard that we have to measure up to We're told in the Old Testament that there is a standard we must meet, and we know that it is beyond our power. We're incapable. We have no hope. There is no way. But Jesus tells us by telling us that He is the life that we have that power. I'm not telling you this morning that you have to do something that you can't do in order to get to be with a God who loves you. Jesus by coming and dying. Remember, this conversation is focused on the night that he was betrayed before the day that he died. Jesus by coming and dying gives to you that power. Jesus says of himself in John chapter ten that he came to give life. And to give it to us abundantly. Let me read that passage. He's speaking of himself as a shepherd of the sheep. And in John chapter 10, he calls himself the gate. And then he speaks of the gate. He says, I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved. He will come in and go out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life and have it to the full. He follows on later in the same chapter and says, My sheep listen to my voice. I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life. They shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My father who has given them to me is greater than all. And no one can snatch them out of my father's hand. Immediately after that, the Jews again take up stones to kill Jesus because he's claimed to be able to give something that they cannot understand how he can give. Jesus empowers us to live the life that He calls us to live. At the end of this conversation in John chapter 15, he says Remain in me and I will remain in you. No branch can bear fruit by itself. It must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. If man remains in me, and I in him, he will bear much fruit. Apart from me you can do nothing. He doesn't say life there, but certainly the life-giving sap that we receive through Jesus the true vine is the power we need to do what he calls us to do. We're not given commands to keep, only to realize that we have no ability to keep them. He gives the commands and the ability. And next week, as we begin to look at the Spirit more clearly, we'll see that the Spirit is given for the purpose of empowering us to do what pleases Jesus. Ephesians 5. 18 says, Do not get drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. Galatians 5. 16 says, live by the Spirit, and you'll not carry out the deeds of the flesh. But the question that that I think that raises, and hopefully next week we will answer, is this Who's in charge when we are filled with the Spirit? Is it righteous for us to pray for the Spirit? Only to think that we're gaining power? You see, there's a terrible hunger we have for power and an ability to do the things that God calls us to do. But do you own Jesus or does Jesus own you? And in the same way, can you own the Spirit or can the Spirit own you? And I think this morning that the prayer needs to be not so much that God give us the Spirit to fill us, to enable us and equip us to do what He wants. But I think this morning, as you seek that power, the prayer needs to be, Lord, give me to the Spirit. This morning you need to ask yourself a few questions. Are you at peace? To answer that question, you first have to know where's your home? Philippians 3 says that our citizenship is in heaven, from which we eagerly await for a Savior. Are you home here or are you still traveling? Can you know anything? Can you know where you're going with confidence? Remember that old woman who so clearly knew God that she knew his character and his truth. Or are you living in power? Let me close with another illustration. This is by James McConkie. Speaking of a time where he was visiting a boyhood friend. She was one of God's own saints, rich in experience, and she was ripe for the coming glory. She had gone so far in her life's pilgrimage that her mind was slightly beclouded and her memory affected. Mr. McConnell says, as he rose to go home, She also arose and said, I want to go home. But mother said to her daughter, you're home now. At that, she looked a bit dazed Then looking at me with a tender smile, she said with a profound touch of pathos in her voice, I want to go home before it gets dark. I opened the door and started homeward. The twilight sky was still aglow with the vanishing glory of the sunset. Beyond it lay the glory of the Father's house. My soul was tingling with the spiritual message my dear friend's words had brought me. What an unspeakable blessing for God's children to reach home before it gets dark. Do you know Jesus? Do you know Him as God? As the way, as the truth, as the life, the one who can meet your deepest needs. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, we do thank you that you have given to us and to your disciples your truth. But most especially, Lord, we do thank you that you've given us your Spirit, and we pray this morning that we would be given more fully to the Spirit. Lord, we know that you've given us your spirit as you brought us into saving relationship with yourself, but we also know that you command throughout that we be filled with Again and again with your Spirit, that we might know the God to whom we belong. That we might be empowered to please you. That we might be committed to your service. Lord, you have changed us. You have brought us to yourself. There are many yet who you want to change and who you want to bring to yourself, to make into new men and women capable of pleasing you. We ask this morning that we would be on your side, that we would be men and women who love you, who know you. And who are equipped and able to please you. Focus us upon yourself this morning, Lord, that we might know the way, the truth, and the life, and that we might be filled with the life. We pray this in Jesus' name, knowing that He is God with us and is the one who saves. Amen. One square inch of our homes and our children to Satan in his attempts to divert and to disrupt and to distract. But that we believe that our God is able to be our God. He remembers us, not just the big shots, not just the super saints. He remembers us and our homes. We have a vision of our homes united in Christ and growing in Christ and our children growing up to serve Jesus Christ because of God's covenant blessings that He's given. Then verse 14 and 15, the second thing. He's given to us a vision of his intention to increase us, his people. May the Lord make you increase, both you and your children. May you be blessed by the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth. The one who has made black holes can change lives in Columbia Howard County. The one who is able to do all things because our God is in heaven. Do we have a vision that is so capturing us that it's worth giving our lives to? A vision of what God is doing and can do in establishing his kingdom here through us as his body, in part, linked up with other bodies in the Howard County Coalition for spiritual renewal? Do we have a vision of a changed Columbia in Howard County? Where Jesus Christ is prominent, where people are seeing the bankruptcy of their lives and the spiritual vacuum and they're turning. In not just single numbers, but they're turning in families and in tens and twenties to Jesus Christ. Do we see that with our eyes of faith? If we do, it'll shake us from the danger of stagnation. There's some evidence that going to two services in the fall would help us to do that better. Are we willing to consider that Going to two services this fall, it's an idea for us to think about. To consider, we're considering that now We're thinking of planting a daughter church in the next year or so. It's going to cost us going to be a lot of inconvenience. Do we have a vision that motivates us to do that? We send people out, our best leaders, we send out to the mission field. Always had ambivalence, you know. Love to see them growing up, but you know, I hate to be losing them left and right Do we have a vision that says God will raise up others, keep sending them out? A vision for this facility, $1. 7 million, a vision for all the things that are going to cause us to have to change and be uncomfortable Because we believe that Jesus Christ is worth it. Do you believe that? Let's pray. Lord, we want to pause now. We want to pause and we want to just stop and say again that we believe that you are God as in heaven. You're able to do whatever pleases you. Build our faith, Lord. Forgive us of our doubts and our shaky faith and our unbelief. Build our vision that we might be willing to be shaken from our comfort zones In order to see you use us as a congregation to reach this part of the vineyard for Jesus Christ, because, Lord Jesus, you are so worth it. Amen