I ha have a connection to this, before I read the scriptures, a few things. A connection to this church that you probably don't understand. You mentioned I was with Innovarsity. Al Harris was uh one of the first Innovarsity leaders, uh uh speakers at a conference I went to And uh and he discipled the man who discipled me in university, Tom Bauman and Dave English. So there's a real connection there, of course. He was a pastor here for for many, founder and pastor here for many, many years. Uh we were thrilled in the Presbytery, I'm part of the Chesapeake Presbytery, a few years ago when Pastor Randy stood up as a as a guest to one one meeting and said that he was the the the new pastor here at at Columbia and and that uh and that there was uh there was a a kind of a movement a desire to become part of the PCA we weren't PCA at that time And we've developed a good relationship with Pastor Randy. So it's it's great that he also helps, he teaches at seminary, Metro Baltimore Seminary, where I'm one of the deans there. So it's been great uh just s see being part of what God is doing here in Columbia at Columbia Press. And I'm also also a mentor uh um um Derek Pulliam, you know his wife, she helps me worship here Yovanda sometimes. So And of course, Bill and Sue. They've been friends for years, as I said. So we're just thankful for the fellowship that we have. And thank you for the invitation to preach, particularly on the 4th of July, kind of a special occasion. Which which which which takes me to why I'm preaching on this passage. Again, um I I know there is a summer series on the Psalms, but um when when when I realized it was the Fourth of July, I said, you know, I might uh this message is an adaptation of a message that I preached that the church where I'm the interim patter right now, Grace Reform in Relay, over near Health Work. And uh I preached this sermon uh in January. January after the January insurrection or whatever whatever happened in the Capitol, it was the the Sunday after that where I I moved off of the sermon series and said me Let me talk about what it means to be part of a nation as Christians. And so I thought, gosh, Fourth of July? Maybe something I have to say in that message would help. Would help uh us here today. So I'm gonna read the the the text of scripture. I know in some churches, as the scriptures read, people stand. Do you do that here? I don't want to force you to do that. Do you stand when the scriptures read you? Do you just I will read the scripture. It's 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 11 to 17. Is it on the overhead? I don't know. Get your Bibles out or your screens out. There it is. Very good. ESV translation. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be the emperor as supreme, or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free. Not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, I pray these words would would speak to our hearts. Give us a sense of appreciation for who you are and who we are before you as your people. Lord, bless these this time in your word in Jesus' name. Amen. America, America, God shed his grace on thee. Crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea. It's a song. It's more than a song, though. It's a prayer, isn't it? America is as divided now as it was during the 1960s. Possibly as divided as it was in the 1860s. Do you remember what happened in the 1860s, don't you? I'm not totally surprised by this, but I'm deeply troubled by this, and I hope you are too. What's even more troubling is the lack of sane, peaceful voices. From the Church of Jesus Christ speaking into this. We hear the political rhetoric on the right and the political rhetoric on the left, and we somehow feel that as citizens of this nation We're compelled to take sides. And we need to carefully biblically critique the voices on both sides, asking the simple question, what does Scripture say? And we'll find that sometimes those on the left have some solid biblical grounds for what they're doing and feeling and saying. And sometimes those on the right do as well. We as believers in Jesus Christ need to speak with a third voice. A third voice. The voice of the Spirit of God that comes from the Word of God. See, the Spirit desires to speak truths, words of truth and grace into every situation, in every discussion that we're having. My my title is Live as Free Men. Live as Free Men. The gener generic men, free people, free men. Reminds me of a song, a song of my youth, I'm aging myself. People everywhere just got to be free. How many remember the rascals? Come on now. People everywhere just got to be free. But only believers in Jesus Christ, spirit-filled people, can truly grasp and then promote the kind of freedom that's needed. Jesus said that when the Son sets you free, be free indeed. True human freedom, you see, can only come when we reject evil and commit ourselves to doing good. Ultimately, but we only we we only understand what is good when we look to the word of God. Ultimately. The context, 1 Peter, we're jumping into a passage here. Peter's been writing about the identity of his readers, of the saints, the aliens, those who are foreigners, the exiles, the saints. In verses 9 to 10 of chapter 2, he says this, you're a chosen race. You're a royal priesthood. You're a holy nation, a people of God's own possession. You are to proclaim the excellency of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, now you're the people of God Once you you'd not receive mercy, now you receive mercy. You're soldierness, exiles, you're living among the Gentiles. Those two verses, he's trying to give them an identity that you are now the continuation. You're the new Israel. You are God's people. He uses those are Phrases from different portions of the Old Testament, from the Exodus and Hosea and Isaiah. He's bringing all these Old Testament words about the identity of God's people and saying, you saints of God, New Testament saints, you were the new Israel. Now you're God's people I'm going to look at kind of two two two sections as we look at these verses. I'm going to look at verses 13 to 16 and talk about the foundations of our freedom. And then verse 17, which is the key verse, the obligations of our freedom. But we've got to talk about first the foundations of freedom. Because first we we we we need a biblical commitment to good human government that I see here To good human government. Look at verse 13. Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. Whether it be the Emperor as Supreme or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and praise those who do good. Peter is agreeing with Paul, who in Romans 13 says something very similar to this. He's saying that the emperor is on top. He's the top dog. He's the one with with the the the top human authority, and under him there's governors, there's lesser authorities. But both these authorities have been given from God the permission, the authority, the delegated power to punish or praise. To punish evil and praise that which is good. And that's what good government should be doing. The NIV study Bible says this. Liv as Freeman does not authorize rebellion against constitutional authority, but urges believers freely to submit to God and to earthly authorities As long as such submission does not conflict with the law of God. Now, lots of citizens have understandings of freedom that have gotten them so riled up for change that they have taken to the streets. We know that. We've seen that. The far left in many cities last summer took to the streets. The far right at the Capitol building, they took to the Capitol Building in January. You know that. Both sides have a vision for what America needs to become. The frustrations of both camps, motivated by rhetoric from their preferred political leaders, boiled over into violence. What we need is a biblical understanding of the source of goodness. Look at verse 15. This is the will of God. That by doing good you should be put to silence. You should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. There are foolish people, and there are people who are not foolish, they're wise people. In terms of distinguishing between what is good and evil, what is loving and what is hateful. What is helpful, what is harmful. The only ultimate definer of that is God. And we only know what he thinks about these things as he reveals them in his word. The Holy Word of God. What does the scripture say? What are some just five foundational gospel truths that we need to understand as we think about goodness and this capacity of man to create goodness? in in society. Well, the the first foundation of the point is that all people are created by God for his glory. That's why our nation has warnings about cruel and unusual punishment, by the way. Because everyone is created in the image of God. But all people fall short of the glory of God, Romans tells us that. That's why our nation has laws to govern behavior and police to enforce laws and prisons for those convicted of lawbreaking. And that's God has established that. God establishes that. Thirdly, the human nature within all people needs to be checked. We're all a mess. That's why our nation encourages various methods for the socialization of people, of young people. Mothers and fathers, family, school clubs, athletic teams, community organizations, other institutions are encouraged to train us in the important principles of mutual cooperation. Urging, sometimes even through social pressure, to conform to the norms of civil behavior Internalized self-discipline is the goal, rather than the external discipline that must rightly be done through law enforcement or judicial processes. We have a political system of checks and balances because they rightly understood that evil power in the heart of one person can grow and act out more quickly. Then evil power within the varied hearts of a group of people, because there has to be some communication between those people if you want to do evil. But if it's just you as a totalitarian, happens real fast, right? The founders understood something about the nature of human beings. Human nature, when it's not checked, we're never far from anarchy and chaos. The late Chuck Colson said, people who cannot restrain their own baser instincts, who cannot treat one another with civility, are not capable of self-government Colson added, without virtue a society can be ruled only by fear, a truth that tyrants understand all too well. Human nature within us needs to be checked. The fourth thing about the foundational truth from God's word is that human nature within all people can be changed. That's this thing we call the gospel, amen. That Jesus Christ changes people. Now, though we're a mess, we don't have to remain a mess. Gospel transformation. That's why the government encourages gospel proclamation. Though Through granting non-profit status to religious institutions. That's the reason why that happens. Now, there's been a there's been a problem. See, because the gospel is the pathway for us to experience true freedom as a society. Jesus said the Son says you're free, you'll be free indeed. The problem is this. Many on the far left, they reject the gospel of God. Many on the far right, they distort the gospel of God. It's only the true gospel of Jesus Christ, the third voice. That can solve the extremism that we see in our world, in our nation today. And it begins with individuals, doesn't it? It begins with me and you. Confessing our sin, repenting of returning to Jesus Christ as our only hope. I trust you've done that. That the gospel, that the that you you understand the free forgiveness that Jesus Christ gives. And the Spirit of God is transforming your heart. The word of God is transforming your mind and your life is being changed. Human nature can be changed. And the fifth principle is a high percentage of transformed people produces a good nation. Which is what we're looking for. A high percentage of transformed people produces a good nation. The Apostle Paul says elsewhere that the Holy Spirit is the restrainer. It's in 1 Thessalonians of chapter 1. He's the restrainer. He holds back. He restrains evil in the world. Spirit-filled people are the salt of the earth, Matthew chapter 5. Slowing down the decay. Spiritual people are the light, shining like a flashlight in a dark cave. We're created for God by God for His glory. We all fall short of that glory. So human nature needs to be checked. The gospel changes people and changed people in high numbers produces a nation that becomes a nation that's pretty good We need to also understand something about b uh uh uh uh human freedom. Human freedom. Verse 15 16 talks about this. Live as people who are free. Not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. When we hear the word freedom, the common understanding most people have is that freedom is you do what you want to do, right? Well, not only is that not the biblical understanding, it's not even the civil understanding. That's not what freedom is. Freedom is not having no limits. In fact, that's impossible for us as humans to have no limits. Freedom is doing what you ought, what you were intended to do, what you were created to do. That's what freedom is. A bird is designed to be free, to thrive in the sky. Put a bird in the water where fish belongs. That bird's gonna have some problems underwater. Put a fish in the air, it's not gonna fly very long. A train is designed to be free on tracks. Put a train on the interstate and see what happens. You got problems. Humans are designed to be free to thrive when we live as mandated by the master designer. True human freedom can only come when we reject evil and commit to doing good, and then God's the one who tells us that which is good. See, the first recipients of Peter's letter know these truths, they're simple truths. They're believers in the gospel. And verse 17 gives margin orders to them and to all believers who are living in a pagan world. Verse 17 It it gives these marching orders for us about how to live in light of the freedoms that we have. These are people who understand that our ultimate and most important citizenship is not in Rome. For us, it's not in America. As Paul told the church in Philippians, your citizenship is in heaven. That's foundational These are people who understand that we are to render to Caesar that which is Caesar's, but render to God that which is God's. These are people who understand that true freedom carries with it important responsibilities and obligations Now remember, these verses, verse 17, these verses they're coming from the pen of Simon Peter. And you remember the gospels who Simon Peter was? Time Peter is the guy who, when Jesus from the night he was betrayed before that in the garden, Peter's the one who took out the sword to kill the soldier who was going to arrest him, arrest Jesus. Remember that? And trust me, Peter wasn't just looking for an ear, which is all he got. Peter was looking for the whole head. The guy ducked. Guy wasn't no dummy. He dubbed. He got it. And what did Jesus do? Jesus healed a man. That wasn't the way. Violence was not the way of the kingdom of Jesus. It's not his way. Peter learned that. Peter learned that. So what are some obligations? In this verse, this verse 17, this is a very interesting verse. He gives obligations that we have towards our freedom. And there's four of them. Let me first talk about the structure of them, because the structure is very interesting. Honor everyone, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the- and honor the emperor. Well the king. Notice that the the first one and the fourth one both were about honor. Okay? Everyone and Emperor, they're kind of kind of distant relationships that we might have. The ones in the middle, brotherhood, and God, hopefully, are intimate, more close relationships that we have. So there's kind of a A B B A thing going on there. But there's also an A B B thing going on because A and B, everyone and Brotherhood, people. God Emperor Authorities. Now Peter This verse comes at the end of a paragraph, which we've looked at the paragraph, and the paragraph began with him talking about government, submitting to government So he's trying to conclude this thought, this paragraph about our responsibilities to the government, but to do that, before he says The final thing, honor the emperor, he wants to put that in the context of these other three relationships. First one, honor everyone. This is the first obligation. Peter doesn't say that everyone is worthy of honor in their actions, their character. No. We honor all people because all people were created by God, even if they think they are the accidental products of evolutionary processes. They were created by God for God with dignity and with purpose. And we're to honor everyone. It doesn't say honor everyone when you feel like it. It doesn't say that. Just honor everyone. The command to honor parents, for example, is even, it's often difficult for many people, but it's an example for us To obey them is absolutely not what's in mind. It doesn't say obey your parents, except in Ephesians, which is a whole different discussion. Ephesians says little kids there. It says honor parents. And even that's a tough one for some people. You've probably been rightly told that they're not to be honored for what they have done, but for who they are as unique givers of your life. It means a recognition of their authority, even if they exercise that authority imperfectly. And guess what? They're sinners. They do. Well, they did. But the same is true here. Honor everyone as people who, just like you, were created in God's image. Not because they're perfect, not because they treat you well, maybe they don't We need to find out, we'll figure out more of what that means. All people have not only total depravity, as we reform people like to say, but total dignity. That's true. That's the scriptures. Now we honor our fellow citizens every day in many practical ways. I think every day, I guess this is in the post-COVID world. Standing in line, even when it's inconvenient, why don't you just go first? Because you honor the other people. I say that because in my mind because I was just at Journal of Assembly. Lots of lines at Journal Assembly. Lots and don't go to the airport. Lots of lines in life right now. We honor each other by waiting our turn. Not not butting into line. By being courteous to the person on the phone who puts you on hold, remembering that it really isn't their fault. It's just the line ahead of you. They're only part of an organization, uh a sinful organization that's part of a system that maybe isn't even working well Patience. We honor the the the waitress by leaving a tip at the restaurant. We honor strangers. We honor people honor people we come into contact with. We honor strangers. We honor people when we have clothes that no longer fit, but they're still good clothes, by not trashing them, but by getting them to the goodwill or the avets or the salvation army so that someone can use them. That's honoring everyone. It's part of our responsibility as believers to not be wasteful, to help the poor or those who need it. The point is, those are examples. The point is, as citizens in this land, we have a responsibility to give honor to our people. The rich, the poor, black and white, brown and yellow, young or old, the born, the unborn. The police or the thug, the immigrants, the citizen, everyone created by God in his image. Now, our laws don't demand that we believe in God, but our national laws do demand that we honor those laws and follow them. And doing so ultimately shows respect for fellow creatures of God. Honor everyone. The second one is love the brotherhood. Love the brotherhood. My mind goes to uh uh uh John John Stott, the great John, the late John Stott, the late, great John Stott in a A message at the one of the first PCRT conferences in in Philadelphia that I attended with some students. I'll never forget his Exposition of Acts chapter 2. But he had a little ditty there that I've never forgotten. He said that to dwell above with the saints above my, that will be glory. But to dwell below with the saints I know, that's a different story. John Scott, always hit the home run Love the brotherhood. That's not always easy, but it's always the command of God. Now, the Bible does make a distinction. Yes, we love everyone. We're also, as Christ followers, to have a special kind of love for the brotherhood, for those that are in the family of God. For all those who like Jesus cry out, our Father, who art in heaven, there's a special bond that we have with the body of Christ. God has created a family that crosses the barriers of language, of culture, ethnicity, of national borders. of economic system, of age, of gender, of of of mental capacity, and so forth. The truth is that the bond we have in Christ should be stronger than all the human bonds or identity markers that we might have. Romans 12,9 says, let love be genuine or sincere. In other words, don't let your love be shallow or phony. Honestly, you can't have a deep relationship with everyone. But you need to have a deep relationship with someone. And some of those deep relationships need to reflect the breath of the body of Christ. 1 John 4. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God. Whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, for God is love. How much more simple can it be? You say you know the God of the love. You say the love, the one who is love dwells in you, then that love should show forth from you. It's a simple thing that the New Testament wants us to understand. See, one reason for the fall of the Roman of the Western Roman Empire was that a small but powerful group of people People who refused to declare Caesar as Lord, but declared that Jesus is Lord, they humbly served a broken world. Some of them died by the hands of the Roman leaders, but they continued to love one another, and they grew stronger and stronger and bigger and bigger despite the deaths and the persecution that took place. Simple, radical, revolutionary, courageous, culture-changing love. is what changed the world. And Peaver pivots away from this vertical relationship to poor, to people, to talk about the horizontal obligations there. Excuse me, I'm I'm I'm back. He he he gets to to the vertical now from the horizontal. And the third one is is fearing God. Fearing God Honor everyone. Love brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. See, the ultimate authority over us is God, ultimately. And he notice he puts that again before the king. Before the emperor, he puts God. We're to fear him first. The Old Testament says that the beginning of wisdom is fear. Not the end, but it's the beginning of wisdom. I believe that the end of wisdom is grace. It's not a verse in the Bible, but that's what I think. That's what I say Fear is the beginning. It was grace that taught my heart to fear, and grace my fears relieved. Somebody said that somewhere. I heard that song. Amazing grace. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, 13 and 14. At the end of this book, where he's been talking about life and what life's about and how can we live in life and what's and what's the ultimate life, the the the the the preacher and and the prophet there, he says that the end of the matter, all has been heard. Hear God and keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil. That's how the book of Ecclesiastes comes to an end. Fear God. NRV Study Bible says this. Reverent fear is not terror, but the wholesome reverence and respect for God, which is the basis for all godly living. Often children fear parents and then come to love parents and appreciate them. My dad, may he rest in peace. It wasn't really until high school that I really began to appreciate him and understand him and and love him because my dad my dad was he was he was in the military and it was okay. Um he was a deacon in the church. That was okay. He worked hard. My mom's the one who had more of an influence on me and my sisters in those early years. But it was only in high school when we began to to deepen our relationship, me and my dad. And that's when I began to to realize that he wasn't just the authority in the home. He loved me. And the the reason he the things he did was because he loved me. I began to understand and stand something about authority and fear and love and how the two blended together Well, the the the fourth uh exhortation, the obligation for those who want to be free, is to honor the emperor, which is, again, it wraps up this paragraph that Peter's been giving us. Peter himself was martyred, you know, in Rome. Crucified upside down. He said, I'm not worthy to die like my Savior. If you're going to crucify me, crucify me upside down. And earlier the Apostle Paul had been martyred in Rome as well. Rome, the capital of the great empire. The powerful, vast empire controlled varying portions of the world for over a thousand years. The church at Rome worshiped right there in the shadows of the most influential political power brokers of their generation. Both Peter and Paul eventually died through Roman emperors. They challenged their proclamation of Jesus as a rival Lord. And that's why Emperors killed them. History, in fact, tells us that Hipponero, who was ruling during that time, he was murderous, sex-addicted, madman. He really was. And yet Peter says honor the emperor. Human government is to be honored. Jesus showed honor to the government during his trials. Think about it Likewise, Paul honored the Roman governor during his trials in Acts. The implication for us in 2021 He said whether you are under the administration of a President Trump or President Biden, you must honor that man. Honor the position. As believers, we do that knowing that they are accountable to a higher authority. Our God. Four simple commands. Honor everyone, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. The ESV Study Bible re ex summarizes this. These verses 16 and 17 says Freedom is not a license to sin, but expresses itself in devotion to what is good. It cites Galatians 5, 13 to 14. All people deserve the same honor and respect as the emperor. Only God is to be feared. Believers should have a tender love for each other as members of the same family. In Romans, Paul gives a a treatise of what society what can happen in a society, Romans chapter one He talks about the gospel, the gospel of Christ. He said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Because it's a powerful message that transforms people. It transforms Jews and Jews and Greeks, he says there. It's the power of God. Then he talks about how he talks about the rejection of that gospel, the rejection of God and the gospel of God. And then he talks about the idolatrous self-love that happens unless we repent. And then he talks about how we're given over and the next stage in the devolution of human society is sexual immorality gone wild. And the step after that, unless there's repentance or revival, is sexual perversion gone wow. But it doesn't stop there. Look at Romans 1, 28 to 32. Total societal chaos, which is the next phase America was birthed as an experiment, an ordered liberty, many say, a self-governed people, people who would not be bound by kings or dictators, but would create laws that encourage cooperation whereby the needs of one's neighbor were seen as important. Where we do to others as we wish they would do to us. That's what the founders dreamed of. And eventually, to some degree, they established that. They were tired of the schisms and the fighting they had experienced in Europe. As one country would battle their neighbor country for turf and for power. Yes, they were idealistic. But they believed it could happen in the New World. And American economic success and military might created a nation like no other. Powerful, prosperous, committed to the flourishing of all people. Not just here, but other lands. Our incredible legacy of international aid, we recognize the great slogan of Lady Liberty. On Ellis Island, give thee your tired, your poor, your huddled masses, yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these The homeless tempest toss to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door. Allusions to John Winthrop of Massachusetts Bay and America being a city on a hill. But hear me now, saints. We are now before our very eyes seeing the potential for this imperfect but great system to be rendered powerless or even destroyed. There are loud, very loud visions for America that we are hearing. One vision looks at America as a nation that has a very horrible past. Correcting her wrongs means lots of pain. It may not be worth it. So they just say, some of them, tear the system down. And any who would dare to not see America as an essentially evil nation must honestly be demonized, silenced, canceled. Then there's other vision that sees the nation as the greatest gift of the human race, overlooking flaws. This vision looks to America as the last hope for the world So honestly, those who would challenge the greatness of America are to be demonized, silenced, and canceled. These people want to return to the glory days that weren't glorious for everybody. Both sides have their pet Bible verses. to bolster their case. However, neither of these visions is adequate. God is building up people from the right and from the left who will put the Word of God, the gospel of God, the Spirit of God, ahead of all alternative systems of the world. It's called the kingdom of God. Paul wrote a letter to the capital city of the Roman Empire declaring, I am not ashamed of the gospel because it There's a righteousness of God for the Jew first, and for the Greek. The Jew, those who have the God, the Bible, and the grace of God, and the Greek, those who didn't. Doesn't matter. There's only one solution. The gospel of Jesus Christ. Saints, we need to see America as a pagan nation. We need to see America as a pagan nation. There are really no Christian nations. There are only nations that, for a measure of time, enjoy a large measure of gospel influence. Is America imperfect? Yes. Has America been heavily influenced for good in a major way by the Christian gospel? Yes. But we'd better wake up and see that there have been cracks in our foundation as a nation that have grown bigger and bigger during our generation. Saints, we need to pray. And we need to cling to the third way. The way of Jesus, the way of the kingdom. We need to remember that someday America and the American system will be destroyed. Daniel chapter 2, verse 44. Daniel, read the book of Daniel. Great book for our time. Daniel said this in verse 44, as he's interpreting the vision. In the days of those kings, The God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed. Nor shall the kingdom be left to any another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end. And it shall stand forever. I urge you to dig into Daniel, his three friends. They understood this stuff that we're going through. They understood they had obligations to Babylon. But he understood that Babylon wasn't sovereign. God was sovereign. The Lord Almighty alone is king. You know, citizens of America during this generation We would like to see America sustained as a major influence in the world, wouldn't we? Sure. But we know that at some point it will end. So what do we do as believers? We honor everyone, made in God's image. We love the family of God. We treat each other right. We fear God, who is the ultimate authority, the ultimate king over us, by honoring his word, by not compromising his word just for the sake of people. And we do. Honor human government. That's over us. Not as absolute There came a time when government said to Daniel, you have to pray to me. Daniel walked up the steps, up the into the tower, opened the window so everybody could see it, and prayed to God, not the king. There is a time when they have to do that. But those with real authorities delegated from on high, they need to promote good, well-being, and blessing for both saints and sinners As believers in Jesus Christ, living in a pagan land, we need to sing, we need to pray, America, America, God, please shed your grace. Let's pray. Lord, the situation in our world, in our nation, is not an unusual situation. Believers, throughout history, Have wrestled with the things we're wrestling with. I pray we'd look to the saints of old, and most of all, look to the Word of God for how we're to live in this context in which we live. Remind us that we have a kingdom that's unshakable, that cannot be discarded, tossed aside by the kingdoms of this world. And that they will all Sunday bow to Jesus Christ because he is King of kings and Lord of Lords. May we do that now, and maybe honor him now in our own lives each day, and we'll give you thanks. It's in his name we pray. Amen. And amen.