Good morning. We are at the end of the study we are going to do on the union we have in Christ, both with Christ and with one another. And we're going to look today at Romans chapter 12, verses 3 through 8. In this passage There's one sentence on the top of your outline. That sentence is actually the outline. It is that Paul is speaking to us in this passage with authority. He's telling us how to think about ourselves, how to live in Christ's body, and how to use our gifts to glorify God. In fact, when I was first preparing this message, the title that I had was Living as One New Man. But the more that I spent time in this passage and the more that I thought about it, I had to change the title. So the title that's on your page today is Living to Glorify God. Because the reason that we are one new man isn't that we be united. The reason that we're one new man, one new body, is that we glorify Jesus. So let me open us in prayer as we study this passage. Heavenly Father, beautiful Son, Spirit of light and truth. We're here today to worship you. We're here because you have called us to yourself. You have made us one. You've given us gifts, and we use those gifts, Lord Jesus, to bring you glory. And so we're here to hear your word. To declare your glory, to delight in you, and to fellowship with one another. And so we pray that you would open our ears and our minds, our hearts, that we might know you. And that we might know your truth. Work in us through this passage, your spirit, your grace, and use us, Lord Jesus. To honor yourself. In your name we pray. Amen. Let me read the passage. Paul says here, for by the grace given to me, I say to everyone among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think. But to think with sober judgment, each according to the faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function. So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. Having gifts that differ according to the grace that is given to us, let us use them. If prophecy in proportion to our faith. If service in our serving. The one who teaches in his teaching, the one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in generosity. the one who leads with zeal, and the one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. In this passage, Paul is writing to the Roman church. And for us, as we look at this, when we come to this passage, we come to a complete scripture. And so as we we come to this passage, we recognize that Paul has an authority because what he has written has been enscripturated. But the Roman church received a letter. And yes, it was from the Apostle Paul, and so any correspondence from Paul had weight and importance to it. But Paul's speaking in this passage with particular authority. And so while we come to it today recognizing that it's Scripture Paul says as he begins by the grace given to me. Well, the grace that Paul received was apostolic position, apostolic authority. And so as Paul is speaking to the Romans. He's saying, pay attention. Listen up. I, Paul, an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, by the grace given to me, say to you, say to everyone among you. I want us to understand who it is that received the letter. This is the Roman church. This is the church in Rome, the center of the known world. In a sense, it'd be like writing to the glitterati in New York or to the political powers in Washington or to whoever had position. And what he's writing is is significant because of the contrast between their position and what he's calling them to do. Paul's writing to the church, which includes members of Caesar's own household. In Philippians chapter 4. As Paul is concluding his epistle, his letter to the church in Philippi, he says this: Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you. Especially those of Caesar's household. And so Paul is writing to the church in Rome, and he's writing to people who are people of stature and position, and he tells them how they and also how we are to think of themselves. And what he says is, as we read this To everyone among you, you ought not think of himself more highly than he ought to think. You are not to think of yourself more highly than you ought to think. Well that's a little bit of a weak translation. Because the way that Paul wrote it is this. You are not to think of yourself more highly than necessity drives you to think. Then necessity drives you to think, why do you think the way that you do about yourself? Why do you have the perspective of yourself that you have? Is it because you must? Is it because as you look at your life, as you look at your gifts, as you look at your position, this is who you really are? Do you think only what you must about yourself, or do you think as much as you possibly can about yourself? Do you push the edge of the envelope? Do you think as highly of yourself as you can and only when necessity stops you have a humble opinion of yourself? There's a corollary here, though, that I think we see when we look at the rest of this passage, and that is: do not think more humbly of yourself than you must think. Because the danger of false humility is this. When you have a sense of false humility, you're protecting yourself. And you protect yourself in two ways. The first of which is, I can't do that. I can't do that. And Paul is going to tell us in the rest of this passage that God has given you gifts. And you're to use those gifts. You are without excuse if you don't use those gifts. You are to use them honestly on the basis of what God has actually given to you for the building up of the kingdom and for the glory of God. So false humility says I can't do it, I'm excused, I don't have to. And secondly, false humility protects us because when we say that's not my strength, Somebody may come in and say, Oh yes it is. Let me tell you what a wonderful person you are. Let me tell you how how God has given you gifts that and and soon we're finding that what we get is the validation of others that is so tasty. And we feed our soul not on the grace of Jesus, but on the glory we receive from others. And so what Paul says, once he says, not think more highly of yourself, then it is necessary for you to think. But think with sober judgment. Sober judgment. What he's really talking about here is that we are to think of ourselves with a humble honesty. Honesty. Yes, I have these gifts. Yes, God has given them to me. Yes, I want to glorify God by the use of them. No, I'm not the center of the universe. I'm not the one that everyone comes to. I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, but I am. We're to be humble in our honesty. Now, one of the things as I look at myself But I have to recognize, and frankly I've seen it in most of you that I've had any extended relationship with as well, is that we have blind spots We have blind spots. There are things about ourselves that we cannot recognize on our own. Now Many many of you know who C. J. Mahaney is. C. J. Mahaney is a is a well-known pastor in this area. He's one of the leaders of the Sovereign Grace Ministries and we sing Sovereign Grace songs here. And and today C. J. Mahaney is bald as a cue ball. I don't know whether he's lost his hair or whether he shaves his head, but he has no hair on his head. And yet in the past when he had hair and he grew it longer, CJ said this. He said, I can see when my hair is out of place. But I need someone to tell me when my breath is bad We have blind spots. I've been in conversations this week with a number of different people from outside of CPC Being a member of Presbytery, there's lots of different responsibilities that we have, and I'm involved in trying to help another church. And I've been in conversations this week with people who've been trying to help me to see blind spots in how I am serving this other church. They're really there. I'm not aware of the whole picture. One I haven't been there the whole time and I don't know all the things that have gone on. And so people are helping me to understand what I don't know. And Ann and I have put together a team of men and women who are friends of ours and advisors of ours who we've asked to take a particular task, and that is to look at my strengths and my weaknesses. To look at my ministries and to ask the hard questions so that they can help me to see things that I don't see on my own, so that I can be a man of wisdom as I approach my ministry. And brothers and sisters, we need people who will help us to see past our blind spots. Because that's a part of humble honesty. And I think that's in Paul's mind. That's in Paul's mind as he's talking about not thinking more highly of ourselves than necessity dictates. and not thinking more lowly of ourselves to escape the call of ministry, but to think with sober judgment. And then he says, as God has measured out to each of you a measure of faith. Brothers and sisters, you cannot see yourself apart from your faith. You are sinners redeemed from rebellion. You are men, women, boys, and girls who have received grace from Jesus and been drawn into his family. You have been made part of the body of Christ. And that's not something to take To take credit for. That's not something to derive status from. Because, brothers and sisters, it is not by your merit. It is not native to you. It's not that you have something God saw and wanted, and so he brought you in for the benefit of his good. God so loved the world that while we were yet sinners, he sent his son to die that we might be engrafted. So that in Romans 11, the chapter preceding this, just a few verses before it, Paul's talking about the Jews. Who for their unbelief have been broken off. And he's talking about we Gentiles who, because of faith, because of God's call, have been grafted in. He says this, quite right, they were broken off for their unbelief. But you stand by your faith. Do not be conceited, but fear. Do not be conceited, but fear. So we've come into the body. God speaks through the Apostle Paul with the apostolic authority that he's given to Paul, telling us who we are. How are we to think about ourselves? And then secondarily he talks about how it is we are to live. in light of who we are. He talks about the same thing that he spoke about in Ephesians chapter 4 when he told us who we are. And the same thing that Jesus talked about in his prayer in John 17, as Jesus was preparing for the Garden of Gethsemane. And when these two talk about who we are in Christ, the thing that they naturally go to is our union as the body under the headship of Christ. In chapter twelve it says, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. When we see who we are in Jesus, we see us. Us. And God calls us to live in mutual dependence. God calls us to understand that we are one body. We're not being made into one body. We're not crafting ourselves as one body. We are in Christ one body. And as Tom talked about in in the comments he made introducing the church's one foundation, we're not only one body here. We're not only one body in our community, we're not only one body in our in our presbytery or our denomination or our country or even one body in the world at this time. We are one body with everyone in Christ. Past, present, and future, we're one with many members. And we're dependent. We're dependent first upon Christ, because Christ is the one who has called us, who sustains us, and has given us grace. But we're also dependent upon each other. Brothers and sisters, we need each other. One of my boys was off recently watching someone's house and their pets. And it was interesting because because as he was all alone He recognized how much he needed people. And so his his day was spent on the phone talking to friends. We went out and we picked him up. We took him out to lunch. We'd spend some time with him, and we'd have to take him back and drop him off. And he'd be alone again. And for him it was a taste of how much he depends upon family. But brothers and sisters, we're one body. We're one body. We have multiple members. We have hands and feet. We have eyes and ears. We have lungs and heart. And we need each other. A body without lungs dies. A body without heart dies. A body without blood dies. We don't simply benefit from each other. We need each other. This week has been a pretty tough week for me. There's been a lot of things on my plate and one of the things that's been really fascinating for me is is to watch the way that the office has supported me. Eric and Pat and Gina and Stephanie and Phyllis and and and the whole crew have been tremendously supportive and I've needed them. They've come in and they said, do you really have to do this or can we do this? Can we get this off your plate? And and and it's been wonderful for me to see I need the body. Thank you. We need your gifts. We need them. You all have them. Everyone in Christ has received gifts for the building of the kingdom for the glory of God. You need our gifts You cannot live in isolation. And that's why we had the community fair downstairs between the two services, and we're going to have it again at this at the end of this service for those of you who want to come. Because it's an opportunity for you to see what's available here for where you can begin to build relationships in a deeper and richer way with the body of Christ, where you can see the benefit of being in community. And I encourage you, if you weren't here between services, come on downstairs. I think there's still some refreshments, and I don't know whether there'll be coffee, but there may be. But the important thing about coming downstairs is to see the body and where you fit. We're going to do it again next week. So if you missed today, I would really encourage you to come before the second service because that's where most of the goodies are going to be. But it's also where most of the people will be to be able to explain what communities we offer and where you can plug in. But you need our gifts. It's not optional. We need yours. And God has given them to you. for his glory. And so that's the third point. First point is, how am I to think of myself? The second point is, how do I live my life in Christ in the body? The third point is how do I use my gifts How do we use our gifts? And the first thing I want you to focus on is that is as Paul speaks about the body and about Christ, the point that he makes is this. Walk in a manner worthy of the calling you have received. God has created and recreated you. God has given you an identity in Christ, and what he calls you to do is to live that identity with integrity. That's what he calls you to. As he does that, Paul here talks about the fact that you have gifts. And and this is what really presses us to understand that Paul is as much as he's fighting arrogance, he's fighting false humility. Because what he's saying is, know how God has gifted you. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them If prophecy in proportion to our faith, if service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching, the one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in generosity. The one who leads with zeal, the one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness Brothers and sisters, we need your gifts. For the body to be built up to the completeness that God intends the body to have, your gifts are necessary. They're critical. They're essential. And so it's not your prerogative to live with a false humility that says, oh, I couldn't do that. That's not my gift. Or even worse, I don't want to do that. Brothers and sisters, your gifts are an obligation. They are a trust. So how do you use your gifts? Well, first you have to identify them. And if you honestly don't know what your gifts are, that's another plug for community. Because the people who can help you to most effectively identify and refine your gifts are the body. The ones who know you, the ones who see how you can do things, the ones who recognize your desires and what fulfills you. And so, if you don't know how to use your gifts, my first plug for you is go downstairs, find a community, and get plugged in. Secondly, there are steps that you can take, and one of those things is we offer regularly, every two years, we offer a 14-week class on spiritual gifts. to try and help you to discern what your gifts are. Part of that class is an inventory, which we have on the webpage. And so if you want to begin And you want to figure out what your gifts are and you honestly don't know, then go to the webpage, pull up the personal spiritual gifts inventory. Now and I have to concede. It's on the intranet, not the internet. And it's something you have to have a password to get to. So if you have any problems and you can't figure out how to get to the intranet, go to the bottom of the page. There's a little very faint word that says intranet. If you don't know the password, give the church office a call because they'll be glad to give it to you. And then go to the Helpful Forms page, which will give you that personal spiritual inventory that you can fill out. But again, I really encourage you, instead of going that long, circuitous, difficult route, go to a community. Go downstairs, sign up, make some friends, get people to know you. Enjoy, enjoy relationships and help them to help you to use your gifts both with them and beyond them But you also have you have elders. If you're a member of this church, you have an elder who's assigned to your family who is there to shepherd you, and that's a great resource for beginning to discern your gifts. They even know where we need your gifts to be used. And so they can help you plug it in. But the point of the matter is this. You have gifts that God has given to you for his purposes. For his purposes. Listen to 1 Peter chapter 4. As each one has received a special gift, employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Peter's telling you that God gave you gifts. God gave you gifts to use as a steward of the grace he's given to you. They're not yours to ignore. They're not yours to hoard. They're his to use in you And it's important for us to use those gifts as God intends. They're his. He gave them to us as a trust. And he wants you to develop them. He wants you to have a sober-minded judgment of yourself, a humble, honest understanding of who you are, so that you will live that identity that he's given you in Christ. To build the kingdom, but even more to glorify him and to bring him honor. And so I want to close with this thought from chapter 15, whereas Paul is writing to the Romans. He says in verses five and six. Now may the God who gives perseverance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind with one another. According to Christ Jesus, that with one accord you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. That with one accord you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, beautiful Son, Spirit of Light and Truth We ask that you will work in us so that we will have that humble, honest understanding of who we are. Lord Jesus, give us community. so that we can be with people who can help us to see our blind spots and whose blind spots we can help them to see. Father, be with us that we might not simply enjoy the gifts that you've given for the good of this body, but that we would recognize that your calling transcends this body and is to the kingdom. But it's to the kingdom so that we might bring honor and glory to you. So Lord Jesus, we ask that you would give us understanding. That you would give us endurance and wisdom, that you would give us grace, that we might expend our lives as stewards. Who serve our master and bring you honor and glory. In your most precious name we pray. Amen.