See what Paul has written as we look at this passage and as we hear it read. This is probably one of the more significant passages that God has ever used in my life. And uh I pray that it will be true for you that God uses it powerfully in yours. Hear the word of the Lord. When Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face. Because he was clearly in the wrong. Before certain men came from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles, but when they arrived, he began to draw back and separate himself from the Gentiles because He was afraid. He was afraid of those who belonged to the circumcision group. The other Jews joined him in his hypocrisy, so that by their hypocrisy even Barnabas was led astray. When I saw that they were not acting in line with the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in front of them all, You are a Jew. Yet you live like a Gentile and not like a Jew. How is it then that you force the Gentiles to follow Jewish customs? We who are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners know that a man is not justified by observing the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by observing the law, because by observing the law no one will be justified. If while we seek to be justified in Christ, it becomes evident that we ourselves are sinners, does that mean that Christ promotes sin? Absolutely not. If I rebuild what I destroyed, I prove I am a lawbreaker. For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live for God. I have been crucified with Christ and I no longer live. But Christ lives in me. The life I live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness could be gained through the law of Christ, died for nothing. Let's pray. Father, we come to you this morning needing you. We come with distractions. We come with sin. We come with confusion. We come with traditions. So we come to you. And we ask that you will meet us in a powerful way, that you will speak your truth to us in a transforming way. And that you will give us greater intimacy with yourself. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This passage raises questions for us, and I want to focus us on four of them this morning. The first question is, what is this gospel that Paul tells us we are to live in line with? What is it? Secondly, what is it that Peter did that was wrong? God did something really serious. Thirdly, what is it that Paul does? We see his actions, but what is he doing by what he does? And then lastly, the application question for us: how do I live in line with the gospel? today, moment by moment, day by day. In verse 14, Paul says, When I saw that they were not acting in line with the truth of the gospel He chose to address and to confront Peter. The issue that made that decision for him was the fact that they were not living in line with the gospel. They were not living the truths of the gospel, and I want us to look at that. But before we move into that, we have to understand what it is that he's speaking about. In your outline, you'll see that there are a number of points and there are passages beside them you can look at. And I would encourage you to do that, but we need to move through this kind of quickly. So I want to highlight a few points. First and foremost, God created humanity without flaw and without sin. God created the universe and he created the earth. And on the earth he created the Garden of Eden. And in the Garden of Eden he placed Adam. And he placed Eve. And Adam and Eve were able to walk and talk daily with God. If you want to understand the implications of that and what that means in terms of their relationship with him, I want you to think about this. When they looked at God eye to eye, so to speak, they were not ashamed. They were not guilty. They did not fear him. There was nothing they tried to make sure was covered. Even more clearly, when Adam and Eve met with God Justice was all they needed. They did not need mercy. Justice was enough But Adam and Eve, in that flawless and sinless state, committed sin, as our parents. They had a command from the Lord that they could obey and live, or disobey and die. And they disobeyed. They rebelled against God. And you read in Genesis 3 the temptation and the sin. All who descend from Adam and Eve are warped by their fall into sin. All who descend from Adam and Eve Actively sin in thought, word, and deed. And that creates a dynamic for us in our relationship with the Lord because now, as sinners, we are alienated, we are cut off, we are separate from God. That's the death That God foretold. As he spoke to Adam and said, If you do this, you will die. Now we're cut off. We're distant from God. And as a sinner, you can't return to God. There's nothing that you can do in your own power to take away that blemish Doesn't matter whether you live perfect from now until the day that you die, you are warped and polluted and stained by sin. And you are alienated from God. That's the state of humanity. But God doesn't leave it there. God doesn't leave us in that sin, for God creates a way back. And that way back is through Jesus, the person, God and man in one person, who is able as God to live a complete and obedient life, not not to sin. Hebrews 4 tells us that we have a high priest who, although he was tempted in all ways as we are, yet did not fall into that temptation and sin. So he has a perfect life, a life that does not require death or judgment. And yet, because of his love for us, not only does he become one person with God and man in that one person, he lays aside his life and he dies for us. And in 2 Corinthians 5 21, we read that God made him who had no sin to be sinned. That we might become the righteousness of God in Him. So God takes our record of sin, our brokenness, our pollution, our wretchedness, our ugliness, and He puts it on Jesus. And that's why on the cross Jesus cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Because God judged our sin in Him. But he doesn't just take away your sins and leave you. He gives you Jesus' righteousness so that as God the Father looks at you, he sees his perfect and obedient child. God demonstrates his love for us in this. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And the Holy Spirit brings all who trust in Jesus to new life and new relationship with God. It's God who calls us as enemies, not wanting to be redeemed, and brings us to new life in Jesus. Now most of us would tend to think that that's a complete description of the gospel. That that's all that needs to be said. It includes our condition, including it includes God's plan, it includes a response, but it's not what Paul says is enough. And if you look at this passage and you understand that there is so much more. Because the point I want you to grasp this morning is that point that Paul gives us in verses 19 and 20. Let me read them to you. For through the law, I died to the law, so that I might live for God. I have been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. There is so much more than simply an entrance into the kingdom in the gospel. It is a day-by-day, moment by moment life. We trust him for things that we can't accomplish, and we really understand fairly easily That one of the most important things that we trust in for is a salvation that we can never earn. We cannot get to heaven left to ourselves. What we sometimes don't recognize is that we have to trust him moment by moment, day by day, for righteousness. It's not that you have entry into the kingdom and now keep it by obeying the law. You trust him. To give you a heart for himself and to make you righteous, to keep the law, not as a means of staying with him, but as a means of being the person he intends you to be. You trust him moment by moment for freedom from sin. When you're tempted, you ought not pull up your bootstraps. You ought to go to your knees. You ought not set yourself to be able not to sin because you will sin. You ought to trust Him to work in you to give you a real understanding of your sin. And coming up the gospel, I want to go back to that description that has compelled me, and that is that we are more sinful than we can possibly face. I want you to think about that for a minute. That can become a trite saying that gives you a good emotional feeling, but I want you to recognize the truth of it. You can't look at your sin. Not in its totality. You don't want to look at it at all. You don't want to see the things that make you feel guilty and that drive you from the people you're sitting next to right now. You don't want to see the things that drive you from God. And so you may at some point, in order to understand the gospel, accept a little bit of the reality of a little of your sin. But you won't stare it face to face. Because if you did, you'd die. And I know that because I know I would die. But the other half of that gospel is incredible. And it makes life possible because it says that I am more deeply loved than I can dare to dream. Paul's written in Ephesians chapter 3. A prayer for the Ephesians, and he says, I pray that God would show you the boundaries of his boundless love. You can't go far enough out in imagining what his love is like to find the end of it. You can't come to a point where you think that this love is so deep and so great that there just can't be anything more. And as hard as it is for you to see your sin, it's that hard for you to see his love. Because you need it. And because you can't accept it and still be in control. And we'll get to that later. But you are more sinful than you will ever face until you face Jesus in heaven. And you're more deeply loved in Christ than you'll ever understand until you get to heaven. And that's the gospel we need to live in line with. What did Peter do? Peter was Peter We have all the stories of getting out and walking on the water and sinking up to his nose, and we have all the stories of of running from Jesus in the house. Where Jesus was being tried. We see the bravada, we see the bravery, and we see the reality. Peter was Peter. He knew the gospel He walked with Jesus for three years. He was one of the three that went away with Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. He was restored by Jesus after his ascension and brought into that relationship of affection when Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. He was the apostle that God chose to take the gospel to the Gentiles. And in Acts chapter 10, it's it's listed in your outline, but I want you to read it later. The story is Peter's resting. And God gives him a vision of a sheep loaded with animals, both clean and unclean, descending from heaven, with the command from God, arise, kill, and eat. Now Peter had enough wits about him in his in his dreamlike state to say to the Lord, Never! I have never eaten an unclean thing! And God responds to Peter, What I call clean, you may not call unclean. And so Peter, when representatives from Cornelius, a Gentile come. He understands God's point. And he goes to Cornelius' house and he brings the gospel message to Cornelius. And God responds incredibly. As Peter now is willing to enter the house of this unclean Gentile sinner and speak the gospel. God brings forth the Spirit. In Acts chapter 11, Peter recounts to the Jews in Jerusalem what took place. And you need to hear what he says to understand what he should have known. He's recounting to the Jews, to those who are leading the church, how he has broken the dietary laws and entered into fellowship with an unclean Gentile. And this is what he says. Acts chapter 11, beginning in verse 15. As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit came on them as he had come on us at the beginning. Then I remembered what the Lord had said. John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. So God gave them the same gift he gave us, us who believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I to think that I could oppose God? Peter understood the gospel. Peter understood that what was at stake in the gospel was either to fall in line with God or to oppose him. Peter understood that when he went to Antioch and had the freedom to eat with the Gentiles, he was doing what God had already commanded him to do. And that to do anything else was to oppose God. And in that setting, in that understanding, in that place, as the Jews came from Jerusalem With the idea that they needed to bring these upstart Gentiles back into line and bring this Peter back into line so that he would live rightly as a Jew. Paul tells us that Peter began to withdraw. He began to separate himself from the Gentiles. And he began to keep the dietary laws. Bad enough for Peter. But Peter wasn't dealing just with Peter because the other Jews separated themselves. Even to the point that Paul speaks that Barnabas, the son of encouragement, joined in their hypocrisy and withdrew from the Gentiles. Wasn't going to go so far as to go over the case. But I want you to bear the weight of that. As you bear that weight though, I want you to recognize the truth. And that truth is, we can't get down on Peter. We don't have the right to get down on Peter. Paul didn't get down on Peter. We may want to be like Paul, and we may want to be one who will hold to the truth of the gospel and who will stand for what is right, whatever the opposition we face. As I read this, I think of Martin Luther. I've had the privilege of seeing some of the places where he was under duress. And I remember seeing one picture that was painted of Luther standing in the Diet of Worms in a room probably not too much smaller than this. And in front was the papal representative sitting in a chair in his rich red robes in judgment. And around them were soldiers with spears and with swords and with shields. And between Luther and the soldiers was the church, the representatives of the church who were sitting in judgment. Luther wasn't afraid of making a few people angry. His very life was at stake. And we might want to think, as we look at a case like this with Peter, as we're concerned about the issues of approval from others, that we'd stand like Martin Luther. Or perhaps even somebody a little bit more recent, a Mother Teresa, who, when invited to speak at the presidential prayer breakfast, had the audacity to charge Clinton with abortion And is unafraid of this man who holds the power of the Presidency of the United States. And she speaks the truth to him, regardless of what he thinks. Paul did not do what he did in his own power. Paul did what he did in the power of the gospel. And we'll get to what that means in a moment. But I want you to think this moment now. When in this last week have you compromised in order to please people? Was that compromise anything having to do with the gospel? Or was it just something less important? We are people pleasers. But I want you to understand something here, even as we feel sympathy with Peter, Peter committed idolatry This isn't just a tact or a tactic or an idea about how to present the gospel or an idea to make sure that the church becomes popular. This is idolatry. Because he supplanted the gospel and God's pleasure in him with a standard of human approval. And it says plainly in the text that he chose to return to the law to avoid the anger of these people. Peter chose Not to worship God because he chose something else That may seem really strong, but don't we regularly choose something else? What did Paul do? First and foremost, Paul loves God. Paul's concern in this passage is not simply that he be vindicated. It is not that Peter simply returned to the truth. His concern is for the honor of God His concern is for the well-being of Peter, whom he loved. His concern is for the people who had fallen away from the truth. Whom he loved. And his concern is for the Galatians, who were in the same situation later on, probably from people of a very similar background. Who had come to the church and said, You must obey the law. You must be circumcised and be Jewish in order to be a Christian. And so Paul recounts what happened in Antioch to the church in Galatia in order to help them to understand that there is a line they must walk, a line that lines up with the gospel. Let's go back to that last point of the gospel that we have to live day by day trusting God instead of ourselves. Remember verses nineteen and twenty, where we see that Paul is saying That he has died to the law, that he might live to God, that he's been crucified in Christ, and he now lives in his flesh by faith in Jesus Christ. He's speaking of a moment by moment, day-by-day life that is gospel focused You've heard a lot about that here. You've heard a lot about that from Alan and from me and from Tim and from other places. And you may get tired of that, but I want you not to, because what happens with this is is is life and death. It is an issue that Peter learned, I believe, from this passage and grew through. We may think that the gospel is simply the way that we enter into the kingdom and that we continue on in that in that life. By doing what pleases God and and focusing ourselves on the on the things that He has said through the law that really do please Him, and by continuing to focus on Him and obey. Suddenly that can turn into something different than the gospel. Suddenly that can turn into something that becomes as blatant as what Peter was doing And I want you to understand that the gospel is not simply how you get in. If it were, Paul would never have addressed Peter. Peter's an apostle. He's one of the most respected leaders of the church. He's the one that Jesus said, I will build my church on this rock. And yet, Peter is the one who has to come back and be confronted with the fact that he's not living in line with the gospel He's not doing what God calls him to do, and he's not living as God calls him to live, because he's trying to do it in his own power. He's keeping the law. Let me read to you from Galatians chapter 5, where Paul says to the Galatians now what he needed to continue to say to Peter. And I'm sure it was clear. Chapter five, verses two through four. Mark my words. I, Paul, tell you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all. Again, I declare to every man who lets himself be circumcised that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You who are trying to be justified by law have been alienated, cut off, severed from Christ. You have fallen away from grace. That's not speaking of a human act. It's not speaking of what it means to be circumcised today. It's speaking of a commitment. A commitment to become Jewish, to keep the law, and to make that your way of coming to relationship with God. The Gentiles were at risk. In Antioch and in Galatia, because they were either going to become Jews and then Christians, live under the old covenant, the covenant of works, the covenant that says, do this and live, while trying to live under the new covenant, the covenant that says I have saved you. You're mine. And you can't live together with both at the same time. Peter was not living in line with the gospel, and Peter needed to be confronted Peter had replaced the gospel with human approval. Peter had replaced the gospel with his own works. Peter had replaced the gospel with something else, whatever it was. We do the same thing. I said earlier in the first service this morning that I'm struggling with the same thing as I stand here to preach. Even more so now than I was then. Because I'm standing here longing for your approval. I'm longing that you accept what I say, that it moved you, that it changed you, that God worked through it, and that you like me. I'm longing for what Peter longed for, and that's wrong. I need to preach. To please God. And in pleasing God, I need to preach to reach you so that He will work in your life. So that he will touch your heart and show you his truth and transform you. And sometimes that's a razor line to try and decide: am I doing it for God? Am I doing it for me? But when I do it for me I know. When you do it for you, you know. And it's sin. It's idolatry. How do we live in line with the gospel today? You have a wondrous wealth of material to help you with that. There's a tremendous parallel between Galatians 2:14 And Ephesians four one. And Alan has done a tremendous job of explaining to you what it means to walk worthy of the calling with which you've been called. You have sermon upon sermon and and and and and material upon material to go back and look look at with that. And But that that's the same thing. They're the same thoughts. They're the same ideas Remember what you've heard. But to live in line with the gospel means purely and simply to trust God, to fulfill his promises, to save, to keep, and to love us. God saves us through Christ's completed work and we offer nothing. There's nothing you can bring to add to that that will make it attractive to God. I was reading a story a while back about a father who was dealing with his children. And they wanted to do something that he thought was inappropriate. I believe that it was a movie they wanted to watch, and there was just a little bit of violence in the movie. And so the father was trying to talk with them and help them to understand how a little bit's still too much. And so he chose to use a very graphic illustration, and while they were out playing that afternoon, he made some brownies. Some of you have heard the story. And and as the kids came in, he offered them these brownies that smelled wonderful He said, but before you take one, let me just explain to you the recipe. He said there's a very, very special ingredient in these brownies. It's a family recipe, it's a family pattern, and it's really, really important that you understand what the special recipe is. He said, I've taken just a little bit of Muffy's poop. And put it in the recipe. Not much. You'll never taste it. But aren't they wonderful smelling? Don't you just want to grab one and eat it? And the kids all said no thanks Matter of fact they left the room rather quickly and they got the dad's point. In the same way. In the same way If you attempt to add works to the cross, you pollute it. You take God's beautiful plan of redemption and you make it ugly. And you reject him. You can do nothing to add to the completed work of Christ. That leaves us a little bit fearful because if I can't bring anything in, then I don't know how safe that I am. Jesus says to you, I know my sheep, and my sheep hear my voice. No one can snatch them from my hand. For the Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them from the Father's hand. You're safe. You're not in control, but you're safe. And you don't have to fear being cast out And he demonstrates his love. You may think, well, he's got me in the kingdom and he's going to keep me, but he can't really love me. I can't be there with joy and completion and satisfaction because I'm ugly. God demonstrates his love for you and that while you're a sinner, Christ died for you. You don't have to worry about his love. You can't control it. You can't demand it, but you have it. You have to trust God moment by moment that He's working in you to keep you and to love you and to make you whole. Now, there's a danger here. It's a huge danger. And the danger is you may think that what you're called to do this morning is to recognize this and be like Paul. So to speak, to pull yourself up by your bootstraps. You might think that what you're called to do here is to be better. That's moralism. That's idolatry. And that's sin. Because you're not called to be like Paul or Luther or Mother Teresa in your own power They couldn't have done what they did in their own power. You're called to cling to God. You're called to trust Him for your life, for your breath, for your health, for your finances. For your purpose in life and for your future. You're called to accept His transforming work in you to bring you to maturity. We can at the same time rest in Him and participate with Him as He changes and transforms and makes us whole. That's the gospel at work. Part of that, part of that secure basis of being adopted as the children means that you'll recognize your idols. Because you'll see in yourself times when you do live like Peter, times when other things steal your attention from God, times when you don't feel okay until you feel in control. Every one of you in this room is an idolater. Each of you here has at least one and probably a lot of idols. Now they may fall into the general categories of control. You may be unaware that you're an idolater because you're so busy trying to do what God wants you to do But you can't imagine how in the world what you're doing could be idolatry because all you're doing is devoting yourself to meeting a standard. But you're doing it in your power. And you're doing it with the purpose of controlling God. Because you want him obligated to you. Have you ever gone to God in prayer? And said to him, Lord, I really want this. It's really important to me to have this. And beneath it all, you really owe it to me. I mean look at what I've done for you. Look at how I've lived my life. Look at the sacrifices I've made for you. If you're an idolater. You may want to lower the expectations of God's standard. And not recognize the reality of how deep your sin goes. You may look at yourself and compare yourself to the standard of other people's behavior. We have a parable about that called the Pharisee and the Tax Collector. Read that. Look at what Jesus says about how the Pharisees stood before God at the end of his comparison with the Gentiles, with women, and with the tax collector. Your brand of idolatry may involve comfort. That's where Peter was. Peter wanted to be comfortable with the approval of others, not to suffer their wrath and not to be persecuted, and so he chose to please them at the cost of the gospel. It may be that your comfort is not so much related to the pleasure of people, but maybe it's material. You're really devoted to having good things. You're okay if you can have the newest stereo system or if you can have the newest TV or if you can have the newest computer. You gotta have the most recent digital phone. And when you have those things, you feel good because you're distracted from the reality of your sin. But they cannot satisfy. It may be drugs. It may be alcohol, it may be sex, it may be lying, but you have an idol, and you know what it is. So what do I do in obeying God to deal with these idols? How do I come to Him and live in line with the gospel? You go back to trusting him. He loves you, he has saved you, he will keep you, and you trust him. The whole is all wrapped up in knowing him. And pleasing him. Not because you obligate, but because you love. Not because you want something from, but because you love. And that's living in line with the gospel. A sermon in this time period couldn't cover all that needs to be covered. If you have questions about this, if God's speaking to you about this and you want to deal with it more, there's two actions I want you to take. The first and foremost is speak to your elder. The second is to grab one of these. They're in the main in the entryway. And come to the Gospel in a heart seminar on the 25th, where we'll spend from 9 in the morning until 5 in the afternoon dealing with us. And from that, I think you'll begin a journey of incredible riches. Let's pray. Father, we scratch the surface. We come to recognize how rich The gospel can be, but we don't know yet the depths. And we won't till we get to heaven. But we praise you. And we long to know you better. We long to satisfy you. We long to know your satisfaction in us. And to realize the safety we have because you love us. Thank you, Jesus. Amen.