Tomorrow is Labor Day. Labor Day means a number of things to us, doesn't it? Labor Day, for one thing, is the commemoration of the dignity of labor. and an occasional need for rest. Labor Day means for many of us simply it's the end of summer. It's the end of vacation. It's back to school this week. Back to the off schedule, back to the increased pressures, back to the thronging duties pressed, back to all those things that we found perhaps a little bit of respite and escape from. in the summer. And we find that we're thinking of all the things, all the fall schedule, the fall commitments, all the things we've already begun to gear up for. Sunday school, pioneer girls, new small group, very obligations and commitments that we made that were to begin in the fall. And we see that the pace is going to be really picking up. In fact, we seem to think that year after year the pace gets quicker and quicker I was struck by that in uh a ad I saw this week uh from Federal Express. I don't know if you've seen this one, but uh you know ten years ago Federal Express changed the way America did business. And here's this guy sweat pouring off and he says, I didn't Then they say, Now we're gonna do it again and here's this poor dude over here, and he says, Oh two hours You see, and and that's the pace. You know, ten years ago, man, you needed it tomorrow and that was sweat. Today that's nothing. I eat it in two hours. And so the pace picks up. And we seem to see this in all kinds of areas of our life. The pace keeps increasing. All the duties, all the obligations, all the commitments, the things that we have to do. Do more and more and more. I've been struck this past year by how many people will tell me, without batting an eye, that they put in regularly 55 to 60 hours a week at work. And then they may have to add something to that. And crisis just bumps into crisis. And they seem to be addicted to their own agreement. And they just say the one thing just keeps going right on after another and there's never any relief. And I don't expect that there will be any relief. But we begin to try to adjust to that kind of a hectic pace of living. And you add to that as a Christian all of your Christian obligations. The Christian duties and the various things that you do as part of a body of believers. And then besides the very activities, there's the fact that as a Christian, you're very prone to feel guilty if you don't keep up on all this. Well, of course, the guilt isn't uh any monopoly of Christians. In fact, uh one of my favorite comic strips is one by Howard uh on called Sally Forth. I don't know if you've noticed those, but he's a an astute observer of of of human behavior. And uh one of these strips this summer has Sally coming home to the house and she's saying, I I should have worked late tonight. I'm not as prepared for the tomorrow's meeting as I should be, walks into the front door. There she is in the living room. She says, I should clean the living room, but I want to spend some time with Hillary and Ted and then there's the Turn around and pauses and looks and says, You know it's amazing how quickly I can switch from my office jump to my home job. Then there was another one. just uh a couple of weeks later, where she is in the backyard and she's settling down on the Shays Lounge and she says to her daughter, I've accomplished a lot today. I got up early, did four loads of laundry, caught up with all the ironing, so three pairs of your jeans. I also organized all the closets, made lasagna for the night, cleaned the kitchen and wrote a letter to my sister. Then I swept the garage, washed the car, fixed your bike pedal and trimmed the hedge. Then I'm gonna lie here in the sun for just a half hour, and then I'll know the law. And her daughter says, Hey mom. You don't have to rationalize like this. You deserve some time to sunbathe. And her answer to her daughter is, You know that. And I know that. But my conscience doesn't know she. We identify with that kind of thing, don't we? constantly being driven. And if you begin to feel any kind of a reduction of the hecticness, of the tension, then you think, well I must be slumping off. I've got to take on another commitment. Better take a course to improve improve my education or go into this or do that. And we begin to think that being busy is the way we simply ought to be. A mature, respected Christian is one who's always a little bit too busy. But if you don't feel too busy, then you feel like you're lazy and you feel guilty. And we put much more of a premium on busyness than on quietness and restfulness. It reminds me of what Isaiah said in Isaiah chapter 30, verse 15, where he said, if repentance and rest is your salvation, if quietness and trust is your strength. But you would have none of it. But you would have none of it. We remember the words of Psalm 127, verse 2, where the psalmist tells us that it's vain for you to To rise up early and go to bed late, eating the bread of anxious labor, for he grants sleep to those that he loves. Remember that Hebrews 4 tells us that the salvation that God calls us to is described as rest in Hebrews chapter 4. He's called us to enter in to his rest. How? How do we live in the fast lane, as it's called, with a jet set, and still enter into the rest of Jesus? Is there something that we need to change? Or is there simply some technique that we need to change? to master. Certain biofeedback techniques or something that will enable us to still keep up the pace and be effective for the Lord and in all that we're doing, but still have some sort of a rest and a tranquility in our lives. How do you enter into rest? In the lifestyles that we're living, particularly as we anticipate moving into the fall schedule. I want you at this Labor Day weekend, as we come into the fall, to remind us of something that I think we need to hear. I know I needed to hear it, and the Lord needed to remind me of it, and so I share it with you. It's Jesus' words from Matthew chapter 11. Matthew chapter 11, verses 28 to 30, for we'll pick up the thread of his thoughts. In verse 25. Matthew chapter 11, beginning with verse 25. At that time Jesus said, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and the learned. and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, but this was your good pleasure. All things have been committed to me by my Father. No one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son. And those to whom the Son chooses to reveal Him, come to meet me, all you who weary and are burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my burden is easy, and my burden is light. What for us to notice two things about what Jesus says there? First of all, notice the promise, and then second Notice the conditions. First of all, what is it that Jesus promises here? It's very simple. He promises rest. A child can see that and understand it. Jesus says, if you come to me, I will give you rest. I will give you refreshment. We could also translate that. He says that I will give you a yoke that is easy, whose burden is light. Twice he says, I will give you rest. I will give you rest, and you shall find rest for your souls. Jesus is concerned here to give us rest and refreshment. But are you tempted to be cynical? Did you hear that? Do you find yourself saying down deep, yeah, sure. That's what he says he's going to give me. But since I've become a Christian, it seems like my life has become more complicated. More hectic, full of more demands, feels like I have more guilt, less simple enjoyment than times that I remembered before I was a Christian. You find yourself being a little bit more. little cynical as you say that if you wrote down all the things that you have to do for this ball, you'd find that you need thirty hour days and eight day weeks in order to accomplish those things? And you say, yeah, and you know a lot of it's because I'm a Christian. But Jesus here says he's going to give me rest. He says that his hope is easy and his burden is light. There must be something I'm missing because I don't find it that way. And we're tempted to wonder. if we can really take these words at face value. The question, of course, that you and I need to ask is are you sure that God is calling you to do all those things that you are convinced you've got to get done this morning? Or could it be that you're making some mistake in getting the signals from what burden Jesus is in fact giving to you? it's not true, then God has given you too much to do. And we know that it's blasphemous to say of our loving Heavenly Father that He's really giving us a burden this fall that's more than we can carry. That contradiction what he says in his word. And so we need to understand that when he has given us all these things before us, he has also made us as people who make choices. He's created us to make Choices. Now sometimes we hate to make the choices. Sometimes we come from the kind of competitive background in academics and in other ways that in order to say no to something means to us that that's giving up and backing off. We just simply add things on. And one more thing and one more challenge to prove that I can do it. And maybe what the Lord is saying to you this morning is that I've given to you some choices to make. And I want to give to you the rest. And I promise that rest and it's theirs for your taking. But if you refuse to make choices about what you have to do this fall, And don't blame me when you don't have the rest. Don't blame me when it's because you refuse to face up to your limitations and try to pretend that you can do more than you can, or that any human being could. to think that it's really my fault that I've placed it on you. So many times I'm convinced we take upon our things things that the Lord has never intended for us to carry. He says, I will give you rest. And it's significant to notice that this rest he's speaking of is a rest of freedom that comes from not having to strive for acceptance. You'll see that in just a moment. But notice that even Paul had to make choices. And you remember when Paul was called by the vision to go over into Macedonia? He didn't say, Well, now I'm working over here in Bithynia and Asia and Well, then just sort of hit Macedonian on the way, you know. Sort of on the backstroke. I'll pick up that continent and preach the gospel over there, take a few days off, and then I'll continue on in my trip back here. But the Bible tells us that twice Paul said no to Asia, No to Bithynia, and then he chose Macedonia instead. Maybe God is giving to you for this fall, some choices. There's one kind of ministry that you could have in a Bible study, small group, neighborhood. kind of ministry, or something like this. There's another kind of ministry. There's various things that are obligations at work. There is your family, there are your friends, there are many other things, and God is saying, here's some choices. But in order to do this, you've got to say no. To that. Are you willing to do that? So that you can know his rest. So that you can know what he's promised that he wants you to have. Note the conditions of this passage. He promised. promises the rest. But there are conditions to this promise just as to every promise. First of all, notice that what he promised, what he says the first condition is to come to him. Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. I personally will give it to you if you come to me. That's in the context of his statements earlier in the chapter concerning the Pharisees. And it's important for us to realise what Jesus is saying here. He's contrasting the Pharisees who laid burdens of duties and obligations upon people In order to be right with God and have peace and lag of guilt, so that they'll do, do, do all these things. And when they have finished this, then they can say, Now maybe God will accept it. And Jesus is saying, No. It's not at all the duties that you do. Come to thee. That's the first thing. Come to me, he says, and I personally will give you rest. I will make all of you duties to do in order to be accepted. He says, rather I myself will take away your sins, that burden which is the heaviest of all burdens. I will take away your sins, because Jesus fulfilled the laws Demands. And in fulfilling those demands, he was eligible to take the curses for those demands. And so as Jesus bore that condemnation, he's able to come to you and to me and say, Now come to me and let me. Give you that rest. Back last century in England, there was a teenager named Charlie Spurgeon. And he was wrestling with a tremendous burden of guilt. He says in his recollections that he prayed for six months that God would give him release from the burden of his guilt. And he said there was no answer to that prayer. He said, I determined that I would go to every church in the area and I would listen to what they had to say. might find release from the burden of this guilt. And he went around to a number of churches. It was one snowy winter day when he was not able to get to the church that he planned to go to that Sunday morning. Instead, because the snow was so deep, he could Then they go to this nearest little group of believers, a primitive Methodist church, which he said he had studiously avoided because they had the reputation of singing so loud that it made your headache. But he said at that morning I don't care if they made my headache, as long as they can give me a message. Tell me how to get rest from the burden of my sin. And so in his own words, sixteen year old Charlie sat in that service where there were very few people, and even the preacher himself couldn't get there that morning because of the snow. And so they were sitting there and at last he says, a very thin-looking man, Mr. Robert Eaglen, came to the pulpit and he opened his Bible and he read these words. Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth. Isaiah 45, 22. Setting his eyes on me, as if he knew all my heart, he said, Young man, you're in trouble. Well I was sure enough. And yet he continued, and you will never Ever get out of it unless you look to Christ. And then lifting up his hands, he cried out, Look! Look! Look! It's only a look, said he. And I saw at once the way of salvation. And that morning Charles Fergie looked to Jesus and trusted in him to take away his burden of sin. And he was a changed man. And preached to up to twenty five thousand people on a Sunday morning, proclaiming the riches of Christ for the rest of his life, preaching to over a million people before he died, leading countless hundreds of thousands to Christ. But it began by deceiving that the very simple statement of the gospel is that you look, you come to Christ. I wonder where you are this morning. Is there somebody here this morning who has a burden of sin. And you've been carrying that burden. And you're looking in all kinds of ways for release from it. But the simple message of looking to Christ himself to take away that burden has never really penetrated you. May the Lord give to you understanding this morning that that invitation is for you. Come to me, Jesus says. All you who are weary and burned, burned with the need of proving yourself. Burdened with the need of trying to make yourself acceptable to God. Burdened with the need of trying to do more and more and more so that you'll feel worthwhile. Jesus says, come to me, and I will free you from your life. yourself. I will free you from your sin. I will give you that rest. But perhaps this morning you're a Christian. And as a Christian you realize that you still are lacking something of that rest. I think of another fellow, M. Griffin, a professor at Wheat. A fellow who, as he put it himself, was caught up in the fast lane of ministry. Had a particular concern for ministering to poor people. And so he went to a conference, Washington E. held by Inner Varcy a few years ago. At that conference he met a fellow, a pastor, Bill Lesson, pastor of LaSalle Church in Chicago. An extremely busy church. That has a teen recreation ministry, an evangelism discipleship program, a tutoring program, an emergency food pantry. Numbers of urban ministries step out from that church. Down with Bill Leslie and he says, I want to have some principles and understandings of how to reach the city for Jesus Christ. And Bill Leslie said that he discerned that in M. Griffin the most important thing he needed to know was you've got to get quiet before the Lord. you're going to be any good in the city. And Bill Leslie said, what you need to do is you need to take 36 hours out of your life. You need to check into some retreat somewhere, and you need to just get alone with Jesus. You need to come to him. And then grip And said I could hardly believe what this guy was telling me. Here I expected him to give me some more ideas of things to do. Here's a guy that is being used of God rightly in the city and all kinds of things. And he's telling me to stop. But he said I did stop. He said I checked into a place. Very similar to Marriott's Spiritual Center, same kind of place right up the road, same kind of thing that you or I could do. He says I checked in and I got a room and I spent thirty-six hours there and it changed my life. Because he said, I found again the simplicity of finding my rest in Jesus before I would go on in the pace of ministry. Perhaps some of you need to check out for 24 or 36 hours. You need to take some time at the beginning of this fall, in order to get perspective and come to Jesus to let him give you that rest. I think of my own life this week. Came back from just being sick and not really uh fully energized yet. Came back to knowing that this first week was going to be moving the whole office and getting some other things going and getting things ready for the fall again. And the first thing I knew I had to do is to take Tuesday morning, go out into the woods. The woods down at Brown's Bridge Road along the reservoir there. And to go out and to pray. And there the Lord met me. And he reminded me of these words. And I remember standing in among the trees, and the Lord speaking to me so clearly from this passage. Alan, I don't want you to come to a doctrine. I don't want you to come to some technique. I don't want you to read some book that's going to show you some principle. I don't want you to come to anything now except me. Can you do that? Can you stop and simply take me at my word. Lord Jesus, I come to you. Nothing else. You've got to meet me now, Lord, because there is nothing else I have. No how-to's, no techniques, nothing. But you. Can you give me rest? Some of us are afraid to go put God to that test, aren't we? Because we're afraid that nothing will happen. We're afraid that maybe he really won't fulfill that promise that he's given. And I want to testify to you, take him in his word. Go this week. Come to Jesus with nothing else. Take your Bible, His Word, and let Him speak to you and come to Him and say, Jesus, I need your rest before I get into this fall. Lord Jesus, I need your rest. rest for perspective in order to evaluate the things that you want me to do. I came back from that time, I found out that the Anna was in the hospital. I found out that the uh furniture not only had income, half of it, But I called him up to find out what was wrong and they said, Well, you know, one of the plants closed down for vacation this summer and I said, Well, that'll put things back a couple of weeks. They said, Yeah, but the problem was that the plant burned down while they were away. So, well that put things back a little bit further. The phone was out of order for a day and a half. Try that when you're trying to make connections, transferring offices. The furniture was we had a lot of difficulties because of the lack of the phone. Making connections. For the furniture to come. But God kept reminding me, I'm in control. Let me give you my rest. And you know by the time Saturday came, everything was done. God had arranged all the connections, every single point where it needed to be made. What had to be done. The meeting house was even saying, You guys need a couple extra weeks to get out of here. And they were very positive. But in fact, it happened just on the day that we planned. But the Lord had to do it in his way. We need to come beginning of this fall and learn also his second tradition. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Yoke is his teaching. And that word yoke is a word that was used back in that culture to refer to the teaching of a rabbi. Often they would refer to the yoke of the Torah, the yoke of a rabbi's teaching. And Jesus is simply using that because the yoke of a is what bound you. And so Jesus is using that language, take my yoke upon you and learn from me to refer to his teaching, his authority to direct our lives. And so what he's simply saying is come to me I will give you rest, and then with that, take my yoke, my lordship, upon you. Submit yourself to my lordship. Give up your rights to my lordship, and let me direct you. You see, last we must understand. Understand the life of peace and quiet is not a life of leisure and self centeredness. I'm not advocating that we all check out this fall, and so every time somebody says that there needs to be something done for the Kingdom of Christ to say, Well I remember that message you preached and said ought to really enjoy life this fall. And so I've limited myself to two things. That's all I'm doing. You know, I'm gonna work and I'm gonna watch television. And I'm gonna really enjoy this fall and I'm gonna really have rest and peace. You see taking Jesus Jok upon us. doesn't give us that kind of an alternative. He wants to give to us his rest in his way. But notice that he says he's gentle and humble. And we need to learn from him how Jesus Jesus lived and walked. And when you and I walk in a frantic in a frantic and a hectic pace, we're not following Jesus. That's not his yoke. Because his yoke is unkindly yoke. The word there in verse 30, my yoke is easy, is a word that is. could also be translated kindly. It fits. It's a word which refers to a yoke that's carved just right so it doesn't change. It's kind, it's easy, it's appropriate, it fits you. And its burden is Light. But we only learn that when we fulfill the condition of submitting ourselves and saying, Lord, it's for you to direct my life this fall. I want to make myself available to you. And I think the problem. So sadly with so many Christians is that we become so busy thinking the Lord simply wants us busy that we're not available to him. We're so busy that when he wants to redirect us to something that he wants to speak to us about and it he was to involve us in we miss the signal because we're charging ahead down one path and we miss what he's trying to say to us and so we're not available for him to use. It takes a quiet spirit to be available. We need to learn his gentleness. We need to learn to be able to say no without guilt so that the Lord can use us. You see all the bulletin there in the back. Five symptoms that I want to put before you for you to take and for you to think about. Five symptoms for discovering whether perhaps you are too busy to be really doing God's will and experiencing his rest. Now all of us are busy at certain times. So when we talk about this, I find it a very slippery concept. And yet uh friends of mine, Alice and Bob Frylin, have been extremely helpful whenever I've gotten together. with Bob or with Alice who used to be uh my colleague here in Inner Varsity. Alice and I used to cover the state of Maryland as two IV staff persons, so uh Alice had quite a uh job description covering half the state and I had the other half of the state. had a restful, easy job. But in that God taught her a lot of things and Bob also about freedom to say no and to live a simple life. And she's come up with these five things which are five ways of telling if you're too busy. Notice them very briefly. If your inner life is self and joyful, self and peaceful, self and order, then you're not living in accordance with Scripture. Don't really follow the Lord if you say, you know, I just um don't find that I have that kind of joy, peace and order in my life. Ah yeah, there's times when that will be missing. But if crisis bumps into crisis, then that's not what the Lord has for us. We need to place more of a value, I believe, as Christians on quietness, rest, and peace that we do on busyness and in being able to congratulate ourselves that no one can accuse us of being lazy. I find that many of us the the uh best compliment That you can give or receive is, I know you're very busy, but you know, and we all like to hear that. Because it's a well, you realize that I'm busy, because to be busy is to be important. And yet we like to uh pamper ourselves by believing. Believing that if I can appear very busy, and sometimes have to get very busy to appear very busy, then people will respect me. But if your life, your inner life with the Lord, is sacrificed for that, that's not following his Lordship. That's not taking his yoke upon you. The life of simplicity takes courage. You'll be misunderstood when you say, I can't do that. People will say, What do you mean you can't do that? This person's doing more than that. Why can't you? Can't judge yourself by that person. You have to have the freedom to say, but I pray about this that the Lord wants me to do. That comes to the second fourth one, so we'll pull that off. Second, if you if you those that are close to you, Your spouse, your children, those who look to you for emotional and spiritual support are frequently lonely, discouraged, or disappointed. It may be that you're not available to be used by God in their lives. That should be in their lives. You find that those who are close to you are constantly yearning for your attention and for your love. If you're not able to give that consistently, that's not taking the yoke of Christ upon you. Thirdly, as you if as you can Consider an activity. You feel overwhelmed emotionally or experience physical signs of stress. Oh no, one more thing. Stomach tightening, extreme fatigue, headaches. You need to stop and ask God quietly if this is his will for you. Not all he wants us to do is easy, but we all taught to test the spirits, and it may be that God will use physical and emotional signs to indicate a false spirit prompting us to do something. Firstly, if you're too busy to pray about an activity you're too busy to do. How many of us take on things that we can just slip in, but we know that we can't really give them adequate prayer support to really think about the people involved in that? and to really give ourselves to it quietly. We can get into bare activity. We can leave the Bible study. We can do the particular thing. But to be used with the Lord Jesus involves more than simply getting the thing done. It involves a prayer lens that goes along with that. You can't pray about it. You find that you can't pray about any of the things you're doing now. Maybe some things need to be cut out. Fifthly, if you're too busy to handle an occasional interruption or emergency, You're too busy. If your schedule is so tight that you cannot meet the unexpected with faith and confidence, then you're too busy. Does that describe you? I would pray that the Lord would use these thoughts as we covered. at the beginning of the fall, but to remember once again that as we come into our fall schedules, the Lord Jesus stands inviting us, come to me. Are you weary? Are you burdened? Then put your name in that invitation. Come to me. And I had to do that this week. Come to me, Alan, because you are weary and you're burdened. Come to me. To nothing else. And let me. Meet you and give you my rest. Then take my guilt upon you. Learn from me. Learn to say no without guilt, so that you might be available to me to be used in effective. For me, because you're operating out of a life of peace. You're meeting with me regularly and frequently, and you're thinking on me, and you're communing with me, and you're drawing your strength for me so I can. use you this far. Are you willing to say no? So that the Lord can use you? Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we come to you now. And we take you with your word in that invitation. You said, come today. If you're weary, you're burdened. And Lord, some of us are really weary and burdened. And some of us, Lord, look at the fall schedule with dread. We come to you now that we might find your rest. That we might find from you that calling to spend time with you regularly. That we might know you and that we might draw our strength from you. That we might be able to say no, as we think of all the things that we're committed to. That we might be able to do those things that You are calling us to do. And not be frustrated doing too many things, some of which you've never called us to do. Teach us to make choices. Teach us to stand up to bosses and to say no. No, I can't go any further. Teach us, Lord, to be able to even deny friends, even when there's misunderstanding. Teach us, Lord, even to have to say no to a ministry in our church. It may be very valuable, but will stretch us too thin. Lord, we believe that you have given enough time and energy for all the things you are calling us as a church to do this fall. We want to affirm that to you by faith now. And we pray that you can. You will teach us to live by that faith and to see you work through us. As a people who know joy and who know peace, we can enjoy life because we have found our rest in you. We pray in Jesus' name, the name of the Lord Jesus, who taught us disciples to sum up their concerns, praying, Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed in thy name. Thy freedom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not to temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power of God, and the glory forever. Amen.