Well, we are learning in these series of messages about the names of God as they are revealed in the Bible, the names by which God has revealed Himself to us. In contrast to our own distorted and silly notions of what he's like, we're seeing how God has shown himself. To his names. You remember we looked at the preeminent Old Testament name, Yahweh, the name which appears in your Bibles as Lord, capital L small capitals. ORD. In contrast to Lord Capital L small ORD. And when you see that name in the capitals, it always means the covenant name of God Yahweh. Used to be pronounced Jehovah incorrectly. Most uh currently most scholars think pronounced Yahweh. That name, you remember, means that He is, that our God is the sovereign Redeemer. Who has called his people out of bondage and into a relationship with himself and given them an inheritance as his children. That idea of God being our Father and we as children was only a subtle notion in the Old Testament. And it only came into fullness and into full revelation. When Jesus came and when Jesus taught concerning the nature of God. And to Jesus, this idea of God as Father was absolutely central. For Jesus, this idea that we could approach the thundering God of Mount Sinai Before whom his people trembled and quaked because of his holiness and his majesty, that this God is the same one who bids us to crawl up onto his lap. And to call him daddy is an absolutely startling revelation. As Ken pointed out in the worship, it's that word Abba, the Aramaic, Closely associated as Ken said to all the Semitic languages, whether Hebrew or Arabic or many other languages, Ab, Abba. which is the familiar family term for daddy. More accurate than this notion of father even. Daddy. And that's so startling that you and I should never quite get used to it. You should never quite get used to the fact that we can address the eternal, faithful God. As my daddy, who's in heaven. And so it's so central, we believe, to the gospel that Jesus took his longest message that he ever gave recorded in Scripture, three chapters in the book of Matthew, to make this the central theme. And as you see there in the bulletin outline, The top there statement that my entire life as a Christian is to be controlled by my awareness that through Jesus, God is my heavenly Father. Now, if Jesus is not your master and your Savior, then you cannot call God your daddy, your heavenly Father. He's your judge. He's your creator and is the one who judges the things that you do, right from wrong. Judges how well you keep his law, his word. And you stand under condemnation before him unless you are trusting in Jesus as the one who has, as the firstborn, as the only begotten Son. Died and taken your sin on himself, so that through the Son, you and I are adopted as sons, in order to be able to call God daddy. We saw last week that this affects our conduct. It's the whole basis of the Christian's conduct And so you see that kind of a review of the outline there. Point one is what we looked at last week. The basis of all our Christian conduct. We saw then that the law that of the Old Testament is transformed in Jesus' teaching, his law, to be not rules for slaves. But principles of responsible freedom. The first blank there. Principles of responsible freedom for maturing children who are in a close loving what was the second blank? Anybody remember from last week? Close loving Yeah, I heard it then. A little louder. Good. Kids were a little louder than you guys, you know. Close loving relationship with their parents. And so that idea of living in relationship to God as our Heavenly Father is what goes right through the Sermon on the Mount. You might entitle the Sermon on the Mount, Living in the Presence of My Heavenly Father. That's what it's all about. And so you see that these are not rules for external behavior, but Jesus again and again in the Sermon on the Mount talks about the heart. attitudes of a child who is maturing. And there's that creative freedom for how to express that. In relationships. And again, if you're without Christ, that's not possible for you. You're not in that relationship. The law to you is an external thing. It's simply to show you how you can't. keep what God's standard is. When you come into a relationship to God through Jesus, the Son, you become a child who then moves into a maturing, loving relationship with your Heavenly Father. We talked about the three principles that guide your conduct in that. Principle A, what's the first one? Who remembers? First one is loud imitating. Yeah, say a little louder there, right? Imitating the Father. And that's the principle by which we see in the Sermon on the Mount that when we love God, we want to be like Him, we're called to be perfect, even as our Father is perfect. And because we want to be like the Father, that means we want to be like Jesus, because Jesus was the exact replication of the Father. That's why you want to be like Jesus, because Jesus was like the Father, and God has made us to be His children, to be like Him. And so you follow Jesus. He's the one who shows you how God lived. How God would be if he was living and walking on earth, because Jesus is God walking on earth. And so how Jesus treats you is the way you treat other people. That becomes your guiding principle, imitating the way Jesus treats you, which is the way the Father treats you, and the way that you relate to other people. He washes your feet, so you wash other people's feet. He serves you, you serve others. He loves you and you reflect that love to others. You imitate him, not slavish obedience to an external call. Code, but that loving imitation of the Father that you love. Second principle was that of what? Yeah, now we're getting on track, glorifying the Father. Everything that you do, you want to bring honor to his name. He's your dad. You want people to look to him and to respect him. And so you let your light shine that people will see your good deeds that they may glorify your father. who's in heaven. The third principle was that of pleasing. You know, this side. I don't know what's going on over on this side. You guys up here, you know, you're sort of uh you know you Get your nose buried in your outlines here, looking for your notes from last week to see if you left them in the back of your Bible somewhere or something. This side, you're on track. Good. This side gets the points for today. Pleasing the Father. And that principle of you're loving him, and therefore you're more concerned with what he thinks about what you do than people and anybody else. And so Max Licato, who is a popular speaker and writer today, wrote a book on the Beatitudes, and the title of that book is Applause from Heaven The applause excuse me, the applause of heaven. Which talks about the fact that you know the beatitudes are how we get how we are able to please God in our behavior And a number of you commented last week when I talked about the fact that we can please God. Jesus makes that very clear in the Sermon on the Mount. There are things you can do. You don't always displease God. You know, we get this idea as Christians that we're always messing up and that everything we do, we only do it halfway, or we do it wrong, or motives were bad, it was insufficient, it was not enough, it was this and that. And so we never get the sense we please the Father. But the Bible's quite clear. God's children please him. And he takes that sin, and that sin is removed in Jesus, and he sees through that To those acts, those attitudes, those ways that you do in fact intend to please him. One of the most satisfying things that as Christians we can experience is to be able to look back on something that we did and say, Father, I believe that in all the ways that was insufficient, nevertheless, that it did please you. And I'm so glad to know that I could please you And so we please him, that's our desire, and that produces in us, you see, a freedom, a creativity Which we talked about last week as uh artful goodness in contrast to conventional goodness. The conventional goodness of the slave who simply keeps the rules, tries to not mess up. From the artful goodness of the Son, who in that freedom, in a relationship with the Father, says, I'm able to go beyond simply the external law keeping, to that law of the heart. It doesn't mean that we relativize the law, it simply means that we internalize it to an artful goodness, as Jesus talked about, and going the second mile, turning the other cheek, doing these other things that are beyond simply keeping the law. And that's what we talked about last week. How our awareness of being God's children controls our Christian conduct. Now, the second thing that I want to look at this week, then, is this idea of how our awareness of being God's children controls are Christian praying. Christian prayer. And then the third point on the backside, closely related to that, is the life of faith in general. Do you remember how Jesus taught us to pray? Of all the ways, Matthew chapter 6, verse 9, of all the ways Jesus could have had us address God. Did you ever stop to think of that? He could have had us address God as the Holy One of Israel, the majestic Elohim, faithful Creator Sovereign Yahweh who has kept the covenant with his people, majestic Adonai, Lord of the universe, all kinds of ways he could have had us address the Father, to address God in our praying. The one way Jesus chose, very significant. It says, when you pray, here's how you start. Daddy, who's in heaven. My heavenly daddy. Very, very significant. In fact, that whole notion of being able to approach God with a kind of confidence of a child coming to his father. A child coming to adore the Father and to please the Father and to seek from the Father those needs is the controlling notion of Christian praying. Let me suggest to you. That this week, when you pray, every time you begin your prayer, quiet time, family devotions, let me suggest that you begin your prayer. My daddy who's in heaven. Or if it's with others, our daddy in heaven. And think about what you're saying. Now I'm not saying, you know, you use that as some little formula for the rest of your life. I'm just saying this week Just to help you to have that notion embedded in your mind, start your prayers by my daddy who's in heaven. And think about what you're saying. Think about what that does to your notion of praying this week. When Jesus prayed at Lazarus' tomb, do you remember in John chapter 11, verse 41? Jesus prayed and he said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. And I thank you that you have always heard me. Jesus had the confidence that because he was a son, the father would hear him. All of our kids have that con kids have that confidence. Ever lax the confidence that if as long as they have it loud enough that you can hear them, that somehow you're not going to pay attention? Any of your kids are timid enough to think, well, you know, you heard me, but I don't think you really care. I mean, as long as it's Dad, you know, then they know they've got your attention and that you will care. about what is on their mind. Now there's times we care more than other times about that. But somehow they know you're never going to dismiss it. And the fact is, Jesus is saying, Father, I know that you've always heard me. Every time I cry, can you hear me? Because that's the confidence of a son to the Father. Now, Jesus teaches us that that has two implications on our praying. Two distinctive things about our praying as Christians. That set us apart from religious people who talk to God. Two things about that intimacy and that confidence, that boldness, that set us aside from all other religious praying. The first one is that our prayers are not to be superstitious but personal That's the blank under two. Our prayers are not to be superstitious, but rather to be personal. In chapter 6, verses 6 to 8, Jesus says, When you pray, go into your room and close the door and pray to your father who is unseen. And then your father who sees what is done in secret. will reward you. And when you pray, do not keep on babbling like pagans, for they think that they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. How many times do we think of prayer? You know, do you ever pray for something? And then God answers that prayer. And you find yourself maybe slipping as you recount that, and you say, wow, it worked. You notice what you're saying? It worked. You know, the praying worked. Somehow what ideal worked. And so the next time you're in a tight situation, you think, how do you get it right? How can I pray again so this time my prayer will be answered like it was before? You know, we are incurably superstitious as people, aren't we? No matter what God says to us about the relationship we have with Him, there's always that tendency for us to want to get some external, controlling, manipulative behavior down so it will work. Example of this was when I was at the um March for Life down in DC. You know, if you if you ever think about going to the March for Life And you think that you can't get that time to do it, you're hovering. One incentive to go to the mark for life and is just the kind of material you get handed out to you. I mean, you want the gamut of religious thinking today. It's amazing the stuff that you get. One of the things that I was handed as we were making our way to the Supreme Court this January was this hot flash about a comet that's about to collide with the Earth. Now I was very fortunate to get this because I'm one of the few people now who understand how I can help to avert this comet from colliding with the earth. And there are a number of things that can be done if you are faithful to God and are seeking to cooperate with Him for your praying. So that God will in fact have mercy on us and not have this comet hit and blast us all the smigherines. Apparently, this thing's so big it's going to just blow things apart that ever hits. Now the principal means that are given according to this paper. For us to be able to delay the coming of the ball of redemption, which it was called, is our prayer, our penance, our atonement, to make many sacrifices. Especially to say masses and communions, if possible, to wear sacramentals, principally to wear a brown scapular, to wear uh a Saint Benedict medal, to wear a crucifix, to play cruci place crucifixes on all the outside doors of our homes, uh to pray the rosary at least fifteen decades daily, and to use holy water daily around our home. I'm not making fun of any particular religion in that. I'm simply using that as an example to show us those ways that we think if I do this thing, God will hear me. Don't we have that? It's an incurable notion. How can I get it to work right? Jesus is saying here in Matthew 6 It's not like the pagans in their babbling on and on and on. They thought if we just say it enough times, then God or the gods will hear us. Jesus is saying no. No. They think they'll be heard for their many words. Don't be like them. Because you have a heavenly father who knows what you need even before you ask him. You and I aren't informing God of what we need, are we? And we say, God, give me my daily bread, God's. Oh, that's right, I forgot. You get hungry, don't you? You know Oh that's right, I forgot you've got a mortgage to pay. I'm glad you reminded me of that. I'm going to get to work on that. Sometime we had this notion that you know I didn't cover that with prayer. I didn't set, you know, and so something goes wrong. He said, why? Well I forgot to pray that. I forgot to hit that one. And so God, you know, it's sort of sneak through. God's looking for anything we don't pray about. But he's saying, I know I got an excuse to mess that one up, you know, because they didn't pray it What kind of a notion is that that we have of God? He's sitting around looking for us to not hit something so that that'll go wrong. And didn't pray that you wouldn't get a flat tire that day, so you got a flat tire. What a kind of notion is that? Your heavenly father knows your needs. Prayer is a relational thing so that we learn to depend on him and see his power at work in us. And so our praying is personal, it's not superstitious. And every time you notice this week, as you pray, my daddy who's in heaven, and then you begin to think of how you're going to get it right, how you fall back into superstitious praying. Catch yourself Say, Father, I'm sorry. That's so silly. Teach me how to pray to you as a son to a father in relationship. Not trying to get some external thing that's going to make you have to answer because I got it right. The other thing that this means is that our praying is to not be fatalistic, but expectant. It's not to be fatalistic, but expect it. Look in chapter 7, verses 7 to 11. Jesus says, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Lock, and the door will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds. To him who mocks, the door will be opened. Rich of you, if his son asks for bread, we'll give him a stone Well, we ask for a fish, we'll give them a snake. If you don't know here to evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven Give good gifts to those who ask him. Now, in Luke's version of this same little account, Luke precedes it by a story of a friend who comes at midnight. And he comes to ask for bread because he's got some unexpected guests. These people were a little inconsiderate. They showed up at midnight. They uh said, you know, uh here we are, we're kinda hungry before we go to bed, anything you can have to eat? And he's oh well I'm just out, you know, let me go over to my next door neighbor. So he goes over and he bangs on the door and he says, Uh hey got any extra bread? And his neighbor said, Hey you kidding I'm in bed, man. It's cold and cut the covers up and I'm not gonna go unlock all the doors. Apparently they had a lot of locks on the door, it was big hassle. I'm not gonna go and unlock all the stuff, you know, so I give you some bread And so his friend says, Oh, okay, well, you know, he gave it a try. Goes back and says to his friend, hey, give it a shot, didn't work, just go back to bed. No, Jesus that's not what he does. He keeps back on point. He says, I'm gonna I'm not gonna leave till you give me the bed. So his friend says, well, if I'm ever going to get sleeping around here, I guess we're going to get up and just guy get this guy some bread. You know, Rosemary Miller talks about a time when she was in Europe and she said uh she passed this French bakery. And it was a bakery that was in a home. And so there would be these smells that would emanate, you know, from this home, and it would just tempt you to go inside and couldn't pass it without wanting to go in and buy something. And she remembered that and she went to this place with this one day and she knocked on the door and it was locked. And she knocked again and it was locked. She knocked a third time and it was locked, locked, locked, Not the lock. Janakan was off And she finally decided, Well, I'll go on. I don't really need it anyway. I just thought it'd be nice. And she thought afterwards, if she walked down the street, isn't that the way I am with my Heavenly Father? You see, what Luke is talking about in this incident that precedes what Jesus does here in Matthew, about asking and seeking and mocking. He said his friend came with shameless boldness. He wasn't going to be put off. He had to have that bread. Rose Marie says that's the way it is with me, with spiritual things so often. It smells nice, it's desirable, it's delectable, but I don't have a deep hunger. It causes me to pray with a shameless boldness. Father, please give it to me. How many times are you and I like that? We pray, we ask for something, but it's not with a shameless boldness that says, I must have it. Father, this is all important to me. I love you, and I want to please you, and my life is yours, but this matter, Lord, I can't go on and just put this aside. Dr. Kelly from Reform Seminary tells about Baroness Blixen, on whose life the film Out of Africa was based. And she owned a large coffee plantation. You may remember if you saw that film, it was in Kenya. After World War I, she had a number of financial reverses, and so she had to sell off large portions of that plantation. Well, the portions that she had to sell were a people, the Kikuyu, who lived on that land. And she had grown to love those people during the time that she had known them. And they were going to be put off by the new oaths. They were going to lose their homestead that had been theirs through generations immemorial. And so Baroness Brixton did everything possible that she could, writing to government, petitioning that the government would restore the lands to the Kikuyu. There was no answer. He was disregarded. Finally on one day there was a new governor coming into Kenya and there was a large party, a display of uh protocol for this governor to welcome him to the area with his wife. And all these dignitaries were lined up, and Baroness Blixen was a very attractive and dignified woman, and she was lined up with the rest of them And finally she could bear it no longer. She broke through the line, she ran up to the governor, and to the shock of all these distinguished Britishers there, she fell down on her knees, she grabbed the governor's hand, and she began to plead for the conversation. Kikuyu. She began to cry out to him, and people were very embarrassed, and they're trying to pull her away from the governor and pretend this thing didn't happen so that the party's not going to be messed up. And she would not leave. She stayed there on her knees and she kept crying out, I won't leave until you'll promise me that at least you'll look into this matter. And finally, it said that the governor's wife said, You have my word. And that gave her the release. Why was she able to shame herself so undignified in order to do that? Because of her love for the Cthulhu. She would not let them go without trying everything possible And Jesus is saying that when you and I have that kind of a concern for our Father, that we come to him not fatalistically, saying, Oh, you know, you pray, but whatever God wills, that's what's going to happen. And so you sort of Throw up a few requests to heaven. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. But Jesus says, You come expectantly. You come with a longing, a deep hunger that says, I'm going to ask, I'm going to seek, I'm going to knock. Because my father hears me. And my father's not going to give a snake when I ask him for bread. He's not going to give a stone when I ask him for bread. He's not going to give me a snake when I ask Tim for a fish I read an article about a father who had a son, and the son was in a very serious bicycle accident, disabled him. For thirteen years after that, the father went to classes, lived and sometimes in place of his son. To take notes, to go through those classes, because his son was not able to do that, in order to enable his son to finish school and then finally get a college degree. It was a picture of the father in the paper. People didn't know who was prouder, the father or the son, having gotten that degree. They worked together as a team for 13 years. The physical therapist said, I've never seen such devotion. The father's response to the reporter's questionings about this was simply this. If you're a parent, you love your children. And if you love them, nothing's a sacrifice. Didn't you and I think that we have to bang on the gates of heaven? That God really isn't very interested in those things that are of concern to us. We have a kind of a fatalistic notion. Well, you try it. Sometimes he answers, sometimes he doesn't. Jesus says, You're a son. And you're coming to your father. And so keep asking, keep seeking, keep knocking. Do you know that I have prayed for my mother's salvation for almost 30 years now? There is nothing in my life that I pray for that Satan doesn't use more effectively To attack my faith, and the fact that I have prayed for nearly 30 years for my mother to show an interest and to come to Jesus as her Savior and Lord, in that matter. My mother doesn't seem any closer now to Christ than she was when I became a Christian and realized that she really didn't know the Lord. And there's a lot of times I'm tempted to give up. There's a lot of times I'm tempted to say, well, God, it's obvious to me that's something that you're just not going to do. And somehow I've got to reconcile that with the fact that you hear and tell me to ask and seek and knock, and I'll move on. And then I'll read a passage like this again. I'll read Luke 11. And as God has done recently in my life, he has said to me, Alan, you can't give up on that. I haven't given you freedom to give up on that. While your mother is alive and she's coherent and listening, there's still that possibility. If you're asking and you're seeking and you're knocking, I am a good father. And I have a tendency, you see, it affects my view of my heavenly father. Why would he do that? I can't claim that. I can't say, God, you've given to me a revelation that my mother will become a Christian. But He has given me a revelation here in Matthew 7. Ask, knock, see. Because those things that you seek for from your heavenly Father, He wants to give you good things. But you and I have got to come with a hunger. A hunger and an expectation that says, Father, I won't give up. And I won't dishonor you by saying that, well, sometimes you answer, sometimes you don't. You really can't figure it out. But I'll keep asking. And so I'm recommitted in this now to ask God that He will bring my mother's heart to himself. Let me ask you this morning, is there something that you've just about given up on? You've said, well, you know, I don't know why, but God just doesn't seem interested in that in my life. May these words be of encouragement to you. Ask. See, not the Father, who is your heavenly daddy. Bid you to continue to come. Come while there is hope. For he's a good father. If he wants to build our faith, not to discourage it. Sometimes he surprises us in how he does it But he wants us to keep coming. This is true of our life of faith in general. That's the third point, and I'll just finish quickly on that That life of faith he describes in Matthew chapter 6. I lost track of my time. I didn't set my clock at the beginning. So I don't know how long I've gone away. I got about three minutes left or something. The life of faith here that he talks about in Matthew chapter 6, verses 25 to 34, basically he's saying that don't worry. Don't worry about what you have to eat or drink or the provisions that you need, because your father, who feeds the birds of the air, We'll take care of you. You're more valuable than the birds of the air, so why worry? Learn me all these different things, and he goes on to say about the needs that we have, the things that we worry for, and then he finishes up verse 32. The pagans run after all these things, worrying about how to get them. Your Heavenly Father knows that you need them. So don't worry. Don't live in anxiety. Because your heavenly Father knows your needs. He cares for them more than you could possibly know. He sent his own son to die for you. How could he possibly neglect any of your needs? Is he able to answer? He's got unlimited resources. Why then would you worry about what he can do? I remember reading of a fellow in West Virginia, Dick Moses, had a business there. He needed a larger facility, a larger building for his business. And so he began to call on the Heavenly Father. Moses was a Christian, and he came in a very bold and confident way to his father, saying, Father, I need a larger place. Would you please provide it? He tried with his wife after church on Sundays they would drive around Charleston, West Virginia, where they lived, and they would look for larger buildings that they might be able to obtain. Went as far as fifteen miles outside of town, praying that God would provide. There was one building that seemed like it would meet their needs perfectly, but the building said with a large sign on it, for lease only. And so after praying for about two years and not finding any other place, He said, God seemed to lay upon him this confidence, and the way he put it, God told him that he was going to have that building. God would provide it for it. And so he went with boldness to the owner of that building, Charles Morrison, and he said, is there any possibility that you would talk about selling this building? Charles Morrison said, well, you're about the hundredth person that's asked to buy this building, but it's not for sale. I haven't sold it to anybody else. I'm not going to sell it to you. It's for lease only. And so uh this fellow Dick Moses said, well, he says, I don't want to, he said, I know this seemed kind of strange to you, but he said, I believe God's told me that I'm going to have this building and that you're going to be ready to sell it. I wouldn't have said it that quite that way, but he had the sense that God was speaking to him about it, so that's what he told him. Ralph Morrison kind of laughed and he said, You know, I like you. He said, I'll tell you what, if I ever decide To sell this building, I'll give you first refusal. And the building continued to stay up for sale. Six months later, Moses decided that God was prompting him again. that he would provide this building for him. It was the one to meet his needs, and his father was going to provide those needs. So he went back, he tried to contact Morrison. His wife said, you know, just yesterday he was trying to contact you. So they got together. And Morrison said, I'll tell you what I'll do. You write down on a piece of paper the figure that's the maximum you're willing to pay. I'll write down on another piece of paper The figure that's the minimum I'm willing to accept. If they're close, we'll negotiate. If they're far apart, we'll shake hands and part as friends. So he sat down to write down his figure. Wrote down a figure. He sensed that God was saying, no, that's too much. And so he raced it and he put down a smaller figure. He sensed God saying again, no, no, no, that's too much. So he put down a smaller figure, $250,000, folded the paper, handed it over to Mr. Morrison. Mr Morrison had down a million dollars and they parted and they wanted you know what I'm gonna say, right? Mr Morrison folded his paper, looked at it, opened it up The figures were precisely the same. $250,000. Morrison practically fell off his chair, showed it to his wife. He said, I can't believe, look at this. And of course That was the price for the building. They settled on it right that moment. It's been in that building for ten years now. It says it's met every need. But the thing about it is, not so much that the building met its need. But for you and for me, it's that kind of coming to the Father, seeking humbly, your will be done. But, Lord, I lay before you boldly. My needs as a child that enables us to see the Father work in ways that draws our hearts to him. Says, You are at work in my life. I love you. And I've seen you active. It's that kind of thing that builds our faith. And so what is it for you this morning? How is your sonship controlling your conduct before him, your communication with him, your sense of his care for you? Bring it before him. Just for a moment now. Let's pray. Lord our God, teach us. How to come before you with our needs and to believe that you are our Daddy who hears us. Teach us that this week, we pray, in specific ways, in Jesus' name. Amen. Seconds, and three