President Clinton this week. We have to become aware that our country, like Ken had said, is embroiled in a civil war over values. This one's April President Clinton will be elected and a celebration of his values will take place. On Friday, there will be a march for life that is a stark contrast to what Wednesday will hold. So one of the realities we have to look at this morning is that this war is a painful war. It is a costly war. As a result of the cost, there are many who are facing the decision to desert because they are so weary. Our new government will most likely follow through on its election promises to liberalize access to abortion, to provide special recognition. and greater freedom to those who practice homosexuality. With these events about to take place, we must acknowledge that our culture has declared war upon the Bible and the God of the Bible. Bible. The values of our nation are being defined in a way that attacks the heart of Christianity. God's sovereign ability and right. To determine and to communicate what is right and what is wrong, what is true and what is false. In order to gain the greatest support for these actions, the enemy of the trust are phrasing and presenting them in appealing terms, terms such as choice, rights, freedom. We have to be very careful as we hear what is being said, so that we like the Bereans that Paul that Luke speaks of in Acts chapter seventeen, are eager to hear We are willing to listen to what is said because we seek truth, but we are unwilling to value and to determine truth in our own ability to and our own wisdom. Because the praise of the Bereans was that they would hear what was said and examine it daily to see what scripture had to say about what Not only do you have to take what you hear from the world into account and judge it according to scripture, you have to take what I tell you this morning. And you have to come to your own conclusions on the basis of what God says in the Bible as to whether or not I'm right. Because if you don't, you will not take what I say as anything more than what I've said. You have to come to the conviction that what you hear and believe is truth. Or you won't be committed to it. In Philippians 3, chapter 3, Paul is writing to a church that's in a situation remarkably like our own. He's writing to the church in Philippi, which is a culture that is truly and nearly totally pagan. It's a church that is antagonistic, it's it's it's a culture and a city that is antagonistic to Christianity and it's a Paul telling this church and us how to will in their culture and our culture And this morning, he's telling that church and he's telling us that we must live within the models that Christ has given us. He begins in chapter 3, verse 7. by saying join with others and following my example. Last week we looked at how to please Jesus. We set time in chapter three, verses seven through fourteen. looking at how can we please Jesus. And we learned some important lessons. But today Paul's taking that thought further. And he's pushing it to say, not Not only how can you in general please Jesus, but how can you please Jesus in your culture that makes Christianity hard So to begin this sermon this morning, I'd like to take this to a time of prayer because it is only by his power and his son that we can hope to do anything. Lord Jesus, we know and have experienced the war. We're using. And here, Father, we need more. Help us to see the battle clearly. Help us to see your message to us this morning. We need not Paul writes to the church in Philippians, he says, join with others in following my example, brother, and take note of those who live according to the pattern that we gave you. For as I have often told you before, and say now even with tears, many live as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their destiny is destruction. Their God is their summer. And their glory is in their chain. Their mind is on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven. And we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control will transform our lowly body so that they will be like his glory body. Paul's telling the church that there are two camps and there are only two camps There are the enemies of the cross that he mentions in verse eighteen, and there are the citizens of heaven. There's a lot of debate as to who he's referring to when he says the enemies of the cross, but there are a few options that we need to look at this morning that will in his day that continues into our own. Maybe not in the same name and the same history that they're here today. In Paul's day they were The Judaizers, those who we studied last week were arguing for a return to the law. But said the only way to maintain your relationship with Jesus is to fulfill the law. Paul's saying that's not true. They may be anti-Nomians and don't be frightened by a large word. It's a Greek word that simply means those who are against the law. They're anti-nomar. anti-the-law. They denied that there was a guide or a standard or any sort of code of behavior that you had to think about. Or it could have been the novice. were an interesting group and they denied the deity of Jesus. They said, the only thing you have to know to be saved is to know that Christ is within you. And that you have to reach your potential and maximize what is already yours. Today we find that there are works-oriented Christians who say that we must fulfill the law. We can't do this, we've got to do this. And that their focus is so intently upon what we have to do or don't do that they lose the focus. confusing. They may be nominal Christians, people who have a mindset that that's sometimes spoken of. I'm a I'm American, America is a Christian country, therefore I must be a Christian. Or Or I was raised in a home where we went to church regularly when I grew up, therefore I've got to be a Christian. Or or some sort of cheapening what it means to be religious. They have a pretense of religion instead of a relationship with Jesus. Or it could be non-believers. Anyone who denies the Jesus fine Anyone who says that no, Jesus is not God. New Age today says that there is a Christ, but it's not a particular person. It's not someone who historically came and paid a particular debt for his children. Christ is you. It's that universal essence of Godhead that's in all of us. And salvation isn't a right relationship with God on the basis of any sort of work that anybody else has done, salvation is to know who you are. It is to know your potential and to realize it. There are many other kinds of enemies of the cross, and the one thing that they all have in common is that they deny the need for And the sufficiency of sin. The reason Paul calls them the enemies of the cross is because the cross is the ultimate expression of grace. It is where the work of God to bring his children into relationship with himself and the payment for their sins is taking place. So you may find people who say, well, we don't really need grace. You can't need grace if you're not a sinner and and you can't be a sinner if there's no sin. If there's no ultimate standard There is no need for grace. You'll find a lot of people today who deny that there's an afternoon. There is no need for grace. because the only point of being here is to get through here and and and reach that wondrous bliss of annihilation where there is no more pain, where there is no more difficulty than first It's an escape. And they don't want grace. Or you'll find those who really honestly believe they can do it on their own. That they can fulfill the law that they need to live under in order to be done. That they don't deny the the the need for grace they'll deny the sufficiency for grace and what they'll say is yes jesus is important he's essential But you must have. You must add your beauty. You must add your sacrifice You must add anything. And let me tell you, like we said last week, that God doesn't love you because of what you say who is not. He does not love you because of what you say, Jesus. There is nothing you can add that will earn his pleasure. You don't do what you do for his pleasure. Earn it. You do it because you want to offer to him your pleas his pleasure by doing what he is pleased with. If you don't Get his love because you've done something right. I'd love to expand that, but if if if you want that so on then get the tape from last week. Citizens of heaven. You see, there's another party to this this equation. There are the enemies of the cross and they're the citizens of heaven. And what we have to do this morning is recognize who is a citizen of heaven. And that's really clear. That is crystal clean. You are a citizen of heaven if you have come to understand your sins, that it exists and is real, that it is horrible and ugly. If you realize that Jesus has come to pay the death to your sin. And that his work is both necessary and sufficient. And if you trust him alone to accomplish that. Not adding something else to it. Not putting something else in its place. If you know that you're a sinner, that God has made provision for that sin through the sacrificial death and resurrection of Jesus. And He's You have trusted in them. You fought grace. And Paul is saying to those who are citizens of heaven, follow my example. One of the things that that early in my Christian life was a tremendous struggle for me was I wanted to be like Jesus. I wanted to do what he did. And the first time I thought about walking on water I realized there was I wouldn't even try it in my bathtub. There are things about Jesus that I can't do. There are things about Jesus that Paul couldn't do. So what Paul said was I've given you an example. I've lived a life where I feel confident that God will say to me, Well done, good and faithfully. And you See a Christian life live in a human being where Christ-likeness is the goal. And I want you to follow not only my example, but the others who have given you that pattern. 17 and take note of those who live according to the pattern that we gave you. You see, we look at Jesus and we say, I can't do that And the dangers will give up. We won't push. But what I want each of you to do is what I did when I was in Southern California and had a tremendous example of parenting. There was one family in our church that had four kids. And and believe me, we don't have four kids because they did. But they had four kids and their kids were such tremendous examples of Christian young people that that I said they done it right. I've I've gotta learn from them. So Anne and I made a point of of being in their home. Whenever they made an invitation to us, we accepted it without question. We wanted to to be in their home to see how they taught their children, to see how they responded when their children disobeyed. To see what they did to teach their children of their love for Jesus. To see what they did when they got angry. with their kids. We wanted to learn all we could about parenting from this family because God had used them in their children's lives to an exceptional degree. But there are things about them that I wouldn't want to pattern myself after because there are areas of weakness in them. And so there were other people that I'd find other things. We had a an elder in our church who was excellent with financial issues. And so I learned from him and I and learned from him how to deal with money. There were tremendous givers in our church and we wanted to learn from them how to give. You see, no one person is going to teach you all the things you need to know about price-likeness. But there are patterns and models out there that you need to appropriate. Find people who do well what you want want to improve in and link yourself to them. Become a pet. The difference between a student and a learner is that a student waits to be taught and a learner seeks to learn. Please become learned. Find the example of people that you want to become like because they in that area are like Christ. But what is our life to be like as we're embroiled in this war of values, as we're embroiled in a war that threatens Paul tells us about that in verse 20. He says, Our citizenship is in heaven, and we eagerly await a save From there, the Lord Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control, will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be light. Two major points that we need to learn about the citizens of heaven. And the first of which is the thing I want you to be able to take away from here. Our life is to be characterized by hope. We are to live a life of hope, and frankly, that is Satan's greatest point of attack. As you look around our church, you You can see lots of places where where we are in danger of losing hope. As you look at our culture and you see the battle that the Christian citizens Of our communities are facing, we're in danger of losing hope. I watched as we went through the issue of question six, and I saw in my community tremendous response to the vote against six. And I thought on the day of election that that we had won until I saw the results. And I got a letter from the American family long That they probably wish they'd never written, speaking of now that we've succeeded, let's move on. And they mailed it before the election. And we lost. And I saw that drain our host. That's only one example. We're involved in a war that is not going to be easy. And when I said there are people who are looking to desert, that's the case. And it's the case because Satan is intending to rob us of our hope. He wants to rob us all And he's doing to a degree that I am quite. Because I I met with some of the elders this morning and we prayed before the first service, one of the things that I said when I was asked how I was doing, I I answered by saying, This is a message I need to hear. And in preparing this message God has really begun to work in me to say, see, where is your hope? What's it based on? If our hope is based on growth of CPT, then Then we're in for real trouble. If our hope is based on success in our culture, we're in for real trouble. If our hope is based on anything other than Jesus, whom we eagerly await. We have set ourselves up for the future. We will say, we can't do that in any way we follow We'll look at the ministries we're hoping to put into place as we build our facility and we'll say, We're not doing it now. We haven't done it in the past. What in the world makes us think we'll do it in the future? And we won't even try At a point in in coming to build the facility, there were times when we'd say, we can't come with that kind of money. raise those kinds of pledges and if we raise them they're they're they're phony anyway. And there's a danger that you won't even try. As you look at the things God's calling you to do in this war You have to come back to that question. If you can't do it, who can? And should you try? A few years back a friend of mine who's in the navigators and has the the the push job of leading the ministry at the University of Honolulu. Somebody's gotta do it. Wrote me a letter and he was talking in it about his his his real internal conflict over trusting God. Because you see he said, I've really come to a realization that that I have I have no trouble trusting God for my salvation. And I would imagine that you all could easily echo that sentiment this morning. But you have no trouble in saying, I know that when I wake up from death, I'll see the face of Jesus. That's an impossible task. To bring a sinner to heaven? But he said, you know, Steve, the problem is that the I live on what people give and what they collect. And my budget gets in. And there are times when I come to the point of saying, should I go take a second job. If God isn't able to give me what I need in my in my salary and the pledges and the support that comes in, maybe I need to help him. And Craig realized that suddenly what he was saying was, If God can't do it, I'll take over. You see, he would trust God for the things that he had no hope of being a part of. But he didn't trust Trust God for little things. God speaks of his servants and he says, He who is faithful in little will be faithful in much. Isn't that true of God Himself? If God isn't able to be faithful in the small things, how can you trust him for the big? If you can't trust God to take care of you in the little things, name If you can't trust that he cares enough about you and has power to deal with those issues in your life, what makes you Realize that our hope is not in ourselves. It's not in what we can do or how we can add to God in His work. Our hope is only in Jesus who objectively can Kane, who has given objective promises that he is fulfilling. We have to take our eyes off of ourselves and off of the issues around us and the difficulties that we face and the low budget and and the difficulties of time and the enemies that beset us. And we have to turn to Jesus. We have to focus on the fact that He is, that He's come, that He has gone before us to heaven, and that He is going to take care of our needs now. In chapter 4. The next chapter from here of Philippians, Paul says this. In verse 19, And my God will meet all your needs according to his glory. Is Jesus faithful in a little thing? Can we sustain our hope in Him? Is he where our hope must lie? Zerubbabel is a king in the Old Testament history that's trying to re-establish A work in Israel. And Zechariah is a prophet that speaks to him. And in Zechariah 4, 6, a passage well worth noting. God's Speaks to Zerubil through Zechariah and he says this, it is not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. The battles that we face here and now are not dependent upon our ability to accomplish anything. It is not by your mind. It is not by your power. It is by God's Holy Spirit and His power promises and his fulfillment of those promises that victory is assured. And as we begin to focus on how tired we are, on how hard we are the work is on how little progress we see, we're focusing on our might and our power and not on the Holy Spirit. So So you need to be focusing on the fact that Christ has come, he is coming again, he will transform us. He says here that that the one who by power that enables him to bring everything under his control will transform us transform us. He is going to transform us. He's going to transform all of creation that groans now awaiting that redemption. He's coming. There's no question. He's also taking care of us now. And all our battles to bring about justice will be effective. Because he will return justice. And he promises victories here and now. Not everything. We won't establish the kingdom for him. He's going to establish it himself. But he will give us victories. And we can take hope. There's nothing beyond his care now. See, God has promised in 1 Peter 5 That if we now will cast our anxieties upon him, he'll meet those needs, remove the anxiety, and give us peace. He says in 1 Peter 5, verse 7. Cast all your anxiety upon him because he cares for you. But in the next verse he goes on and says this be self-controlled and alert. Your anxiety Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Resistance. Standing firm in the face, because you know that your brothers throughout the world. are undergoing the same kinds of suffering. But you need to add to that because the rest of Scripture points out that not only are are we all suffering, but God is with us and He will give the victory. You see, he says, cast your anxieties upon him because he cares for you. And in that context, he points out the battle that Satan has set for us. If I cast my anxieties upon him Anxieties on Jesus, that gives me hope. Satan's intent is not to establish a Clinton administration that thumbs its nose at the Bible. Satan's intent is to steal your hope and lead you to give up. Well, if we have that hope, what else need must we do? What else is he saying in this passage? He says, our citizenship is in heaven. Now Philippi was a Roman colony. It was a city where the citizens were not only citizens of Philippi, but they They were citizens of Rome, many of whom were transplanted Roman soldiers who'd spent their time in the military and been given land. Others were Roman citizens who, in the hopes of land and prosperity, would go outside of Rome, receive land in another city, and colonize it. And so the church in Philippi, as they read Paul say that your citizenship is in heaven, Understood what he said to me, you're here not as a Roman to transform Philippi into a smaller version of Rome. You're here from heaven To transform not only Philippi but Rome into a smaller version of heaven. In short, he's saying you are to be salt and light. And in Matthew chapter 5. Jesus talks about this and he says, You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt loses its saltiness, how can it be made salty again? Is no good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled upon by men. You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do people put a light in a lamp. And put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on a stand and it gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven. We are to be salt in light in the midst of darkness. We are to be a hopeful people in a hopeless world. We are to help them to see the contrast between what God is able to do and what they're able to do. And as we do that, we have to give account for the hope that's in us. In first Peter chapter three. Peter is telling the church that there's going to be a stark contrast between them and the world He says, But even if you should suffer for what is right, you are blessed. Do not fear what they fear. Do not be frightened. But in your hearts set cr apart Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect, keeping a clear conscience so that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ, may be ashamed of your slander. You see, our good deeds force those around us to see that into a conflict with themselves. And they want to slander the good deeds because they don't want to face God and the reality of his demands upon them. But they also can't deny that the good deeds are good. And so in their very vilification of what we do, they're forced to acknowledge their need. And we We need to be able to give a hope. We need to be Christ-like so that we do what is different and we need to be filled with a love for Jesus so that we're bold and able to answer when We're going to face difficult circumstances, and believe me, I'm convinced they're going to get more difficult. But as we do so in Christ's power And faithfully before him, the world's going to have to take notice. That's how we're salt in light. So moving on, I wish I had two hours to preach. I can't. Point three. What are we to do in light of this administration that's coming? Paul tells us in verse 4. He says, Stand firm. Therefore, my brothers, you whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, that, in other words, all that he said before is how you should stand firm. Stand firm in the Lord. There are battles coming before us that we're we're gonna have to face. I was at a seminar this Thursday that was dealing with the issue of homosexuality and a Christian response. It spoke there of an agenda that frightened me. As a matter of fact, the whole reason for that That seminar on Thursday was because one of the people in a group called the Salt and Light Coalition of Central Maryland happened to be a guidance counselor in the Montgomery County School District. And she had been required to attend a seminar that had been titled Affirming Sexual Diversity. And as she went to this, she knew that she was going into enemy territory. But she wasn't prepared for what she faced. Her comments about that workshop were that it worked to undo the morality and psychologically trained thoughts about the development of sexual identity. These are guidance counselors and administrators who understand the current theories of of current psychological theories of sexual development. And this seminar was intending to throw those out the window. The Gay and Lesbian Task Force presented the goal of not only tolerance for sexual diversity, but affirmation of homosexuality and bisexuality. They not only taught the school administration affirmation, but they taught that the school administration and staff should help the kids to explore their sexuality. directions. This is in our high school and it's not just in Montgomery County. It's facing us all over the place. There is an agenda being advanced. And the key thing that came out from that seminar w wasn't that there is a bogeyman called the gay and lesbian casual, which by the way is only a small percentage of of those who practice homosexuality And before we go on, I want to make sure that we all understand that homosexuality is a sin, but it is a sin like alcoholism and infidelity and premarital and extramarital sex. And it is not something that is unforgivable. It is not something that is innate and cannot be recovered from It is not something that we have to keep people who practice homosexuality at an arm's length. They are people who need Jesus. They are the people for whom Jesus Jesus died. The same way he died for us. One of the points that came out from a man named Anthony Paul Zarano was that it wasn't until he'd been in a homosexual environment in the earth York City for nine years that he heard from a church that Jesus died for homosexuals. That they're listed no differently than alcoholics. And adulterers, and any other sinner that's told they will not inherit the kingdom of heaven. And we need to understand that yes, sin is since sin. But we need to understand that sin is sin in us and in others. And that God has the power to forgive and to transform. But one of the things that is the focus of the attack of the gay and lesbian task force is family. Because in in the whole theory of psychosocial psychosocial The most decisive indicator of whether somebody has have a likelihood of growing into a homosexual is whether or not they have good relationships and role models for both parents. I'd love to talk to you about it more sometime or have somebody come in to tell more of it. I'm sure Ken could teach it easily. But it's not something that's inborn and it's not something that can't change. And the greatest threat to the homosexual is the strong thing. We need to be working in our families. If you're a single parent and you you feel the loss, then it's our job as a church to support you in raising your child. children with role models of both sexes. And I want you to feel free to take that role model and to make yourself a test until you find it. Abortion is another issue that the battle is threatening to overwhelm us. Question six has taken the wind out of ourselves and we're looking at what do we do now? I think God's moving in strong ways to show us that the battle isn't simply whether or not abortion is legal or illegal. The battle is will we deal with the hurts that lead to abortion? Not that those who involve themselves in the abortion industry or involve themselves in having abortions are innocent. But there's a lot that we can do to help deal with the issue that's It's more than simply saying it ought to be illegal. And as any of you go Friday to the March for Life in DC, and believe me, we need to be there. We need to be there in massive numbers because Wednesday is a great celebration. of the other side of the values issue. Friday we have to show that we have not lost and have not given up. But we need to be dealing with the whole issue of premarital sex and teaching abstinence in our families and allowing for abstinence in sex education. We need to be working as families to protect our children. To teach them what is right and how to relate to others of the opposite sex. We need to be working in crisis pregnancies to help people who have tremendous needs because they need to know that they're not alone as they go through this and decide to keep that child. And on top of that, we need to adopt those children that are unloving. One of the one of the strongest weapons in the arsenal of those that want to favor abortion is look at what's going to happen to these kids if if we give them birth. They're going to be unloved. They're going to be uncared for. They're going to be ignored and left to their own devices. We have to adopt. We have to care for those that are the orphans of society. James teaches that pure and undefiled religion is this, to care for the widows and the orphans. That doesn't mean all of us have to go out and adopt, but we have to be in prayer that that take place. And we have to be willing for God God to say that we should be the ones to do it. We have to work in our schools and take take the direction back. We have we have a Christian The top two people in the Howard County School District are Christians. But they need us. One of the things that happened in that meeting on Thursday was Bob Knight, who's with the Family Research Council, said this. He said there was a community that had gone out to deal with the school issue, and he talked to the parents. And they were all behind him on this one issue. They really wanted to have a say in what was going on. And he was going to go speak to the school board the next night over the issue of sex education in the schools And they asked, what can we do? Well he didn't say stay home and pray. He said, if you want to make a change, you come to the meeting and you flood it. And that meeting went and and he had been promised twenty minutes to speak. And five minutes into it, the legal counsel for the school board said, I think we've heard enough of this tonight. We we get your perspective. They wanted to silence him. And he said, but I've been promised And so they let him go for a little bit longer. Five minutes later, the president of the school board said, Mr. Knight, we really understand what you have to say. And we've we've heard enough. Three hundred people in that audience stood up and said, let him speak. And they listened. You should have seen, according to what Bob Knight said, the eyeballs of that school board and that leadership counsel. As the people stood up and said, This is our school, you're elected by us, peace so speak. If they hadn't been there, nothing would have happened I have to close. You have responsibilities to say along. But I want you to look at what it is you are to do This Thursday there's a concert of prayer where like-minded churches and individuals can gather together and pray for God to bring renewal. Let me warn you, if you come to pray, be prepared for God to say yes. Yes, I want you to be part of Green. Friday there's a March for Life, and we need to have people there. We had to have Howard County Parents for Quality and Education. They're doing what those 300 people tried to do, but they need more help. We have crisis pregnancy centers. But the most important and most effective thing you can do to reach and be effective in this war over values. is to have a transparent life so that people around you see the struggles that you face. They see the hurts. Not so that they can glory in the fact that you hurt, but because as you hurt and You hold to the redeemer. As you regain that hope that is it is the focus of Satan's attack, that's going to speak. And they're going to answer. See Peter didn't say be prepared to go in and tell people why you have hope. He said be prepared to give an answer when they ask you for the hope that's in them If you can have a transparent life where the people that God has placed into relationship with you and don't know Jesus will see you, see your struggles and see how God works through them, what are he bringing immediate victory or not. You're going to ask, how can you survive? How can you flourish? And you can say, Jesus. And let me tell you why. And let me tell you why I love them. And let me tell you what it's done for me. You see, you're called to be witness. one says you shall be my witnesses. That doesn't mean that you're giving an expert testimony and you can answer all the theological issues of the Bible. They can refute you right and left on that. Because Because people bring to the Bible what they want to see. But when you tell them what Jesus has done in your life, you're the expert, they can't deny it. And frankly, they're going to be hurting so much they need to hear it and they want to have it. So the most important thing you can do in this war is to be transparent and be Christ-like Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you know our need for hope. You know that even as we look at your word There's tremendous hope to be gained. But we need a hope that endures. And I pray for each of us that you would work that hope in our hearts and our lives. That we would know you, the power of your resurrection, the promise of transformation, and that you will not leave us more forsaken. Lord, as we go through those difficult times, and we promise that we will, that we go through them with you, knowing not only that our ultimate outcome is salvation and a religion, relationship with you in heaven. But that even now you will use the suffering we endure to build your kingdom in us and around us. And Lord, I pray that you would not only give us a hope, but give us a heart. That as we see what you can and are doing in our lives and around us. That we would see the tremendous need for those that do not know me. And that we would commit to praying for laborers and to be willing to be laborers But your kingdom would be built and go forth. Lord, do these things. It is your heart, it is your power, it is your spirit.