Buenos días, yo traigo saludos to los hermanos y las hermanas de la Iglesia Evangelica Sion en Málaga. Good morning. I bring you greetings and thanks from the brothers and sisters. of the Evangelical Reformed Church of Zion, the Gallo Zion in Malaga, Spain. It's a delight to be here. God is so good to us. It's good to you too. Amen? And we're practicing. Thank you for praying for us. Thank you for giving. Thank you for being friends and uh supporting us through thick and thin for many years. And uh hope you had a chance to to see the video in the middle hour. If not, uh I'll be glad uh if you request to leave the video uh here so you can get a uh bigger picture of the uh work there and uh and then you can see it uh in home Please turn in your Bible to Genesis 12 if you haven't already. Genesis 12. And this morning, I want us to consider something of the life of Abraham. I don't know what comes to your mind when you think about Abraham, a lot of different things, you know, perhaps he's an old fella with strange looking clothes, long beard, but certainly a somebody who looks humble. I'm not sure what that looks like. You know, we have our we imagine what a pious person looks like. Um you know, in the last year and a half I've been interested in the life of Abraham and I've been helped by two men particularly uh Scott Sherman, a pastor in Atlanta, Georgia area, and Ian Dugood, uh professor in Westminster Seminary. Because they've helped me understand um and to see That Abraham is simply not an example to follow or not to follow, but rather Abraham serves as a window through which we see the Lord Jesus Christ. And so although it speaks about Abraham here in this text, this passage before us, we really need to see the Lord Jesus. And you go, how in the world do you see Jesus there? But it's written all over It's written all over. And this is what's so exciting as we come to this passage. And even we think about what Jesus says to the Pharisees in John chapter 8, in this polemical conversation with the Pharisees, he says Your father Abraham rejoiced at the thought of seeing my day. He saw it and was glad. Abraham longed to see a Savior, Jesus. This morning, it's at the longing of your heart to see Jesus And so as we come to this text, let's pray that the Lord would enable us to see the Lord Jesus. Let's pray together. Our Father and our God, you have given to us your Son, your one and only Son, and He is indeed precious and beautiful. And we desire this morning, oh God, by the power of your Holy Spirit, desire to have those distractions removed that you would To remove and open the veil, Lord, that may exist over our minds and our hearts so that we would see Jesus and perhaps her people here. That are looking in from the outside because they're really not part of your kingdom yet, but they're interested. Lord, we just speak to them and draw them to see and to embrace the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, in the midst of a world of with many messages, grant us to hear your message. Through Jesus, we ask. Amen. There are two simple points to this message. And this is the first one is the promises that God has made to you You who are God's covenant people who believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, these promises are better than you can imagine. They are better than you can imagine But the second point is related to the firstness, you have to believe, you have to live according to these promises In a fallen world, in the midst of obstacles, when you face conflicts and difficulties, and that's where it gets really hard. The first point then. The promises of God are better than you can imagine. Now to understand this, you need to understand a bit about Abram and God's calling him. You see that in verse 1 of chapter 12 the Lord has said to Abram, Leave your country, your people, and your father's household, and go to the land I will show you. Where was Abram? He was in Haran But what was he previous to that? He was an Ur of the Chaldeans. That's where his father, his family had lived. It's interesting in chapter 11 It describes how Terah, Abram's father, had left Ur the Chaldeans, and he was planning to go to Canaan. Now he could have taken the short route, you know, 500 miles, he could have gone west across the desert, but not very wise. And so he goes up the Euphrates River, about 500, 600 miles And there he settles in Haran. He never makes it to Canaan. But there Terah and his family settle in Haran, and so this is where Abram is found Now what you need to know, in terms of the background, is that early Chaldeans and Horan were important commercial industrial cities cosmopolitan, prosperous, but deeply steeped in superstition, magic, and prostitution. There was a temple, tower, in Ur of the Chaldeans, a Zigoret, dedicated to Nanar. Nanar is the god of the moon, an idol, and it's said that the majority of a quarter million people of Ur of the Chaldeans worshipped Nanar, the moon god. Some scholars believe that there are more than 300 deities, idols in Earth. And what's interesting is that if you look at Jewish tradition and even the text Joshua 24, 2, it seems in all probability that Kara and Abram participated in And that idolatry. Can you imagine the father of the faith, the one that we treasure and love? He was a moon worshiper, an idolater. But that's not too far from you and me, is it? We too were idolaters. We too worshipped Perhaps not the moon. We worshipped money. We worshipped ourselves. We worshiped objects, but not worshippers of God And it's out of that background that God called Abram and called him to leave his culture, his moon worship, his superstitions, his pagan values, his comfort, and go to an unknown place. That in all probability wasn't very significant. But you see, the call of God on Abram is like the call of God on your life and my life. It begins with God. It begins with his grace. It begins with his mercy. It begins with his love. He didn't deserve it. You and I don't deserve this. This calling to be part of God's people, but God in his grace and his mercy and his love lavishes it upon Abram, and calls him out of idolatry, calls him out of darkness, out of the kingdom, and into a relationship with him. That's glorious. Because of his love for him, that's unconditional. And so we find that God manifests his love and his grace. By the promises, these blessings that He's going to give Abram. And we read those in verse 2 and 3 I will make you into a great nation and I will bless you. I will make your name great and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you, I will curse, and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. These are wonderful promises and blessings that God is going to give to Abraham, or Abram as he's called here. But before I get into these promises Let's go back for a moment because these promises don't disappear out of nowhere. They're connected to a larger story, and you know that. They're connected to what has gone on earlier in the previous chapters in Genesis, particularly Genesis chapter 3. We find that God's call and promises to Abram are linked to God's plan of redemption, his story, his story, his plan, what he is doing to redeem a people. to himself. And that plan of redemption begins to unfold in Genesis 3. 15. We seed in seed form. You know the story? After Adam and Eve fall into sin, a curse is pronounced upon them and upon the land so that they're separated from God. They're spiritually dead. But God doesn't leave them in that spiritual death. He doesn't leave them without hope, because in Genesis 3. 15, he provides a promise in seed form, a promise of redemption. And he says that the seed of a woman is going to be raised up and will crush the serpent's head. And so we find that the covenant of grace, the God of grace, is fulfilling his plan of redemption. He's going to raise up a seed, he's going to raise up a son, a descendant, who will crush the enemy. Who will undo the curse of the fall and restore us to God once again? That's the big picture. That's God's plan. And so as you trace out that plan in those early chapters of Genesis, We see that there's a history, this plan of the descendants being raised up and preserved. Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel. Cain kills Abel and it looks like, well, here's a descendant, but it can't be that one. He's he's dead, and you know it's not going to be Cain. But God raises up another descendant, another son, it's Seth. And if you follow the genealogies throughout And they're important because they show us, the genealogies show us the preservation of this wine, this seed. And we see that from Zeth comes Enoch, and then Enoch, Lamech, Lamech, And Noah. And we get to the spiritual condition in Noah's day. And we know that God was green because every inclination of the thoughts of men's hearts were evil all the time. And does God wipe them all out? Just about Except he preserves a descendant. He preserves Noah and his family. And who are Noah's sons? Shem, Ham, and Japheth. You follow? The descendants, the genealogy in Genesis eleven, because from Shem comes Terah, Abram's father. And now we see that from Genesis 3. 15, we see the be that unraveling of God's promise of a seed, how he's preserving a seed throughout generations. Because through this seed he will bring redemption and salvation from sin. And so now in Genesis 12, when God calls Abram and gives him these promises You see, we have to understand these promises in that context. Abram, just one little chapter and the big novel, the big story, God's story of redemption. And that's how we're to understand it. Because we know ultimately that the seed that God is raising up is not Abram, but rather it's Jesus Christ. He's the descendant, He's the Son We see that clearly in Galatians 3, 16. It says, the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. The scripture does not say and to seeds meaning many people, but and to your seed meaning one person who is Christ. The promises to Abraham are culminated, fulfilled in Christ Jesus, the seed of promise, the Son of God. And he comes, and he, by his death and by his resurrection, undoes undoes good English He undoes the curse that was on the people And so we see that. That's the key w idea of understanding these promises and these blessings that Jesus undoes What was so messed up by sin? How does he do it? Look in there's some correspondence, I think In the judgments and curses in these early chapters of Genesis. And they contrast what we find here in Genesis 12, verses 2 and 3. What do we find? The after the fall of Adam and Eve into sin, they're expelled from the garden, and a curse is pronounced on the land But in Genesis 12, 7, we see the undoing of that. God promises them a land. And this land is going to be a land of blessing. And later on we know it's a land flowing milk and honey. So in Genesis 4, God curses Cain, saying he will be a restless wanderer, stranger on the earth. But with Abram, he promises stability in this land. Now, also with Cain, God says whoever kills Cain will suffer vengeance seven times over. But with Abram, those who bless Abram will be blessed, and those who curse him will be cursed. You see what God is undoing in these promises? He's undoing the consequences. Of the fall. And it goes on in Genesis eleven. The people of the earth attempt to construct a tower to make a name for themselves. He said 11 4. But God judges and destroys that work. But with Abram, God says, I will make your name great. And we get to the Philippians. What do we find? That the name above all names, the name in which every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord. Amen, sister. And we shall also see with the Babel Although they sought to be united in that tower, God confounds the people, confuses the language, scatters them. But with Abram, the families, the nations of the earth will be blessed, will be united. They see what he's doing. And right even before, in the end of chapter 11, it says about Sarai that she's barren. And we know that barrenness is a result in part, at least in a general sense, of the fall and of sin. And God says to Abraham, I will make of you a great nation. From baroness to many descendants. He's undoing it. That's the promise, and the promises and the blessings that God gives to you and to me, to Abram. They're more than you and I can imagine. They're incredible when we begin to think of that work of our Lord Jesus Christ. You know, as I've been back in in Maryland, I occasionally I forget how to get from point A to point B, and so I've needed a map And it's interesting, I picked up a map of Maryland, probably an old map, and after you've seen it, Maryland, you know. And underneath the captain, more than you can imagine. You know, Maryland is a wonderful place, a great state, but it doesn't compare to the blessings and the promises that you and I have in the Lord Jesus Christ, the seed of promise. Do you see what God is doing and God is giving to Abram, a man who doesn't deserve it, but God in his grace and his love is lavishing upon him and seed for him Blessings that are to come, redemption. See, God is offering himself. God is giving to Abram and to you and to me Himself And he's much more than you and I could imagine. You know, Abram and It says about Abraham in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 10, that he was looking for a city with foundation whose architect and builder is God. He wasn't looking simply for real estate in politics. He was looking for a better heavenly country. He was looking forward to the day of Jesus. And is that the longing of your heart? Do you look for that day of Jesus? Do you desire God Himself more than the toys, more than the things, more than the temporal blessings that you and I received, and they are good But they pale in comparison to the blessings that we have, the riches of our inheritance in Christ Jesus our Lord. God Himself, the God of all grace, the God of all wonder. The God who loves you immeasurably more than you can ask or imagine. Do you long? Do you long for Him Do you long to see sin undone in your life? When you think of how your thought patterns go throughout a day. And you pause and reflect, boy man, my thoughts are rather perverse and immoral. Do you long for the day when your thoughts will be pure? Do you long for the day when everything you do will be for the glory of God and not for selfish gain? Do you long to see that curse undone in your life Do you long to see the curse undone in your family? In the disobedience, your own disobedience and the disobedience of your children? Do you long to see the consequences of sin undone in your marriage? In the conflict between spouses, in the conflict between nations, between families of the earth. It will be undone. It is being undone even now. Do you long to see the pain that's come as a result of divorce? Abuse, undone. Did you look at people you see people who suffer disease and illness? Do you long to see their body restored? That's what God is promising Abram in the person of Jesus Christ. All the curse and the consequences of fall will be undone, are being undone. And what God has commenced in us to the Lord Jesus Christ, He will complete, He will do it. And he will do it because of grace, his love and his mercy, that are seen visibly. At the cross, where Jesus takes upon himself our sin, your sin, my sin, and he suffers at the cross our hell. You know that one of your sins deserves eternal condemnation. Just one. But he took them all upon himself. He suffered in your place and my place. To free us from the curse that was upon us. He became a curse for us. He was the blessed Son of God. He rose from the dead. And he is Lord of heaven and earth. And we who by faith are united with him. Our joint heirs with Christ also have as our inheritance a new heaven, a new earth, our heavenly, that heavenly country that Abraham longed for is ours. It's ours by faith. And it's so real. But you gotta see it with eyes of faith. Abram hears this call, receives these blessings And he packs up his house and he goes to Canaan. He responds by faith to the Word of God. He arrives in Canaan, he built altars, and he worships the God who called him, the God of all grace. And he continues his journey, he goes up a valley. Oh, through a valley up a mountain between Bethel and I, and he built an altar there again he worships God. He does something, I think what he's really doing in this worshiping And what's amazing, the text says that the Canaanites are in the land. Now, if you remember the Canaanites later on, they're giants. in numbers, when the spies go out and explore the land they come back and one of the things is these these are the sons of Anak, these are giants in the land. And here is Abram exercising expressing faith. He's surrounded by giants, enemies, and he says, and he's worshiping God, but he's saying, this land belongs to God. Yes, I see the enemy around me. But God has given it to me. And so, you know, if if the story of Abraham stopped here, we'd say, man, that's great He's a man of incredible courage and faith. But we know the story doesn't stop there. Abram does something that's very foolish. in the second part of this chapter. You know, and it leads us to that second point, that we have to believe and hold on to these promises of God. In a world that's full of conflicts in the midst of difficulties and obstacles in a fallen world. You know, God has given to us wonderful promises in his son. And there are days that we simply don't believe it There's days that you and I don't believe it We don't live according to those promises. He says he's come to redeem us. He's come to care for us. He loves us profoundly. But then the obstacles and the trials come and and we say, Well, that just seems too good to be true No, I just can't believe it. I I by faith I'm trying to hold on to the reality of these promises over here, but I see the reality of my obstacles that I'm facing over here. And these obstacles and these trials seem so much more real than the promises of God. We live in that tension day in and day out, and that tension is going to exist for us until we arrive in that heavenly city. And while we live in this tension, in this period of time until we arrive in that home, our eternal home, we must hold on to these promises. Though it's difficult at times. And this is what we see going on in verses nine through twenty. See Abram exploring the promised land. In verse 9, he goes south toward the Negev. And in verse 10, he encounters an obstacle. You see there, now there was a famine in the land. It's kind of a verse that just kind of turns the whole narrative, the whole story. Watch out, something is coming It seems odd, doesn't it? God has just given to Abram wonderful promises. Blessings that are more than he can imagine. But then suddenly there appears this famine, and it seems to contradict the promises he has just received. If God had given him the land, couldn't he also provide the figs and the wheat and the bread and the wine? Well, of course. It's something so little compared to something so great. And you and I struggle with that, don't we? Now can you imagine Abram and Sarai talking? Abram saying, Honey, God has given us a this land. Aren't you ecstatic? And Sarai responding, Yeah, land is great, but I sure would like some food on the table. Seems more realistic Well, whatever the case, Abram does with the majority of the people, and up here at a time that he went down to Egypt. Egypt has been described, and if any of you from from Egypt Please don't take this as a personal affront. Uh but Egypt has been described by many scholars as a as representing in representing distrust, unbelief in the Lord. Not relying on the Lord, but rather self-dependence, self-reliance, and also reason without faith, doing things that are reasonable but lack faith So we find that this Egypt in some sense represents unbelief. And that's kind of interesting because Joseph and Mary and Jesus, they find refuge in Egypt. Mm-hmm. At one point, right? But generally in the Old Testament, when you read about how the kings of Israel, when they were faced with an enemy that was going to come, you know, God is constantly saying, You trust me. Don't go to Egypt, but they would always go to Egypt. You know, and try to find and make some alliance in Egypt and faint and find a refuge in Egypt. And so so that's why it's you know thought that you know it represents this distrust in the Lord. And it's interesting because When he goes down to Egypt, the people who went down to Egypt, well they didn't have to trust the Lord for rainfall. You know, so with regard to the issues of crops and harvest, well you didn't need rain like Maryland's experiencing drought. You didn't really need a whole lot of rain or any rain because you had the Nile River. And so you have always had water there that would serve to water and irrigate the crops. And so we find that going down to Egypt in a metaphorical sense is relying on human resources and not relying on God. It's making a choice that seems reasonable But it lacks faith. It seems logical. You and I would have done the same thing, perhaps, but it lacks faith You know, not that reason or logic is bad. We ought to be reasonable, we ought to be logical, but never without faith. Faith and reason are to be joined together And so Abram goes down to Egypt. We can understand that. And he encounters some problems there. He forsakes the promised land. He abandons the altars where he worshiped the Lord. But even worse, as he abandons the land of promise, It seems that the promise concerning his offspring is in peril, in jeopardy. Abram knows that if he goes into Egypt, that he's going into An area where the power structure, the government is a bit different. You know, he knows there's a pharaoh there, and this pharaoh exercises authority and rule. In a very different way, and he also knows that Pharaoh has a harem. And he has a lot of women in this harem. He thinks about that. He goes, you know, the Pharaoh could do something very easily. He's not going to take a married woman, but he could kill me, and then she would be a widow. And then he would have another woman in his harem. So he thinks about that and he goes up to Sarai and he says, Honey, you know you nearly 65 years old, but you are beautiful. You're a beautiful woman. And I know that if Pharaoh and his officials see you, they're gonna want you to be a part of that palace. So let's make a plan. You know, so that I don't die because if I die then this promise of a seed and the sentence well it won't be realized. And so let's just say that you're my sister, which was a half-truth. And so we find in verse fifteen. And when Pharaoh's officials saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh, and she was taken into his palace. You know, sometimes we're tempted to look at Abraham as an example. You know, we look at a lot of the Old Testament figures as examples and do what they do. This is where that exemplary type teaching breaks down, my friends. Because you don't, husbands, you don't want to do what Abram did here You can smile, you can say, man, that was really foolish, but let me tell you, it's in your heart, husband. It's in my heart. We're willing so many times to shirk our responsibilities as husbands, as men of God, to care for our families and our children. We're willing to put that aside for other things, selfish gain, for the job or whatever it may be. But you look at Abraham and oh I would never do that. Oh, is that really true? And so we see here that Abram is a sinner. Abram, why did he do this? Because he's a sinner and he needs the Lord Jesus Christ. He needs a Savior. And that's why Jesus isn't Johnny. He looked forward to that day of Jesus coming. And he saw it like faith. In Proverbs three He says, don't be wise in your own eyes, but fear the Lord. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not on your own understanding. In various situations of your life, you want to do that which is reasonable and logical, but if it lacks faith, be careful. If you have to relinquish the promise of God, if you let go of those to do what's reasonable, if you let go of the word of God to do what seems reasonable and logical, be careful. There's a book written called Isaac's Storm and tells of a flood in Galveston, Texas, about a hundred years ago, a flood that resulted from a hurricane. And with unusual, about eight thousand people died in that one day. The experts were saying that That the way to survive in this flood waters was to get out of your home. The worst place to be, which is obvious, is to be in your home, in your house. Because the rainwater would come and destroy the house. But the only way to survive was to get out of your house and go into the water. Grab on to something large that floats and stay in the water. Well the people heard that and it seemed awful risky. It didn't seem the thing to do. They heard the word though They should have put it into practice. But the majority of the people of Galveston didn't do this. They reasoned otherwise. They thought, well surely the houses will be destroyed, but not the large giant trees that are firmly rooted. And so many people made their way to the the trees and climbed up these large trees because it was simply too risky to stay in the water and hold on to something. And the day after the hurricane they found thousands of people dead in the trees. And when they took the bodies down, the health authorities discovered there were small puncture holes in their bodies. You see, the majority of the people didn't die because they had drowned. You see, the poisonous snakes also thought it was reasonable to go up the trees and find refuge. And so they died because of the venom They died because they did not believe the word that could save them. It's a graphic illustration. Of one, we do those things that are reasonable and logical, but not in obedience to the Word of God We're called to believe God's word. We're called to hold on to his promises, even when it's difficult, even in the face of dangers. We're called not to depend on the human resources because if you do, if you and I depend on the human resources on ourselves and look out for ourselves to preserve ourselves, and then we'll find ourselves up another tree deceived by the same soul. That deceived Adam and Eve. And it seemed very reasonable to them But it lacked faith in the word that they heard. And you and I don't face famine. for the most part. But we're called to believe in God's promises in the face of many other obstacles. But we are not to go down to Egypt. Don't go to Egypt. Because the promises that God has made you made to you, although they seem unrealistic and risky at times, is an invitation to you and to me. Stay in the water. I will take care of you. I will bless you. Don't you see it in my son? I've given my son to you. What more do you want? If I've given him to you, will I not give you all things besides? And not to believe that is to say that God is not sufficient, that he's not faithful, that he's not powerful. And we cannot deny that. Trust him. Hold on to the Lord Jesus Christ until you come to those doors of glory. Hold on to him who is the seed of promise, the Son of God. And you can be sure that what God has begun in you will be completed. It is guaranteed because Jesus, that seed, hung on another. tree and he was bitten by another serpent, but he crushed the serpent and he has gained the victory and in his victory we know we will arrive in heaven transformed Into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son that pleases the Father. That's the promise that you and I have received and all the promises and the blessings of God. Are Amen and yes in Christ. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we Long for sin to be undone in our lives. We want to be conformed to the image of Jesus. We want to be able to hold on to Him. Even though it seems unreasonable or illogical, but we know that's the most reasonable thing to do. Grant us eyes of faith to see your promises, that they are better than we can imagine. We can't begin to plumb the depths of your love and your grace and your blessings to us in Christ. But we know that every spiritual blessing comes through our Lord Jesus. So grant us faith to hold on to him. When it's difficult in the workplace, difficult in the family, difficult in the community, whatever our trials, whatever our particular famine. An obstacle. Grant us, Lord, not to leave your presence, but to stay at those altars worshiping you.