That was really like in your stup superstition and your flippancy. You were darkness in the dungeon of death in the condemnation of your sin. You were darkness and the chains of sin that held you in moral depravity. But now you are light in the Lord. You are light because he has delivered you out of that darkness of death into life in the Lord Jesus Christ. You are light because he has shown you what he is like, and who is the God that has made you and redeemed you and forgiven your sin. And he has made you light in new deeds, the fruit of light, the Spirit working in you, that which is good, that which is right, and that which is true. Therefore, brothers and sisters, walk in that light. Walk in that light as a decision by which you say, I will live out who I am, light, not darkness. And I will progressively learn what it is that pleases the Lord to discover that. And so you and I live in tension. We live in the tension of the darkness that's in us. And the light and the freedom that Byron expressed in that song that touched our hearts. We live in attention of the light that we are as new creatures in Christ. But the darkness that's all around us in the world in which we live. And the sad thing is that for many of us as Christians We try to escape that tension by escaping the darkness that is the world. For many Christians, we want to spend as much time as we can simply living with Christians. Being in contact with Christians, because the tension that we feel when we're living with the sinners, the darkness. Is uncomfortable, isn't it? And yet, when I have been with Christians and conferences and camps that I sense That these people have created a kind of a Christian ghetto that they want to escape only when necessary to do business or to make money. It is not a pretty sight. Christians who avoid living in contact with the darkness tend to become narrow Tend to become conformist, tend to find an inability to differentiate between absolute clear truths of the gospel And the latest party line from Christian radio, by which we become conformist In our dress or patterns of speech, or what's acceptable, or what's not. And in doing that, we have missed What God Himself has called us to be in Ephesians chapter 5. Let's look at that again. To see that in this passage, Ephesians chapter 5, verses 8 to 14, Paul assumes That you and I are going to have regular and intimate contact with darkness, with unbelievers. And rather than seeing these verses as heavy commands to somehow constrain you, I urge you this morning to look at this passage. As a caring pastor writing to you the Word of God to help you to know how to live as light in darkness. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 8 to 14. For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live, walk, then, as children of light. For the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth. And find out what pleases the Lord. Have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather expose them. For it is shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret. But everything exposed by the light becomes visible because it is light that makes everything visible. This is why it is said: wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead. And Christ will shine on you. Three points, three E's to help you to remember them. Two this week, the third one next week. First E of this passage, verses 11 to 14. Escape from sin. Escape from sin. Verse 11: have nothing to do. With the fruitless deeds of darkness. Notice again this image of darkness and light that flows through this whole passage. What Paul is saying is, as you as a child of the light now look back on how you lived before Jesus Christ entered your life, you now see the sins that you once loved. And you see them as fruitless, you see there, verse 11, barren, dark, shameful. The gossip that you loved to indulge in, you now realize, was hurtful. The sexual activities that you saw as simply recreational and harmless. You now realize we're destructive. Twisting the truth to your advantage, you now understand, is shameful. Using people for your own agenda, you now realize, was simply the rationalizations of a selfish heart. And notice how Paul doesn't let us off the hook by the modern excuses that blame shift. I can't help myself. That's my background. I'm a victim. You notice he says flat out, verse 11, have nothing to do. With the fruitless deeds of darkness. That's been a theme that we have noticed through the book of Ephesians. Do you remember how in chapters 1 to 3 tells you who you are and what you have as a new creature in Christ in chapter 2 and verse 10 after talking about the grace by which we're saved? He said, For we are God's workmanship, literally his masterpiece, created, new creation in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. God has worked in you that new heart, that new nature that lives differently. That loves to please him and do what he tells you in his word. It's the way that you should live And so in chapter 4 and verse 17, beginning of this section, remember he said, So I tell you this, and I insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer walk. As the unbelievers do in the futility of their thinking. Doesn't seem very understanding, does it? He's very dogmatic. I insist on it. Stop living that way. Start living this way. In fact, he goes on, verse 22. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self. which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, to be made new in the attitude of your minds and to put on the new self created to be like God in righteousness and holiness of truth. Now he doesn't say that you do that all by yourself. Not only do you do it by the power of the Holy Spirit, but you do it in community. When you and I are involved in deep life-dominating sin patterns, those don't change generally overnight. And normally we need to make those changes in community. The context of this, remember in verse 15, he had said Speaking the truth to one another in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. And from him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up. Each of us helping, building the other one up in love as each part does its work. But you do not have to sin. Brothers and sisters, the fruit of light, that is in Galatians, the fruit of the Spirit. is working in you to produce that which is good and right and true. So on the one hand you make a decision, I will walk as a child of light. And I will use the means of grace God has given to me to insist and enable me to do that. And I will progress in finding out what is pleasing to the Lord within his community to do that. And I've got a new understanding of myself. A couple months ago I was praying in the woods and I confessing my sins and I was thinking about all the things about me that I was not liking and struggling with and ashamed about And all of a sudden, this verse came to me thinking, I am light. Sometimes it's important for you and for me to realize this is the new identity that you have in Christ. You are light. And therefore, you don't have to live in darkness. Amen. It's true. That's the gospel. I believe we need to hear more testimonies from one another of deliverance. Of how God has changed our lives and altered by the power of His Spirit, I know of a number of you whom God has changed in very specific, in some cases dramatic ways. Sin patterns. But uh I'm not gonna tell you about 'em up here. Imagine I say, ah, let me tell you about so and so, you know, boy The person was a wretch and they had all these problems and boy God's delivered. Last time somebody told me about their sin. But you can tell about it And I encourage you, I urge you to do that more in our Lord's Supper services. In some cases, perhaps even to do it on a Sunday morning. Now I I talked to some of you about that and I urge you to say to me when we talk about God's goodness, say, Yeah, hey, I I'd be willing to share that with the body. Encourage one another. The gospel And his power is working in us. We're seeing lives being changed. Some of you are seeing God's power in some ways that would really encourage the rest of us. To know that He has changed us from darkness to light. And so for some of us, I hope to hear in the weeks ahead about God's power. But not only is he called here to escape from sin, telling us that we can do that, have nothing to do with those fruitless deeds of darkness. Notice the end of the verse, he says, but rather expose them. Second point, expose sin Don't only escape from it. Notice, he says, have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness. He doesn't say have nothing to do with the sinners who do the deeds. He says have nothing to do with the deeds, but rather expose them. In fact, he goes on, verse twelve, for it's shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret, but everything exposed by the light, that's you and me. Becomes visible, for it is light that makes everything visible. Jesus has called you, as one who belongs to him, to be light in the darkness and to expose it. Our world is doing all that it possibly can to erase and to mock Christian values, to pretend that there is no right and wrong. The last American sin is intolerance. And so our culture uses euphemisms uh phrases and ideas that are indirect to take away any sense of shame And the interesting thing is in a day when we like to think of as Americans of ourselves as very honest, our language is becoming increasingly dishonest and indirect in order to be value-free. There is no fornication anymore, just premarital sex. There are not illegitimate children, but rather non-marital childbearing. At the University of Minnesota, athletes who steal and are dismissed because of it are not dismissed for theft, but for, quote, violating team rules regarding personal property. Students do not flunk, they achieve a deficiency. Remember that, kids. Next time you come home with a report card. On the other hand, we see in ads today the glorification of rebellion against all authority. John Leo, U. S. News <unk> World Report, describes a recent Isuzu rodeo ad. My apologies to anyone who owns an Isuzu rodeo. This is not a comment on the vehicle, but just the ad. He says the ad pictures a grotesque giant in a business suit who stomps into a beautiful field, startling a deer and jamming skyscrapers and factories and signs into the ground. Okay, I get it. Nature's good, civilization and businesses are bad. One of the giant signs says, obey, but the narrator says, the world has boundaries. Ignore them. Trying to trample the rodeo, the hapless giant trips over his own fence. The Isuzu zips past him, toppling a huge sign that says, Rules. Of course Leo goes on to say, we realize, of course, that Isuzu rodeos are not built in forests by lower adorable mammals. They're built in factories and these people who write the ads are forced to live in skyscrapers producing drivel rather than novels in the forest froc frolicking with the deers as they would desire. But the message he said basically is the same one that comes through so much of advertising today. We should all rebel against authority, social order, propriety, and rules of any kind. Obey and rules are bad. Breaking rules is good. Some other examples. Burger Kings Quote, sometimes you gotta break the rules. Outback state houses, no rules, just right. Don Q. Rum, break all the rules. Theatrical troupe de la guardia, no rules. Neiman Marcus, no rules here. Columbia House Music Club, We Broke the Rules. Comedy Central, see Comedy That Breaks the Rules. Red Camel Cigarettes. This baby don't play by the rules. And then he even goes into a wool-ite ad that I won't bother to describe. in its uh assault on rules and decorum. Well, you see, you and I are called by the Lord Jesus to throw light. On this kind of deception. This idea that the world would all be much better if we all just broke the rules You see, we need to be the ones that expose the deception for what it is. Verse 13, everything exposed by the light becomes visible to simply show it as it is. You see, breaking all the rules is a lot of fun, unless you're the deer that's in a field of wolves. And you might like to have some rules around for some restraint. No rules means no justice to protect the weak and to live by the law of the jungle. In fact, there's only two kinds of people that like to advocate no rules. The ruthless and the naive. Now I wouldn't follow that up by saying, which one are you? But you see, there really isn't anyone else Who thinks about it? Who wants to advocate? No rules, no boundaries in society Now, who is going to point that out if it's not going to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? That's what he's talking about here. Being light to expose darkness. Just an example. Jesus is looking for Christians who are going to engage rather to escape the non-Christians. To get next to them, to listen to them, to understand how they think, how they're affected by popular media. And then to be able gently, humbly, to raise questions. That's hard. You know? I understand Why we don't want to do that, why you might want to escape that. It's tough. Sometimes I want to escape it too. It's a lot easier to talk with our Christian brothers and sisters, isn't it? Sometimes you're in those discussions it puts a dent in your faith. And you think, Boy, you know, I had all this stuff nailed down and I didn't have to think about it anymore and now you you know, you made me wonder and yeah, how do I know and what about the Bible and I got all these questions and I'm uncomfortable. That's hard. But you know what? It's worth it. You'll come out better in the end. You may have to go back and you may have to rethink some things, you may have to ask some questions, you may have to dig a little bit, may even have to take Michael and John's course on postmodernism or something, you know Right downstairs at 10 o'clock. I'm not telling you, but that's when it is. But you've got to do some study. We've got to wrestle with these things because that's what God Himself has called us to be. Light in the darkness. Why is it that we fail in this? Now we're flipping to the back of the bulletin. Okay? It's flip time. Why do we fail? Two reasons. First of all, because of confusion. Sometimes we just don't know what to say as Christians, do we? Your boss comes in and he says, um, my brother's gay He tells you in a way that you know that he is daring you to make a judgment about that. You are expected to be tolerant and understanding and not judgmental. It's a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ and God's word, you're thinking, well, nah, how do I show that I don't think that's just okay without appearing homophobic and self-righteous? And I can't think of a good way, and so I wimp out and I mumbled something incoherent and I feel like I've just let the Lord down. Confusion The second reason is even worse, it's cowardice. Sometimes we know what to say, we're just not willing to say it. Maybe the boss goes on And he says, you're one of those conservative Christians, aren't you? Tell me, do you think all homosexuals are going to hell? What are you going to say? Well, in one sense, that one's kind of easy. You know, you might say something like, well, you know, that really isn't the issue. The deeper issue is that all of us have twisted God's intended purpose for our lives, whether it's in homosexuality or sexual behavior or Lying, stealing, gossiping. See, the real issue is whether we're going to admit That we've twisted his purpose and look for his solution or not. Have you ever thought about that? And what have you done? So you've deflected the question which is intended to intimidate you and brought it down to the deeper issue and simply Flipped it back to help the person to think and to get to know them a little better. You don't do it in an arrogant flip way, but yeah, what do you think about that? So often as Christians we are intimidated when God wants to use that situation for us to simply bring the conversation to a deeper level. If we won't escape it. But simply remember it, Lord, you call me to be light. Now how can I get to the issue here so that we can think about this and I can have a meaningful dialogue with this person and understand where they're coming from. You see the real issue for us is that we're ashamed of the gospel, isn't it? That hurts to say, but isn't it the truth? But you see, everything in our culture says you ought to be ashamed of the gospel. And yet, when you and I think about it, the Savior, the Lord of glory, who came from heaven To identify with shameful creatures like us, and was not embarrassed, Hebrews says, to call us his brothers and sisters, and died for you and for me. And I'm ashamed of him. And yet we are I think of just recently I go to the same barber and I'd gotten into a discussion with the barber a little bit about spiritual things. Got to talk about something when you're Getting all this here, you know, shorter conversations anymore, less hair, but you know, we still get enough to get it in. We're talking and so the next time I went back I decided I was going to bring Little evangelistic booklet that we have in our library, and they're available to you. They're very, very helpful. It's called Ultimate Questions. So the next time I I brought it back and uh I was looking for an opportunity to give this to the barber. And uh you know, and I'm thinking, you know, how can I do well, you know, there's people around and you know, and you know, well, look for a good time and you know. And I'm thinking, you know, here my hands are getting sweaty, my pants, you know, I I've done street preaching, you know, here I'm a a gospel pastor. What is this? But, you know, isn't isn't that part of it? You know, we just kind of get nervous thinking we're gonna talk about Jesus out of church Finally, you know the point came. Everybody left. You know, okay, quick, sneak it in. So I go on and go. Here's this booklet, and I just, you know, it kind of sums up what the Bible says is God's purpose for us and how we've missed it and how you can find it. Just thought you might be interested in taking a look at this. Let me know what you think. Because I knew this person had never heard the gospel. We're not talking about somebody that had been to church. Person had never been inside of church. So I said, you know, just be interested in what you'd think about. Why is that so hard? What are they going to do? I've never said something like that. A person came out with a knife and came at me. And the worst thing they're going to do is, you know, maybe some sarcastic remark, feel a little embarrassed. So what? Why is that so bad? Jesus has called us to be light for him. What a privilege. You know, sometimes we look at this and we think: what he's calling us to do here is to go around condemning everybody. You know, condemn sin and you did this and shouldn't be thinking of that and blah blah blah. You notice verse twelve? Very interesting. Verse 12 he puts right in the middle, he says, For it's shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret. Now, I think in part that's saying that some Christians kind of vicariously sin by liking to talk about it. And he's saying you ought not to do that. It's really not helpful. Also think he's saying when we're engaging with unbelievers The focus is not on condemning the sin, but rather talking about the deeper issues and the alternatives. It's the attitudes and the alternatives that we ought to focus on. It's the heart And so as you and I seek to do that, how do we do that kind of thing? How does light operate? What is the light? How does it function? Well, the light is God's word, that's clear, from verse, from not only this passage in 4, chapter 4, verse 20. Truth that's in Jesus, talking about that as in contrast to the darkness. Psalm 119, 105, your word is a light to my path, uh lamp to my path, a light to my feet. All you pioneer girls know that. Uh but it's also talking about the light of our lives. God's word is the light. Our lives are the light. Jesus said, You are the light of the world. Your contact with unbelievers, it's, you know, going to be risky. But that's how his light is brought into the world. Talk to some people from CPC about this, thinking about this, and try to get some understanding. What are some practical ways that you do this? One person said, well, you know, in my office there's a lesbian who has recently come out and is really kind of in your face with the rest of us about that. Kind of I dare you to say anything about this sort of attitude And so I just said to her at one point, Hey listen, I can't condone what you're doing, but on the other hand, neither do I reject you any more than I'd reject any of the rest of my friends who are also sinners just like me. The issue isn't the sin, it's Do we realize we need God's mercy? And went on. Somebody else was saying in their situation, they they work out at a gym Working out with this big guy who you know he's all muscles. He's living with his girlfriend and says, hey, no more marriage for me, man. I'm none of that stuff So this guy from CPC says, well, you know, it's not just society that says that's wrong. You know the Bible says that's wrong. No, it does not. Yeah it does. No, it doesn't. Yeah it does. No, it doesn't Yeah it does where he said well you know our pastor was just talking about this from Ephesians 5 you want to listen to the tape like bringing the tape He brought him the tape. Not only the guy listened to the tape, he listened to it with his girlfriend. Next time at the gym he said We set a date to get married. I'm not gonna go to heaven for that. But it's a start. You see, it's being late. You're just reflecting something. Saying, let me let me put you in touch with reality. Another person is saying I I find it's helpful when I'm working with people to share how I'm struggling to do what is right and why I try to do that. And it opens them up sometimes to be able to talk about things that they wish were different. Sometimes that gets into conversations about why I want to do that and what enables me in my relationship with Jesus. A person is gossiping and they're really they're really leveling somebody behind their back to you. Why would you respond differently to them than you would to a brother and sister who's doing that? Say, you know, hey listen, I I really don't need to hear this. Um have you gone to the person to talk about that? Well no man, I wouldn't understand. Well, you know, really not gonna help to tell me. I mean, would it help if I went with you or something? I mean but just to to try and live as a child of the light and Where that intersects, then let it intersect. Like the guy I said last week, who just said, I'm gonna start living like a Christian. Wherever I am. Radical thought. Or another person that um is talking to, you know, somebody comes to you and they they have these tales of woe, their life, oh boy, you don't know what I've been through and all this stuff, you know. All these people and what a victim I am and on and on and on and on. You ever had anybody that does that to you? Nobody here, right? Well okay. If anybody ever happens to do that to you, it just really gets into what the terrible life they've got and how they're a victim and all you say. You know, that reminds me of a story. People always like stories, yeah. It reminds me of a story in the Bible. Most people don't know all the stories in the Bible anymore, so you know. Oh yeah Well yeah, you know, is this guy Joseph? And tell him about Joseph. You know, problems he had with his brothers and how they tried to kill him and then they sold him and You know, and he's taken away and moved off and he's you know, here's this trumped up charge and he serves time in prison and he shouldn't even be there, he's innocent, and on and on and on, all this stuff. In the end, he's reconciled with his brothers and he says to him, you know, you intended this for evil, but God intended it for good. Ever occurred to you that maybe all the stuff you're going through, God intends to show Himself in your life through this? How about I pray with you about that? I don't know if it's because I'm a pastor, but I've never offered to pray with somebody, neighbors, anything, that they've ever said, No, only by praying with me. Oftentimes you just pray with somebody about what it is they're sharing and see where the Lord takes that. I'll give you one more example. This one was not somebody from CPC. It was it was from uh something was in an article that uh somebody sent to me. It's a parent who uh had a 13-year-old son in a public school, and uh in this school they were previewing a new course on sexuality. Parents could examine a curriculum, take part in an actual lesson, one of these parent night things. And so this Christian parent went to the school, and I'll give it to you in his own words. He says, I was surprised to discover only about a dozen parents there. As we waited for the presentation, I thumbed through page after page of instructions on the prevention of pregnancy or disease, and I found abstinence mentioned only in passing When the teacher arrived with the school nurse, she asked if there were any questions. I asked why abstinence did not play a noticeable part in the material. What happened next was shocking. There was a great deal of laughter. Someone suggested that if I thought abstinence had any merit I should go back to burying my head in the sand. The teacher and the nurse said nothing as I drowned in a sea of embarrassment. My mind had gone blank and I could think of nothing to say. Identify with that The teacher explained to me that the job of the school was to teach facts and the home was responsible for moral training. I sat in silence for the next twenty minutes as the course was explained. The other parents seemed to give their unqualified support to the materials. Donuts at the back, announced the teacher during the break. I'd like you to put on the name tags we've prepared. They're right there by the donuts and mingle with the other parents. Everyone moved to the back of the room. As I watched them affixing their name tags and shaking hands, I sat deep in thought. I was ashamed that I had not been able to convince them to include a serious discussion of abstinence in the materials. I uttered a silent prayer for guidance. My thoughts were interrupted by the teacher's hand on my shoulder. Won't you join the others, mister Leighton? The nurse smiled sweetly at me. The donuts are good. Thank you, no, I replied. Well then, how about a name tag? I'm sure the others would like to meet you. Somehow I doubt that, I replied. Won't you please join them? she coaxed. Then I heard a still small voice whisper, don't go. The instruction was unmistakable, don't go. I'll just wait here. When the class was called back to order, the teacher looked around the long table and thanked everyone for putting on name tags. She ignored me. Then she said, Now we're going to give you the same lesson that we'll be giving your children. Everyone, please peel off your name tags. I watched in silence as the tags came off. Now then, on the back of one of the tags I drew a tiny flower. Who has it, please? The gentleman across from me held it up. Here it is. All right, she said. The flower represents sexual disease. Do you recall with whom you shook hands? He pointed to a couple of people. Very good, she replied. The handshake in this case represents intimacy. So the two people that you had contact with now have the disease. There was laughter and joking among the parents. The teacher continued, and whom did the two of you shake hands with? The point was well taken, and she explained how this lesson would show students how quickly disease is spread. Since we all shook hands, we all have the disease. It was then that I heard the still small voice again. Speak now, it said, but be humble. I noted wryly the latter admonition and then rose from my chair. I apologized for any upset that I might have caused earlier. I congratulated the teacher on an excellent lesson that would impress the youth and concluded by saying I only had one small point that I wished to make. Not all of us were infected, I said. One of us abstained. Let's pray. Father, we come before you now to confess Sometimes we're confused, and sometimes we're cowardly, sometimes we are ashamed of the gospel And that's that's so terrible, Lord Jesus, when you are not ashamed of us. You came from heaven to identify with us, to die for our sin, and Lord, to bring us to yourself. Deliver us from any such cowardice. We pray, Lord, that we would not escape from those who are without hope and without life in this world. But like you, Lord, we would care for them. And that this week you would help us to be light. Light in the midst of darkness. Lord, help us to know what to say, to simply be honest. To speak that which will expose things as they really are, bring reality into the situation and honor you. Lord, help us, each one of us, to do that. We look to you. To work innocent through us, to see what you will do this week in Jesus' name