Dear refuge of my weary soul. Thank you, Sean and Andrew For that. If you have a copy of the scriptures, I invite you to Galatians chapter two Maybe you're following the pattern. Beginning of July, Dan preached out of Galatians. We looked at Galatians that Sunday night with the Lord's Supper. And then the pastor to the Hebrews. Randy presented from Hebrews. And then It was lobbed back over the net to Galatians again, back to Hebrews, and today we're in Galatians. And we have the pastor to the Hebrews and Paul the Apostle instructing us. On the foundations of a vital church, a church that reflects Christ and His love. And so we're going to read from Galatians 2 in just a moment. Before we do, I want to Try to present something I saw online this week. I saw a video clip of the clip was entitled Something Along These Lines, Extreme Mountain Biking. And it was very evident soon into the clip why it was caught extreme and mountain biking. Because the uh camera was strapped to the handlebars, so the perspective of the viewer was that you were on the bike. And the trail that this biker was taking was about two or three feet wide, and on either side of the trail it dropped steeply on this rocky terrain. So that when the bike was on the trail, fun and thrills ensued. But one slight move to the left or to the right And bruising, scarring, potential for broken bones, and even worse. I understand that Pastor Randy is planning a trip to that uh trail, and all you mountain bikers can get in with him. But it reminded me of our walk of faith Keeping in step with the Spirit of God, that straight and narrow way that we are on, in line with the gospel. In a very similar way, this is our walk of faith to strike the proper balance between the law of God, the love of God, the liberty that we have in Christ, and to keep those things in proper balance. I was reminded watching that clip of a illustration that Jerry Bridges uses in his book, Transforming Grace. Where he describes a narrow strip of road that's been built up through the swamplands in southern Louisiana. And this narrow strip of road has been developed in such a way that if you veer to the right or to the left, you end up in the swamp The quagmire on the right, the quagmire on the left. And Bridges uses that illustration to talk about this very thing. The balance of law and love and liberty And if we veer too s too far to the side of law, we end up quickly in the swamp. of legalism, attempting somehow in our feeble way to earn merit with God by doing the right thing But just as dangerous, just as devastating to our walk of faith is if we drift too far to the side of license And end up in the s uh uh to the side of liberty and end up in the swamp of license, believing that it doesn't really matter what we do, after all, we're forgiven, and God is gracious. Neither of those, whether it be swamp or rocky terrain in spiritual spandex, is acceptable for the walk of the believer. And Paul knows that. And he presents the truth to the Galatian Christians who were tempted to be drawn away from The gospel of Jesus Christ. The freedom, yes, but the freedom now to be clothed in the righteousness of Christ and to serve God With lives that are zealous and fervent to do good works See, the solution is to our problem is not doing more in hopes to obligate God to secure our salvation, nor is it laying back and indulging the whatever feels right to do tendency of our flesh. But it is to walk in the freedom that Christ has provided. We heard from Randy last week and the pastor to the Hebrews that the solution to every longing, every tendency toward error, every doubt, every discouragement, every indulgence. is to lay aside every sin that so easily entangles and to look to To long for and to lay hold of Christ alone. He is the author and perfecter of our faith. He is our life. He is our righteousness. He is hope and joy and peace. Jesus Christ is the gospel So we've looked for several weeks at being a Christ-centered church, a gospel-driven church, a spirit-filled church, a church that is characterized by repentance. And today we want to look at a church that is walking by faith in the real world. Walking by faith in the big bad world where dangers are around every corner. Physical dangers to be sure, but the danger to be drawn away from the simple message that Christ is our only hope. So let me read from Paul's letter. We're just going to read three verses. In chapter 2 of Galatians, beginning in verse 19, hear God's word. For through the law I died to the law So that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me. And gave himself for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if justification were through the law Then Christ died for no purpose Paul is in these verses emphasizing a point that he has had to bring personally to the Apostle Peter. Those Jewish believers who had accepted the truth of the gospel, that Jesus Christ and Christ alone was the only way to the Father? had removed themselves when the Judaizers, when these men who came with teaching that you needed to add the law to the belief in the gospel in order to be right with God And Peter and others would remove themselves for dinner and separate. And when Paul came, he rebuked Peter openly and to his face. Because the gospel was at stake. In the first chapter, Paul makes it very clear that even if I or if an angel from heaven comes and preaches another gospel. Let him be accursed anathema. It's I I don't think we can emphasize how important it is For us to maintain the pure gospel of Christ. And so Paul reminds the Galatians again of a point that he can't emphasize enough the truth that we looked at two weeks ago that those who belong to Christ Have crucified the flesh with its passions and its desires, the flesh, that flesh being that part of us that wants no part of God, that flesh that wars with the Spirit of God within us. That which rears up and easily entangles us. We heard about last week. So Paul says in verse 19, for through the law I died to the law. Through the law, I died to the law. Why? So that I might live to God. We know this principle very clearly. If a person is convicted of a capital crime and they are put to death for that capital crime The law no longer has any sway in their life. Why? Because they're dead. It's final. They're not languishing somewhere in a prison for forty years, with the law still having an influence. If they are put to death by that law, they are dead. to that law. And that's what Paul that's simply what Paul is saying. We see this point in Romans chapter 7 Paul says in verse 1, Do you not know, brothers, that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives? And thus a married woman is bound by law to her husband while he lives, but if her husband dies, then she is released from the law of marriage. Likewise, Paul says in verse 4, likewise, my brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ. Not the church, but the actual body of Christ. You've died to the law so that you may belong to another. You may belong to him who has been raised from the dead, in order that we may bear fruit for God. For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, that was at work in our members to bear fruit for death. But now We are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve not under the old written code, but in the new life of the Spirit. I want to try to glean some of the truth of the gospel that Paul lays out for the Galatians in verse 20. We're just going to break out verse 20. And my prayer for my own soul and for your soul as well is that God will renew our minds, he'll revive our hearts To the pure gospel and the wonder of the Son of God given for me. So when a person exercises faith in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, and all that that entails, that person is Spiritually united with Christ. That's why Paul begins this thought in verse 20 with the crucifixion. I have been crucified with Christ. I have been crucified with Christ. We should take careful note of the language here. It's in the perfect tense. It Reveals for us that this is a completed action with ongoing effect, but it is a done deal. So when we exercise faith in Christ, when we believe that Jesus Christ is who he said he is, that what he has accomplished is sufficient to make us right with God, to bring us nigh to God, as we just sang. Did we see that we are joined with Christ in his crucifixion? Christ came as one under the law to redeem those under the law. The law As it stood, condemned Christ, not because of any sin that he had committed, but because in our place he stood. And so Christ was put to death by the law. In Colossians 2, we read that we were crucified with Christ. Paul says that God forgave all of our violations of the law. Listen, all of our violations of the law were forgiven in Christ. Because God canceled the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. Colossians 2. 14. What are the things that you're too ashamed to speak of? What are the sins that you've committed? The things that you know, not not that you have to guess at Or get a crew of people to help you uncover the things that you know are a violation of the holy law of God. The things that you think about and shudder, that you participated in, that you thought of, that you said, that you did. The things that you want to be rid of once and for all. The debt, the weight. Think about those things right now. Put that right there. Think. Have you got something? The record of that debt has been cancelled in full. Paul says, I am crucified with Christ. This is complete All that I've done, all that I can do, potentially, the sin in me, has been canceled, that record of sin canceled in Christ, nailed to the cross. I am crucified with him, joined together with him in that death. So that the accusations that Satan might bring your way. And even as you recall those things in this exercise today. The discouragement that comes, the doubt that comes, the wondering about salvation secure in Christ. Listen to what Paul continues to the Colossians in chapter 2. The accusations that Jesus was on the cross that he listened disarmed the rulers and the authorities and put them to open shame triumphing over them through the cross We need this. We must have this truth if we're to walk By faith, in the power of the Spirit, in the victory that Christ provides, we need to know that we were crucified with Christ. And so Paul goes on, he says, I would crucify with Christ, it is no longer I who live That doesn't mean that his physical heart stopped beating, that his lungs stopped taking in and exhaling air. It means that that which was Paul, apart from Christ, has died in Christ. It is no longer I who live, but now Christ who lives in me. God, give us, please, your spirit to understand this. In my uh early twenties, back in the uh eighties There was a group, a Christian rock group called DeGarmo and Key. Just show of hands, anybody? Really? Wow. Okay. And you may or may not remember the song, The Pledge You remember the pledge? It's like a bumper sticker and t-shirts and cap, you know, trucker caps and everything else. But the phrase that they made famous through this song, the pledge, he died for me. I'll live for him. You know, it's eighties rock at its best. He died for me. I'll live for him Yeah, you just and you sang that ad nauseum and mantra it out on it, and it was your pledge. The commitment was, and you made that pledge And I guarantee you I sang that pledge many times. And I think looking back, I sang that with the hope that somehow My resolve would be enough. He died for me. I'll live for him. And I'm gonna live for him. Don't you understand? I will live for you, God. I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna fight back sin. I'm gonna defeat all the powers of darkness. I'm gonna live for you somehow in my own strength. Because that's what was emphasized for me in that. And that don't you see how that's what we've been talking about the last several weeks? Even those good works We forsake. Do you remember Peter in the last week of Christ's life? Though all others fall away from you, Lord, I will not fall. Though you be forsaken, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death, Peter says. And in that passage in Luke 22 and the passage in Matthew 26, Jesus' words right after those verses are so appropriate for us. Because in that strong resolve that Peter musters up, Jesus says, Peter, before the rooster crows In the morning, you will deny me three times. Our resolve to live for Him is pathetic as our strength is And that's why Paul doesn't say, He died for me. I'll live for him. Paul says, It is no longer I who live. Get a thrill from this, but Paul says, but Christ now lives in me The one who is described as the fullness of all deity dwelling in Christ, now we understand from the scriptures, dwells in us. In Peter's second letter, Peter got this point. And he reminds the church for all of its, for all the centuries of the church. In 2 Peter 1. We understand that God's divine power has been granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of Him who called us to His own glory and excellence. By which He has granted to us His precious and very great promises, listen, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. It is no longer I who live, but now Christ lives in me. This doesn't mean that we get to speak and create worlds or we float or whatever else the nonsense on TV evangelists will tell you. This means that now the same power that raised Christ from the dead is dwelling in you and me, believer. And Paul says, He died for me, and he lives in me Paul continues the prop the proclamation of the gospel, encouraging us not to fall into the trap of thinking that we have become the tabernacle or the dwelling place for God. because of something we've accomplished or because of something we've earned. Now Paul goes on. I've been crucified with Christ and I no longer live, but Christ now lives in me And the life I now live in the flesh, you know, because I still talk and breathe and my heart beats, but the life now I live in the flesh, I live by faith. The life of Christ that I received by faith, I now live by faith. I had a couple of occasions this week to be over at Howard County Hospital visiting. It's always, you know, good when you're on one side of the bed versus the other. Um but in one of the visits there was tubes and pumps and all kinds of things. And the person I was visiting was waiting for what they eventually brought in while I was there, this bag of platelets. Now Platelets don't really look like all that much when you see 'em. I guess the doctors can testify. It was a little skinny bag, you know, I don't know, platelets. I don't know how many C C's or whatever it was. But the person in that bed needed those platelets. The platelets provide the life. But to get those platelets into that person, they needed that plastic tube. There was no way to receive what was life-giving. and restorative, except that it traveled through that tube to get to those veins and to enter that system. Well isn't that the way it is with our faith? You've heard this illustration before. But it's not faith in faith. We don't have faith in faith. Faith is simply the IV tube whereby we lay hold of the benefit of Christ. Faith is that which we lay hold of and believe and receive Jesus Christ and all of his benefits of his finished work. And so Paul says the life that I received by faith, I now live by faith. You know, I've had the question offered uh asked of me uh many times Especially when we talk about repentance. You know, somebody's in the the throes of a life-besetting sinner. What does repentance look like? Oh, what do I do? What does faith look like? What is it And I would love to, you know, spend hours and hours just talking about, okay, this is all the things that it should be and do and all stuff. But just go right to the words of our Lord. This is the work of God, John 6, 29. This is the work of God. What? That you believe In whom God has sent believe There's got to be something more. We want more, but God says, listen, this is the simple message of the gospel. Receive my son by faith and live. Believe Jay Gresham Machin said that true faith, strictly speaking, does not do anything. It does not give true faith. True faith receives. It is that IV tube to lay hold of the life of Christ. So Paul says, I've been crucified with Christ. It is not I that live, but Christ lives in me. And the life I live in the flesh, I live by faith. By faith in what? Not by faith in the church, not by faith in faith, not by faith in my works, by faith in the Son of God. The God who made all things for his own glory took on flesh and lived as one of us under the law. He is the only begotten Son of God, John 1. 14, John 1. 18. The only begotten Son of God, the one, the only. There's a Greek word used in that passage in John, monogenesis. And it's employed of Jesus alone, and the emphasis there is the idea that he is uniquely begotten. There is no other begotten like this one. In fact, in the Nicene Creed It says, begotten, not made, just so that centuries of us Christian followers would know for sure that this is the eternal. God of God and Lord of Lords that's being discussed. The creator of all things. Are you grasping this? The creator of all things took on flesh. Not for him, but for you, for me, beloved, a face in the Son of God If we are to truly rejoice in the good news of our deliverer, we need to see that it is very God of God that took on flesh. To rescue us from sin's death grip. And Paul continues, can it get better? It does. For every one of us who has ever felt alone in a crowd, for every one of us who has felt the sting of rejection. For every one of us who has ever wondered either quietly to themselves or aloud Am I loved? Paul says, My faith is in the Son of God who loved me. The essence of the gospel is that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes That diversity in heaven, that whoever believes would have eternal life, not perishing, but life abundant. We sing a song here, I think Mark Altrogi uh captured that essence, that that song, it it was love. It was love that brought you from above to walk upon the earth, and love that caused your weariness, your hunger, and your thirst. It was love that caused you to be tried and tempted by the foe. And it was love that brought the nails and cross, and love that bought my soul What a great concept that it was love that caused the second person of the Trinity To take on flesh so that even now in heaven we have the one mediator between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus. So that one day, beloved, we will see him face to face. We can see those scars that our sins brought upon him. We can see that smile that we've longed for. Have you ever felt unlovely or unlovable? Look at Romans 5 for just a second with me. We're familiar with five verses 6 through 8. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person, one who does benevolent acts. one would even dare to die. But listen, God demonstrates, he makes manifest, he shows clearly his love for us in this. That while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. He doesn't wait for you to clean up your act. He doesn't wait for you to become lovable or lovely. We're familiar with that passage, but look at verse 5 right above that. God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. If we're to be a church that is filled with vitality, in step with the Spirit, one of the characteristics will be the love of God. The love for God and the love of God flowing through us to one another John knew that clearly. He said, you can't even claim that you love God if you hate one another. And so we long for that. And it gets even better. Paul says, I have faith. This life I live in the flesh. I live by faith, by faith in the Son of God who loved me. And gave himself for me. Who loved me and gave himself for me. Literature and movies And stories that are good and solid and draw us to tears are stories that have someone offering themselves in the place of another. And where does that spring up from in the human heart? It springs up from the Son of God who loved his bride and laid down his life for her. Robbie just read from 2 Corinthians 5 that God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that in him, in Christ, union with Christ. that we might become the righteousness of God. Last Sunday the college group we finished up our study, God is the gospel in our living room. We either need a smaller college group, which we don't want, or a bigger living room, but we were able to fit. We were looking at John Piper's study, God is the Gospel. And it was a great end to the lesson because we looked at this word gospel, the good news, and how we often we throw that word around here too. We throw it around in conversation. We talk about gospel conversations and having our home fellowship group saturated with the gospel and being a gospel-driven church. But I think it is imperative for us to know what it is that we are describing when we say the gospel. The gospel, as we have heard from Paul's letter to the Romans, is the power of God for the salvation for all who believe. So what is this idea that the Son of God gave himself for me? We just sang guilty, vile, helpless we Spotless Lamb of God was he, bearing shame, scoffing, rude. In my place, condemned he stood. Sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah. What a savior. I want to highlight four things. That we talked about as uh we looked at God as the gospel. This is the idea that the Son of God gave himself for us, condemned, he stood in our place. What was accomplished in the gospel. And we discussed these things. I'm going to fly through them. And if you want them later, we can I'll jot all this down for you and maybe send it out. The wrath of God was absorbed. The wrath of God was absorbed in Christ's death. Galatians 3:13, he became a curse for us, so that we have reconciliation with God. Romans 5, 9-11. We also talked about that the debt of sin was paid in full. You no longer have that on your record. Beloved. The debt was sin was paid in full. In first Peter two, Peter says, He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Then quoting Isaiah By his wounds we all are healed. And we have forgiveness from God. Psalm thirty-two, eleven The third thing we looked at was that he provided a perfect righteousness. He absorbed the wrath of God. He canceled our sin debt. In chapter 5, the many were made sinners, but by one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous. We are justified before a holy God in his judgment seat. And the fourth thing we looked at was that eternal life was purchased for the believer. Where sin increased, grace abounded all the more so that as sin reigned In death, grace also might reign through the righteousness, providing eternal life, Paul says, through Jesus Christ our Lord. We'll see him face to face. Those are the accomplishments of Christ giving himself for his church. All those things that I've just recited, biblical fact. All those things that I just rehearsed for you, for me, for my ears, for yours, truth. Solid, valid, absolute truth All of that was true before you and I ever existed. And all of that can be observed objectively as well. We don't have to believe it to make it true. It is true. And all that good news of that verse, we've got to see. What Paul is pulling us to in this verse as well. Don't leave here believing that you're safe. In that day of judgment, if you simply assent to what I just said. Because Paul says, I have been crucified with Christ. Christ and I no longer live, but Christ now lives in me. The life I live in the flesh, I live By faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Do you hear all those personal pronouns? If you've ever wondered before this day, wonder no longer. Christianity is about a personal relationship with the Creator through a personal redeeming. God man, Jesus Christ. We talk about keeping in step with the Spirit, and you've heard analogies in various ways. There's a military term that means to be in lockstep with the spirit that Paul uses in Galatians 5. But when you look at, I'm going to Show my other side here. When you look at ballroom dancing, no one can convince me that that's not as regimented As marching in formation. Because the steps that are necessary, the practice that is necessary, the rehearsal that is necessary And if you think about what this is being described for us here, it's as if the bridegroom in lead Leading the bride, keeping in step, with eyes fixed on the author, the finisher, the perfecter of our faith. The gospel as the music. That's what it means to belong to Christ. And Paul wants us to hear, you can't trust in anything other than Jesus Christ and Christ alone. That's why in verse twenty-one Paul says, if there's any other way to be right with God, then Christ's death was pointless. If there's any other way to be right with God, then Christ's death was pointless. And if Christ's death was pointless, then why would you want to relate to that kind of a God who would crush his only begotten Son? Paul staking his eternal soul on the validity of his relationship with Christ says, there is no other way to be right with God. But it's gonna have to be on God's terms. It's you and me humbling ourselves, acknowledging that we are sinful, that there is nothing righteous within us. But that the righteous one, the holy one, in love became a man And exchanged his perfect record for your sinful one and provides to you and me Through faith with simple belief, eternal life forever Our life is a walk from feeling the guilt of our sin and realizing again the truth of the gospel and receiving that grace. And then in gratitude, living our lives out of that strength. So let's commit to one another To live by faith in the Son of God who loved us, gave himself for us I just want to challenge you as I pray out loud that if you have not, if you can't With good confidence, say that those personal pronouns are you in that sentence. I want to encourage you that today it can be Don't leave here and think, let me study it out some more. Let me let me get with some people. Let me figure things out. Jesus Christ offers Himself to you As the sacrifice that is pleasing to God, that will satisfy your sin debt, and will provide for you abundant life in Him. Let's pray together and We'll trust him with the results. Father in heaven, I pray that you would hear our prayer. Lord, I ask that you would um take what has been preserved for us for the centuries through this word, that you would apply it to our hearts in a particular way. Lord Jesus, that you would draw us closer, draw me, draw my friends here. And Lord, I pray that you would strengthen our faith, those of us who have believed, that you would give us the assurance that we belong to you. You are our God. We are your people. And those Lord that may be here who have never made that which you have presented theirs. We pray for you to provide faith now, even in this moment, that they would acknowledge their sinfulness. They would acknowledge that you are the Lord and the Savior. And that Lord, they would see you as beautiful and wonderful and glorious and receive now by faith the life that you offer to them Father, I pray that we would hear your reconciling, pardoning voice even as we worship you in song. In the name of Jesus Christ, we pray.