I think we're gonna go without a timer because it wants to beep at me. So you're just gonna have to trust. You do have hope, don't you? If you have your Bibles, would you turn to First Peter chapter three? Let me open us in prayer. Jesus, we do come to you out of our day-to-day lives. We gather together this morning as your children to worship you and to hear from you your words for us. And so, Lord, we ask that you would speak them and that you would be with us in this time, that you would give us ears to hear, that you'd give us minds to understand and hearts to embrace you. In your name we pray. Amen. We have been going through First Peter in our long journey. And we are at the point where we're looking at Peter's summary of relationships, his summary on his teaching on relationships We've looked at the hope that we have for future, but also particularly present, and we've looked at the callings that He's given us as citizens, as employees, as Christians, and as husbands and wives. That calling has been impossible, but today Peter makes it even more clear how impossible it is for us to live the life God has prepared for us to live. As we submit to God's calling on our lives, we focus more on our deep need for Jesus and His redemptive work in us. We long for the Holy Spirit to do his transforming work in us. Our prayer life is transformed. We hunger more for God in His Word. As we cling to the hope that we have in God and the transformation He's working in us, Jesus becomes more real. So let's go to the passage this morning, 1 Peter chapter 3, beginning in verse 8. Finally, all of you have unity of mind, sympathy, brotherly love. A tender heart and a humble mind. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless. For to this you were called, that you might obtain a blessing. For whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips. from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. As I said in the first service, I I think we want to believe this describes us When we read these passages in Scripture and we see that there are checklists for us to consider, Typically we want to believe that that really is, to some degree, an accurate representation of us. We want to think that we're sympathetic, that we're humble, that we're tender. But the more I see Jesus, the more convinced I am that I'm not these things. There's two points that I want to look at this morning. The first is what is our calling? That's in light of what we talked about, and in light of the fact that Peter says here in this passage, for to this you were called. And secondly, I want to look at what is our blessing, because Peter follows that by saying, so that you might obtain a blessing. So what is our calling? Peter first points out to us that our calling is to be united, to live in community with other believers. In verse eight, all of you. And then he describes the unity that we're to have, we're to live in community. We're to be united with one another. And one of the things that he says is that we're to have united unity of mind. We're to think the same thing. And I think there's a natural approach that we have, a desire in our hearts, to be with people who are like-minded. I I've traveled overseas, I've traveled across the country, I've traveled a number of different times, and invariably when I go someplace unfamiliar, I want to find people who think like I think. So I traveled to Moscow with Dick Barnes and I go in order to meet with Russians, and yet one of the most encouraging times I have is with the navigator staff who are in Moscow. Because they're already experiencing the things that I'm just beginning to experience. I I find Christians in Moscow with whom I find fellowship in common thought. And I'm not dealing with the non-Christians. I want to find people who think like me. When I live in my neighborhood, when I when I Well, it's easy for me. I work in the church and so I'm with people who think like I do all the time. But in my neighborhood, I want to I want to find people who think the way that I think. I want to be with people who are like me And so we're naturally oriented towards doing that. One of the things that happens as I do that, though, is I think of those who are different than me. And I sort of isolate from them. Even in a place as culturally narrow as CPC, where we're here because we love Jesus. And we're in the midst of a culture that is changing, and many of the people with whom we live or work don't love Jesus. Once we're in this enclave We begin to find the differences that exist between us and those who are like us, those who school the way that we school, or those who who are involved in particular ministries that we're involved with, or those who think particular ways about particular hot topic issues. And and we think of those who hold different positions, and sometimes we don't associate in the same way with them. We look for a common mind. The problem with that is that's not what Peter's talking about here Peter's not saying find people who already think like you do and associate with them. What he's saying is to the church in conflict And the church facing persecution, finally, be of the same mind Be united in mind. In Philippians chapter two, we see how Paul deals with this Also with the church in conflict. He says, so if there is any encouragement in Christ, Any comfort from love, any participation in the spirit, any affection and sympathy Complete my joy. By being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Then he goes on and talks about not being selfish, not being competitive, not being Isolating from one another. He says in Ephesians 4 Beginning in verse 1. I therefore, prisoner of the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling. There's that word again. Walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace, There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called the one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. What Peter and Paul are saying isn't find people who agree with you so that you can have close community. He's saying be of one mind. Major on the majors. We are united as an entity because we share the same spirit. We each have the same attribute of being fallen creatures in a fallen world, and we all need the same Savior, who we have, by the way, received. There is unity of spirit, and we're called to maintain it. We're also called to suffer together The word that is translated in your Bible is sympathy. But the Greek words that are behind that word are with and suffering. We're called to suffer together. And and so I want to ask you a couple of questions. The first of which is, who suffers with you? All of you have difficulties, pains, failures, wounds. Who do you share them with? Who knows those parts of your life? Because what we're called to here, all of us, is to suffer together And secondly, with whom do you suffer? Whose burdens, weaknesses, wounds, pains, failures do you share? We're coming up on the two year anniversary of my mother in law's death. And when we first realized she was battling cancer, late 2001, early 2002. We shared it with the people in our cell. And I learned a very powerful lesson. Because there were people in our cell who had survived cancer. People who had family members who either had suffered with and died from or had survived cancer. One of the things that you typically hear when you're going through a difficult time is that proverbial Christian statement: if there's anything I can do, give me a call. What was so amazing to me was that when those people who understood what we were going through and would go through and knew before we knew what we were going to face, Began to say, you're going to need this, you're going to need this, this is going to happen, you want to be able to deal with this. They just stepped in. They suffered with us. And it was wonderful. That meant the world. As Ori was with us in the last ages We became acquainted with a group called the Hospice. And they are amazing. I can't speak for every hospice organization, but I can tell you that the people who were serving us astounded me because as they came in, Orley came from California. She had been in a group plan that didn't transfer We didn't have benefits for her. We couldn't get the things that we needed. And hospice said, forget about that. We'll deal with the red tape. We're not going to worry about that right now. We'll get you what you need. They got us the hospital bed, they got us the medications, they got us the care, and they said, you need this, we'll get it for you, don't worry about it, we'll take care of it. It'll work itself out. And they suffered with us. They were so good at knowing what we would face. That's to me a taste of what we're called to here. And it is so much more than we typically do for others. I don't suffer with others that way. Not regularly. But that's my calling. And it's yours from God. We're called to brotherly love I don't know about you guys. I've had a bit of a rough week. There are things material that have gone wrong. There are things relational that have gone wrong. There are things that just are discouraging. And one of the things that has meant so much to me is that there are people in my life with whom I can simply say, you know what? My car blew up on the way home last night, which it did. And I can say, you know what, I'm hurting. And they'll say, stop, let's talk about this. And they mean by that, not that they're going to talk to me about my hurt, but they're going to want me to share with them my hurt so that they can care. And they don't say, Oh, that Or they don't say, Oh yeah, that happened to me at one point, and then spend five minutes recounting their experiences with the same suffering. They listened. And that is so precious. It's our calling. We're to rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Peter continues and he says, we are to be tender-hearted. Now, I like to think I've got a tender heart. That's an attribute I really want, and so I will find some way to convince myself that I'm tenderhearted. But let me read to you what is meant biblically by being tender hearted. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another as God in Christ has forgiven you I can pull off the appearance of tenderhearted when things are going well. When I've got resources, when I've got somebody filling my cup, I can be kind. But what we're called to here is to be tenderhearted to those we need to forgive. Now, if you put me in a situation where I feel like I'm being offended time and again, my tender-hearted pretense vaporizes. And you see my true heart is callous and it's selfish. Humble mind. This term has a bit of a different shade to its meaning. It's translated humble-mind, but the two Greek words that make it up are kind-minded. It's not just that I think appropriate of myself, it's that I am kind in my mind to others I don't know about you, but if I honestly look at what Peter's saying, I don't measure up. And it's unpleasant to think that I don't measure up. But it's freeing to know that I don't measure up Because I have one who has measured up for me and is now calling me to live in community with others where these things are the issues for me. And consequently, I believe also that you are called to live in community and these things are the issues for you. Are you of the same mind? Are you tender-hearted? Are you kind? Do you think of others more highly than you think of yourself? And this can only be experienced in community because each of these is a communal issue. You can't be of the same mind with yourself. You can't be tender-hearted to yourself. You can't be of kind mind towards yourself exclusively. These are communal attributes because we are created in the image of God, who is Trinity. Who's always lived in community except for that brief space on the cross where Jesus was isolated from the Father and the Spirit? Has God poured out his wrath upon Jesus for you. We're called to live in face-to-face community. And you may find lots of different ways to experience that community. It could be in your family. It could be in a class, it could be in a cell, it could be in your neighborhood. There's lots of different ways to live within community, but you can't escape the calling to live this way in community. And as you think of that community, I want to ask a couple of questions. Is it a growing community? The glory of God demands that more and more people see Him and glorify Him. If it's growing, is it growing because the people who pass the test are able to get into the community? Because they are trustworthy. This passage is written to people in conflict, people who are not safe for each other, people who are dangerous, and we're called to live in community with them. It's not based upon the safety I have with others. It's based upon a safety I have in Christ alone Well another part of our calling is to return blessing for evil and abuse You might think, abuse, where did abuse come from? In chapter, in verse 9, do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling. And your translation may say reviling, it may say insult. The Greek term there is stronger. It is a concept of abuse, verbal abuse. And so we're told in verse 9 not to repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but To return a blessing for that evil and a blessing for that abuse. And Jesus teaches us about this in Luke chapter 6 And if you have your Bibles, please turn to Luke. I want you to see this. It begins in verse forty-one. I love to hear the shuffling of Bible pages. In this passage, Luke is quoting Jesus. And Luke combines two things that that aren't combined in Matthew, and that's why I'm choosing this particular passage. Jesus says, and Luke records, Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye? But do not notice the log that is in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite! First, take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck that is in your brother's eye. And Luke records Jesus continuing, for no good tree bears bad fruit. Nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit, for each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush. The good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good. And the evil person out of the evil treasure produces evil. For out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks. The circumstances I face don't cause my response. The evil that I receive doesn't justify evil in response The abuse that I received does not justify abuse in response. What Jesus is saying is it demonstrates my heart. And I want you to feel the weight of that. Because what it is saying is that while I might feel justified if you treat me poorly, to treat you poorly in response, I'm not. And what I have to see in how I respond to you or to anyone It's me. Paul Tripp, in a book that he's written called Instruments in the Redeemer's Hand, talks about this. And I really want you to hear what he says. Christ used ordinary physical things to explain unfamiliar truths. Here, he likens the way people function to a tree. If you plant apple seeds and they take root, you don't expect to see peaches or oranges growing. You expect appleseeds to become apple trees that produce apples There is an organic relationship between the roots of the plant and the fruit that it produces. Christ is saying that the same is true with people. In Christ's metaphor, fruit equals behavior. The particular fruit behavior this passage discusses is our words. Christ says that our words are literally our heart overflowing. People and situations don't make us say what we say, so we tend to blame them. He made me so angry. If you'd been there, you would have said the same thing. These kids simply make me insane. Rather, this passage says that our words are controlled by our hearts. A tree produces fruit, and our hearts produce behavior. We recognize a tree by the fruit it produces, and in the same way, the Bible says people are known by their fruit. Peter says, Do not return evil for evil. When you're wounded. You have no reserves. You're dealing with the pain. You're dealing with the evil another person is inflicting upon you And you can't pretend. And so what is revealed is not that their evil shapes you and makes you evil What's revealed is who you are at root. And so brothers and sisters, we're called by God to return a blessing. For evil, to return a blessing for verbal abuse. The gift that God gives us in those times is a clear perspective on who we are and how much we need him We can't begin to be the people the Bible calls us to be. And if you think that this is unique, let me turn you to Romans 12. Where again, Paul parallels Peter and they're saying the same thing in a different way. Listen to what Paul says. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse them. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be conceited. Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves But leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. For by doing so you will heap burning coals upon his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. We might tend to think that what we're doing is rewarding someone's sin. If you treat me evilly, And I treat you well, then you feel the reinforcement that you're free to treat me evilly. But I think that's not at all what takes place It's not at all what takes place. Because as we respond with godly character, we are a mirror to the one who is evil. And it is the Spirit who convicts. And that's why Paul says, by doing this, you heap burning coals upon his head. But if you do it to heap those burning coals upon his head, you're just as guilty of evil. God calls us to be Christ-like. And that's a part of our blessing. But I want us to see that we can't begin to fulfill this. We will be tempted to return evil for evil. We will be tempted to return abuse for abuse. Because that is the fruit from our root. We are fallen people in a fallen creation. And so the calling is to see who you are and to see more of Jesus. He's glorious. When reviled, Peter tells us in chapter 2, he did not revile. When persecuted, he did not persecute. When Jesus was evilly treated, he responded with holiness. We are not called to make our enemies comfortable We're called to be a mirror for them that shows them Jesus and helps them to see themselves And to recognize not only that there is something different about us, but that they need Jesus. It is the gospel in action. We're called in verse eleven to turn from evil and do good. Peter says, let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. This is the definition of repentance. Repentance is a turning from and a turning to. I am to see my heart. I am to see that both through the fruit that my behavior is, whether it's words or actions, whether it's thoughts, whatever it may be, I'm called to see my fruit. You're called to see your fruit. We are called to examine ourselves, and on the basis of that desperate need, to turn from the evil, to hate the sin that remains in us. And to long desperately for Jesus to transform us and so that we would do good. We are, in a sense, to repent and rest. And the last calling that we have that Peter's unpacking for us here is to receive a blessing. In verse nine, bless for to this you were called, that ye may obtain a blessing. So the second thing I want to look at is what is our blessing? In verse ten We're told that whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. I believe God has called us to receive the blessing of seeing good days and of loving life But that's not focused upon my circumstances. That's what this passage is all about. My circumstances are I'm receiving evil, I am being verbally abused, and I'm to respond in a godly way. In chapter 2, verse 13, he talks about our citizenship and talks about submitting to at times evil authorities. In verse 18, he begins to talk about um Our employment that we as slaves are to serve our masters, even though they may be ungodly. We're told that Jesus submitted to persecution and that we're a following in his pattern We just looked last week at the fact that wives are to submit to husbands even though they may not obey the word, and husbands are to love their wives, even if they may not be lovable. And in this passage, we're really told to hug the porcupine, not to repay evil with evil, and not to repay reviling with reviling, but to bless And really it feels exactly like hugging a porcupine. We're called to bring that painful beast to our breast Loving life and seeing good days isn't based upon my circumstances. It's not based upon my citizenship. It's not based upon my employment. It's not based upon my marriage. And if this is my focus, it will draw me from Jesus. Because now, if I long to love life and see good days, I will manipulate my circumstances. If my goal is to find comfort and pleasure, I can do that. I am really good at avoiding pain, and I know that you are too. We run in the most unusual ways. But when I flee pain, I flee Jesus When you flee pain, you flee Jesus And instead, we are called in our desire to love life and see good days to focus on the connection that we have with Jesus. I'm called to see his power to redeem me. I'm called to see his spirit that he has given to me I'm called to recognize my new identity and the impossible calling that he gives me. And I'm called to see my fruit. Jesus wants me. Jesus wants you. He wants all of his children. All of his children to cling to him. Another blessing that we receive is not doing evil. In our own perverted thoughts, sometimes it seems to us that the freedom to inflict wounds on another who has wounded me is a freedom I long for Just let me at them. Ever said that? Okay, so after you've been at them, how do you feel? Does it feel good when you come down from that rage and you recognize what you've done? Does it feel good to recognize that fruit is an accurate descriptor of your root? Does it feel good to have a polluted, filthy conscience? Does it feel good to have to go back and make amends? Do you see the blessing of not doing evil? A clean conscience, a pure heart, a connection with Jesus. And on top of that, Peter says, For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, his ears are open to their prayer. That connection with Jesus, as He does that work of making me Christ-like, of making you Christ-like, of freeing you from the desire to do evil and creating in you a whole new identity. leads to his eyes upon you. When you are in those places of pain, you are not alone There's a connection and an intimacy with Jesus that says to you, I know he sees my situation. I know he knows my wounds. I know he knows I'm being sorely oppressed. And the Psalms are full of David expressing this truth that God is looking on his situation and is not silent and is not passive. He just hasn't acted yet. So the Lord's attention is given to me, both in his eyes being upon me, but also the confidence that I have that his ears are listening to my prayers. I have one who loves me well. I have the one who loves me well Who has the power to save, and who gives his heart to me So, I think that's a good question. You are called to be of one mind. You are called to be tender-hearted. You are called to be kind-minded. You're called to live in community. You're called to return blessing for evil. You're called not to do evil. You're called to Jesus. Cling to him. Let's pray. Jesus, we come to you, just as we sang before this message. Because there's no one else to whom we can come. You have the words of life. And we need you. Lord Jesus, whether it is in showing us our calling or in any other way, show us how much we need you. And satisfy that longing. In your name we pray. Amen.