To be with you and to represent the missionaries of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church who are serving in Japan, Korea, Taiwan. The Philippines, Suriname, Kenya, and Cyprus. They're so thankful for your prayers and your interest in what they're doing. And I greet you on their behalf today. I'd like you to take your Bibles and let us turn together to the book of Acts Turn to the 15th chapter, and we'll begin reading in verse 36 and continue into chapter 16 until verse 10. All of us should listen carefully because this is God's word. Sometime later, Paul said to Barnabas. Let us go back and visit the brothers in all the towns where we preached the word of the Lord and see how they are doing. Barnabas wanting to take along John also called Mark with them, but Paul did not think it wise to take him because he had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not continued with them in the work. They had such a sharp disagreement that they parted company. Barnabas took Mark and sailed for Cyprus. But Paul chose Silas and left, commended by the brothers to the grace of the Lord. He went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches. He came to Derby and then to Lystra, where a disciple named Timothy lived, whose mother was a Jewess and a believer, but whose father was a Greek. The brothers at Lystra and Iconium spoke well of him. Paul wanted to take him along on the journey So he circumcised him because of the Jews who lived in that area, for they all knew that his father was a Greek. As they traveled from town to town, They delivered the decisions reached by the apostles and elders in Jerusalem for the people to obey. So the churches were strengthened in the faith and grew daily in numbers. Paul and his companions traveled throughout the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been kept by the Holy Spirit from preaching the word in the province of Asia. When they came to the border of Mysia, they tried to enter by Phineah, but the spirit of Jesus would not allow them to. So they passed by Mysia and went down to Troas. During the night, Paul had a vision of a man of Macedonia standing and begging him, Come over to Macedonia and help us. After Paul had seen the vision, we got ready at once to leave for Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them. Here ends the reading of God's holy, inspired, and infallible word. Amen. Will you join me in prayer? Great and holy is your name, O Lord. We confess that your word is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. We acknowledge that we can't understand the scriptures, and certainly we can't live them out in our lives without your help. So be with us today as our teacher. We ask that as you work in our lives we would be different people for having been with you and listened to you. We pray that the words of our mouths and the meditations of our hearts would be acceptable in your sight. And we ask that you would send us forth to serve you more effectively. We pray that our consideration of this passage today would make us more aware of our missionary responsibility, our need to obey the Great Commission of our Lord Jesus. So, O Lord, direct in this message today we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Paul's vision of a man of Macedonia saying, Come over. and help us is one of those Bible passages that fixes itself firmly in our spiritual consciousness. For me, I hope for you, the subject of missions brings this passage to mind, because we can identify with it so well. I see that fellow, probably not the same way you see him, and I seriously doubt I see the same fellow that the Apostle Paul saw, but I can see him standing there Beckoning, calling, come and help. I think if you're concerned at all today about foreign missions, about reaching the world with the gospel. Somewhere along the line, someone has echoed that call to you. I remember being in a missionary conference down in Georgia once when a missionary from Brazil Said, come down to Brazil and help us. It's kind of of a universal call, a challenge that we should go forth and serve the Lord. And there's something about Macedonia that represents for us a great feat of service For our Lord. We might think of it as a breakthrough of some kind to a more extensive opportunity to serve the Lord, to be a part of the building of his kingdom. Now there are times when we're not certain how God would have us to serve Him, how He would have us to use our lives. In the missionary enterprise. And then there comes that clear sense of direction, a confidence of knowing our particular mission. That's what I want us to think about this morning. What is our call? To what has God really called us and when are we going to get there? When is it going to happen? For us, as we consider that idea in this passage, I want us to think about certain things. First of all, learn from the scripture that we've read together this morning That the Macedonian call was a long time in coming to Paul It wasn't immediately after his conversion. It wasn't even after he had been in the ministry for some time, but at length. God called him, and even after he had been in missionary service for a while, then that call came in its fullness. That breakthrough was achieved. Consider also the fact that before it ever came there were doubts, there were struggles that preceded it. Somehow we get the idea that mission work just happens. It just takes place. Missionaries come and they stand before us and they tell us about God's work. And it just all happened somehow. There were doubts. There were struggles in this case. Note that the work of missions, the sending forth of the gospel, did not wait for a Macedonian call. And then please note that such a call when it comes is not the end, but the beginning of even greater things. Now, a call, a commitment to missions will require some hard decisions. I want you to look at the hard decisions. That Paul and his associates faced in this passage and in some of the surrounding context. There was, first of all, this question about John Mark. Should they take Marks or leave him behind? Later, Paul had to face the question of whether he was going to circumcise Timothy or not. In another instance, he didn't circumcise someone who was with him because he didn't think that was appropriate. How do you know whether to make that decision in one place and not in another place? There was a matter of policy. How were the missionaries of the Church of Christ to carry out their missionary work? How were they to instruct? New converts. There had been a great conference in Jerusalem immediately prior to this time in which the church dealt with this and sometimes in a difficult way. They argued with one another They confronted one another. What is required of the Gentiles? And hard decisions had to be made in Jerusalem, and then those decisions communicated to others Later at the end of the passage in which we read there was a decision, or many decisions perhaps to be made, about which direction in which to go. Should we go into Bithynia? Should we go into Asia? Should we go into Troas? Where should we go? To whom should we go? How should we preach? These were not easy decisions. The Spirit of God at times was saying no, when everything In these missionaries said, yes, stay and preach here and do the work here. We don't have time to look at every one of these in detail this morning, but I'd like you to focus with me on this matter of taking John Mark. On the missionary journey, that Paul and Barnabas felt they should take a second journey to follow up the first one that they had made. Here are two very spiritual men. Very spiritual men. In fact, if you could examine the scriptures and say, let's pick two men that we would like for our examples. People that we would like to be like in our Christian lives, you might well settle on Barnabas and Paul. Barnabas, the son of encouragement, a man who was willing to risk his own reputation. Who would put himself out to help other people? He wasn't named Barnabas originally. He was named Joseph. Nice name. Nothing wrong with Joseph. But he was such a giving and caring and encouraging individual that the church as one said, you know, your real name is Bar Nabas, the son of encouragement. What a blessing he was to people throughout the church. And you know who he was a special blessing to? Saul of Tarsus. Because Saul had persecuted the church. He'd killed people in the name of what he thought was the will of God And then he was converted, wonderfully converted, but people weren't too anxious to believe that. When he went up to Jerusalem to make a confession of his faith in the most public way that he had ever done it, and before those people that he had once persecuted and harmed. No one would stand with him except Joseph of Cyprus, that they called Barnabas. He put his arm around Paul, who was called Saul in those days, and he said, I'll stand with you. I know they don't like you, I know they're suspicious about you, but I believe God has done a work of grace in your heart. I'll be your friend. I'll be your spokesman if I have to. We'll stand together and we'll see you through this. I think Paul loved this man as perhaps he loved no other. For standing with him in that difficult time. Wouldn't we all like to be that kind of Christian, that kind of individual? And then there was Paul himself, evidently a great teacher, maybe not the most attractive man in the world by his own confession. But a teacher that people love to come and listen to. When he opened the Bible, God's word came alive. He was powerful as an evangelist, powerful as a teacher and instructor for God's own people. What a blessing to have in your midst. How people would say to one another, we would like to know the scriptures like Paul knows the scriptures. And because he does know them so well, we'll listen to him whenever he speaks. We'll travel a distance if it's necessary. He was one of those important teachers in Antioch and wherever he went, a man who says that he had studied with Christ in a mysterious way as he went out into the Arabian desert and spent time alone and then had other experiences with the Lord. A man of great insight and training and understanding. Two very spiritual men, two men who knew God in a personal and exciting way. And yet These two men who loved each other and no doubt would have been willing to give their lives for each other in almost any circumstances, they could not agree about whether to take John Mark. And it wasn't a simple disagreement, but it was bitter. And they parted company. And I'd like to tell you why. I'd like to, but I have absolutely no idea. I don't know why they couldn't get along I don't know why they couldn't agree. If they're such spiritual men and they know the Lord so well and they know the Bible so well Why couldn't they agree about this matter of John Mark? Didn't they make up one of the best missionary teams that the world has ever known? Couldn't they see That they were sacrificing an important work by sticking to their guns in this matter? Couldn't one have given in to the other? I don't know why I do know that the correct way to proceed is not always easy to determine I do know that we have sometimes to make the best decision that we can. And then follow through on that because we're convinced in our hearts that this is what God wants. And missionary work, brothers and sisters, is going to be like that. It's going to be like that in Columbia Presbyterian Church. It's going to be like that in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church as a denomination. However, we approach it, there are going to be struggles and difficulties. But we don't say, well, we can't make a decision, so we won't do anything. See, that's the worst thing we can do. And wh whatever the fault may be here with Barnabas or with Paul We can credit them with this, that they said, above all else, it's important that the gospel go forth. It's important that the word of God go out and that people be converted and saved. Now we can look ahead because we have the Bible, we understand things, and see that there was a time when Paul was reconciled to John Mark. He says at one point, uh, Mark is useful to me. I appreciate John Mark. So maybe that means that Paul was wrong. On the other hand, the Bible only follows Paul through here and doesn't say anything much else about Barnabas. Maybe that indicates that uh Paul had made the right decision at that point. I don't know. I do know that whatever differences and problems they had, they knew the most important thing was to get the gospel out. To see people converted and brought to salvation. Somehow they knew that, in spite of their own sinfulness, their own self-will, and every other problem that they had, that God would triumph. If they put first things first. I don't excuse them. I only say that they did at least know what was really important. Now notice that as we move forward in faith and obedience, as we're not passive and say, well, since God has let this happen, we just won't do anything. As we move forward, God works and God provides. Now let's note that as Paul and Silas went on this missionary journey They came to a decision, and particularly Paul came to a decision that he needed somebody that he didn't have I believe at some point on this journey as he went through Iconium and Lystra and Derby and these places that he he said, I miss John Martin. He really was able to provide a service in our work. I wish I had John Mark with me Now maybe if you had backed him into a corner, he would still say, No, I made the right decision, but I need that kind of help. And you know, God said, I have what you need, Paul. His name is not John Mark, his name is Timothy. And he'll do for you and Silas what Mark did for you and for Barnabas. And it's interesting as you look at the passage here. Back at the beginning, we read that Barnabas wanted to take Mark, and then when you look a little further down, it says Paul wanted to take Timothy. There was a need. Sin had entered in in some fashion, and had the potential to keep God's work from going forward, but because Paul's heart was in the right place. God provided. God gave this young man to help him out. Now, there was nothing about Timothy that made him particularly better than John Mark. I think we ought to understand that We know that uh Timothy had no experience whatsoever in the Lord's work. He was a believer. He'd been trained by his mother and his grandmother and uh had some experience in the church, but Mark had actually gone in missionary. journeys and uh had been involved perhaps from his youth in the life of the church, not Timothy Timothy had any had had no experience. He was a young man. Even later on, when Paul writes him, he says, Let no man criticize you or take you down because of your youth. Well, if he was young later, he must have really been young at this point. And he had a Gentile father. And that created some problems that Paul had to try to deal with, as we've seen. So there's nothing to say that John Mark was to be ruled out, but Timothy was to be ruled in because of some innate qualities that they had. Rather, Mark was God's provision in one situation, Timothy was God's provision in another situation. But we note that God orders circumstances for our benefit and for his glory And instead of having one great missionary team, there's now two great missionary teams out in the world. And we might say, well, why didn't God give a vision to Barnabas or a vision to Saul? Right at the beginning and say, let's have two missionary teams Barnabas will take John Mark and perhaps find someone else and you'll take Silas and find Timothy and we'll have twice as effective an outreach as we had before. Wouldn't that have been the simpler way to do it? God doesn't always work like we think he's going to work. He has a complex, enormous, worldwide purpose That involves our having to deal with our sin, our problems, our inabilities to get along, and yet somehow, out of all that His kingdom moves forward and people are saved and the world is reached with the gospel. And I want to challenge you with that today. Whatever Disagreements you may be having in this church, whether it's with the local situation or with the idea of world missions, don't lose sight of the real goal. Base your decisions on Scripture as best you can. Work through them. Try to avoid these disagreements. There's nothing here that says it's alright to disagree and fight and fuss. In fact, the Bible teaches just the opposite. But look, God is able to provide. Don't let these things keep you from God's great purpose of salvation. Then notice that missionary work It's not always very glamorous. Now I know that it's great to have the missionaries come and like the Cummings were here last week and uh they show you how to eat seaweed and all these kinds of things and it seems like a lot of fun, it seems glamorous. Not everything that missionaries do is glamorous. A lot of what we do lacks glamour. Notice what missionary work was all about In this particular situation. First things that they had to do was to go over old ground To deliver instructions and to solve problems. Now I'm sure that was real exciting to them. Paul liked new foundations. He wrote in his epistles. He didn't like to build on someone else's foundation. He did have a a great concern for churches that he had founded and been involved with, and he felt he was a spiritual father and he knew that he needed to go back. But he loved the idea of new areas where people hadn't heard the gospel before. And I'm sure as he and Silas, later Timothy, went out, they thought of Asia Minor as a field to which they were going to go and and do a great work and find new areas of service that had never been Reached before with the gospel. But first, they had to take the instructions of the council at Jerusalem to these churches. And you can see them now as they go to Derby and Lystra and Iconium sitting with these people. Most of them probably had to work all day, so they had to do this at night. And they sat down and they burned their lamps until very late in the evening, going over what the Council of Jerusalem had said and how it was to be applied to these churches. And then when that was done, the churches said, You know, Paul, uh Since you've been gone, this problem has come up and this thing has happened here and we have this elder who who's not acting correctly and we have this family that has a problem and we don't know how we should conduct worship in this certain kind of circumstance. And won't you please help us work through these problems? And Paul was saying, Oh me, I can't wait to get to Mysia. I can't wait to get into the province of Asia and preach the gospel. There's so many things I would rather be doing than sitting around this table trying to solve these problems. But that's part of missionary work. And so faithfully, day after day, they went about this work of strengthening churches. You know, I had I've had uh people write me and call me. And say we're withdrawing our missionary support from Orthodox Presbyterian foreign missions. Well, why is that? Well, w we just don't see enough bang for the buck. That was what somebody told me one time. Not enough bang for the buck. You know what they were saying? We we don't like your missionaries having to work with these churches and train elders. We've gotten a a nice color brochure from another mission And it it's said that their missionaries went out and ten thousand people or one to the Lord in six months. Uh and they showed pictures of all these people raising their hands and Our missionaries don't seem to be doing that. They just sit around the table late at night and try to solve problems with people. Now I want to tell you that our missionaries are very concerned to see people saved and converted and they want to go into new areas. And we want them to go into new areas. But missionary work involves a lot of routine things, of day after day faithfully working and carrying on The process of strengthening these churches, training elders, establishing Sunday schools, working to set up a training program for pastors and workers And uh no, that that doesn't just send cold chills up and down your back. But it has to be done. That's part of missionary work. Now notice as far as we've come with Paul and his associates, they haven't yet seen the man from Macedonia. We ask a while ago, why didn't they have a vision there at the beginning? Because in God's direction and in God's providence, there are these other things that have to come first. He's working out his purpose. But we don't let that deter us. We press on. So finally they finish this work of training and strengthening and solving problems And as it were, the door is thrown open. And they say, okay, now you can leave behind these churches that you've dealt with before and go into new ground. And then suddenly we're reminded that God's plans and not ours are the ones that will prevail. Think of all these stop signs that the Holy Spirit put up They were going to go into Mysia, but God said, no, not Mysia, not Mythenia, not Asia. But Lord, we've got all these plans. You know, when we finished the the problem solving late at night, we sat up and talked about what we were going to do next. It's all planned out. And God said, No, I have something else for you to do. But Lord, shouldn't we make plans? Yes. You make the plans But you follow my plan ultimately. You do what you think is the best way, but if it's not exactly what I have in mind, I'm going to change those plans Sometimes it works that God's plans and our plans are right on. And other times they're not exactly the same. So we yield to his plans. And the Holy Spirit said, no, don't go this way. And no, don't go that way. You go where I lead you until finally that patient endurance in following God's direction leads to that breakthrough And there is that vision of the man of Macedonia saying, Come over and help us. Come over. And challenge us with the saving word of Jesus Christ. Now I want to tell you that time will come But in the meantime, we press ahead. We continue on with the work the Lord has given us. We would never be in Suriname today, a South American country, if God hadn't broken into our plans, because we didn't have any plans to go in that way. But there came that time when clearly God said, this is where I want you to go. This is the way I want you to work. I wonder if you're listening to God in that way today. You say we've got problems, we've got struggles. So did Paul and Barnabas, two of the most spiritual men you would ever want to ever meet And you say, but we we need certain things, and I don't know how we're going to have them, but God will provide for you just as he provided for Timothy. Say, how can our church reach the world with the gospel? We have financial needs. We have other problems. God says, I'll provide, but you press ahead. And you can't say, oh God, I I don't want to do these routine things. I want to do the glamorous things that make the color pages of the magazine. God says, no, you do the routine things They say, okay, God, we've drawn up this plan. It's all set. And God says, No, I I want you to do something else. You have to say, All right, Lord. But when that breakthrough comes, look what happened. Here was the gospel going out of Asia Minor, out of what was a relatively local situation, into a whole new continent. And Greece became converted. And Italy became converted. And Europe became converted. And out of Europe the gospel went. to the other parts of the world because God has a plan that's triumphant, that's not going to fail. God Will bring you that breakthrough if you're faithful in pressing ahead onward. In this work, he says, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Go forward with my word. Go forward from Columbia to Maryland and to the nation and to the ends of the earth. Go forward and I'll be with you. And you'll see great things. Don't wait on any vision. Don't wait for things to be just the way you want them to be. It's a long way to Macedonia, but it's worth the trip. And it's the beginning of more exciting things than you've ever known before. I challenge you to that today. Brothers and sisters, move ahead. Let us pray. Father, we acknowledge today that often we are passive, we're not Ready to move forward because we just haven't had that excitement that we want, or there's some problem that seems to be holding us back. But forgive us for that. Help us, Lord, simply to take your word and to move as you have given us direction. We're thankful, Father, that you will not disappoint us if we do that. But you'll lead us on and on until we see that breakthrough that we long for in our personal lives and our church's life. Even so, Lord, give us grace for this great work. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen