If you would turn in your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 1 We're going to look at verses 1 through 18 again. We're sort of camped out there for a while these next two weeks today and next week, having been there last week as well. I hope it becomes a very familiar passage for you. I hope that a lot of the nuances of what God has given to us in this passage become clear. Let's open in prayer. Father, we thank you for your grace and for your love. We thank you that you are indeed the one who keeps us, the one who sustains us in our love for you. Lord, while we come to you longing for that intimacy that we've just sung, sometimes we don't experience it. Lord Hannah didn't experience it. She was in agony. And I pray that we would learn this morning again what our needs are and how they can be met, ways to avoid meeting them falsely, and ways to turn to meet them rightly. Father, we ask that you would transform us, that you would open our hearts, that you would open our minds, and that we would come away from this time, knowing you, not simply knowing words, not knowing truths, knowing you. We praise you for your love and for the fact that you are the one who has the power and the desire to take care of us. Thank you. In the name of Jesus, who is our rock and our redeemer. Amen. Last week we looked at that seems a little loud. I'm echoing back to myself. Is that loud for the rest of you? There we go. That sounds a lot better. Last week we looked at the first sermon in the series on Hannah and we looked at 1 Samuel chapter 1 and we saw that that um There are two things about God that this book and this particular passage make clear. One is that God is indeed a God of power, and that He exercises that power throughout the books of Samuel and Kings. As he is the one establishing a world power. He takes Israel from a loose federation of tribes and he leads it to being the greatest world power under the King Solomon. It is God who exercised that power in order to establish the kingdom in its power. But God doesn't simply act in power, in transcendence, and distance from us. God is also a God of intimacy. And his intent is to compassionately care for individuals. And we saw that in the story of creation, God worked in the life of one man, Adam. We saw that in the Exodus, God worked in the life of one man, Moses. We saw that in the conquest, God worked predominantly through the life of one man, Joshua, and the same is true in the stories in Judges, the same is true in the stories in kings. God worked in a very powerful way in the life of Hannah as he's working that transition from being a federation of tribes under judges into being a world power under a king, who also is a picture of the Messiah. We also saw that in the narrative, God is teaching us this in 1 Samuel, but we could begin to wonder whether we're pulling things out that don't belong there until we look at Psalm 113. You recall that Psalm 113 talked not only about God to be praised, it talked about God's power. It even uses the phrase that he is so high that he must stoop down to look at the heavens. And as soon as it talks about his height in stooping down, it speaks in his intimate care of those who were poor, and it says he raises the poor from the dust. So there's a paradox there of God's height above the heavens in God's presence. with the lowly. And it ends that psalm by talking about how God gives a barren woman children and settles her happily in her home. And so this is God teaching us of his character, confirming what we see in 1 Samuel chapter 1, where God is speaking both of his power, he alone is able. And it speaks of his care. And so as we come to this passage this morning, we want to look more at the life of Hannah. We want to see what her life was like. We want to understand the pain and her experiences. Because this is a very brief story, and it's one that we can easily pass over. I don't know how many times I've passed over this story and simply thought that Hannah was having a bad day. Hannah wasn't having a bad day. She was having a bad life. This pain had gone on for over a decade. And if we don't understand the depth of her pain and the extent of her pain, we can't understand the thing that God does for her. So let's turn for a moment and look at her family life. In verses 1 through 7, she's described as she comes to the tabernacle in Shiloh. In verse 1 it says that well let me read the whole passage first and then we'll move on into the particulars. There was a man, a certain man from Ramathiam, a Zuphite, from the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was El Kanah. son of Jero Jeroam, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuf, an Ephraimite. He had two wives. One was called Hannah, and the other Panainah. Panainah had children, but Hannah had none. Year after year this man went up from his town to worship and to sacrifice to the Lord Almighty at Shiloh, where Hochni and Phineas, the two sons of Eli, were priests of the Lord. Whenever the day came for Elkanah to sacrifice, he would give portions of the meat to his wife Penina, and to all her sons and daughters. But to Hannah he gave a double portion because he loved her. And the Lord had closed her womb. And because the Lord had closed her womb, her rival kept provoking her in order to irritate her. This went on year after year Whenever Hannah went up to the house of the Lord, her rival provoked her till she wept and would not eat. Now Canna, her husband, would say to her, Hannah, why are you weeping? Why don't you eat? Why are you downhearted? Don't I mean more to you than ten sons? Once, when they had finished eating and drinking, and Shiloh, Hannah stood up. Now Eli the priest was sitting on a chair by the doorpost of the Lord's temple, in bitterness of soul. Hannah wept much and prayed to the Lord, and she made a vow, saying, O Lord Almighty If you will only look upon your servant's misery and remember me, and not forget your servant, but give her a son, then I will give him to the Lord for all the days of his life, and no razor will ever be used on his head. As she kept on praying to the Lord, Eli observed her mouth. Hannah was praying in her heart, and her lips were moving, but her voice was not heard. Eli thought she was drunk and said to her, How long will you keep on getting drunk? Get rid of your wine. Not so, my lord, Hannah replied. I am a woman who is deeply troubled. I have not been drinking wine or beer. I was pouring out my soul to the Lord. Do not take your servant for a wicked woman. I have been praying here out of my great anguish and grief. Eli answered, Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant you what you have asked of him. She said, May your servant find favor in your eyes. Then she went her way and ate something, and her face was no longer downcast. We need to understand the setting for Hannah. The first thing that we need to understand is that she was married to a man who was from Ephraim. However, he was not, as it says in this passage, particularly an Ephraimite. He was a priest. His family had settled in Ephraim. It speaks of several generations back to his great grandfather or such Zoof. And it says of Zeof that he was an Ephraimite. But Zeof we find in 1 Chronicle 16 was listed as of the priestly line of Aaron. That has to be for what takes place later with Samuel, as Samuel becomes a prophet, a priest, and a king, serving as a judge in a kingly function. They lived in the city of Ephraim, which is to the west of Shiloh, north and west of Jerusalem. She was a wife, but she was also a fellow wife. Because she was childless. In verse 2, we see that it describes that El Kanah had two wives. The first listed was Hannah. Most likely she was the first wife. She was married to Hannah and he loved her. But she was childless. And so out of her childlessness, El Cana, wanting to continue his line and have descendants, married again, and he married a woman named Panina. And God gave Panina sons and daughters. The Penaina is not simply described as a fellow wife if you look in verse 4. I believe it is. No, if you look in verse 6. It says, and because the Lord had closed her womb, her rival kept provoking her in order to irritate her. You see, Phenina was not simply a fellow wife, she was a rival And so there was a great deal of tension in the home. And that tension was because of the sharp contrast between Hannah's love and Panaina's fruitfulness. Hannah had the love that Panina wanted. Panaina had the children that Hannah wanted. And so that led to a tremendous amount of suffering. That was the drum solo for the sermon. There was a tremendous amount of suffering in the home. There was suffering on El Cana's part because he had two wives that were unhappy with one another to the point of open Somebody doesn't want me to speak. Of open battle. There was tension between the two wives because both had something the other wanted. Both had something missing in their lives. So what was the suffering in verses four through sixteen we see that Hannah underwent We men might be like Elkanah, and we might pass over the first one that is just a great gaping wound. For you see, Hannah was childless. Now Cana comes in verse 8 and he says, Do I not mean more to you than ten sons? He doesn't understand Hannah's pain in her being barren. He doesn't understand the shame to Hannah of being barren. I don't believe men can really fully grasp that Many of the time I've been in a counseling session with a family dealing with issues of fertility, and I don't understand it. I understand more than I used to, but I cannot grasp the level of pain that being childless means. And so put that not on the back burner but on the front burner because that is the issue that Hannah focuses on. Although her husband loved her, his affection was a reminder that she had not given to him children. And that her barrenness had led to the coming of a rival. It was compounding her barrenness. Her husband loved her, and she could not give him what she longed to give him. It might have even been better if they'd fought, and she could have at least said, Well, you don't have any children. But instead he loved her. And she couldn't give him the thing that she longed to give to him She also had a rival who had sons, plural, and daughters, plural. She'd been able to give her husband all the children he could handle. And that too was a source of pain for Hannah because it was a constant reminder to her that she had failed in her own mind. I think that the rival relationship came to a large part because Panina saw that Hannah had what she wanted. Every year they went to the feast. They went to the sacrifice. And every year it says, Alcana would give to his wife and to his sons and daughters a portion of the sacrifice for them to eat. Every year he gave Hannah a double portion. And he didn't leave it as to a question why. The passage says he gave her a double portion because he loved her. Every year Panaina would go to the sacrifice, and she would see that her rival was given the love of her husband, even though she had in her own mind failed him. And Panaina, who had succeeded was given a single portion, along with her children. That is a recipe for disaster. And that is a place of tremendous suffering. But I think the most important pain that that Hannah felt even she didn't understand. And that was an isolation from God. And while she focused on her barrenness, the greatest pain in her life and her deepest need was to close that isolated barrier that existed between God and Hannah. One of the things that that reinforces that in my mind is in verses six and seven. Because it says there that Panina was really effective in her torment. Hannah knew that God is the one who closed her womb. She could read in Genesis 30 where God revealed to Jacob in his discussion with Rachel, the wife who said, Give me a child or I die. And Jacob responded, Am I in the place of God who has closed your womb? Can I do what God has said can't be done? Hannah knew that God had been the one to close her womb, and that gave her already an emotional barrier. It could be crossed, but it was an emotional barrier. Panaina pushed the barrier. Because it says that in verse 7, this went on year after year. Whenever Hannah went up to the house of the Lord, her rival provoked her, till she wept and would not eat. You have to understand the significance of that would not eat. This is not an ordinary meal. This is not Hannah deciding she's not going to eat simply because it's uncomfortable, she doesn't want to be around the family, and she'd really rather be alone. We're talking about a family of the priestly line. We're talking about a sacrificial meal that must be eaten in particular ways. We're talking about worship of the Lord. And in Deuteronomy 26, 14, I want you to hear this very carefully. I have not eaten any of the sacred portion while I was in mourning. I have not eaten any of the sacred portion while I was in mourning. It goes on and lists some other reasons why people in this particular situation ought not eat the sacrifice. Then it concludes, I have obeyed the Lord my God. I have done everything you have commanded me. God prohibits the priestly family from eating any sacrificial offering in a state of mourning or grief. Panaina knew that. Hannah knew that. Panaina knew that they were coming for their yearly sacrifice, the time of greatest opportunity to worship the Lord. And Tanaina each year provoked Hannah to the point where she was so bitter in grief she could not eat. She could not come to worship. Now I don't know how many times you guys have been in a state of bitterness and grief, wondering why God has allowed you to be so hurt. And it felt like you could not join us for worship. Could not come both to face us and the Lord. But I know that it's happened. That is the state in which Hannah finds herself. Panaya has driven her from worship. And her greatest need is intimacy with God. Now, as Hannah goes through this and looks to resolve her suffering, there's a number of things we need to look at. Hannah recognizes where she is and she understands the things that she needs to do. But today what we're going to look at predominantly is what Hannah doesn't do, what she doesn't expect, what can't be given, and next week we'll look at what she does. But we need to understand the relationship of the people to Hannah at this point because it is so easy for us to skip over this part of the story. And simply focus on God that we completely negate the issue of what we can do one to another, what we have to offer to one another, and what we have not to offer, what it is impossible for us to do. And really, that's the reason that this passage leapt out at me six months ago, and I felt compelled to preach it, is because of what we cannot do, what we cannot offer to one another. What we are too audacious to attempt, if we attempt. And so let's look first at all at the people around Cana and let's see what degree of help they can offer. You see, we look at the story and we see El Cana. Now Canna is her husband. In verse 4 and verse 5, we're told of his love. Beginning in verse four. Whenever the day came for Yelcana to sacrifice, he would give portions of the meat to his wife Panina and to all her sons and daughters. Verse five But to Hannah he gave a double portion because he loved her, and the Lord had closed her womb. Al Canna understood the pain that Hannah faced, and he did what he could to express his love for her. He showed her that in spite of her failure, quote unquote, that he loved her. He accepted her. He was not critical of her. He had not abandoned her, even though he'd taken another wife. He gave her his love. He gave her all that he could give her. And in verse 8, we see that he even goes to her in her grief and says, Listen, I'm not abandoning you. I have not condemned you. For something that's beyond your control. I love you, and I want you to know that I love you, and that I hope that I mean a tremendous amount to you. That helped, and we'll see in a few minutes how much that helped, but it's not addressing the deep needs. It can neither give for a child nor restore intimacy with God. Elkanah is limited. Now, I don't know how many of you men have seen your wives suffer, and conversely, how many of you wives have seen your husbands suffer and wish there was something you could do. And wish that there was some way you could click your fingers, twinkle your nose, or do something, offer a prayer and make it better. Sometimes it's an issue of feeling like you want to take him by the collar, shake him, and throw him against the wall and hope that things make sense. But you want to make it better. That is a good desire. But it is something beyond your ability to do. We'll see why. Panaina is someone who heightens the pain, she intensifies the sorrow, but she's not the cause of her grief. Tanaina is certainly doing everything she can to make herself feel better by making Hannah feel worse. But if Panaina loved Hannah as a sister and cared for her the way Elkanah does, it would still be the same situation. Hannah would be barren. And in her barrenness, she would be isolated from God because she already feels that way. Panaina is not the solution. Nothing Panaina can do will be the solution. If you have been one who is offended, a brother or a sister in the Lord, you certainly need to go and make those things right. But you will not make that person Content. There's nothing you can do to make the other content. Conversely, if you have been offended, that person makes a great focus. But they're not the depth of the problem. Eli as a man of God, has some sense of responsibility. He's there in the tabernacle. Having rebuked Hannah inappropriately, realizing the deep need and the deep pain and the righteous prayer that Hannah has offered, he fumbles around and he says, May the Lord bless you and give you what you wish. He's impotent to help Hannah. Six months ago when I first began to read this passage in the Chronological Bible This is what left out at me. Because many of the time that I as the pastor there I go, doing that again, as a pastor, I feel an obligation and a responsibility to help. And I wish The things were different. So that I could pray and it would be better. So that I could give sage counsel and everything would be alright. So that I could give you enough compassion and care and your pain would be gone. But the pain is real, it's deep, and it is not going to be solved by another person. Eli felt bad. I can empathize with Eli He wanted Hannah's pain to go away. But he's a man. And he can't change hearts. And he can't change physics, and he can't change anatomy, and he can't give her a child, and he can't draw her to intimacy with God. There's too many limitations on us to be able to make things better. Hannah, in her own turn, is wise enough not to expect that these people will make her pain go away. She doesn't act like Rachel. Genesis chapter 30, verses 1 and 2. There's an interchange between Jacob and Rachel. Rachel sees that Leah, her sister, has been fertile and borne several children to Jacob. And she goes to Jacob when she recognizes that she is barren, and it says, When Rachel saw that she was not bearing Jacob any children, she became jealous of her sister. So she said to Jacob, Give me children, or I'll die. Jacob in turn became angry with her and said, Am I in the place of God who has kept you from having children? What in the world can I do that I'm not doing? There's a frustration on the part of Jacob because he recognizes it's totally beyond his control. When you come to one who has a need deeper than you can meet, There's already a frustration on your part because you care. You want to be the one who is able and cares enough to meet the need. But you can't. You're not able Hannah didn't go to Penina and decide to resolve the conflict. We've recently gone through a class on conflict resolution here. Many of us may now have the mechanical tools to be able to go and say, well, we can fix this and make it better. Let's work through the process. There's a danger to focusing on the short term and the small issues. If we don't have that foundation in place of a relationship with the Lord, nothing that you do on those superficial issues will make a difference. The hurt will still be there. Nothing in the circumstances will make that hurt go away. The hurt comes from a deeper place. Hannah doesn't approach Penina and either decide to deck her and take her out of the scene. Or to tell her we really ought to work this out. We're going to be together for a long time, and once your children are grown and have their own homes here in in the insula and we're all together and we have a wonderful large family, we're still going to be together even if we fight. So let's work this out. Let's not make each other miserable. Hannah simply ignores Panina. And she recognizes that that's not the issue at the moment. A deeper issue has to be met before Panina can be dealt with. That doesn't mean Penina should not be dealt with, but it means don't focus on the major on the minor issues where the majors need to be dealt with. Hannah doesn't go to Eli, and she doesn't go to him in the tabernacle and say, please pray for me. She doesn't ask him to give her a blessing. She goes to the tabernacle to meet the Lord. Hannah recognizes her need. And next week we'll look more at that and we'll see what it is that God does. I don't know if you share my frustration. I don't know if you see people in your frame of reference right now that are in pain that you want to help. I don't know if you see broken families. I don't know if you see lonely individuals. I don't know if you see people who are struggling with terminal illness. They're there. There is a danger for us. We will either have blinders and will live within the realm of what we can comfortably deal with, and those who hurt beyond around us are beyond us Or we'll live in frustration because we'll take so much on ourselves that we can't deal with it, and we'll we'll wallow in that frustration and wish that we could do something. We'll be compassionate We'll be empathetic, we'll be sympathetic, we'll we'll we'll do all that we can to help people recognize we're with them, but we're simply with them in suffering. We don't pose a solution, we don't offer anything new. We are not the one who can. We may be the one who cares. I want you to feel that tension. I want you to think for a moment of people around you that are in pain. If you're one of those who are in that pain, I want you to think for a moment about what the people around you cannot offer. And I want you to focus your attention on what you really need. What are the lessons that we can learn? What are the lessons that we see in the human relationships with Hannah? First and foremost, we need to accept the help that those around us can give, realizing that our deepest needs cannot be humanly met. Your deepest needs will never be humanly met. I want you to take a moment and think about that. I want you to ask yourself whether you believe it. Think about for a moment what you perceive now at this instant to be your deepest need. Who can meet that? Is it for health? Financial stability? Peace in relationships Confidence of your future? Think of your deepest need. What is it that is beyond all other needs? Who can meet it? You may be focusing on someone to be able to meet that, not realizing they can't No one can but God. Hannah accepted the help that Elkanah could give to her. You recall that we left her isolated from God because of Penina's torment. Elkanah came to her when she would not eat. And he comforted her. Listen to what he said. Elkanah, her husband, would say to her, Hannah, why are you weeping? Why don't you eat? Why are you downhearted? Don't I mean more to you than ten sons? And there's a fumblingness in his interchange with his wife But there's a wisdom to that interchange because her need is greater than children. She also needs to realize that God has indeed blessed her. And she has a husband who loves her. In the NIV, I think the translation in verse 9 is poor, because the word once ought not to be once. It ought to be the word then. Because there's a dynamic that takes place as she is tormented by panina, isolated from the experience of worship of the Lord. In her isolation, her husband comes to her and says, I want you to understand that I love you. There is good here. You don't have to be in mourning. You don't have to be in grief. There is a pain that you bear. But there is good as well. And then she went to eat. She could partake in the worship of the Lord in eating the sacrificial meal. And after she was strengthened by that sacrificial worship, She could go to the tabernacle and pray. I want you to see that that movement takes place. We can offer important things to one another. We can act to meet some of those issues, but we can't meet the deepest needs. There are commands for how we are to care for one another. We're commanded to provide fellowship. We are a body. Do you know somebody in this congregation who's lonely? I do. Can you offer them fellowship? Can you offer them some of your time? Can you include them in things that are going on? If you're in a cell and you know somebody who's lonely, invite them If you're in a small group and there's someone who's lonely, invite them. If you know that you're going to do something you could bring them with, bring them. Fellowship is a critical need. It's not the deepest, but it's a critical need. We need to be offering to one another that critical answer of ourselves. Compassion One of the key things that we can offer to one another, especially in times of suffering, is not the answer, but again, it's ourself. We don't have the ability to resolve the conditions that lead to the suffering, but we have the ability to care. And while that won't solve it, it can make it livable. Elkana cared. He gave to his wife moth. When Job was sitting in sorrow, his three friends came to him. And for the first period of time they did something really important and really good. They sat with Job. They didn't say a word. Their very presence said that they cared. When they began to blow it was when they forgot that they didn't have the ability to solve Job's problems. And they began to give him advice as to how to deal with God. Faulty advice. that angered and frustrated and tormented Job. We have to give one another compassion. And that's difficult because it means we will hurt But it is something we're able to do. Sometimes we're called to give material assistance In James chapter 2, 14 through 16, it talks about worship. It talks about works. It talks about doing what God wants. What good is faith without works? If somebody is cold, then we say, be warmed and filled, but we don't give them a cloak and we don't give them food. What good is that? In 1 John 3, 17, it speaks of the fact that we are commanded in love to provide for those who have need. There's a lot of things that we can do. And the foundation of it all is to pray honestly. Now, when I say pray honestly, it's a it's a Christian triteism to find out about a need and to dismiss it with the phrase, I'll pray for you. How many of you have ever heard that and wondered how many times that person prayed for you? Or whether they ever did? How many of you have uttered that phrase? Only to forget as you walk to your car what it is the other person had shared with you. Never even to pray it, or perhaps maybe praying at once as you walk to the car. When I speak of praying honestly, I mean praying compassionately, so that when you come back to that other person You find out whether that prayer has been answered because you expect that God is going to work. You're doing there something very significant because what you're doing is you're bringing that person's issue to the Lord, and that's the step that you can take. We are part of a body. The body takes care of itself without being told, and by taking care of the other parts. My entire body right now is consumed with the function of getting my my muscles and my hip and my my my incision to heal. And and it's working without being told. My hip didn't have to say to my feet, give me more blood. Didn't have to say to the lungs, I need more oxygen. Didn't have to say to the heart, pump a little faster. It pumped fast for a week and a half. I was up to 120 heartbeats per minute. Wish it wasn't. Made me feel like I was out of shape. We are part of the body. We, as we function in this body, will care for one another without being called or told. Because we know that our health is dependent upon the health of the rest of the body. On the other hand, the body does call out, and if you have a weakness, if you have a need, if you have a pain, there are those who will care. Share it. Don't be an island. Don't be self-contained because what you do at that point is you prevent our ability to act as the body that we are. We need to know Within the limits of what people can do, we are to help one another as well as to receive help from one another. One of the things that I'm realizing is I've received so much help from so many of you. It's that I've got an obligation to give that back. As God lavishes his grace upon me through your care of me and my family. I have the opportunity to know and to serve as well. And if it becomes a one-way flow, it's the beginning of death. Because I'll begin to expect that you guys are going to take care of me. And I'll begin to expect that that's my right. And I'll begin to be poisoned to the idea of how that needs to go back to you. If in my weakness I say there's nothing I can do for you guys. Or in your weakness, you say that there's nothing you can do for those who are helping you. You will set a pattern that will choke the life out of you. It is a giving and a receiving But lastly and most importantly, we need to recognize that we have a fundamental underlying need. Hannah recognized that fundamental underlying need and she addressed that. And I want you to see, in anticipation of next week, verse 18. The last part of that verse has a very, very, very important statement. It is the crux of this story. And all it says is simply Then she went her way and ate something, and her face was no longer downcast. She went away and ate something, and her face was no longer downcast The sorrow that Hannah had felt, the torment that Panina had given, the distance from the Lord Disappeared. Her face was no longer downcast. The answer exists. Hannah didn't find it in the wrong place, but she found it. If you come this morning to this service and you look for that answer and you haven't found it, it exists. Don't give up the search. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your truth. We thank you that you have given to us that truth in a clear way that as we begin to study the depth of Scripture, we'll never find how deep it goes. And yet, Lord, you tell us your truth, you give us your word, you show us what it means, and you give us hope. Most of all, Lord, you give us yourself. And I pray that as you speak to us, As you show us yourself, you will meet our needs, you'll answer our hurts, and you'll heal them Lord, please do this. We need it. You promise it. We trust you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen.