You brought your Bibles with you today. I invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 2 This morning I'm going to be reading for us a very familiar account, an account of Jesus as a 12-year-old boy at the temple teaching. It's a passage that, although we're familiar with, I know for myself, it's not one I've spent a whole lot of time thinking about As a Christian man or as a pastor. And this week remedied that. Sitting in my office, reading this text over and over again, thinking, Lord. What's here for us? I trust that he has something for you, even as he did for me in studying it this week. Please take a moment and join me in prayer. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for this day. Lord, we thank you for this opportunity to reflect upon the triumphal entry. As uh my brother Wayne said, that high watermark in his public ministry when it seemed like everything was culminating in such amazing ways, Lord, you knew. That the road of suffering was just beginning. And Father, we pray that we would continually be surprised by finding new things in your word. Lord, new truths to stir old hearts. And Father, we pray that even as your word is read this morning, Lord, you by your spirit would be at work in us. Father, we pray too for the preaching that follows the reading of your word. Lord, in as much as it is true or faithful to who you are and what you've done for us, Lord, we pray that You would show us Christ even in the preaching. And Lord, we will give you all the thanks and the praise and the glory and honor. It's in your name we pray and on your strength that we depend. And all God's people said. Amen. Luke chapter 2. Now if you notice, I say here in the bulletin we're going to begin our reading with verse 39. And last week I read verse 39 and 40 at the end of the previous sermons text, because those verses in some respects function as something of a hinge. So we're going to start again at verse 39, and I'm going to read through verse 52. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 2, beginning with verse 39, then, the Word of God. And when they had performed everything according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own town of Nazareth. And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, and the favor of God was upon him. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. And when he was twelve years old, they went up according to custom. And when the feast was ended, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. His parents did not know it. But supposing him to be in the group, they went a day's journey. But then they began to search for him among their relatives and acquaintances. And when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem searching for him. After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. And his mother said to him, Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been searching for you in great distress. And he said to them, Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my father's house? And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart, and Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. The word of the Lord. Last week I had mentioned how the first two chapters of the Gospel of Luke are very carefully crafted in order to juxtapose John the Baptist and Jesus And different events in the announcement of the coming uh birth or the the announcement of the pregnancies of John and of Jesus are set next to each other. The births are set next to each other. The events of the birth are set next to each other. The remarkable signs from heaven are set sort of next to each other. And in a parallel kind of uh structure that always makes it clear that in every way Jesus is superior John the Baptist's story, in the infancy narratives we call them, ends with this one verse, and the child grew and became strong in spirit. And this is John the Baptist at the end of chapter 1, verse 80. And in the equivalent wrap-up on the infancy of Jesus. And the age 12 is the last year before what came to be known in just at most centuries after Christ. It was the last year of childhood in the ancient Israelite uh custom, uh much like boys of thirteen that are Jewish are bar mitzvah today. This is the end of Christ's childhood. That is bookended by this verse 40 and the child Jesus Grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, and the favor of God was upon him. And then at the end of this account of him in the temple, we read, and Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. So instead of a one-word notice with John the Baptist, a pardon me, a one-verse notice with John the Baptist that, hey, he grew and became wise and and uh was prepared for his public ministry. We have this whole account with Christ. Twelve years of incredible growth and progress. And wow, was it incredible. His parents were astonished and confused and utterly bewildered. An idea that comes up later. The townspeople up in the region of Galilee question what manner of person is this who can command even winds and waves And how much Mary and Joseph must have seen him sitting among the greatest theologians Of the people of God of his day, listening to them and asking questions and giving answers, which is a form of teaching in the ancient world. And they're astonished, what manner of child is this? As we step back and look at this text, something that I noticed in studying it is it begins by talking about the parents traveling. And Jesus accompanies. And it ends with a description of Jesus going back to Nazareth, and his parents were with him. You see, in this text, there's something happening where Jesus is transitioning from the one who simply accompanies his parents. to Jesus actively submitting to his parents and his parents going with him. Look at what the text says. In Luke chapter 42, verse 41. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year. They went up according to the custom. And when the feast was ended, as they were returning, The boy Jesus stayed behind. So at that point, he's just kind of a passenger on the power of the narrative. But if you look at the end, and he, verse 51, and he, Jesus, went down. And came to Nazareth with them. That's the actual word order of the language. Something's changed. What has changed? This whole text brings to a point this question of who is Jesus, where is he, what is he about, what are his priorities? And in many respects, we have the very first words of Jesus. In fact, as far as we know, we have the first words of Jesus. And they're very revealing. I'll tell you something. I remember when, you know, my oldest son is 24 now. And I can remember, you know, I have a very fun relationship with my my lovely bride, and we were debating what he would say first, dada or mama? And I was sure he was going to say dad at first because he was a daddy's boy. When he was a little kid he wanted so hard to be just like me, and now he's like working for the opposite. But uh that happens. He'll come around. But in any event We were at a church picnic right around his first birthday, and he said his first word. Dog. It says a lot about the man. He loved dogs. He was impressed with dogs He was at the same time afraid of them, yet greatly attracted to them. It tells you a lot about what someone's first words. We think about people's first words and last words. Have you ever stopped to think that the very first words, if you were to step back from the Gospel of Luke and think of all the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, what are the first words that we have coming from the mouth of Jesus? Why were you looking for me? Those are the first words that we have recorded from the mouth of Jesus And those are significant words in the mind of Luke. And I want to demonstrate why I believe that to be true. Luke, out of all the Gospels, there are no gospel writers more concerned with him for structure, for form. Luke is a scholar, a historian, a theologian, a man of letters. And he so carefully crafts his gospel according to academic standards of his day as history. We've seen that a couple of times. as we've been go going through the Gospel of Luke together. And at the end of the infancy narrative, the first words out of Jesus mouth, or why are you looking for me? Now if you flip to the back, at the very end, the first words addressed to People, disciples, followers of Christ after his death on the cross, are why are you looking for Jesus? And then when you turn to the Gospel of Luke's sequel, the book of Acts, after at the very conclusion of that introduction, just like the conclusion to the introduction, if you will, to the Gospel of Luke is Jesus saying, why were you looking for me? The conclusion to the book of Acts is introduction is angels appearing to the disciples who are looking in the heavens where Jesus has Ascended into heaven after his last interview with his disciples, and the angels say, Why are you standing there looking for Jesus? You see, this is a powerful idea in the theological mind of Luke. And there's a sense in which, as Christians and as people who are what we would call seekers, looking for Jesus is something that concerns all of us at some level in some way. In fact, you could step back and look at human experience and say that we spend our life looking for a savior. Sometimes we think it's going to be the latest draft pick for our baseball or football team. Sometimes we think we're spending our time looking for that savior that's maybe gonna be the the spouse that we hope to marry someday. That'll change our life and bring us all the good things we want, or or maybe it's kids. Or maybe it's someone that we're in relationship with. See, we spend our life sort of waiting for Godet, looking for someone to come along and change everything. There's something very natural about that. Since the very dawn of redemptive history We had put in the very consciousness of humanity this idea that we are waiting for the seed of a woman to crush the head of the serpent. And we as a species, since the injection of sin into the very fiber of our souls, have been waiting, looking, longing for a redeemer. And part of Luke's great theological enterprise, moved by the Spirit of the God who loves you and reveals Himself, is to give us two books, Luke and Acts. That in some respects asks this question, why are you looking? Because in each of those instances, the conclusion to the infancy narrative The angels that appear to the women at the tomb, why are you looking for the living among the dead? The angels that appear to the disciples. Why are you standing there looking to the heavens? He's going to come back just as you saw him ascend. In each of those instances, They're told that you already know everything you need to know about where Jesus is and what he's doing. Look at what Jesus says. Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house? We can be confident that we can find Jesus because in light of the scriptures we know who Jesus is. We know what his priorities are, and we understand that he is seeking us. And I want to stop and think about this part. First point, who Jesus is. This text, so carefully woven together by the Spirit working through Luke. shows us an emphasis on the parents of Jesus. Notice how often they are described as parents. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year. Verse 41 When the feast was returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind. His parents did not know it. But supposing him to be in the group, they went a day's journey. And they began to search for him among their relatives and acquaintances. This text is setting us up to understand Jesus as the incarnate member of the family of Joseph. Everything about the text leading up to Jesus' response to them emphasizes the parental relationship that Mary and Joseph have to Jesus. Even here, we find in verse 48 When his parents, after they find him, see him, they're astonished. And his mother said to him, not Mary, his mother, son. Now, that's a word that in all fairness could be translated child. It's techna, not huyas, which huhuyas is always son, but tekna is sometimes either. But he says, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I. Everything about this text is painting the picture of Jesus as the Son, the child. of Mary and Joseph in a very natural family. And Jesus' response, did you not know that I must be in my father's house? You see how easy it is for us to domesticate the God who is and the Son of God who came. And to see him and his significance only in as much as it bears immediate and direct relationship upon us. I'll confess to you: in my mind and in my heart Jesus loves Huey Lewis and lacrosse, and he prefers tea lime pie to apple. And he loves Snickers bars. And he thinks baby Ruth's are too chewy. We as often make Jesus into our own image and interpret him in the manner in which we either need him or experience him. And so whether we intend to or not, we put him in a box. Never put Jesus in a box. You belong in his box. He does not belong in yours. And how this whole text has emphasized that Jesus, the boy, the child, the son, has his parents, he has his relatives, he has acquaintances. He should have been playing kickball with the kids. And this is not an expose of Mary and Joseph as bad parents, and neither does it even hint at the fact that Jesus disobeyed his parents. Imagine a group of a caravan of all these people from Nazareth traveling an entire several days journey. They probably averaged ten, fifteen miles a day, and so it would have taken, you know, days, if not a week, to get from the Sea of Galilee and the uh western uh shore of that sea, probably the northern section of the western side of that, all the way down to Jerusalem. Going at a snail's pace, with all of these children running around, playing all the games the children play, and stopping for camp and cooking meals for who knows how many hundreds of people. And so the kids would quite naturally be in a in a mass of kids running about doing what kids do. So it's very easy to understand how when it came time, hey, we're leaving Word didn't get to Jesus because he was in the temple, and so he stays behind. And when he stays behind, he is busy about his father's business. You see, Jesus wants to reiterate to his parents And the Holy Spirit wants to reiterate to us that despite the tendency to see Jesus almost exclusively in terms of his relationship to us, Jesus is saying to his parents, Joseph by adoption and Mary by birth. I had to be about my father's business. I had to be in my father's house. Now Why does the old translation to King James say I had to be in my father's business? Some of you probably grew up memorizing it that way. I'll tell you something. In this text, let me get to the right page. Here we go. He says, why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be And it doesn't say house. It says that I must be of my fathers. Now, since the question is Where was Jesus? And he was found in the house. According to the rules of Greek grammar in that day, the assumption is that it's the house of the Father. It could just as easily be the business of my father, teaching the Word of God. Whichever way we look at that, the point is that he was where His father decreed that he should be to accomplish the work that he must do. And in that moment of time, that was the temple. What Jesus' priorities are is made clear here. Did you not know that I must? There's a necessity to the way Jesus spent his life. Jesus was mindful even as a young boy that he must be doing those things decreed for him to do by his heavenly father. And so he didn't engage in all of the stickball or hide-and-seek or tag as a 12-year-old boy. He listened. He tuned his heart and his mind. He learned. He asked questions and he gave answers that were instructive even to the experts. And he said to his parents, didn't you know that this is what I had to be doing? That this is what I came to do? And that you had no need to be looking for me. You could have known exactly where I was. And think about the three days. We sometimes get that wrong. We get the idea of Joseph and Mary frantically for three days scouring the streets and alleys of Jerusalem. Remember, Joseph and Mary spend one day traveling north back to Nazareth, and at the end of that day, they realize Jesus is gone. And so then it takes them A full day to get back to Jerusalem. That's day two. And then on the third day, oh, do you hear an echo there? On the third day, they find Jesus who's been missing. And he's right in the presence of God's people in God's house doing God's work. Where do you look for Jesus? Do you look for him as if he's just another social worker? Just another philosopher? Just another therapist? Life coach? Do you look for him as if he's the Son of the Living God? Do you look for him as if he needs to be about your business? Or do you look for him as if he's about his father's business? A divine business that involves you at a deeper, realer level than you could ever imagine. I can't tell you how many conversations I've had with kids I've coached, people I've pastored, neighbors I've lived near. Who think that there can be no Jesus and Jesus cannot be found unless their dog recovers from a disease. Or unless their dad and mom get their marriage together. You see, their idea is that I need to find Jesus and I will see evidence of his existence and care and concern if he's about my business. And Jesus is about his father's business. And his father's business is to reveal the glory of the living God. that the face of God Himself might shine into the human experience. The business of Jesus is ultimately to live a sinless life And to give that life in the place of sinners like me by dying on the cross. The business of the Father, from the council of the Trinity before creation, Is that Jesus be about that redemptive, self-sacrificial work of living in light of the Father's will for the benefit of all who will look to him with repentance and faith? And if you would find Jesus today, you must look to the very throne of God. For the Son of God sits and reigns, having already laid down his life, having been raised and exalted and enthroned. And we look for him in all the wrong places, don't we? We imagine his priorities to be very different than what they truly are One of the greatest reasons I have hope and seek to give hope to others in this life quest of looking for Jesus Is the fact that he is seeking and living in many respects for you Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that I must be in my father's house? They did not understand the same. And he went down with them to Nazareth and was submissive to them. Now, how often do you think of Jesus being submissive to mere carbon life forms created in the image of God? We think of Jesus learning submission to the Heavenly Father by living his life, demonstrating it year after year, all the way up to the age of 33 when he died on the cross. But even now, he is submitting himself to his parents, one, who didn't understand his priorities, two, who didn't understand what he was trying to tell them. Nonetheless, in going down to Nazareth, he submitted himself to them. And he lived as their child. And when do we next hear about Jesus? Jesus, this wonder child who had stunned everyone in Jerusalem. The next thing we hear of Jesus, he's 30 years old. For 18 years, this theological virtuoso, who could have already begun to amass a following, Lives as the child of Joseph and Mary, attracts no followers, names no disciples, performs no miracles that we know of. He simply lived with people who did not understand his mission, his calling, the words he was saying. Lovingly, patiently, submissively, as their son Now, Jesus does that again and again. I want you to think about at the end of the Gospel of Luke, after the angels in chapter 24. Say, why are you looking for the living among the dead? Again, you you should know that Jesus Christ has just told you that He is the resurrection and the life. Why are you looking for Him in a tomb? And the next thing we hear about Jesus begins with that very familiar passage describing the road to Emmaus. That very day, two disciples We're going to a village named Deneas, about seven miles from Jerusalem, and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened And while they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. The exact same language for how he went with his parents back to Nazareth. He goes with them. He enters into their misunderstanding and confusion. And he shows them himself. You see, Jesus spent over a decade, nearly two decades, living with and showing himself to Joseph and Mary. Jesus spent miles on a dusty road with these two disciples, showing himself To folks who'd followed him, but looked for him among the dead. And Jesus Christ, if you are seeking him. is in point of fact seeking you by the ministry of his word and the witness of his church And I want to invite you this Palm Sunday to think about how people gathered, as Wayne in leading the service pointed out, because they heard of great things he had done and they were looking for him. They wanted to see him. And there's something in you that wants to see and find and know this Jesus. And as I've suggested earlier, it's part of that great human narrative where we have been waiting for the Redeemer. waiting for the one who was promised in Genesis chapter 3 verse 15. And that one came. His name was Jesus. And even in his own day, people looked for him in all the wrong places for all the wrong reasons, not understanding who he was, what he was supposed to be doing. And certainly not understanding what he says again and again, I came to seek and to save you, the lost. I would encourage you, dear friend, don't look to Jesus for the things that he could improve in this life. According to this timetable. In the Sermon on the Mount, he says, Seek ye first the kingdom of God. That is a very, very full, pregnant statement that says, seek first those things that involve your allegiance, your loyalty, your citizenship in a realm that never ends. Seek first putting me above all, recognizing the proper king. Seek first those things that are eternal, not those things that are temporary. That's all part of seeking first the kingdom of God. These other things will be added unto you, Jesus says. But so often we seek first The clothing, the food, the shelter, the career, the human relationships, and we tag on the kingdom at the end. You see, looking for Jesus in the wrong places. Looking for the exercise of his reign and the wrong things. But if we would look for Jesus, knowing that he is the Son of the living God, Who came to die for us and was raised and is reigning in heaven this very moment. And if we recognize that he is about his father's business and it blesses us. And if we would wrap our heads and hearts around the fact that the whole point of his ministry was to seek us, our very souls. Not just for a season of health, wealth, and prosperity, but for an eternity of his fellowship What might our lives be? How might our pilgrimages be different? So, dear friend, on this Palm Sunday, have you found Jesus? Have you found the Son of the Living God? Have you embraced him for what he accomplished in his Heavenly Fathers? Shorelist? Have you rejoiced in the fact that he came to seek you? And in finding him you have that pearl of great price? That is worth everything and more that concerns you in this life. And it's interesting to note that in all of these cases Luke chapter 2, Luke chapter 24, Acts chapter 1. After God's people are asked, hey, why are you standing there looking? Why are you looking? Didn't you know this about Jesus, that he is life? Didn't you know that he is coming? Didn't you know that he is the Son of God? And he's about his Father's work. Didn't you know these things, dear Christian? The response to all of those is God's people walking with him because he accompanies them. Having found Jesus, are you making progress? Are you studying what is the father's business in your life, not your most recent wish list? Have you studied how the works of Jesus Christ, the acts of Jesus Christ, the risen and ascended Son of God who gave his Spirit to empower us, can work? Through us. I'm not going to preach through Acts here, at least not in the next five years. But whose Acts are described in the book of Acts? Oftentimes it says Acts of the Apostles. Read it carefully. Luke writes to Theophilus, the same person he writes the Gospel of Luke to. And he says, in my former book I wrote you all that Jesus began to do and to teach. This book is what Jesus continues to do and to teach through his people. It's the unwritten but necessary corollary. You see, anything good that you or I accomplish as disciples of Christ, it is God, who is at work in us to will and to do according to his good pleasure, Jesus is working in us when we accompany him by his spirit. And so, dear Christian, look for Jesus, yes, but find him. He's on the throne. He gave his life for you. And he would accompany you on your life's journey And he would be at work in and through you to do amazing things. What a God we serve. Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. Lord, we thank you that, Lord, your Son, our Savior, Jesus. Was wise beyond our conception of wisdom. Lord, we thank you for the testimony of this boy, this 12-year-old boy who stuns us with his divinity. and his humility. Lord, with the integrity of his answers to his parents, whom he loved as the flesh, but his absolute loyalty to you, his Heavenly Father. Father, we pray that you would help, help us, O God, to know you better. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, help us, O God, to walk ever more carefully with you. Help us, O God. To not simply lay down palm fronds and cloaks, but our very lives as our reasonable sacrifice. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.