Turn your Bibles to 1 Samuel. Today we're going to not look so much at the first eight verses, but we're going to look at 9 through 18. We're going to try to conclude this part of the series of messages on Hannah. There is so much more to preach, and there's so much more to study. But in looking at this particular issue of how does Hannah begin to deal with her suffering, this is the end of the three messages. So let's open in prayer. Father, we thank you for your grace as we've already sung and worship you, that you are the God of redemption. You are the God of ability and of desire. You can and you will, you have. Father, we pray that as you speak to us this morning we would be able to learn more, not only in our minds, but in our hearts. Lord, that not only would our eyes and our ears be open, but our hearts as well. That we might be able to change and conform, recognizing more of you, not as a not as an object of study, but as a God to relate. Father, we pray that you would give us more of yourself and fulfill your own promises in Jesus' name. Amen. You recall those of you who've been here for the past two sermons that we have looked at the story of Hannah, and what we've looked at at first in the first message was how God was demonstrating his power. in these four books, 1st and 2 Samuel and 1 and 2 Kings, that God was trying to point out that he is the one who has taken a loose federation of tribes An uncontrollable group of people. Sounds kind of familiar, doesn't it? It moved them from being that loose federation of tribes into being the most powerful nation of their time, the kingdom of Israel under Solomon. It is God who chose Samuel. It is God who chose Saul. It is God who chose David and Solomon. It is God who gave them victory. It's God who established the kingdom. It is his power that's clearly at work through those books. But not only is he proclaiming his power, he's also teaching us that he has a compassionate care for individuals. He speaks individually to begin with of Hannah. He also continues through. He establishes a pattern in creation where he speaks of his power as the God who created the universe out of nothing and related to Adam. He continues as he brings the Jews out of Egypt, one of the greatest powers of the time, through the individual of Moses. He speaks of the conquest of Palestine through the man Joshua. He speaks of this transition through the woman, Hannah. And he's demonstrating that he cares For the individual. We saw how deeply he cared for each of her needs. How he knew more about her than any other human being could have. And yet he reveals that to us to show that he's concerned. Last week we looked at the issue of what's the role of fellowship, what's the role of people in our sufferings. And we recognize that there's a very significant role that each of us play with each other's lives. But we also recognize that we can go to one another with the wrong expectations and with the wrong understanding of our needs. For you see, our deepest need, somebody walked out the door after that message and said, Well, it's easy. Hannah's deepest need was God. I said, Come back to the next sermon because that's what this is all about. No human being can meet your deepest needs. No human being can give you contentment. No human being can take your pain away. Today we're going to look at what hope we have. Because Hannah looks for help in the right place. And she finds it. So let's look at chapter 1, verses 9 through 18. And again, I want to just reiterate that this ought not be once when they had finished eating, it ought to be then when they finished eating. But it says here, once. So I'll read then Then, when they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh, Hannah stood up. Now Eli the priest was sitting on a chair by the doorpost of the Lord's temple. In bitterness of soul. Hannah wept much and prayed to the Lord. And she made a vow, saying, O Lord Almighty, if you will only look upon your servant's misery, And remember me. And not forget your servant, but give for a son. Then I will give him to the Lord for all the days of his life, and no razor will ever be used on his head. As she kept on praying to the Lord, Eli observed her mouth. Hannah was praying in her heart, and her lips were moving, but her voice was not heard. Eli thought she was drunk. And he said to her, How long will you keep on getting drunk? Get rid of your wine. Not so, my lord, Hannah replied. I am a woman who is deeply troubled. I have not been drinking wine or beer. I was pouring out my soul to the Lord. Do not take your servant for a wicked woman. I have been praying here out of my great anguish and grief. Eli answered, Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant you what you have asked of him. She said, May your servant find favor in your eyes. And she went her way and ate something, and her face was no longer downcast. Hannah turns to God for the resolution of her suffering She went, first of all, to eat the meal. It says, then when they had finished eating, and you recall that they had come to Shiloh to the tabernacle for a sacrificial worship. And part of that sacrificial worship is the family together consuming the sacrifice. And you recall that when we looked at Hannah's troubles, we recognized that she was prevented from eating that sacrificial meal, from pr from worshiping God by partaking in that sacrifice, because of her grief. In Deuteronomy we're told that the families of the priests, and Eli was indeed of the line of Aaron, and he was a priest. The families of the priests cannot eat the sacrificial meal while in mourning. God prohibits that. Because of her mourning over her being barren, and because of the the trouble that Penina had provoked her to, were clear that she couldn't eat the sacrificial meal. She couldn't worship. But here After Elkanah has comforted Hannah in verse 8, where he says, Why are you so sad? How can I help? Hannah's able to go to that meal. She's able to eat, and it says, Then when they had finished eating. When she had had her time of worship with the Lord, she was strengthened to the point she could go to the tabernacle. And so Hannah goes to the tabernacle to continue drawing close to God. One of the things that's important to note is in verse 9 it talks about going to the temple Eli was sitting on a chair by the doorpost of the Lord's temple. At this point, it's anachronistic. It's out of time to speak of the temple. Because the temple is not built until Solomon's time. Two generations away. What they're referring to is the tabernacle that God had commanded the Jews to build at Sinai. It is a special place. It is called the tent of meeting. And for Hannah to come here is extremely significant. Granted, they'd come to Shiloh as a family to worship. But Hannah chose, following that worship with the sacrificial meal, to go to the tabernacle, the tent of meeting. She chose to go closer to God. And I want you to hear from Exodus chapter 25 how God's establishment of the tabernacle. See, there on Moses is on Sinai and God is speaking to him of a place where God will meet with man. And in chapter 25 of Exodus, verses 8 and 9, God says to Moses, Then have them make a sanctuary for me, and I will dwell among them. You recall that in the Exodus, God at the Red Sea had appeared as a pillar of fire by day, and as a pillar of a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night, so he could be seen at both times. When he descended to stay, they stayed. When he rose up and moved, they followed. The presence of the Lord was visible physically among the Jews And when the tabernacle was consecrated in chapter 40 of Exodus, we read this Then the cloud of the Lord covered the tent of the meeting. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle God was physically present in the tabernacle. His glory was there. Moses could not enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled upon it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Moses and the priests could not even move into the tabernacle because God's glory was so oppressively there that they couldn't face him. That's the tabernacle to which Hannah went for her time of prayer. It is a place most uniquely where God says, this is where you will find me. If you want to be with me, come here. It was so holy, and God was so visibly present that that it was broken into different parts. There were the outer courts for everybody, there were the inner courts for the priests. Where the incense, the showbread, and the sacrifices were made. The outer altar out in the outer courts was where the sacrifices of animals were made, but there was an inner section where only the priests could go. And where where the sacrifice of incense, the showbread, and the lights continued. And beyond that there was what's called the Holy of Holies, where the Ark of the Covenant was. God had told Moses not only to build the tabernacle, but to build the Ark of the Covenant, which was to be a testimonial. It was to hold the Ten Commandments, it was to hold the rod of Aaron that butted, it was to hold manna that was collected in the Exodus. And it had angels on the top. It was called the footstool. It was called the mercy seat. For you see, God dwelt above it And Hannah went to God. She went to the tabernacle. Now she couldn't go inside those two courts. She could only be in the outer court. But that's where Eli was. And she went in as far as she could to pray and to bring her needs to the Lord. It was a very significant thing that she moved that far in her pain. But you see, Hannah believed that God could act, that he could meet her desires, and that he could take care of her. Again, it goes back to that universal need we have of knowing the one who can and who will. We're constantly looking for people to take care of us. If we go to a bureaucracy, we want to find that one person. Maybe they're a supervisor, maybe they're just a great secretary, maybe they're an administrative assistant, but they know the ways and they can do what they want. And you want to find that person of power because they can take care of you. If you ever go to the DMV or the, what is it, the MVA? There are so many lines and so many people that one of the people that is most key in that building is the guy that first as you walk in and says, okay, here's where you go. They'll at least get you into the right line. They may not be able to take care of you right there, but they'll get you to the one who can. So they're willing to help you to get to the one who can take care of you. But none of those needs is enough. None of those circumstances being taken care of will satisfy us. We have to find the one who can and will give us contentment. And that's what Hannah's looking for. So she goes to the tabernacle. Once she's in the tabernacle, she goes to the Lord. She's not come to a place because it's holy. She's not come to a place because it's mystical and it has power. She's not looking for a miracle because of some magic she can invoke. She's looking for the Lord. There's a lesson for us. Don't look to manipulate God. Don't look to manipulate powers that be. Look to the Lord. Eli joins her in this prayer. First of all, the author of Samuel makes it very clear that Eli has some foundational presumptions He was on the lookout for people who are acting weird. He was on the lookout for women who were acting weird. Because as you read in 1 Samuel chapter 2, verse 22, of Samuel's, of Eli's sons. Now, Eli, who was very old, heard about everything his sons were doing to all Israel. Pay attention. And how they slept with the women who served at the entrance to the tent of meeting. Eli was concerned about what Hannah was doing, not because he thought Hannah was so outrageously bizarre, but because he knew his sons. were abusing the women who served the tabernacle. And he thought perhaps he was seeing someone before his sons got to them. And could prevent sin. And so when Eli saw her speaking without words and saw her lips moving without being able to hear any of her prayer, he thought she was drunk. And he wanted to stop what he knew would happen. But when Hannah rebuked Eli And we always can use a little bit of rebuke, can't we, when we're wrong? She says, not so, my Lord. And she explained her circumstances and her grief. She explained that her actions were out of sorrow. But I'm sure he felt duly chastised because his response following that is very, very kind. May the God of Israel give you what you have asked of him. That's a prayer. It is a bringing his petitions with hers to God. And so Eli joined with her in prayer that she might receive what she had asked. And she does. Now it's not that she receives the sun immediately, because one of the things that I think we can really lose sight of here is what's taking place. Let's read verse 18. She said, May your servant find favor in your eyes. And she went her way and ate something, and her face was no longer downcast. Her face was no longer downcast. She was no longer sad. In the Hebrew it says, her countenance or her appearance was no longer to her. In other words, that sorrow that was so visibly present on Hannah's face was gone. And she was no longer sad. She returns to the family to eat. She goes on her way, it says, and ate something. Again, this is more than simply saying she felt good enough. So she could consume something in her hunger. They had just finished eating. Now we don't know how long she spent in the tabernacle praying, but she had just finished eating. She had just finished eating the sacrificial meal. She had just finished worship and she went to the tabernacle. She was no longer sad, and I believe that's a lot more significant than that one phrase indicates, and we'll get to that in a moment. But in her contentment, She went back not just to eat but to worship. Again, this is the sacrificial meal. So she went from worship to the tabernacle to pray, and following that prayer with her contentment to worship. To praise. But I want us to understand something here As we look at this passage and it says that she was no longer downcast. Her face was no longer downcast. Did her circumstances change? Did she have a child? At verse eighteen. Was Penina no longer going to torment her? At verse 18? Do we ever have any indication that Panainah ever stopped tormenting her? Is there anything that we have that's a promise that God's going to give her a child? Why was Hannah happy? Why was she content? That's the key to this whole passage. You see, I used to always read this and think, okay, well God had given her some message that He'd not given to us, and therefore she was happy because she'd received the change, or at least the promise of change, in circumstances. But that's simply not here. So what is it that gave Hannah contentment What is it that we ought to look for as a source of our contentment? You see, we're busy praying to God and we're saying, Lord, change my circumstances. I've got this teacher that I hate. I've got this boss that I can't stand. I've got this job that drives me crazy. I don't have enough money. My parents are bizarre. My kids are outrageous. Change my circumstances. Make it better for me, God. Give me happiness. And Hannah to a degree enters into the tabernacle saying that, but she enters into that having been through worship, recognizing that God is the source of her solution. And in coming to that solution, realizing that it's not her circumstances, your contentment is not conditioned upon your circumstances. And if God were to answer all of your requests this morning and give you everything you wanted in changing circumstances, you'd walk out here still discontent. Eight weeks ago I had my hip replaced. You all have gone through this with me so I can share you share this with you. Now for six months I knew I was gonna have my hip replaced and I was getting more and more eager. I was so excited when I when I went into that hospital room. That you couldn't have contained me. And I came out of that hospital room as drugged up and as uncomfortable and as in pain as you could possibly imagine to realize that while my hip works, there are other things that are problems And all that happens when that one critical circumstance changes is you recognize that other circumstances aren't all that great either. See, I can complain about anything. I can complain at the drop of a hat because I will always know that my circumstances aren't what I want. And so it is not my circumstances that must change. And it's not even me. What has to change? What Hannah received in giving her contentment is an intimacy with God, knowing that he is the one who can and who will. Knowing my security comes from his character and his love for me And that's been demonstrated over and over and over again. And I don't have to question that. But as Hannah was no longer downcast, not one circumstance in her life had changed. So if you come this morning and you think, well, It's painful to sing these songs about God's care because He's not caring for me. Then you need to expand your view. You need to change your perspective because it is not true. It is false to say that God is not caring for you. And if you're going to determine whether or not you can be close to God on the basis of whether or not he meets your desire for change circumstances, watch out. Because you have a wrong view of God, and you have a wrong view of your needs, and you will not find contentment It was only after they had returned to Ramathiam. Verse 19 continues: Early the next morning they arose and worshiped. Before the Lord. And then went back to their home at Ramah. Elkanah lay with Hannah, his wife, and the Lord remembered her. So in the course of time, Hannah conceived and gave birth to a son. She named him Samuel, saying, Because I asked the Lord for him. Samuel means the Lord hears. The Lord has heard. It is key that God gave her contentment prior to giving her Samuel because if she had simply been given Samuel Without that intimacy with God and that knowledge that He would take care of her, Samuel would not have contented her. He would not He could have been a bad kid. He could have been obnoxious. He could have become sick. He might have died. Anything can happen if that circumstance is what drives your contentment. But Hannah was content while in pain. She was no longer sad while still tormented by barrenness and by panina. It was intimacy with God that satisfied her. And we'll get to that in a moment. But before we do, let's look at this Have you ever been in Hannah's place of suffering and pain? Has there ever been a time in your life when you're distant from God because your desires are frustrated? Because you want something you don't have? Have you ever been in that place of pain because someone has pushed you away from God? Someone has tormented you and made life miserable? I had an older brother that was really good at that. I can understand him and Panina. Have there been circumstances? Possibly infertility. That's the case here with Anna. It's been the case with several of you here in this congregation, and it still is with some. Has there been some other long-term desire that's been frustrated? The answer is yes, of course, for each of us. We've all been there, and to many of us still are. Have you wondered whether or not God could possibly be there because you have called out until you are weak in the throat? And your circumstances haven't changed? Have you ever been in a place of Job where as he called out to God because of his suffering, without any understanding of why he was suffering, without anything to blame for his pain? He cried out until he was weak. And like Hannah, when God met Job, it was not to change his circumstances, but his perspective. God met Job and said, okay, if we're going to have a contest and you're going to teach me what I ought to know, first let's start with this. Where did I lay the foundation of the world? How did I create Leviathan? What's at the base of the mountains at the bottom of the sea? What God says is, you need an expanded perspective of me. He doesn't go into the same detail with Hannah, but he gives her the same present. God is there, and she's content without knowing that she will have a child. I want to read a few passages to us this morning, and I want to read them with you being able to see them, so we have an overhead, but I want you to listen and I want you to see. They're scattered throughout the Bible. But the passages have a common theme, and that is the possession of God and God's possession of us. You see, the theme of this is intimacy with Him. Now let me read them through and I'll make some comments as we review them all. Exodus 19, 5. Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all the nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Leviticus 26, 11 and 12. I will put my dwelling place among you. And I will not abhor you. I will walk among you and be your God and you will be my people. Jeremiah 11:4. I said, obey me, and do everything I command you, and you will be my people, and I will be your God. Jeremiah 13, 11. For as a belt is bound around a man's waist, so I bound the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah to me, declares the Lord, to be my people, for my renown in praise and honor. But they have not listened. Ezekiel 1120. Then they will follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. They will be my people, and I will be their God. Ezekiel 1411. Then the people of Israel will no longer stray from me, nor will they defile themselves any more with all their sins. They will be my people, and I will be their God, declares the Sovereign Lord. Ezekiel 34:30. Then they will know that I, the Lord their God, am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Sovereign Lord. Ezekiel 36, 28 I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you. I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and to be careful to keep my laws. You will live in the land I gave your forefathers. You will be my people, and I will be your God. Ezekiel 37, 23. They will no longer defile themselves with their idols and vile images or with any of their offenses, for I will save them from all their sinful backsliding. And I will cleanse them. They will be my people, and I will be their God. Ezekiel 37, 27. My dwelling place will be with them. I will be their God. They will be my people. Ephesians 1, 13 and 14. And you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession, to the praise of his glory. While there's a common theme of the phrase, I will be their God and they will be my people, it clearly begins with a feeling of an economic transaction. It's a dry possession. There's no heart. If you obey me fully and keep my covenant, that feels to me like a master telling a servant, if you live up to this. I will condescend to relate to you. And that's the feel as we go through the beginning of these passages. But do you hear what he says? He moves from saying, obey me, and then maybe I'll give this to you, to saying, I will give you a new heart. I will put a new spirit in you. I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. He goes then to the conclusion in Ephesians 1, where he says, having believed in Christ, You were given the seal of the Holy Spirit. Now that's an economic term. If I were a landowner in Palestine, in Israel, during the New Testament time period, and I wanted to buy cedar from Lebanon. I would send my steward with my seal, my signet ring. He would select certain pieces of lumber. And having decided that those were the ones that I ought to have, he would place my seal on that lumber. And instantly, possession had transferred. As soon as my seal was upon that product, it became mine. Payment was simply a formality. It was so recognized the mark of that seal meant possession that there was no challenge to that. And we are told, having believed in Christ, we have been given the seal of the Holy Spirit. That means we belong to God. Ownership is without question. Payment is a formality. But it goes on in that same passage and it says that you have received the deposit. You have received, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit. So the Holy Spirit is that seal. The presence of the Spirit in us is that seal. Who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance? Deposit means down payment. Now, my steward who was going to go buy that cedar for me, not only took my seal, but he took a down payment for what he would buy. If payment was to be received in gold, the down payment had to be made in gold. If payment was to be made in wheat, the down payment, that deposit, had to be made in wheat. If it was silver, it had to be made in silver. You couldn't mix. Now pay attention to what is being said in Ephesians 1. We have received the seal that points out that we are the possession of God. And that seal is nothing less than God Himself. God has given Himself to us. You remember that we saw the tabernacle was a place where God would meet man. And Hannah went to the tabernacle. There is no longer a tabernacle. There is no longer a temple. There is no longer the need to go to a building. This is not a special place because God's Spirit dwells here, except when we're here. For you see, God says in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 16, Do you not know that you are the temple of God and that his Holy Spirit dwells in you? We have received the seal that indicates possession. He is also the deposit that indicates full payment. If the deposit is the Holy Spirit, the payment can be nothing less than God Himself. Do you see what it's saying? You will be my people, and I will be your God. And what's the basis for that? The basis for that isn't obedience. The basis for that is faith in Christ. You see, God knew in the beginning when he said, You must keep my commands, that we couldn't If intimacy depended upon our ability to earn it, we would never possess it. If intimacy depended upon Hannah's ability to overcome her suffering and relate to God in a power, she would never have been content. God says to us, I love you. And even though in Exodus 19, 5 it sounds like a dry possession, it is far from it. Because it is God's bringing us to a realization of our need for Him and His grace And he longs for us to understand that our contentment is contingent upon what he has accomplished in redemption and will apply to us. And as he brings us into that depth of relationship with him on the basis of Christ's completed work, our ability to say, yes, Jesus has paid for my sins, I recognize that I'm a sinner, I trust him. Lord, give me your spirit. God has done that. And intimacy with Him is achievable. And what He's saying to you this morning is: don't look at your circumstances for satisfaction. Don't think that simply because I change what's going on in your life that you will be pleased. What you need, what you desperately need, and what is available is intimacy with me. You are my people. You've been bought with a price. But not only do you belong to me, I have given myself to you. I am your God. I long for that intimacy. And I will give it to you. The gospel rings through the Old Testament. I will give you a heart, a new heart. I will put a new spirit within you. I will take away your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and to keep my laws. Then they will no longer defile themselves with their idols, their vile images, or with any of their offenses, for I will save them from all their sinful backsliding. I will cleanse them. They will be my people. I will be their God. This morning, as you hear God's call What can God do to draw you close to Himself? Is God doing that through your time of trials? Is he taking away from you all those things that you think might satisfy you? So that you'll recognize that they can't and that you can be satisfied without them? Is God enough? It's a hard question, but it's one that he loves you too much to allow you to avoid. What are the idols in your life? What are those desires that if only I have them I will be content? Anything that fills that answer that isn't God or adds beyond God either is an idol or includes idolatry in your worship of God. Anything you say that you have to have beyond God Himself distracts you from intimacy with Him. And He loves you too much to allow that to happen. You see, it's up to God. He will give you that intimacy. He loves you enough to make sure that you get it. Let's pray. Father God, while we recognize that you indeed want to give yourself to us Lord, we also recognize that too often we trivialize you. For us to believe that you're not enough is to misunderstand who you are and what you can do. Father, we long this morning as we end this sermon for you to continue your work. And showing us more and more how you will be our God. How you are our God. How we can have that intimacy with you. For we know that we are your people. You've called us. You've brought us to yourself, and there's nothing Nothing that can isolate us from you. But Lord, we don't always experience intimacy with you. We don't always understand how wonderful you are. We are blind. Lord, open our eyes. Give us the vision of your love. Give us the vision of your greatness. Help us to understand how incomprehensible the two of those are together when we understand how sinful we are. Lord, feed us. Fill us. We pray this in Jesus' name, who is our Redeemer. Amen.