Amos chapter one, verse one reads The words of Amos, one of the shepherds of Tokoa But he saw concerning Israel two years before the earthquake when Isaiah was king of Judah and Jew and Gilaboam, son of Jehoash, was the king of Israel. These are Amos' words to Israel. That's fine for Israel. Does it have to do with us nearly 2,750 years later, sitting here in the meeting house in the United States in February 1984 Now before we continue on in Amos, I would like to make five suggestions on how you and I should hear and read the book of Amos. Because I think it's important that we understand how this relates to us as we look at the message that Amos has. The first thing that I want to point out is that Amos' message, as you see in bird born, is to Israel, and therefore that means it's to the church, and therefore to us. Some people today seek to draw a wedge, drive a wedge between Israel and the church. As if this message would be to some old covenant people, an ethnic group of people, but not necessarily to us. And I think we have to resist that as we realize that in Galatians chapter 6, verse 16, Paul, when he speaks about a relationship with Jesus Christ as the true circumcision, he says, may you follow this rule. You, the Israel of God. And Paul is addressing the Galatian Christians there as the Israel of God. In Galatians chapter 3, he had said that you are the spiritual seed of Abraham. In Philippians chapter 3, he had said, we're the true circumcision. So we need to realize that this is a message to the church today. Do not look at Amos and his message to Israel as if that is of historical interest. And maybe there's a few principles that sort of abide but that don't really bear direct reverence with Relevance to us. It's to us because we're the church. We are Israel. Secondly, it's to an apostate church. Israel at this time is near the end. Thirty years after Amos' message, approximately, Israel is destroyed. The northern ten tribes came to the end of their history. And they were never traced as a unit again. That's not quite the same for us. We believe by the mercy of God, the work of his spirit, we are not an apostate church, that we are in fact following Jesus Christ. more or less faithfully, but that we do hold his word as the authority on our life, and therefore you need to realize that there is relatively more comfort for us than we see in the book of Amos. It's not precisely the same situation. The more you broaden it, to speak of the Church in the United States, for instance, or anything like that, the more relevant it becomes. But I want for us to realize that while there's a lot of warning here, and there is a good deal of sober, careful searching, that there is The more comfort that we need to derive than simply to read as if these things are directed to us without any kind of qualification. But thirdly, make sure that examining yourself personally, that you are not in the situation religiously that Amos describes. As she speaks about where people are spiritually and religiously, this is a test for every one of us to ask ourselves, am I where Amos is describing it? Do I have a false assurance based on some religious practices and not based on a life-changing experience with Jesus Christ? We each have to ask that question. Because I believe that in this country alone, there are thousands, and yes, even millions, of people who tell you that they're born again and sure they're going to heaven. The warnings of Amos would be directly too because they're oh going to heaven is not based on the work of Jesus Christ or on a vital relationship with him, but on some superficial decision that was made or some religious experience that they're trusting in and they'll find ultimately to be a false assurance. So you and I have to ask this question. When Amos says this is what characterizes a believer, we look and we say, Lord, by your grace, I see The root desire and evidence in my life of that, and I see other people who can tell me they see that. Or do I look and I say, No, Amos is speaking of a life like mine. You have to ask that. Then fourthly. Even if you and I look, and we say, by God's grace, I do see that this gives me assurance and comfort that I do really know Jesus Christ. I have a long way to go in my discipleship with him. But I really do know. Then don't just stop there. Because you need to also ask yourself: what about people in my family? What about my friends? What about people I'm in contact with who make me a little nervous by the presumptuous way that they speak of their relationship with Christ? They don't seem to have any interest in what the Bible says. Its values don't seem to determine the way That they live, and yet they say very goodly, yeah, I'm a Christian. Does Amos speak to that? And if he does, should I be concerned to ruin them So that when I stand before the judgment seat of Jesus Christ, and I see that uncle or that aunt or that sister or that brother or that neighbor standing there, that I won't say to myself, Oh God, why didn't I warn you when there was time? Why didn't I take seriously what Amos had to say so that I could love them by showing them that perhaps they ought to raise a question about whether they really are in a right standing for Jesus Christ? And then the fifth way that I suggest that we hear this book is to realize that while we are not an apostate church, that doesn't mean that what Amos has to say doesn't apply to us. See, I think it's sort of like the study of Saul and David. As many of you know, I've done some study in that, and one of the things that I have found is I've studied Saul and David, is while I've looked at those two characters in their contrast. And I've been able to say, Thank you, Lord, that while I see this all didn't follow you, and while I see that I see certain evidences in my life that I am enough to give me that substantial assurance that I do in fact know Jesus Christ. I don't say therefore I don't see anything about what's in Saul's life that reminds me of me. Now as I look at Saul's life, I see a lot of remnants of sin in his life that are in my life too. And so I have to take warning from the sin that's in Saul's life and how God looks at that. I ask myself, what does God want to do in me? And it's the same thing I think as the church. When famous speaks to the church, which is an apostate church, he speaks necessarily of God's standard. And that still is relevant for Columbia Presbyterian. We look at that and we say, how do we measure up in what God is saying the church ought to look like? And even though we may not be apostate, that doesn't mean that we don't have some things that you and I need to stand under God's correction for, to repent of, and to change so that we'll be more useful as a church to him. And therefore, on the one hand, while we may derive some comfort, let's us not be presumptuous to say, well, sure glad that we're not like those people and think that we don't have anything therefore to repent of or to correct in this. I hope that helped when you're seeing how you need to see and understand not only Amos, but also I believe these principles generalize to reading other Old Testament prophets. Having said that, remember what Amos's strategy is. Remember that what he does is basically to get Israel's attention, Amos speaks of other nations and their sins. He wants to show them how terrible sin looks in other people, so that they all say, Amen, boy, that's terrible. It's a lot of world we're living in. Things are really going to the dogs. And everybody's on his side That Anus sort of speaks up on him a little bit, you know, and he says, now you know you see these things and how terrible they are in them. And he gets a little closer. First there's three nations that are totally unrelated to Israel, Damascus, Gaze, and Tyre. But who's all the three that are related? by district uh kinship with Abraham and uh with his sons, uh those who are then related to Israel, Moab, Ammon, and Moab with Ammon and Edom. And then he moves on from those three, right down to Judah, the two southern tribes, and then to Israel itself. And so we'll pick that up in the scripture as we read God's word now from chapter two, verse six, onto chapter three, verse two. After these other six nations, Amos continues, for three sins of Judah, even for full, I will not turn back my wrath, because they have rejected the law of the Lord. And That have not kept his decrees, because they have been led astray by false gods, gods their ancestors followed. I will send fire upon Judah that will consume the fortresses of Jerusalem The fleasons of Israel, even for four, I will not turn back my wrath. They sell the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of sandals. They trample on the heads of the poor as upon the dust of the ground and deny justice to the oppressed. Father and son use the same world, and serve profane by a holy name They lie down beside every altar on dormants taken in flesh. In the house of their God they drink wine as vines. I destroyed the Amorite before them, though he was as tall as the cedars, and as strong as the oaks. I destroyed his fruit above and his roots below. I brought you up out of Egypt, and I led you forty years in the desert to give you the land of the Amorites. I also raised up prophets from among your sons and Nazarites from among your young men. Is this not true, people of Israel? declares the Lord. But you made the Nazarites great line, and you commanded the prophets not to prophesy. Now then I will crush you as a cart crushes when loaded with grain. The swift will not escape. The strong will not muster their strength, and the warrior will not save his life. The archer will not stand his ground. The fleet-footed soldier will not put away, and the horsemen will not save his life. Even the bravest warriors will flee naked on that day, declares the Lord. Hear this word the Lord has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family I have brought up out of Egypt. You only have I chosen above the families of the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all of your sins. I want for us to see on this passage of scripture and this morning two points. Two points, simply first, the sins of Israel, now that he describes, and then the consequences to Israel. Sins of Israel. And then the consequences of those sins to Israel. The sins of Israel are described in chapter 2, verses 6 to 12, then We pick up at verse thirteen, the consequences. Now you notice that while the sins of Israel don't seem nearly as bad in some objective sense as the sins of slavery, cruelty, and various other things that he describes about the nations. Nevertheless, this is the climax of the foolishness and irrationality of sin that Amos has been building toward. simply because the other nations don't have the Bible. Israel has God's Word And therefore their sin is the more foolish and the more irrational. As he says in chapter 3, verse 10, you don't even know how to do good. And yet you have my word. And so you see that on God's standard, their sin is the worse. It is the more deserving of judgment simply because they have the greatest might and the greatest amount of the evidence of God's love toward them. And what are those sins that God is so concerned to make known? Well, I think they fall into three categories. First of all, sins of inhumanness. Secondly, sins of ungratefulness And thirdly, sins of unteachableness. Let's face those as we look through this passage then. Sins of inhumaness, ungratefulness, and unteachableness First of all, you see the inhumanness described in two ways that they treat other people. First, it's shown by Callus Reed. In verses 6 and 7, a little bit of verse 8. And then secondly, by arrogant lust in verses 7 and 8. First of all, notice the callous greed that he describes in verse 6 and 7. He says in verse 16, that you sell the righteous with silver, and believe you are a pair of sandals. They trample on the heads of the poor as upon the dust of the God and deny justice to the oppressed. Now you see what Amos is using here is simply a picture of economic exchange. When you and I buy something, basically what we're saying is that I will give what I possess with something that's more important to me. There's a book in the bookstore. I want that book. I have ten dollars. That book's more important to me than the ten dollars, so I will give away my ten dollars to get the book. Now Anna says, now you take that kind of thinking and what have they done They say that silver is more important to me than righteous people. They say even a pair of sandals is more important to me than needy people. They're willing to sell people for possessions. More importantly, in their value system is what they have in things than how they treat people and respect their rights. And so what they have taken is a kind of a justification for a competition, for the profit motive. to promote themselves, green. And they have talked about good deals that they get. They have talked about good investments that they had made. With these investments and these deals and these business practices and ethics that have been warped and twisted and rationalized They have said these are simply good stewardship. Look at the good deal I got from this. God says you had no concern of who suffered as a result of that transaction. You didn't care what you were doing to that person who was helpless. How you took advantage of somebody, how you in distancing yourself from them, and our society is excellent at that point. You don't do things personal We rip off the insurance company and nobody's getting hurt, you see. It's just a some abstract insurance company. And we have so deepersonalized financial transactions in businesses, in investments. How many of us know by the investments we make what that money is being used for? Very few. Very few people know what's done with the money that we invest and we apply and the things we do with. But Ama says by your carelessness, by saying that you simply will make a good deal and twist the ethics of the situation. He says you put money, profits, higher than people's interests. He said you trample on the heads of the poor upon the dust of the ground, and you don't care about justice. for people. It's not important to you the implications of the ethics that you're carrying out in business, he says. Because that's secondary to you The thing that Amos is trying to say to Israel here is he's saying, that's exactly what I was saying about the heathen nations. It's the same attitude. Me first, read, I'll step on anyone to get what I want. Is it just more subtle with you first? Others convicts me as I look at the things that I need to think about, the way I spend my money, the things that I invest in. To understand what is a higher priority to me. Will I spend more money or take less of a profit in something Simply because I know by doing that I'm doing it in the right way, and not in a way that somebody's going to get hurt or cheated out of something that they need to get. Secondly, he talks about arrogant loss as a way of describing the inhumanity of Israel's Behave. You notice that in verse 7 and 8. Take a look at that. So father and son use the same girl. So profane thy holy name. They lie down beside every altar on garments taken in belge, and the house of their god they drink wine taken as vines. What'd you say? He's simply describing a practice that was current at that time, that they were taking Bethel, which was the sanctuary of worship of the Lord. Remember, it was a false place. One place where God had set his name, that was Jerusalem. They set up some counterfeit places, and those places became centers of temple prostitution. And Amos is describing a picture here where he's saying, by your seeking to accommodate yourselves to the culture, you're simply saying we need to make God relevant to our society, and so we're going to set up this little place that's going to help us to worship. So they began to compromise and compromise and compromise until finally the culture ate up God's worship. To such a point where a father goes into the temple prostitute and he has sex with him. And then his son comes in right after him and he has sex with the same woman. And he says, if that's not bad enough, look at what you're doing. Not only are you profaning my name in that, but you're lying down beside the altar on dormants taken in pledge. Now, what does that mean? Exodus chapter 22 said, if somebody is helpless and he needs to get for you alone, then you take collateral from the God. And so if he has nothing to give you except his garment, you take that. But God said, when he needs that at nighttime to keep him warm, you better dare not keep it, because he says, I am a God of compassion. In other words, don't take advantage of people. These people are taking those same garments that were used in collateral by business transactions and they were using them to prosper. To prostitute themselves in sexual indulgence, rationalize maliciously. What a picture of arrogant, shameless lust! These are the people that are called by God's name. And he says, you lay down on those garments that you have no right to have in the house of your God, and you celebrate your orgies with wine that you've taken and foreclosing mortgages against the helpless. Wine that you've taken in fines against those that you took advantage of. An arrogant kind of self-indulgence and lust, an inhumanness that you see being described here. And it's the same picture that you have in the New Testament in Romans chapter 1. For God speaks of the nations in Romans 10, verses 28-32. He speaks of the nations there as characterized by their inhumanity of their greed. Of their lust and of their arrogance. God is saying this same thing is characterizing the people that are called by my name. Then he moves on to their ungratefulness. He says in verses 9 and 10, he describes three things that he's done for them. In verses 9 and 10, he talks about how he brought them up out of Egypt. You see that in verse 10. And he led them in the desert for forty years, and then he gave them the land of the Amorites. And verse 9 describes a little more about that. How strong they were. What's God saying here? God said, do you remember when you were helpless? Do you remember when you couldn't do anything to save yourself? God said, you remember when you were slaves in Egypt? I was the one that had mercy on you. I heard you crying to me for mercy, and I brought you up. And there you were in the wilderness, the desert. You couldn't even feed yourself. You had nothing to do to provide for yourself. God says, Who provided for you? I provided for you. Do you remember that? Forty years I took care of you. When you couldn't take care of yourself and you cried to me, provide to you. And then God says, I brought you up into the land. The Amorites were in the southern part of Canaan. They were the ones they should have taken first. God says, I brought you up into the land and East Amorites were powerful and boy looked at them and you said, Hell, we're never going to defeat those people. God help us. And God said, What did I do? I answered you. Remember that? I helped you. I brought you into that land. Even though they were as tall and strong as cedars, I brought them down before you. I had mercy on you when you cried out to me for your helplessness. God says, now what have you done? Your old brothers and sisters cry out to you. They're helpless, they're weak. And they say, Have mercy on me. And you say, You kidding, take care of yourself. Why are you in that situation anyway? The only people poor in this country are those that are lazy. God said you've taken that same compassion and you've twisted it. You've taken that same mercy and you've ignored it. And you've been totally ungrateful for all that I did for you when you were helpless by showing no mercy and no compassion on those that are helpless before you. You and I need to realize as we see people around us, our brothers and sisters in Christ, and we see them weak. Maybe they're slow learners Maybe they're not as quick as us. Maybe they have more difficulties. Their minds are more enchantments. Maybe they aren't as responsive as we think they ought to be Maybe they irritate us by the things that they do. God says, Do you remember the parable of Matthew 18? How much I have forgiven you. Ma Don't be like that foolish fellow who went and waddled his brother after he had just been forgiven ten million dollars and said, You owe me a couple of thousand bucks. And I'm going to throw you in jail until you give it to me. God says your gratefulness for my mercy is shown by your mercy to other people. By not seeing things and your own pleasure and your own irritations as more important than mercy for others who aren't as quick, aren't as able to take care of themselves as you and I might see ourselves as being. Gratefulness for salvation is shown in compassion and mercy. And then finally God says to them, not only all of this, and notice again, Romans 1. 21 gives us the same picture in the New Testament. God's judgment on the nations in Romans 1. 21 is because they were ungrateful. How much more grateful should the church be? God says the same thing. You who have the gospel of the Bible, how much more faithful should you be for what you receive in Christ? The third thing He says to them is that you're unteachable. You're unteachable. The sins of Israel are shown in verse 11 and 12 in their unteachables. Now follow what he's saying. He says to them, I gave to you two things to help you to be like me. First of all, I gave you prophets. Prophets were to teach you, to open the Word of God to you so that you'd understand what I'm like. Then he said, I gave you a second thing. I gave you Nazarites, not to teach, but to be an example of holiness. These are the Nazarites. Nazarites, you'll remember, are men from any of the tribes of Israel who took special vows of sanctification. There are people who said, I have a right to all the other things that God's people have, but I will voluntarily give up certain rights in order to be more usable by the Lord for certain ministries. And so these people voluntarily sought for a particular closeness to their God by giving up certain things that they had a perfect right to. And God said, I simply wanted you to see by their example what the love for me means in terms of being set apart to me. I gave you my prophets to teach you. I gave you my Nazareth to be an example for you. And so what did you do with them? Look at verse. 11 and 12. It says, I raised up prophets from among your sons, and Nazarethes from among your young men. Is it not true, people of Israel? Everybody said, Yeah, that's true. Verse 12, but you made the Nazarites drink wine. That was one of their key vows to not drink any strong drink. He said, you wouldn't have that. They're probably going to set themselves above me. Who do you think you are? And so you force them to compromise and to live on your level. Secondly, said you told the prophets, stop prophesying. Shut up, I don't want to hear it. You resisted. You were unteachable. And the things that I wanted to open up to you. The consequences begin to unfold. Verses 13. Down to chapter 3, verse 2. We're going to take a look at that more next week. I've decided to take all of next week simply to look at the doctrine of judgment For the people who resist Jesus Christ, who are outside of Jesus Christ, because of the issues at the meeting house. And because of the discussions about the place of Jesus as Messiah and those who are outside of him, I think we need to refresh ourselves and to renew our understanding of what the Bible teaches about judgment. We don't hear very much about that today. It's not something that's very pleasant and popular to speak on. And yet I think we need to see what God's Word says about that, so I'm not going to take much time now because I want for it to simply Take a look at that more closely next week. One thing I want us to see from those verses is the point. Just understand the main point now. The point of verses 13 to 16 is simply this. Summing it up, God said, You have found my strength to be a tremendous comfort to you He said, Jehovah is the strongest of the gods. All the other gods are nothing. And he's able to save us by his strength. God says, when you're outside of me, that strength becomes to you a terror instead of a comfort. If you don't really know Jesus Christ this morning, the strength of God is to you a terror. Instead of a company. Because that strength is a strength which will be used to carry out his justice. And that justice outside of the provision of Jesus Christ for you and for me means to consume us in our sin, in our arrogance. are inhumanity. In those little ways that you see we're guilty of the same kinds of things that Amos has talked about Israel being guilty of. And so we see this in our own lives. And the only refuge is Jesus Christ. Because Jesus Christ, as he talks about in verse 13, as People who are under his judgment will be crushed as a cart, laden down with grain. Jesus Christ was crushed in our place with our sin. Jesus Christ was looked at by God his own Father as the most being human man who ever lived. Jesus Christ was looked at as the one without any mercy or compassion. Jesus Christ was looked at as one who had only callous greed. Jesus Christ was looked at as one who had the most arrogant must of anyone who ever lived on the face of the earth. Jesus Christ was looked at and treated by his Father as one who is absolutely inhuman, absolutely callous, absolutely ungrateful. Absolutely untoachable. He bore all of that so that you and I could go free and be released So that we could find our refuge in him and that the strength of God would be to us a comfort and not a terrant. But there is no refuge outside of Jesus Christ. And so what does this mean for us? First of all, we need to flee to Jesus Christ. If you've never done that, I flee for you. That you will find your refuge in Jesus Christ this morning. And secondly, that you and I look at our lives and we examine ourselves, how much do I look like God in these three basic areas he's talked about? Justice, mercy, and purity. Do I reflect his justice and his mercy in the way that I treat him? Am I concerned to be honest and just Am I concerned to be merciful? Now, as we go through Amos, I want to be clear that we're not talking about a guilt trip for all the oppressed people in all the world. I'm not saying that to show justice and to mercy means that you and I have got to take up every just unjust cause, every cause of justice and oppression that we have brought to our attention by any form of media anywhere in the world. That's impossible for us. And I think very often we as Christians become incapacitated because we say, I can't deal with all of that, so I'm going to deal with any of it. But I'd like to suggest to you that it's somewhat like evangelism. What we are called to do is to pray for compassion and to care for those that we are aware of who are hurting. Just as you and I care for and are concerned for people in our sphere of influence who are without Jesus Christ, and as we do, we become more aware of missions and how God is concerned for the whole world. And so if you and I compare pray and seek a heart of compassion that's worked out in some practical way toward those that we see, that we're very closely aware of. Who are hurting in some way, who are weak and help us in some way, who need our mercy and not just our justice. Not just to tell them what they ought to do, but to help them. God will give to us an increasing compassion as we grow in our understanding of what His mercy is. That's all that I think you and I need to do and can do, but we need to start where we are. And we need to ask ourselves: am I seeking to reflect? In my business dealings, in my ethical practices, in any of the business transactions that I am involved in, in my personal relationships, in showing God's justice and his mercy. And in this purity, am I concerned to reflect that God is a God of purity? No matter how much I see in the movies, in the novels, and on television. That adultery and fornication are simply a common and accepted way of life. Do I say to myself, I don't care if Superman goes to bed with Bola's Lane, it's still not right. I will not let my standards be dictated by what the media says is to be expected, no matter who does it, how they do it, how often, and how much accepted. My standard comes from Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ in his purity shows me what it means to love people and not to use them. And my body will be to him a pure living sacrifice. That I offer up to him. And by that I demonstrate something of his character to the world. I will be teachable. I will be teachable from those who open the word to me. Whether it's from the pulpit, whether it's in a Sunday school class, whether it's in a Bible study, whether it's in a Christian book I read, I won't say I don't need to listen to that. I don't need to hear that today. Don't lay guilt on me. I want to hear it. I will say, Lord, I want to know what you have to say to me. Because I have your forgiveness of Jesus Christ if I come to him. Therefore I know I'm acceptable to you. I don't have to deal with that. But Lord, I want to be teachable in the way that you want to instruct me. That's the mark of a Christian. And secondly, I will be teachable by the examples you give to me. I will not be defensive, and I will not find a person who has set aside real rights for the kingdom that I have begun to deal with, and a person whose love for Jesus Christ has caused him to put aside certain things. But threaten me because I have no interest in putting those things aside for them. I will not say I will find fault with them in their inconsistency. I will criticize them to my friends and show how they're not really what they think they are, and seek simply to penetrate to any point of inconsistency, so I drag them down. But I will be teacher. And I will say, Lord, help me to put away my defenses so I can see that brother and sister and I can say, praise God for their love for you. Help me to learn by their life know what it means to walk with you and to love you. In your life this morning, I would suggest that as we come before Jesus Christ, you think of one area a concern for justice, a concern for mercy. A concern for the purity of our sexual standards. A concern to not react to people who irritate us because of the mercy and the compassion of God toward us But if we think of one thing the Holy Spirit's speaking to us about now, and we take this moment to talk to our God about it. Let's pray. Lord our God, how we praise you that you did not set any other value higher to you than our salvation. While these people sold the righteous for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals, you Sold your own son. You sacrificed him because of your love for us. And you, Lord Jesus, went willingly. The two of you agreed, Father and Son. Sacrifice all that you have because people, leave sinners, for your highest value. Lord, we pray that you would help us. To demonstrate that in the way that we live toward others, that people are our highest value. And it matchs to your glory and your honor as our central focus, Lord. People are the value of our lives. And nothing that we gain is more important than that. Pleasure and sex, gratification, possessions, things Nothing is worth hurting, worth sacrificing another person for. Lord, help us to understand what that means. Help us to be a people who reflect the mercy, the compassion, the justice, and the purity of our God. That as people see us, they see something of that reflected. Oh Lord, speak to each of us about what that means for us. And Father, we pray that if we look at this and And see that we don't even identify with that kind of concern in Jesus Christ. We pray that you would speak to us. Of the offer of the Lord Jesus. He who would come to him, we will never cast out. But that our only refuge is in you from your justice, which may condemn us in our own sin. We come to you and seek teachable hearts under the authority of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's sing as a hymn of response to this hymn number four hundred fifteen. God be merciful to me. Hymn number four hundred fifteen.