Father, the things spoken here we yearn for. Our hearts leap that it might be possible that they could be ours. And yet we find ourselves seeking those very things in our own ways. In lots of places, perhaps even up till today, unrecognized Would you work in us what you promise in this text, that we could be people who are satisfied with your goodness? So that we look no further than you. Help us, Lord, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So this word here, if you look with me in verses 10 through 13, is quite delightful. This is a proclamation of hope. Jeremiah, one of our staff members, reminded me, Jeremiah's been weeping, and it's because he's looking at a remnant, and so this is the promised coming. to God's people. So hear the word of the Lord, all nations, declare it, say it out loud, sing it out loud, that he who scattered Israel in in judgments, right, will gather him. It's a certainty. We'll keep him in this tender way. Shepherd keeps his flock, care, feeding, nurture, love. You're meant to cure this tender, this tenderness. About the Lord and his care for his people for us. Why? Because in Israel's experience Right? The Lord ransomed Jacob and redeemed Jacob from hands too strong. From something he could not do, the Lord did for him. These rich salvation kinds of words that we get in the New Testament. Ransoms, redeems. Right? You're meant to sort of treat those like a link on a web page, right? You click on them and you you hear all of these different ways that the Lord ransoms, but primarily through Jesus. He redeems. Yes, he redeems Israel. He brought them out of exile, right? Uh eventually freedom from slavery to Babylon, right? But but we have that. And more. In Jesus. What's the reaction to that? Verse 12. They come and they sing out loud. They're radiance. This is a great word. I took two walks yesterday around Wild Lake. Because it was gorgeous. And I it was a day full of tasks which needed to be done and it was too much time on the computer. And I was like, I think it's a two-walk day. Because it was a radiant day. The flowers were out, the birds were flying. Isn't this what we would want for ourselves? That we would be radiant. That you walk past people at work in your neighborhood or whatever they're like, what's up with you? It's irradiant. What are they raiding over? Well, here we are at our attribute that we've been thinking about. The goodness of the Lord. How did they see the goodness of the Lord? They saw it in this meticulous providence that they experienced in their lives. And they saw it in the fruitfulness of the way that God worked in their lives. So these are all of the proofs of the favor of the Lord on the people of God. This was the produce of the lands. Now we have to translate this in the technological economy and what that looks like. So you're going to have to work on that. It's the direct deposit that goes into your account. Right? It's the roads that are maintained. But the Lord's meticulous providence hasn't changed. Just because it's not your olives that you pressed to get oil. Well, that would be fun. Maybe we should try that sometime. But but how do they see the goodness of the Lord? They see it in creation and providence, like we thought about a month ago, right? The grain, the wine, the oil, the young of the flock, the herd, it their life Like if you look over their life, it's a watered garden, and so they don't languish anymore. That's the promise. For the people of God who are experiencing the goodness of God. Now, maybe this is too much to say, but I hope it's not. I think we all want verses twelve and thirteen, right? That we would You're offline. Please check your connection. I love preaching off an iPad. It randomly decides, no, you can't have that sermon anymore. It'll come back. We all want verses 12 and 13. Now, if you want to complain to me after the sermon and tell me no, that's not what I want, then we can talk about that and we'll get you connected with a counselor, okay? Everybody wants this. It's what we desire. It's what we're actually seeking if we're honest, right? But sometimes we're not honest. And sometimes we don't really have any hope that it could come to us. And so we try and What God says here about Jacob, that that he redeemed it from hands too strong for him, they tried to work it themselves. And I think that's what we try and do. But let me see if I can try and convince you of that. So we started last month thinking about God's goodness and how if we had this ongoing experience of God's goodness that we'll be this profoundly thankful people. And that we'll we'll reflect, if we're experiencing God's goodness, then we'll reflect that, right, in us being good to others. In being outward and being generous and looking to be good to those that are around us, to actually like love our physical neighbors, the people that we live, work, and play with. Right? If I'm experiencing God's goodness, I give away God. I give away goodness. This is one of those attributes that the the people who like systematize all this, whatever they call they call this a communicable one. Like it can be communicated to you. This can typify your life, right? So we talked uh a month ago, just a bit of review about God being good. So his being is good, so he does good. That's Psalm 119, 68. And he's good in creation, in his meticulous minute-by-minute providence, even in the painful incidents in our lives. And in redemption, right? What we'll see pictured at the table tonight when we meet downstairs, where we taste and see what? That the Lord is good. Right? To give you hunger to come to the Lord's table so that you can taste and see that the Lord is good. Now, if you find God good in your experience, notice there's an if there. Especially in difficult times, especially in challenging times, I think you need to you have to seek it. You need to look for it. Because I find in myself that it's easier for me to look at what is not than what is So we have to look for it to find God good in our experience. Then what do you do if you find God good in your experience? then functionally with your heart, your disposition towards God is that you trust, relay, relay Rely, trust, rely, worship, and serve God. If you find God good in your experience and functionally, with your heart, you trust Him, you rely on Him. You worship him and you serve him gladly. You serve your neighbors. You do good to them. But if you don't find God good in your experience, If your experience of God's goodness doesn't lead you towards verses 12 and 13, but you want verses 12 and 13, then you go and try and find it elsewhere. You try and create that, but on your own. You trust in created things instead of the creator. But what that yields most of the time, perhaps momentary pleasure, but most of the time it yields great disappointment and frustration And it's not just our disappointment that's in play, right? God's also disappointed. Have you thought about that? Maybe you thought about God being disappointed in you because you sinned in a particular way. But I think that there's a different kind of disappointment and grief that God experiences. Here, walk with me a little bit. So God offers us living water, right? John 4, Jesus and the woman at the well. You can read this afternoon if you're not familiar with it. Right? And and he's trying she's been searching, searching, searching for satisfaction in relationships and sexuality. In it well this partner didn't work. Let me go for this partner. Right? And you also, earlier in Jeremiah, you hear about the sin of God's people, of God's people, people like me, people like you. And here's how God describes it. This is Jeremiah 2, 12 and 13. Be appalled, O heavens, at this, be shocked, be utterly desolate, declares the Lord. For my people, the people who name themselves Christian, application to us, they committed two evils, two evils. First evil, they have forsaken me. So we're like, nope, turn away from God. They've forsaken me, the fountain of living waters The second, they hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that could hold no water. We tried to get her done by ourselves. And that leads us to disappointment and frustration. And God's up there going That was never going to work. Why would you turn to that when you have me? Why would you turn to that when you could be satisfied with my goodness? Why would you turn to that? This deepens our repentance, by the way. Right? So when when we repent of, we're going to look at idolatry here, but when we repent of worshiping an idol, it's not just like I did a bad thing. Forgive me, Lord. Yes, I I did a bad thing. You did a bad thing. That's absolutely positively true. But but there's something that's underneath the bad thing. See, it's a quite different thing to come in repentance to the Lord and go, yeah, Father, so I was not satisfied with your goodness. And so I ate an entire pizza. Which I did last night, by the way. I thought I was that hungry It was tasty, but it did not satisfy. Because it was never meant to. So our repentance is coming back to God and saying, Oh my, I did it again I tried to derive the satisfaction that I can only have by being in a relationship with you. And I tried to stuff that inside of a pizza. And you can pick whatever your thing is. Not all of you are going to be tempted to eat an entire pizza by yourself. But you're going to be tempted by something to try and derive satisfaction from it. And it will frustrate and disappoint you. And it dishonors the Lord. Because he made us for himself So God, out of his goodness, offers us life. He offers to us what we were created for, but we end up seeking it elsewhere. And what's important, so God's goodness is communicable at your view, so it's not just that God is good, so he does good, but he calls us to be good, like your Heavenly Father is, right? So here's what happens though. If we're worshiping an idol, this keeps us from doing good. Why did the priest and the Levite pass the man on the Jericho Road? In the Samaritan, we hear about the good Samaritan, right? Why? Because he's the dude that stops. He actually loves his neighbor. But why did the priest and Levite not stop? They were worshiping something else. They had something other Then the goodness of God expressed their appreciation for God's goodness that would flow out of them in goodness to others. They were worshiping something else than God in those moments. In fact, I am when I ignore people. I'm worshiping something else. This seeking elsewhere, seeking satisfaction somewhere else is what the Bible calls Idolatry. I don't know if you've used the New City Catechism before, but if you haven't, it's worth it. As a question number 17. What is idolatry? And here's it here's their definition. Helpful. Idolatry is trusting in created things rather than the Creator for our hope and happiness, significance and security. Again, idolatry is trusting in created things rather than the Creator for our hope and happiness, significance, and security. Despite perhaps grasping in our heads God's goodness. Oh yeah, of course God's good. At this point of trying to apply that to our lives, many of us struggle with this. with being satisfied with our lot in life. Maybe just an incident worth of our lot, or perhaps our entire daily experience. And so we seek satisfaction elsewhere. This is a critical, critical word, verse 14. My people shall be satisfied. Satisfied. I got my email down into the forties yesterday. Satisfied. But it's fleeting. It's back up in the 60s or 70s today. Satisfied. Um I like the musical Hamilton Um it's a few years old now, so the illustrations don't work as well. There's a song in Hamilton. You can go have your Alexa or your Google Echo or whatever play it for free this afternoon, your Amazon Prime or your Spotify or whatever. But you should listen to it. There's a song called Satisfied, interestingly. Let me give you a couple of the the words and the dialogue. So this is a song that's an interplay between Alexander Hamilton And uh Angelica, who happens to be the sons in the midst of the wedding, right? This is not the bride, but the the uh Maid of honor. Okay? Here's um so I'll just label these Hamilton Angelica. Okay. Hamilton, you strike me as a woman who has never been satisfied. Angelica, I'm sure I don't know what you mean. You forget yourself. Hamilton, you're like me. I'm never satisfied. Angelica, is that right? And Hamilton says, and it ruined his life. This song is such a warning to me, is what it is. In fact, the entire musical is a warning to me Elton says, I've never been satisfied. And the song ends, He will never be satisfied. I will never be satisfied See, that's the experience of humans when they attempt to take what can only be filled by God, that that we're meant to be satisfied with his goodness, with who he is, and being in a relationship with him. When we try and fill it with something that can't possibly fill that gaping void for all of us We will never be satisfied. And yet the promise here in Jeremiah 31:14 is that my people shall be satisfied with my goodness. In some ways, one of the reasons that I really like Hamilton is that it's deadly honest. It's just honest. In some ways, the the words that are put on Angelica in Hamilton's mouth They're more honest than we are. We are perhaps not courageous enough to admit the truth. But if we aren't courageous enough that this is a real problem for us, Then we will end up perpetually dissatisfied. If we don't recognize and repent of our trust competitors to God, we won't enjoy God. We won't enjoy his goodness. Instead, we'll keep looking to broken cisterns that can hold no water. And we'll be seemingly frustrated. that life is not providing that which we desire. And so we finally made it to the first point. Which is that you should recognize your trust competitors to God. You should recognize your trust competitors to God. I mentioned John 4. Let me read just a couple of verses from that scene in the ministry of Jesus, where he's with this Samaritan woman at the well. Jesus said to her, everyone, this is in her play, again read it this afternoon, but this is interplay. She's at the well at noon, which is an odd time. There's all kinds of wonderful dynamics about this scene. But she's drawing water. Jesus asked her to get some water. And Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. What's Jesus doing in this segment of his ministry? Jesus is kindly diagnosing her heart and showing her the futility of her idol. Let me ask you a question. How do you read your disappointments? How do you read? How do you interpret your emptiness? How do you process your frustrations? Do you read them this way? When you think about an idol that you struggle with, there are really only three responses to an idol. We see one of the responses in the woman at the well. There's only three responses to an idol that disappoints. Here's the three responses. You can double down, you can swap, or you can repent. You can double down, you can swap, or you can repent. Double down. Think about that for a second. This is the woman at the well What did she believe? She believed that somehow being in a relationship, having a sexual relationship with a certain person could bring final and full satisfaction. Did not work with person one, let's go to person two. Did not work with person two, let's go to person three. Did not work with person three, didn't work to person four. Did not work with person four, so She goes to person five She tried to double down. Is that your response to your idol? I have found in my own life The activity here of the woman, what I see in my own heart so many times, is that she kept trying to get a different result from the same idol. Maybe I didn't do it quite right. See, this is the heart, the broken heart of the perfectionist. Oh, if it's just, just And you may get it right once. And drive yourself and everyone else around you crazy. But guess what? Tomorrow you have to get something else just right. And the same thing about the next day, and it is a trap. It's doubling down on an idol. Here's what I find sometimes about perfectionists. Some people don't want to express thankfulness. Because it's kind of a hedge against complacency with the status quo. Well, if I'm thankful, then that might mean that the way it is right now is okay with me, but it's not okay with me. So I'm I'm not going to be thankful. That would be complacency with the status quo. There's still a long way to go There's a lot of distance between where things are now and what's needed or required or what's desired by me. See, here's what perfectionists do: they resist satisfaction in anything. They double down. But they're rarely satisfied. And why is that? Because they're barking up the wrong tree There's an instinct in perfectionism, slight sidebar. There's an instinct in perfectionism that is true because we we have this Spiritual memory of the way that it was in Eden before everything was broken, and we we have a hope, a dream, a wonder about the new heavens and new earth. When it comes, all will be perfect. But the perfectionist does not live in current reality, which is that everything, including themselves, is radically broken And a perfectionist in this life will always be dissatisfied. Enemy number one, right here. Perfectionists resist satisfaction in anything. They double down, but rarely are they satisfied because they're barking up the wrong tree. So you can double down on an idol. You can swap an idol. Well, this idol's not working. Must have picked the wrong one. So you swap idols. The way that you commonly see this, and this is an uh Tim Keller Insight, uh, a woman who isn't finding satisfaction relationally turns to work to try and find satisfaction. Many times men do the reverse. My work sucks. And so I try and go get satisfaction in my what I do athletically or or in a different kind of relationship than I have now. We just swap the idol. This one's not working. Let me try this one. What are they doing? They're looking for comfort, for significance, for security, for satisfaction somewhere. In your bulletins is this nifty piece of paper. Pull it out. Let me show you how this works. Alright? So the way that this so this is you'll see the reference at the bottom. If you look in the far right-hand column, the problem emotion, that's where we're going to start. Notice in that column that there are some bold and capitalized words. That's me superimposing over them what Tim Chester calls the four Gs. And I think I forgot to have Megan include this in the link in the YouTube video, but we can get it added this week, is that Flourish has a whole folder of resources about these 4Gs that we Just let clients use and you are all clients. So the four G's are got that God is good, He's gracious, He's glorious, and He's great. We'll go through all four of them, Lord willing, in this series. We're working on good today. But let me show you how this chart works. Okay? The way this chart works is you start on the right hand side. Okay? So what is the problem emotion that you most often deal with? Is it boredom? Is it cowardice? Is it worry? Or is it anger? Okay? So let me do one of mine for you. How's that? So look at worry. Alright? So my problem motion is that I worry an awful lot. What happens when I'm busy worrying? All the people around me experience me worrying, and so how what how do they experience me? They feel condemned by me. Like I'm not, they're not measuring up. What's my greatest nightmare? Oh yeah, baby. Uncertainty. Don't throw any ambiguity at me I want it all lined out. I want to know exactly the way it's going to be. Now what's the price that I'm willing to pay so that I might not worry? Well, I'm willing to be lonely and I'm willing to never be spontaneous because that would be being out of control. My wife has broken me of some of that, for which I'm thankful. Okay, life only has meaning. I only have worth if I am able to get mastery over my life in the area of fill-in the blank. Time, social media, um what I watch, what I don't watch, whatever way you want to put it Life only has meaning. I only have worth if I'm able to get mastery over my life in the area of fill-in-the-blank. Which means what I seek is control. Known for being self-disciplined. I like certainty. I like living inside of an imposing standards. Okay, that's the way the chart works. Which means that I need to much more embrace that God is great. So in the the right-hand count in the bold, right? That God's great. Alright, let's look at today's. So maybe this is the one that you struggle with. Your problem of emotion is boredom. We're trying to think about how God's goodness helps you with that, an embrace of God's goodness, right? Helps you Because you're bored, others often around you feel hurt because they are you're wanting them to make your life comfortable and in the process you end up hurting them. Because you're imposing on them. Make my life comfortable. Make my life better. I'm bored. What's your greatest nightmare? Well, you don't want any stress and you don't want any demands in your life. What are you willing to pay for that? Reduce productivity. Life only has meaning and worth if I have this kind of pleasure or experience a particular quality of life. What are you seeking? Comfort I'd be satisfied if if only this is uh um Abe Meisenberg whose audio talking about the 4Gs will be in that folder that we'll share. But Abe Meisenberg, the way that he puts this is My life would be great if only. And when you fill in that blank, you reveal what would make your life comfortable. And great. And yet, what's held out to us by the Lord in the gospel is the opportunity to not try and squeeze out. Of a comfortable life satisfaction, but instead to find it in his goodness. Alright, this is yours to keep. Free for the taking. I introduced this a a month ago in the evening service, and somebody reflected me afterwards. They were like, so my wife and I had a conversation about that chart? Yeah. We're going to keep thinking about that. Please do. It's there for your benefit. It'll come back three more times too. If you didn't want it today and you throw it away, be sure you'll see it three more times. Alright. So through there's options that you've got when you're facing an idol, right? You can double down, you can swap, or you can repent. This is the encouragement that Jeremiah 2 gives us when it tells us what idolatry feels like to God when we don't trust it. Right? Be appalled, read it again. Be appalled, O heavens at this, be shocked, be utterly desolate, declares the Lord. For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me. The fountain of living water cued out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water. I think it's important that we understand what it feels like to God when we worship an idol. I think that's why this is here. And I don't think it's meant to be here as sort of a a whip or a beating. I think it's meant to say, oh. I'm one of your people. I know I'm supposed to worship you. I had no idea that's what it felt like when I worshiped an idol. I don't want to do that anymore. I think it's meant to be an inducement towards repentance. And the repentance is that we look no further than God. So let's go to verse 14 and think about this a little bit. This promise in Jeremiah 31:14. I will feast the soul of the priests with abundance. When the priests had, now we get, my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, declares the Lord. Notice that this is my people. If you're one who's listening in the live stream or you're sitting here this morning, you're going. Um, okay, this is great that this is for God's people, but what if I'm still just sort of like trying to understand all this and come to grasp it? This is actually a really important part of understanding what Christianity is trying to say. What Christianity is trying to say is that the fundamental movement of the human heart that's not connected to God, that's not in relationship to God, is to worship idols and to try and get satisfaction from them. that. And that the call of the gospel is a, I'll say it later in a little bit more words, is a merciful call to turn from what could never satisfy you to the Lord who made you. Let's think about this promise. Why don't we sense that this promise is being fulfilled in our lives? Perhaps it's because we don't actually have a daily experience of God's goodness to us. We don't do the little ditty that we used to teach kids. To daily count our blessings. We don't think that minute by minute there's this meticulous providence of our good Father personally providing good gifts to you. That's the partially the message from the next sermon on God's immutability from James 1. 17 Which says, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow of change. God is the one who gives us life and breath and everything. But we don't think about that very much. Despite the provocations of preachers like me, we don't think about that very much. And so we don't have this ongoing experience of the goodness of God. I think as well uh we can tend to downplay God's goodness towards us is expressed in patience. One of the virtues of gray hair is that you've sinned a lot more. Those with gray hair know what I'm talking about. And you're like, wait, wait, wait, you've sinned a lot more, that's a bad thing. Well, it depends It depends on whether your sinning more has led to more repenting and a greater appreciation of the wonder of the cross Because Paul says that God's grace is greater than our sin. I have a far greater awareness of my sin and my sinfulness than I did thirty plus years ago when I became a Christian. In the gospel economy, that should make me more thankful and more amazed with grace. Is that happening for you? That you're more amazed with grace. I'm amazed at God's patience with me. If I if I was God and I looked at me 30 years ago, And I knew what all the next thirty years was going to encompass I'm like pfft You ain't getting no love for me But God's not like that. Amazingly, he knows what he's getting into. And he still does it. And he still keeps being patient with me. That's a daily experience if I tap into it of the goodness of God. Is that growing for you It's that sense from Galatians 4. 9 that Paul wonders how great it is to know God, or he catches himself and he's like, well, actually it's a wonder to be known by God, that he's interested in knowing me. Is that wonder growing for you? Now, it may be that your idol's working for you at the moment And or at least it's partially working for you. It's working for you as much as you want to receive from it. And yet you have this low level of frustration. Is this all that the Christian life is? Really? And if you're honest, you actually know that you're not satisfied. Marriage might be going great. Beautiful children. Good job. Promotable. Still looking good. Skinnier than the preacher. But if you're honest, does it really satisfy? Really satisfy Ecclesiastes, if you've ever read the book, is someone is a story about someone who sought satisfaction apart from God and realized that satisfaction can only be found in God. Maybe a quote, and we'll be close to that. This is Tim Chester, who is the originator of these for G's. The invitation of the Bible is not to jury abstinence. It's a call to find in God that which truly satisfies. It's believing that we find lasting fulfillment, satisfaction, joy, and identity in knowing God and nowhere else. Whatever sin offers, God offers more, for God offers us himself. God isn't just good, he's better, better than everything else, and the true source. Of all joy. The gospel is a kind Message. I think it's perceived the gospel in the culture is perceived as sort of like this: measure up, you know, sh do the right things. The gospel is a kind. It's a kind plea from the God who made us and everything to lay down that which could never satisfy. That's repentance. And to turn instead to the one, the only one who can, to the Lord, to Jesus, who always found a satisfaction in the Father. That's one of the ways that Jesus not only didn't sin in trying to find satisfaction in an idol, but lived for us, lived in our place. He always found satisfaction in his Father And we come to Jesus and we go, I need you desperately. The gospel is a kind call. Naham says, the Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble. He knows those who take refuge in him. Is that us? Is that you? Are you taking refuge in him An exclamation from the first part of Zechariah 9. 17. Might this be what's on our tongues? For how great is his goodness, and how great his beauty. How great is God's goodness. How great is his beauty. Or if we say that, we'd be the kind of people who were looking no further than God because we would be satisfied. With his goodness. Let's pray together. Father, as is typical of me, I've said a lot and tried to put a lot into people's brains. Sift for each person, Holy Spirit, what you most wanted them to hear That we might be as a people, those who experience your goodness day by day, that we find great satisfaction in it. And as a result, we're known as a group of people who do good. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.