Why we move to put a GPU thank you for the rotation. Separate when we're in a bit more of an intimate space and a smaller group, so thank you for your patience. So this evening, what I want to do is um go back to Psalm two. And I want to focus uh specifically on uh the last few verses. And um Recognizing that I did so this morning, but as with any sermon, any pastor will say, we always have far more Things that we've been reflecting on and praying about and chewing on than we're ever able to share. And so I wanted to share a little bit more about some of the questions That I had as I came away from this passage and wrestle with, as it is preparing us to partake of the Lord's Supper tonight. So if you have your Bibles with you, please turn to the second Psalm. We're going to be specifically looking at verses ten to twelve. And just by way of ref going back to this morning, my third point was the Lord's invitation So it is with that idea that we look together at these three verses. Psalm 2, 10-12. Therefore, you kings, be wise, be warned, you rulers of the earth, serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you be destroyed in your way, for his wrath can flare up in a moment Blessed are all who take refuge in Him. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. So now, Lord, as we together as the body of Christ, for a few moments reflect again on your word given to us in Psalm 2. We pray you would use it as a preparation for us as we come to the feast that you have set before us, that you might feed us. That can only happen through your Holy Spirit, for your Spirit is living and active, and He is at work in the hearts of those who believe. But He is also at work together with your powerful Word. And so, Lord, we pray. Open our eyes. That we would see wondrous things in your law. In Jesus' name. Amen. So with this idea of the Lord's invitation, what I wanted to do this evening is spend a little bit more time specifically on one phrase You'll notice there it is verse 11 specifically, after he's encouraged and invited all the kings of the earth. To reflect on what is wisdom, which is the beginning of wisdom, is the fear of the Lord. And he's calling all of these rulers into a place of wisdom to consider his invitation He then says these words, serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. My question that I often think about in light of this verse, and this is not an uncommon phrase in the scriptures, it is this: How do we hold intention? These two things, joy and fear. This is an important question for me, and I think it's an important question for the church. Because, in some sense or the other, we've often been tempted in our preaching and in our own reflection to often fall on one side or the other of this tension. We fall oftentimes on joy to the absence of having an understanding of what a proper fear is. And also there's certainly been a healthy amount of time in the church which has been talking about Fearing the Lord without a sufficient reflection on what is joy. But the scriptures do not allow us to have one without the other. They are meant to be together, working together. But how do we hold it in tension? And I wonder if there is anything for us here that might enable us to see at least an answer. So I'm going to suggest something. It is a phrase and you might be tempted to laugh. You might be tempted to laugh because you might think that what I'm doing is I'm just copping out on something, looking for an easy answer. But I think these verses don't allow us to do anything other than to arrive at this conclusion. I think the way in which we keep it intention is to have a healthy understanding of the mystery of God. The mystery of God. Think about it for just a moment. This God, who has said to us in the scriptures, just three phrases I'll offer to you tonight. Slow to anger and abounding in love, is also the same God who we learn in verse 3 And following of this psalm, that the Lord laughs and scoffs at the wicked. And yet he's also the same God who weeps over the suffering of his people. It is the same God who would send his son who would weep over the city of Jerusalem. It is the same God through his Son Jesus Christ who pronounced Very severe things on the religious leaders of his day, Jesus did, while at the same time was known as the one who is found to be friends with sinners. Now let's look specifically at these words. He says through his servant David, Therefore, you kings, be wise, be warned. You rulers of the earth, serve the Lord with fear. I don't believe the fear that is being talked about here is a slavish fear. I believe it is a fear that is appropriately summarized through this word, although I must add that it's not a i it's it's an English word, it's the word all It awesome. Awful. Anypher may use the word awful And to worship him and to recognize that he is one who is to be served with all, because he is a God who is awesome. Secondly, it says to rejoice with trembling. How can we both have a service to this Lord who is awesome because he has created all things? From nothing he is the Lord who has said, This is my son, this is my king. I laugh at your derision, I laugh at your desire to overthrow me and my son He is the Lord who has created these things, but he is also the one who is to elicit from us a rejoicing. But a rejoicing with trembling. Why is that? I think verse 12 tells us. He says, kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you be destroyed in your way. For his wrath can flare up in a moment. He's telling us, by way of invitation to wisdom So serving the Lord with fear, with a proper understanding that He is the God who is above all things, that He is to be worshipped with a joy that verges on trembling because He is so great. He is a God who says, I hold all judgment and wrath in my hand. But then verse twelve ends with this Blessed are those who take refuge in him. At the same time that the Bible tells us to hold intention, joy and fear It is founded on the idea that we worship a God who holds all authority, all power, and can dole it out In a millisecond is also the same Lord who invites us to find refuge in Him In preparing for this sermon, I ran across many writers, three of which have particularly helped me fill out this idea of the mystery of God. And then I want to apply it to why we're celebrating the Lord's Supper. And it is this, who can predict the God of the Bible? The reason why our faith is to be shaped by joy and fear is because none of us Can ever predict the God of the Bible? While his ways can be known, while he demonstrates and reveals himself in the greatest of detail. And he gives us everything we need to know for life and for godliness, is a God who is utterly unpredictable. So much so that he would design. Think with me for just a moment. That he would design, that his redemption would not be revealed With a vast army conquering nations with weapons That even his disciples who had spent days and hours with him, that God would conquer the nations. Through his son, who would suffer on a cross. This was so hard for Peter to imagine. That even after spending hours with the Lord Jesus, Peter could not imagine that Jesus would turn himself over to the very people who had already persecuted them. How utterly unpredictable And I begin to tremble in my own shoes because where in my faith have I begun to think of God as predictable? And I see in my reception of salvation thankfulness for the forgiveness of sins through Jesus' body and his blood. Oh, how great and wonderful and awesome. Has that led me to take the Lord for granted? That Peter would say, it is even a difficult thing for the righteous to be saved That my very salvation required the crushing of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And if that is the case, and if Peter could never have imagined it, and I for sure could never have imagined it. What else does God have in store to surprise us with? To serve him with fear and to rejoice with trembling. What an amazing thing, our salvation. And then Jesus, telling his disciples, tomorrow I go to the cross, but tonight I give you this feast. Of simple bread and wine. And he says, I want you to celebrate this until my return. Who could predict that? But in that supper is yet the God that we need, who is a mysterious God. Who has sent forth his spirit into the hearts of those who believe that when we partake of this supper, we are doing far more than just remembering what Jesus has done. But in the halls of heaven, God by design has sent forth his Spirit that when the believer takes the bread and the wine There is grace that is given by that same Spirit. Because God's Spirit unites us to Christ. Of which this supper is the picture of what Christ has done. Who could predict it? What a mystery! So I think I said a few moments ago, a couple of writers. Let me quote from them, and then we will go to the supper Nearly a hundred years ago, last month, actually it was June. J. Gresham Machen preached a sermon for his ordination on this verse. Sermon was serve with fear and rejoice with trembling. Now, in reflection, not specifically quoting from that sermon, but in reflecting on that sermon, one writer Said this. His theme was that the joy of which this text spoke is not a happiness. That has widely prevailed within the American Protestantism of the 1900s. Many Christians were happy, Machin admitted, but theirs was a joy stemming almost entirely from their membership in the prosperous classes It was a happiness of social adjustment and material comfort. It was not, however, the joy of which the Bible spoke. And the problem with the happiness of so many Christians was that it was founded on a defective view of God. God, as simply a gentle and loving Father, produced the bare optimism of Protestant Christianity in the early 1900s. Now I want to submit to you. That was a hundred years ago. Has that changed? How much of our happiness is contingent on our circumstances, on our class, on our success? And how much of our joy is deeply rooted in a God of great power and redemption Machin, in his writing about the literature of the New Testament, and here I quote directly from Machin, he says, How little we know of God's eternal plan. We must ever tremble before him. Yet it is such a God who has invited us through Christ to hold communion with Himself. There is the true wonder of the gospel. That it brings us into fellowship, not with a God of our own devising, not with one who is a father and nothing else. But with the awful, holy, mysterious maker and ruler of all things. The joy of the believer is the deepest of all joys It is a joy that is akin to holy fear, a mysterious God Who has brought us into a salvation that costs him nothing less than his son, of which this supper leads us to reflection. Lewis in his reflection, C. S. Lewis in his reflection on the Psalms, says this about this joy and fear. He says, all Christians know. Something about what it costs to redeem their souls. Our life as Christians begins by being baptized into a death Our most joyous festivals begin with and center upon the broken body and the shed blood. There is thus a tragic death to our worship. Our joy Our joy is to be the sort of joy which can which can coexist with that tragic depth There is for us a spiritual counterpoint. So with joy in salvation is the counterpoint of a tragic depth of what it cost our Heavenly Father for our redemption. Finally, I share with you this reflection. And this is from Derek Kidner. He is no longer with us, but he is perhaps one of the best Old Testament commentators and scholars. On these very verses, Kidner in his commentary on the Psalms says these words, God's patience Is not placidity any more than his fierce anger is a loss of control. Nor his laughter cruelty, or his pity, sentimentality. When his moment comes for judgment, In any given case, it will, by definition, be beyond appeasing or postponing. Serve him with fear. But Kidner finishes. The fear and pride which sees the Lord as bondage in verse three of this psalm, he says, in fact Is not bondage to be thrown off, but it is security and bliss. And he says these words. Because there is no refuge from him. There is only refuge in him Serve the Lord with fear, rejoice with trembling He is a God beyond our devising, who in the mystery of his redemptive plan Before the foundation of the world, we believe what the Bible teaches: that He decreed what would come to pass Our sin, our fallenness in our first parents, our sinful nature did not come as a surprise to God. And his design of his redemption did not happen after the fall. It happened well before. That is a God of mystery. Why would He do such a thing? The Bible leads us nothing else but to the mystery of God, who by his design Would desire to make himself known as a God of redemption to a people who rebelled and turned from him. And yet he would send his son beyond all our imagination, beyond all of our capacity of reason. God Himself would be born of a virgin. He would be raised and would have an appetite. As Lewis would say, for God, that it was perfection. He was without sin, and yet in every way he knows our deepest struggles. Yet he was without sin. Tempted in every way, yet never fell. While he was God, he was also fully man. And he did not consider a quality God with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the form of a servant. And on the night in which he was betrayed, knowing that he would be betrayed. And the next day forced it upon a cross. He took bread and he broke it. And he says, This is my body, which is given for you. Take and eat. And after the supper he took the cup. And he said, This is the cup of the new covenant. In my blood, drink from it all of you. And so we come tonight to celebrate this supper. That is so simple and yet so complex, which is meant for our senses But really designed by the Spirit to direct us to nothing other than to serve the Lord with awe, but to rejoice with trembling. That this supper points us to what Jesus has done for us. If you are a believer who is baptized, who is a part of the body of Christ, Come and celebrate the supper in all of its mystery by faith, trusting in what Jesus has done for you. But likewise, if you have not received the Lord Jesus Christ, if you do not know his redemption, if you have not bowed the knee and kissed the Son, and recognize that he is the Lord of Lords. If in him you have not found refuge, but are trying to flee from him, this supper is not for you. But there is an invitation. Kiss the Son, worship him. Know that his salvation is for you, and in him there is refuge. But there is coming a day when there will no longer be refuge. And we will never find refuge from him. But his invitation is to you. Spend these few moments then, if you are not a believer, consider the invitation of the gospel, what Jesus has done. And talk to someone about where you are. But this supper is the supper for those who belong to the body of Christ. Prepare your hearts now. Let me invite the elders who are serving this evening to come forward and as these elders come forward this morning or this evening let me invite you to take a few moments to reflect please be seated And let me lead us in prayer as we prepare our hearts to celebrate the supper.