This morning comes from the Gospel of Mark chapter ten. I'll be looking at verses forty-six six through fifty-two. If you have your Bibles with you, I'd encourage you to turn in them and read along with me as I read in the Gospel of Mark, chapter 10, verses 46 through 52. It'll also be projected behind me. Before we turn to God's word, let us go to Him again in prayer. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, you are indeed the Lord of Mercy Father, we thank you that you are not a silent God, that you are not some God who is so far away that when we cry out you do not hear But Father, we thank you that you indeed do hear us, that you do indeed speak to us, that you speak to us in your word, that we might know of who Jesus Christ is, that we might have life in Him. Father, I pray that you would attune our hearts this morning to your word to give us better understanding of who you are and how you work. Lord, we thank you for Jesus. And it's only in the name of our great Savior that we pray. Amen. People of God, the true and living God speaks and he says to you this morning. And they came to Jericho, and as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and the great crowd, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent, but he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stopped and said, Call him. And they called the blind man, saying to him, Take heart, get up, he is calling you. And throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus. And Jesus said to him, What do you want me to do for you? And the blind man said to him, Rabbi, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said to him, Go your way. Their face has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way. May God bless the reading and the hearing of His Word. Some of you might remember or recall that in the not too recent past of the United States. Men used to own other men as slaves. Oppression was great, and so were the many who were in bondage. Uh there's this story uh that was well known actually by many of the slaves in the south of a particular man who lived in the north. He was a farmer by trade and he lived a very simple life and he loved his family dearly. The slaves knew of this man because they knew that if they could get to him, that if they could somehow reach this farmer, if they could reach this man, he would take them in. He would feed them, he would clothe them, he would protect them, he would show them mercy. And many of these slaves actually went to great measures. to reach this man of mercy, traveling many days and nights without food, looking for their freedom, And there's actually one particular story of one man who shipped himself in a coffin and when he arrived at the farm, the farmer opened up the coffin and he said Praise the Lord, I once was a slave, but now am free. So here we have some examples of men going to extreme measures to reach this merciful farmer. But in the very present, the here and now, the here and now of our lives, there are many of you who sit among us today who are indeed enslaved. But not enslaved as the type of slavery we might have just mentioned, but enslaved to your own sin and misery. In fact, we're told in scripture that if you are not serving God, you are undeniably enslaved to another master, whether that be money or pride or the lust of the flesh or whatever might suit your fancy And maybe you have felt that enslavement before. You have felt the bondage. You have felt that oppression But maybe you haven't. And hopefully, and I pray for this, that today your eyes might finally be opened, that they might be opened to Jesus Christ, the only merciful Savior. Who can set you free and show you mercy? So in our text this morning, we have a blind beggar Who will let nothing stop him from getting to the Lord of mercy, Jesus Christ But what I want us to consider, what I want us to ask, is how is our Lord Jesus Christ merciful? How do we know that when we venture to him, we will indeed find that mercy, that we will find that grace? So that's what I want us to consider as we look at God's word and at this text is how is our Lord Jesus Christ merciful? And first, and you can follow along in your little outline there, is that Jesus shows his mercy by simply stopping and hearing. And here we have Bartimaeus sitting beside the road. The first verse of our text And I suppose it's not too unlike the occasional man you might see around, or especially maybe in the city, a man deprived of clothing. And maybe with a little cardboard cutout asking for some extra change or some food. And I suppose your reaction to that man might vary. It might be mixed for a variety of reasons. And I'd imagine the response to Bartimaeus was also a mixed. Uh we're also told here in our text the timing that it's Passover time. So many people are heading through Jericho. That's the town that Bartimaeus is in. He's in Jericho. And many people are heading through Jericho to get to Jerusalem for Passover. Uh so because it's Passover time, uh Jericho as people are traveling would triple in size. Hundreds, per s perhaps even thousands of people are walking down this road that Bartimaeus is sitting on. Uh uh this would have been uh kind of like Christmas time for b for Bartimaeus. It would have been the harvest season for him to collect and um some extra change, maybe get some more food than he would normally get This is how Bartimaeus lived. This is how he made his living. We don't know, the texts don't tell us if he was blind from birth. But this was before the days of social security. Uh this is how Bartimaeus survived. And others like Bartimaeus Even something small. But this particular day, as he's sitting there He hears that Jesus of Nazareth is coming by. He's coming right down this road. On Jesus' last trip to Jerusalem, he passes through Jericho. And as many of you know why Jesus is now heading to Jerusalem, this will indeed be his last trip. Bartimaeus had obviously not seen Jesus ever. He had not ever seen Jesus perform any signs or wonders. But what do you think, perhaps, Bartimaeus might have heard about Jesus? What do you think he might have heard by other passers by about this is Jesus of Nazareth? Well maybe perhaps he heard about thirty years ago of a miraculous birth in Bethlehem. Or maybe he simply heard that at the age of twelve Jesus had gone into the temple and astonished the scribes and Pharisees. Or maybe he heard that he was he he had gathered a group of twelve disciples and he was going around uh healing men and performing miraculous miracles. Maybe he heard Jesus had walked on the water or sealed a storm or cast demons out or even brought a little girl back to life. Or maybe simply Barnamaeus heard that Jesus had already healed a blind man. But he had not seen any of these miracles. He had not seen the dead rise with the word or lepers healed. But when he heard the report of the mighty works of the Lord, he believed. And we see that he believed by the actions that he will now show us in the text. And this Jesus of Nazareth, this very one that he might have heard about. some of these miraculous signs and wonders, this very Jesus is now passing down the very road he sits on begging. And you can imagine it as he's passing by, he's shouting, as the text tells us, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Here's this opportunity of a lifetime for Barnaias, an opportunity to be healed. And he's crying out, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And you can kind of uh imagine it in your mind. His head is kind of going back and forth. There's a great crowd in front of him, but he can't quite lock on to where Jesus is in the crowd. He can't see him, but he knows that Jesus is somewhere out there. And he's shouting, Son of David, have mercy on me. And this reference to a son of David we can track back to actually to the book of Samuel, in the second book of Samuel, verses seven uh or chapter seven verse fourteen. Where God would promise he would raise up an offspring of David, and that offspring would establish a throne of God forever And that that that offspring of David would heal the blind, that he would set captives free. And so Bartimaeus is crying out, son of David. And that that son of David has those messianic overtones, crying out for Jesus as as the Messiah who can bring heal uh that he can bring wholeness, that he can heal, that he can bring mercy. See what what Bartimaeus lacked in eyesight, he makes up for it in his insight. He was blind in body, but not in soul. The eyes of his understanding, we could say, were open. He saw something that a host of letter trained scribes and Pharisees actually never saw about Jesus. He saw that Jesus could bring restoration, that Jesus could bring healing. And that's the very irony of this passage. That's the irony of this text that a blind beggar sees Jesus more clearly than those with two good eyes. He could see Jesus for who he really was. And then in verse forty eight, as as we see that blind Bartimaeus crying out, Son of David, have mercy on me, what are we told there in verse forty eight? The crowd warns him. To be quiet. The crowd tries to silence him. The crowd tries to make him be quiet. To not make such a commotion as Jesus is passing by. But he doesn't care, does he? He he knows that Jesus is his only hope for deliverance, for freedom. He doesn't actually care what others think about him, that he might be a nuisance. That he might be embarrassing his family or his friends. Nothing would stop him from getting to Jesus. In fact, he cries even louder than before, we're told. And like Bartimaeus, we too must not care what others think and say of us when we are seeking the healing of our souls. You need not pray so much. You need not read your Bible so much. You should not be so anxious for Jesus. And and why on earth would you be here on a Sunday morning when you could be out at the beach? There will never be a lacking of people telling you these things, and perhaps you have felt that pressure in your life before. Maybe you've even heard these types of words before. That you should not be so fervent for Jesus. Maybe you should step back and not run so hard, not cry so loud to your Savior. And why are many even here, why are many of you so half-hearted in seeking Jesus? Why are many of you so deterred or even discouraged in drawing near to God? And why are many of you very indifferent right now? Well it's because you're actually blinded by your own condition. You are not thoroughly convinced of the plague of your own hearts. And the disease of your very soul. Maybe it's because you've never heard, or maybe you've never really understood, that the wages of sin is death. See, mercy is not given to the one who does not cry out. In fact, only judgment waits. Death awaits for those who do not cry out to Christ. This is a quote from a man that I that I love, known as the Last Puritan, J. C. Ryle. He says Let a man see his own guilt and as he really is, and he will never rest till he has found pardon and peace in Christ. Let me read that again for you. Let a man see his own guilt and as he really is, and he will never rest till he has found pardon and peace in Christ. Now do you see Christ this morning or ever because you understand your sin and misery? Or do you see Christ only this morning because you were forced to come by your parents? Or maybe you think that this is a good thing your family ought to participate in? Will you cry even louder though with Bartimaeus when people deter you from getting to Jesus? Will you deter? Will you say in your heart that nothing will stop you to get to Jesus, the one who can offer you mercy? You see, now as we go back into our our text, Bartimaeus knew his misery. He he knew his blindness. He knew his condition. He knew the misery he was in. He he was sitting as a beggar on the side of a road. So if others didn't think it was worthwhile for him to take uh such trouble in order to obtain relief Bartimaeus knew otherwise he knew his misery and knew that he would stop at nothing till he had gotten to Christ And so now as as Bartimaeus is now crying out as loud as he could, in fact, his voice probably never reaching such a volume, we're told in verse forty nine that Jesus stops. Jesus stood, he stopped. And on these words hang the fate of Bartimaeus. What will happen next? Jesus, Son of God, the one who took on flesh, this Jesus, the one who breathes worlds and breathes all the stars into existence. He allows the cries of one poor beggar to stop him in his tracks The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, stops to hear the plea of a poor blind beggar. He stops for one man And notice that Jesus doesn't answer him right away. Jesus might have heard his cries earlier and he he doesn't answer him right away. He j Bartimaeus might have been crying out for a while and people were trying to silence him. But Jesus causes Bartimaeus to yearn and become more appreciative of what he's about to do. And sometimes I think Jesus wants us to cry out in our prayers. to know and to feel within ourselves the utter dependence and helplessness that we have on him. But Jesus does hear, and Jesus does stop for this poor blind beggar. And Jesus does hear, and Jesus does stop even for you. And not only does Jesus show his mercy to not to simply hear and to stop to consider, but secondly we see that Jesus shows his mercy to deliver. So look, he commands Bartimaeus to be called. The people say to Bartimaeus, Take heart, get up, he is calling you. And here's something interesting. Look at look at what God does here. The greatness of our God. God now uses the people that sought to keep Bartimaeus. Uh from Jesus? The very people that sought to keep Barnamaeus from Jesus, God uses now as the very tool to draw this beggar to himself. It's kind of like this. I I I heard a a fellow he was watching the The Simpsons and in an attempt to mock Christianity And and to mock God's word, they read a portion of uh of something in the Gospels, but this man opened up his Bible for the first time and read it, and through reading believed in the Word of God and believed in Jesus Christ. You see, God will reach his children. God will reach his people even through very unusual circumstances. And maybe maybe that's your story. Maybe maybe some of you have that type of story where a very unusual and not expected circumstance God actually used to bring you to Himself. Here in our text, those that sought to keep this man from Jesus, God now uses as the very tool to bring him to Christ. And the man hears from the crowd, Bartimaeus hears from the crowd that Jesus is calling him, and he now rushes to Jesus. And Jesus asks, What do you want me to do for you? And if you're reading in the Gospel of Mark and you read through this chapter, in this very chapter, Jesus had has actually already asked that question. Jesus asked the same question to James and John in verse 36. But they they come to Jesus in a in a very different way. They come to Jesus demanding that he do whatever they ask. But we find blind Bartimaeus seeking mercy from the Lord. And he asks, and Jesus asked Bartimaeus, What do you want me to do for you? Uh what do you want me to do for you, Barnamaeus? And and uh if you think about it, it almost seems like a silly question. It kind of seems obvious, Jesus. Uh don't don't you see that he that he's blind? Um It's it's obvious what he needs. Isn't that a silly question, Jesus? Um, what do you want me to do for you? But I think Jesus' question is designed to strengthen the faith of Bartimaeus by encouraging Bartimaeus to express it forthrightly what his need is Bartimaeus acknowledges Jesus to be that Lord of mercy, the one who can make the blind see, as our as that scripture in Isaiah 35 says Prophesies that the Messiah would do, that he would make the blind see. And so Bartimaeus says, Master, I want to see. And that term master, uh Raboni, was frequently used actually as an address to God in prayers of master, teacher So here Bartimaeus has this opportunity of a lifetime to now express to Jesus, the Lord of mercy, what his need is and he does. At God-given moment, he found himself as a poor beggar with nothing to offer Jesus. He's poor, he's destitute, he's in need, and he cries out, have mercy on me. And mercy is granted. He's immediately healed, restored, renewed. And we too, very similar to Bartimaeus, are not allowed to see Jesus with our bodily eyes. We do not see Jesus with our eyes. But we also have the report of his power, of his grace, of what Jesus has done, of who Jesus is. We have his great promises written for us in his word. So let us trust, and let us not be afraid to cry out and to venture to Christ, knowing that He indeed will deliver us. That he will forgive us. He is ready and able to save. And what was the the healing that really took place here? Uh if you think about it like this, and some of you guys who are at the Upward Camp recently might remember me talking about this, but but think think about your eyes. Think about Barnames' eyes, think about your own eyes. And would you sell your eyes to me for a million dollars? Some of you might say yes, but maybe a good majority of you might say no Uh because your your eyes are valuable. It's hard to even put a price tag on your eyes. But think about how much more your soul is worth that simply looks out of your eyes like windows You see, there is nothing more valuable, there is nothing more important than your eternal soul. In fact, Scripture says, what does it profit a man if he gains the entire world but loses his soul? You know, what if you gain all the houses and all the cars and all the boats and all the beach houses in the world, but you lose your soul? What does it profit you? Nothing? So the real miracle that happens is not simply his eyes being healed. That is such a great miracle, but the great healing that occurs is the healing of his soul. And as I mentioned earlier, this is Jesus' last walk through Jericho as he heads to Jerusalem. Heading to Jerusalem as the Son of David, as the Messiah. And it's in Jerusalem, he will be betrayed. He will be crucified. He'll be crucified for weak, poor, blind beggars. And he comes to rescue those who are blind and cannot see. He comes to rescue you today, to take your burden, to cast it upon himself. To die for sins he never committed, to die for your sins. The one who was promised, who would crush the head of Satan, that we might have life, that we might have victory, that we might now have mercy. in Jesus Christ. And after Bartimaeus makes his request to Jesus, Jesus tells him to go your way. Your faith has made you well. You see he uses your your faith has healed you, your faith has made you well. And this word for well or for healed is the same word used for saved. His faith has saved him. And faith is the the instrument here God is using to heal him. And it's not faith itself, but faith rooted and grounded and lodged in Christ. Bartimaeus is saved. So Jesus finally not only shows us his great mercy to stop and hear And and to deliver, but now Jesus shows his great mercy to now call men to himself, to call men into his service to be with him, to serve with him. So the last verse in our text says, and immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus on the road. The blind beggar sitting beside the road, as the first verse tells us, the last verse now tells us He's on the road following Jesus. So the difference between the first and last verse is Bartimaeus' position. Beside the road, and then at the end, on the road. Signifying the difference between someone who's an outsider and someone who's an insider, someone who's a bystander and someone who's a disciple And what does Bartimaeus do when he hears Jesus is calling for him? Well, he casts away his garment to get to Christ, to follow Christ in verse 50. And this was probably one of the very few things uh Bartimaeus owned. Um and I think it's important that Mark mentions that he leaves his cloak behind. Just again showing that that he will let nothing stop him from getting to Jesus, even if it's the very thing, the only thing maybe that he owned So whoever asks of Jesus, whoever cries out to Jesus must also be willing to follow Jesus, even on his uproad hill to the cross. And faith leads to discipleship. So he he's following Jesus now. He follows Jesus, the text tells us. And and and think about what you might do if you were blind. for a long time, maybe even blind from birth, and you had finally had your eyes opened. We're told he he doesn't run home. We're told he he doesn't uh go to see his family first to go see the face of his mother. He doesn't go see uh Jericho, the town he's been sitting in, begging. The first thing that he does when his eyes are open is follow Jesus. He leaves all behind to follow his merciful Savior. And as we know, this is Jesus heading into Jerusalem And so Bartimaeus might have had an opportunity, possibly very likely, to actually see Jesus with his very new restored eyes hang on the cross. Bartimaeus might have been one of the few people who would actually now see Jesus hanging on the cross for his sins as he stands and looks at Jesus with his new eyes. He now can see his Savior dying. For himself. To everyone who tastes the grace of Christ, this should be the effect to follow, to be a disciple of Christ. In fact, the one the the person who boasts of having an interest in Christ, but does not follow Christ in your life, well, you're a miserable self-deceiver. Verse 45, right before our text, if you have have uh the Bible open there, if you look at the text or the verse right before our text in verse 45, uh look what it says. It says, uh Jesus says, for for not even the Son of Man came to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. And what's Jesus doing here in our text? What's he doing here in our text? He's actually demonstrating exactly what he just said in verse 45. He stops for one blind, begging sinner. And maybe you're that sinner this morning. Jesus will stop for you. He will heal you. He will free you. This Jesus of mercy Is passing you right by this morning in the gospel, in the preaching of the word, in the singing of the hymns, exposing your need for mercy. Cry out to him. Go home tonight, fall on your knees and say, Lord, have mercy on me. I want to be a Christian. I want sin to be forgiven, and I want to follow you. So in conclusion, to those who cry out to Christ, to him to those who cry out to him for mercy He will in no way cast out. He will heal he will hear you. He will deliver you. And he will draw you to himself to be in his loving service. Overcome all obstacles to get to this Lord of mercy, Jesus Christ. Fall at the feet of your merciful Savior. Cry out and be delivered. Cry out and be free. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are surpassingly great. You are abundant in mercy Lord, we could as soon count the sands of the sea than as number of your graces that you have towards us. Lord, we only know in part, but even that part exceeds all praise. Lord, we thank you for your mercies. Even the small things of our every day that we take for granted. Lord, but we mourn our sin. Lord, we we mourn our ingratitude and our vileness before you. Lord, we we do not deny these things. We do not Come up with excuses for them, but confess them, we repent of them, and fly into your open arms Lord, you will not cast us off because Jesus brings us near. You will not condemn us for Jesus died in our place. Lord, you will not mark the mountain of sins, for Jesus leveled them all. Father, have mercy upon us In the name of Jesus we cry, Amen