I had a message all prepared for the Fourth of July weekend. It was from Psalm 119, verse 126. It is time for you to act, O Lord. Your law is being broken. That's a powerful verse. And I was going to preach on that. Had a message kind of put together. In fact, um Every time I look at that I think I ought to preach on that one instead. There's a power, you know. But if I rip this all up, uh you're gonna hear me talk off the cuff, so I better stick with what I changed my mind to do because it occurred to me as I was ready to preach that that I um have four messages that I would like to finish up before going on vacation. on the series delighting in God. And I just couldn't see fit to eliminate any one of those and so on I want to speak to you this morning. I'll speak on that verse some other time. Maybe later in the year, maybe next year, who knows when you get that prophetic word, but uh hang on. This morning I would like to address the subject of love. Loving one another. Dan Allender says in his book Bold Love, that love is the measure by which my life will be assessed. Not my success, not what I've accomplished in my career, not how well known I am, not how important I am to other people. Not how good I am at doing stuff, how competent I am, but how well I love. You think of a person like O. J. Simpson and all that he has accomplished. All the things that he has done, how famous he's been for his achievements, but if we can believe half of what we're being told Look at how he failed in loving, particularly in loving his wife. And what does all the what do all those achievements matter stacked up against that failure in love? Why is it that love is so important? Well, because God has told us in His Word that His primary concern for you and for me Is that we love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, soul, strength, and mind, and that we love our neighbor as ourselves. Why is that the first and second great command? Because the Bible says that love is the fulfilling of the law, which is the reflection of God's character. So when you and I love, we reflect God's character. Now when you and I think about that, we tend to think in terms of demands, don't we? Ah yes. Bible tells me I ought to love. That means there's all these things that I need to do for needy people. All these demands that are placed on me of what I need to do that are loving things And I need to do them even when I don't feel like it. In fact, we are told as Christians that it really doesn't matter how you feel. Love is not a feeling, is it? Love is action Right? Wrong. Wrong? You've heard all the time, you know What I hear how many right? How many are You hear all the time, right, that uh love is not a feeling. Love is action. Well, if that's the case, turn to First Corinthians chapter thirteen. And I want to try and demonstrate to you from Scripture how wrong that is. Now if there's any chapter in the Bible that is considered the love chapter It is 1 Corinthians chapter 13, right? But now notice what it is that Paul says here, because I think sometimes we miss the impact of his opening verses. In First Corinthians chapter thirteen, Paul says, If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, I am eloquent, I am persistent. Persuasive, if I as a preacher can have you weeping and you're all deeply moved by my messages and the eloquence, but I have not love And he says, I'm I'm just a resounding gong, a clanging cymbal, making noise. Doesn't matter Verse 2, if I have the gifts of prophecy and I can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, I'm brilliant. And some of us just wish that we could be brilliant in our fields, don't we? If only I could be smarter, more competent. Paul said, if I have faith that can move mountains, we think, oh, if I could only have more faith in my life, then I would really matter to God. Then I'd be important. He said, if I have all that, but have not love, I am nothing. So these things are being put in contrast to the essence of love. You can have these things, you can do these things, and still not have love. But now the real kicker I suggest to you is verse 3. Look at what that says Paul says, if I give all I possess to the poor, and I surrender my body to the flames, but have not love. I gain nothing. Zero. Doesn't count. Now, when you think of loving actions What can you think of that would be more extreme than taking everything that you have Selling all of your possessions, cashing in all your stocks and bonds and C Ds and closing out your bank account and giving everything that you have to the poor. This this person isn't just simply doing something sacrificial. It's for Someone else. Doesn't that imply that it's loving? In fact, this person's ready to give up their own life For God it seems implied, the give my body to the flames probably referred to martyrdom. And so this person's ready to make the extreme sacrifice And yet there's no love. So that communicates, as you see in your first blank, that clearly it is possible to sacrifice all possessions. even my life for others without love. Therefore, love must be more than simply actions. Love has got to be more than simply what you do because this is the extreme of what seems like loving actions, and yet it's put in contrast to the essence of love. That leads then to the obvious question, what then is required in addition to sacrificial actions? That's the next blank. What then is required of us, in addition to sacrificial actions, in order to say that we are loving people, and remember, when all is said and done, that's what's going to matter in your life. Were you and I loving people? What is it then that we need to do in order to please God in this area? What have we got to do? What's gonna characterize us to be that most important quality? When all is said and done about our lives, let me suggest that the Bible teaches there are two things. In one sense, you might say, well, it's kind of obvious what it is, it's not just the action It's the heart. But what does that mean? Let me suggest to you two things that are closely related in this. Number one, right motives Right motives, right attitude. We see that in the contrast between verses one to three and verses four to seven. In one to three, Paul is talking about what you and I can do or be and not have love. Then in verse four he begins to describe love. He doesn't define it He describes it. He gives to us a portrait of love. And look how it goes. Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It's not proud. It's not rude. It's not self-seeking. It's not easily angered. It keeps the record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. So, love is a matter of heart attitudes. Love is a matter of the motives that you see. These things are not matters of what the person's doing, but these are matters of the heart. Let me paraphrase for you in a personal way what 1 Corinthians 13, the contrast between 1 and 3 and 4 to 7, mean for me If I tile all the bathrooms in our house, fix all the toilets, redecorate the kitchen, and redecorate the entire house for Kathy. But have not love. Don't treat her with gentleness, with kindness, with patience, and with forgiveness. It counts nothing. Now that's pretty sobering to us guys. I mean I'll tell you, you should have heard the comments I got out of after the first message on that one, because Kathy was here during the first message We had a little group at the back there, you know, talking about what is this you mean I can do all that stuff and it doesn't count? Have you ever done things for somebody that you thought they ought to be kissing your feet for all the sacrifice that you did and it didn't matter why because there lacked a love there lacked a relationship of love in your heart and acceptance That patience, that kindness. And so what you did didn't really count for very much, did it? And you were hurt. You were frustrated But Paul says here that love is more than simply actions. Love has to do with something of the heart, a matter of motives. Now let me illustrate that. In verse 3, you have a person who is giving everything they have to the poor. And Paul says there's no love. Now let's look at another example in Paul's writings where he talks about people who gave, and there was love, to see what characterized it. Turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, I want you to turn to this because I want you to notice a couple things, not just to refer to them. But in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 9 and chapter 9 also Paul is boasting of the love of the Macedonian Christians, who sacrificed deeply from what they had in order to give to their poor brothers in Jerusalem, Christians in Jerusalem that had even less. And so they are doing something loving, but Paul talks about this as a genuine expression of love. What characterized it? Let me suggest three things characterized it that you see here in the passage. First of all, their love originated from God. Notice you got three O's here to help you keep track of that. Don't get three O's very often. So, first of all, love originated from God Look in verse 1. Now, brothers, he says, we want you to know about the grace that God has given to the Macedonian churches So these churches that gave gave out of a grace given to them by God in doing that. This originated from him. In fact, in verse seven he talks about the grace of giving Then in verse nine he defines it. He says, Now what is this grace that I'm talking about? And so you see in verse nine, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich Yet for your sakes he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. So he's saying the grace that we're talking about that prompts the love is the grace of seeing that Jesus gave to you everything in your need, in your abject misery. You and I cannot love. We find it impossible to love. God needs to put in our hearts a love. Look what he says in verse 16. He says, I thank God who put into the heart of Titus the same concern I have for you. And so love is something God puts in our hearts as we look at Christ and we realize we're unable to love. There was an interesting article in the Discipleship Journal recently. I talked about a guy who said, Lord, just for one day, I want to pray that you will enable me to love everybody that I come in contact with. In every moment of the day, give me a heart of love. And that describes how he wakes up to the news on his clock radio, and he's hearing this commentator um making fun of fundamentalist Christians who are hypocritical. And he starts gnashing his teeth before he's even out of bed about who does this person think they are, what do they know about love and I hate that liberal newscaster and on and on he starts and and then he stumbles into the bathroom and he trips over his daughter's muddy sneakers and you know how many times have I told her to get their muddy sneakers off the floor and not to make mud pies and drag 'em into the house? Then he goes on to work and he's tailgated by this guy and a Ford Explorer passes him at 70 miles an hour. Who's he think he is? And every time he does this What happens? His heart convicts him. He says, Well, there I go again. I blew it again. You know, just one day, Lord, just one day. And I can't do it. I can't do it. These critical, bitter, angry thoughts that I have gets into work and sees the receptionist. He can't even remember her name. Here's this woman he works with every day. And he thinks, Yeah, who is that? You know, is that Ellie or Jan or I you know, and he you know, and he realizes he don't really care for her. She's just a fixture to help him get his job done. Goes into his office And he's got to return his call to this cantankerous, nasty customer, and he'd really like to tell him off, but boy, he's a customer and so he can't and he's gotta be nice and he's grinding his teeth so much And the whole thing just demonstrates this guy is desperately trying to love. And he can't do it. You see our our hearts are so twisted in us. And We are so full of hurts and anger about how we've been treated and our rights. We cannot we can do the things, but it doesn't come out as love, does it? Because our heart betrays us. That anger and all that stuff which is bottled up in us. But Paul says God put into Titus's heart, God revealed Jesus who left glory. So that you and I could be forgiven of our angry, self-centered hearts, and by seeing his love for us be transformed. That's why John says in 1 John chapter 4 That only a Christian can love. You ever wonder about that verse? Some people say, you know, hey, I know non-Christians. They seem more loving than Christians, I know. Why does John say in 1 John 4, 7, dear friends, let us love one another, for love comes from God. In fact, he says, everyone who loves. Loves has been born of God and knows God. You can't love without knowing God. You can't love without having been born again by the Spirit of God. Why? Simply because of what we've been saying. You can do loving things. But a heart of love only the Spirit of God can give. Have you experienced that? You know, anybody's experience that say amen Nobody but me, right? Ha! I don't believe it. I know your hearts, and I know my heart. We know we do loving things And it and loving things are shallow until God works in our hearts. It's true. That's why he goes on. You know, after John says that, what's he do? He goes on verse 10. He says, This is love, not that we loved God. But that He loved us and sent His Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. He forgave us of our inability to love, of all the unloving things that we have done. Dear friends then, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us, and His love is being made complete in us. It's being perfected, the Greek means in us through that. Love is the expression of the reflection of the love of Jesus Christ to the sinner. So, first of all, love originates from God. Secondly, love is always oriented to God. You see that also in 2 Corinthians 8. It's oriented toward God. Chapter 8 and verse 5. Paul says that the these Macedonians first gave themselves to God and then to us in keeping with God's will. So the first thing that they did was they oriented their love toward God, not toward those that were simply receiving from them. He talks in chapter nine how their gift was a thanksgiving to God True love, I would suggest to you, is always motivated by a consciousness of God in the picture. It's that idea of 1 John 4, the idea of verse 9 here, that it is out of the recognition. of Jesus Christ and his love for me that I am able to love this person. Sometimes a husband or wife will come to me and all too often they'll talk about problems in their marriage and they'll say, There is no way I can please that battle axe. You know, and I try everything and nothing ever works. They're impossible to please. And they'll sometimes be surprised and they'll say, I suggest you stop pleasing them What? Hey, that's the best news I've heard all week. Man, I'm gonna back you for some more counsel. What else don't I have to do? Hey, wait a minute. Wait. What I'm trying to communicate is That as long as you and I are in bondage to trying to please another person and gain their acceptance from that, uh then we will not be able to love because all we're doing is trying to get an acceptance and approval from a person. Rather, I say, just try to please God. Orient your love toward Him. And the way that you do that in a recognition of what He's done for you in the gospel is to then be able to express love to this other person. But your orientation is what God thinks of it, not what this person thinks of it. That frees you up from their response or their approval or lack of it. You see, when you and I come into a relationship that's deeply hurtful, God always intends that we're going to go deeper into an understanding of the cross. And that's the third O here. Love is the overflow of our joy in God. Love originates from God. Love is oriented toward God. Love is the overflow of joy in God. You see again in 2 Corinthians in chapter 8, in verses 2 to 4, he says, out of the most severe trial. Their overflowing joy and their extreme poverty welled up in rich generosity. Alright, so here's people that are giving to the poor, but how's it coming? It's stemming out of an overflowing joy. For I testify that they gave as much as They were able, and even beyond their ability, entirely on their own, not from external compulsion, but an internal joy, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service to the saints. Why? Because they understood that Jesus had left his riches and become poor for them. And the joy of understanding the cross was what moved them in the expression of love. And so when you and I find that we are unable to love, And you're in a situation where you say, I am bankrupt of love. God moves you to the cross, and you look at again. And what you have done against Jesus and his forgiveness of you and his love for you and his sacrifice for you demonstrated there Then the joy of the awareness of being loved that much overflows in your heart And it's that overflow of the hard expression that becomes a genuine love. The love which is patient and kind and doesn't keep a record of wrongs and the rest of these things. Now that leads us to the second point, which as I said is closely related to it. The second thing that makes love genuine biblical love, not simply actions. And that is genuine affections. Genuine affections. Right attitude and right affections. Again, Paul says, verse 3, If I give all that I possess to the poor and surrender my body to the plains, but have not love, I gain nothing. And so Paul is concerned to gain something. That's what the next point there. He's concerned to gain something. Now, we don't look at that, do we? We say love shouldn't want to gain anything. If love is pure love, then love is simply for the person that it's set upon and has no self-interest whatsoever. But now look what he says. When he contrasts this in verse 5, he says, love is not rude, it is not self-seeking. But that lack of self-seeking is connected to verse six where he says, Love doesn't delight in evil, but it rejoices with the truth. Love is concerned to rejoice. It's concerned to see the progress of truth in another person's life. Therefore, love does have affection. Love is concerned, not simply for its own end, but rather what love does. What is it that love gains that Paul's talking about here? Let me say this and hear it carefully. There's a point A there. Love gains a number of things, but I think at the bottom, the most essential thing that love gains is joy by enlarging its interests. In the benefit of others. Love gains joy by enlarging its interest in the benefit of others. It is not self-seeking It doesn't simply find its joy through its own benefits. It finds joy through the benefits of others. How? Not by delighting in evil, but by rejoicing in the progress of truth in the life of others. Let me uh quote to you from a book that um is one of the most profound books probably that's been written on the subject of love was written by a man named Jonathan Edwards a couple of centuries ago, back in the eighteenth century, wrote a book called Charity and Its Fruits, which charity was the old term back then for love, so we'd say to though you we titled it today would have probably called it Love and Its Fruits or Things That Come From Love. And this was Edwards, who was a brilliant man, would have been known in any field that he had gone into, but this was his observation on love. He says, in some sense the most benevolent, generous person in the world seeks his own happiness in doing good to others. because he places his happiness in their good. His mind is so enlarged as to take them, as it were, into himself Thus, when they are happy, he feels it. He partakes with them and is happy in their happiness. This is so far from being inconsistent with the freeness of beneficence doing good that on the contrary, free benevolence. and kindness consist in it. In other words, he's saying it's not to seek your own happiness is not only not inconsistent with loving, in fact it consists Love consists in that. Now, how can that be? Let me illustrate it again in the life of the Apostle Paul. Notice the things that he says to the churches. Again and again and again. Notice in his writings, Romans chapter 16, verse 19. I have verse 9 in there. That's my mistake. Should have been verse 19. In Romans 16, 19, Paul talks about his joy wrapped up in the benefit of the Romans. In uh Second Corinthians chapter two, back to what the letter letter we were just looking at. Paul is in a real struggle here because he has some difficult things to say to the Corinthians. But notice how he struggles with this in 2 Corinthians 2. 1. He says, So I made up my mind that I would not make another painful visit to you Because if I grieve you, who's left to make me glad? But you whom I've grieved? And so he's struggling with this fact that he says My joy is wrapped up in your progress in the faith, in your joy. And if you're not happy, if you are in tension with me Then he says, That takes away from my joy. Now that's not inconsistent with what I said before about having your love directed primarily to God and not dependent on the reception response the other person gives you. Paul had that joy, but he says that joy is increased when I see that joy reflected in you His his heart is enlarged to them. In Philippians he says in chapter two, he says, Make my joy complete by following Christ's command about your attitude toward one another. In Colossians chapter two, verse five, he talks about uh their his delight in seeing how firm they stand in the faith. But perhaps the clearest example of this is in 1 Thessalonians. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, Paul says, a very strong language notice in chapter 2, verse 19, he says Um right here. 4. What is our hope, our joy, or the crown in which we will glory in the presence of the Lord Jesus when he comes? What is it? What's my hope? What's my joy, Paul says? Is it not you? Indeed, you are our glory and our joy. What's he done? He's enlarged his sense of joy to include the Thessalonians. So he goes on to say, now, I've been really kind of distraught here because I've been picking up that maybe you guys aren't doing so well. And that maybe your walk with the Lord's not very solid and that, you know, you're You're in some trouble here. And so he says, I was very anxious about this, so I sent Timothy to find out how you were doing. And then in verse six of chapter three he picks up and he says, Timothy's just come to us now, and he's brought good news about your faith and your love. He's told us that you always have pleasant memories of us, and that you long to see us just as we long to see you, and that warms his heart, you see, doesn't that He Paul's not some stone that is unfeeling about the relationships of these people. Then he says verse seven, notice, therefore, brothers In all our distress and our persecutions, he's having a rough time of it there. He says, we were encouraged about you because of your faith For now we really live, since you are standing firm in the Lord. How can we thank God enough for you in return for all the joy which we have in the presence of our God because of you? Again, do you see what Paul's doing? He's saying, I have enlarged my heart so that my capacity for joy involves taking you into my life. Now that I suggest to you is a supernatural thing. You and I cannot do that, can we? You can't take another person into your heart so that your joy is wrapped up in their good Can't do it. I can't do it. I mean how many times have you wanted to care for someone and felt like you just couldn't conjure it up But this is a work of the Spirit of God that produces the distinctive gospel love that can never be counterfeited in any other religion or in anything apart from Jesus Christ. That love which takes another's good into my delight and my joy. And this is the delight that we talked about Where Paul talks um about um his delighting in the shepherd And then receiving that shepherd's heart, the thing we talked about last week from Harvey Kahn, that shepherd who seeks after the lost sheep. And when he finds those lost sheep He rejoices, you see, because he has found them. In fact, that leads us to the last point of this, which is to see that ultimately your love and my love reflects God's joy in loving you. Love ultimately reflects God's joy in loving you. I experienced this enlargement idea that I've been talking about just about six weeks ago now, uh, when Heather had her wedding. And it was one of those times when you get a glimpse of what it means that the Bible's talking about, uh, in a way that you rarely experience. Heather, of course, a wedding, as you know, uh focuses simply on the bride and the groom, everybody else is ancillary, they're all kind of the support system, but particularly the bride. All the focuses on the bride. And it was interesting to s for me to see How my joy was so thoroughly wrapped up in her joy that I felt like her joy became my joy. And with Kathy and with the rest of our family and our friends, their joy was my joy. If they weren't enjoying that, I couldn't have been having a good time. It would have robbed me of a great deal of joy. Couldn't it shouldn't have taken away contentment. But it would have taken away a great deal of joy because their joy became my joy. Have you ever been in a situation like that where you just see the other person's joy is your joy? Now you see, this ultimately is rooted in the fact that our love is a reflection of God's joy in us. The Bible speaks of the fact that God delights in loving you. He is not stuck with you. Let me repeat that because most of us don't believe that. The God is not stuck by covenant with you. He didn't desire to bring a host of the elect in, and some are winners and some are losers, and you take the good with the bad, and you got in there, he's going to be faithful to his promise, but there's no delight. The Bible says in Deuteronomy chapter 10, in verses 14 and 15, that God delighted to love you and to choose you for his own. In Zephaniah chapter 3, verse 17, we speak about the Lord, the Bible tells us how the Lord sings over you and rejoices with delight in you. His love for you is not simply actions of saving you from hell and bringing you to heaven, and there's no passion in it. His delight in you is a passionate delight. In fact, in Isaiah chapter 62 he calls you Hepzebah. Now, how many have ever heard of a daughter by the name of Hepzibah? I've heard of one once Imagine having the name Hepsibah. It's a terrible name, but it's a beautiful meaning. You know what Hepsibah means? It means delightful. And God says in Isaiah 62, 4 and 5, he says, I will call you my people, Hepzehbah, delightful, because as a bridegroom rejoices over his bride, so I rejoice over you. And this is what the picture that Harvey Kahn was giving last week from Luke 15. Again, we just talked about that. The shepherd who delights, who rejoices when he finds the lost sheep. Jesus, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame. So delight is essentially wrapped up in love. You can't love by simply giving to the poor, sacrificing out of duty. God's love is not like that. And our love is not to be like that either. It is to flow from the delight of being delighted in, from the Holy God, and then to be able to reflect that in opportunities God gives us to do good. Finding our interest enlarged in those that receive from that. That's exciting, isn't it? Now finally last thing. What do you do then when you don't feel like that? You know, they ask is all my sounds real good, but hey, I go out Monday morning, fact is I gotta do something, and I can't worry about how I feel about it. Right Now let me make suggestions. What do you do when you are called to feel like you know what's right to do, but you don't feel like doing it? You don't feel like loving? Three things I'd suggest you do. Number one. Don't say it doesn't matter, but confess your joylessness as sin. Lord, I don't feel like doing this, and that matters to you It's wrong that I don't feel that. John Murray in his book, Principles of Conduct, describes man in his unfallen state, talks about Adam, and he gives very interesting observation on this. Bear with me for a minute. Mary says there is no conflict in Adam between the gratification of desire and the enhancement of his pleasure on the one hand and the fulfillment of God's command on the other. What he wants to do and what God commands, he says, no tension. Rather, the consciousness of compliance with divine command fortified and confirmed him in the propriety and piety of the pleasure enjoyed. Understand that's one of the sentences you've got to read three times. It's a strange deflection of thought that leads us to set up an antithesis between impulse arising from a set of duty and the impulse of delight and love. That's a deflection, he said. That's sub-biblical thinking. The tension that exists within us between a sense of duty and wholehearted spontaneity is a tension that arises from sin and a disobedient will. No such tension. And the operations of saving grace are directed to the end of removing that tension so that there will be, as there was with man at the beginning, the perfect complementation of duty and pleasure, of commandment. And love. Oh, how love I thy law, he quotes. I delight to do your will, O my God. Your law is in my heart. Confess it. Secondly, pray for God to grant you the joy of refreshing, of refocusing your gaze upon the Lord Jesus and his love for you, beholding in order to become. That God would work in your heart That by seeing the love of Jesus Christ for you, he would work in your heart that love. And then finally, don't just hang around waiting for something to happen. In faith Set out to obey what you know to do, praying that God will add the joy as you do it. You don't just hang around and say, Well, you know, as long as I don't feel all this joy, it doesn't matter. Forget it, that's it. You know, that that's comping out. So often we could do that. The idea is that you and I come to say, this is what I'll do, I'll do it in obedience. But as I do it, I pray that God will bring into my heart That warmth, that delight, that satisfaction that comes from a transformed heart by Jesus. Let's pray. Lord, every one of us realize there are ways That we so very much need to know the truth of this. So Lord, we confess to you those things that just this week we've done And we have done them out of uh duty, out of obligation. We've been gnashing our teeth, we have been angry at the demands And we recognize, Lord, it didn't count for very much. And so we pray that you would enable us to see once again what love is. Something of what your love is for us in Jesus Christ. And in seeing that, Lord, how much you have loved us, love is not that we loved you, but that you loved us and sent your Son for us. That we would then, by that transformation of our heart, that we plead for right now, that you would work in us to reflect your love To other people this week. We bring something of the aroma of Christ into our situations this week, not because we conjure it up, not because we try to act like Christians. But because we've seen Jesus, and that has changed us, teach us what this means, O Lord. Working as we pray. For Jesus' sake. Amen.