So this morning we return to the letter of 1 Peter as we continue in this series on living the resurrection as Peter unpacks for us. What does it mean to follow Christ faithfully, even in the midst of great difficulty, persecution, and suffering? In fact, last week, Pastor Halley shared with us what it means then to proclaim the name of Christ, to faithfully follow him. in the midst of perhaps friendships, family, in a culture that does not uh acknowledge Christ and to follow Him means that we will suffer as a result insult and persecution. And yet, what we're called to do is to trust in the saving work of Jesus Christ, that what He has accomplished for us, no persecution, no difficulty can remove. What he has done. Well, Peter is still in this mindset as we look at this text this morning in 1 Peter 4, verses 7 through 11. In fact, he's showing us what it means then to live between the resurrection of Jesus Christ and his return. And what he tells us is that we're called to love in the meantime between these two historical points. 1 Peter 4, verses 7-11. The end of all things is near. Therefore be clear-minded and self-controlled so that you can pray. Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides So that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To Him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. Father, we ask this morning that you would instruct us. On how to live in the meantime, between the work and the victory of the resurrection, the victory of God through Christ over sin and death. And the return of Jesus Christ. Lord, in this space, in this time, show us how to live By showing us Christ, that our lives would show forth Christ to others. Help us, we pray, and help the teacher in Jesus' Jesus' name. Amen. Growing up in the South, I was never a fan of professional sports. Because we didn't have any. Yes, I know we had the Atlanta Falcons, but if you didn't live in Georgia, by o sorry, Robbie Pennington, we just didn't care about the Falcons. Growing up in the Carolinas and my parents in Alabama and Mississippi, all we really cared about was Southeastern Conference football. And so all we cared about was college. And college I know is really challenging and it's really great, particularly if it's the Southeastern Conference, but I've grown as now that I've left uh the South for quite some time, I've had to get accustomed to professional football. And as I said to the first service, I have not yet committed fully to the ones I'm going to. Some weeks it's the Ravens, some weeks it's not. I'll just be honest with you. And some have between services have tried to make an appeal. perhaps threatening that I should that I should follow the Ravens and they pointed out of course that I am wearing purple this morning. But putting that aside, one of the things I've begun to do even more, I had to do it in Metro New York. I I've had to keep up with professional sports. particularly professional football and over the last two weeks I've been watching a little bit and uh I was particularly surprised a couple of weeks ago on a Sunday afternoon when the literally four or five different games Came down to the wire, tied, you didn't know what was going to happen, and so it was a unique look into what teams do well after the two-minute warning. And uh and which team can best manage their final two minutes, the ones who've strategically held on to timeouts, those who have successfully been able to do More advancing as opposed to retreating because of penalties are the ones usually, usually not always, but usually are the ones you're going to win. But what's interesting is to see the teams that do the last two-minute warning the best who can navigate that are those who can go without a huddle. And those who can go without a huddle and do so well and execute it well are those who know how they're going to move, how they're going to be able to work best together because they know each other's weaknesses, they know each other's strengths, and they have a common goal. That is to beat the other guys into the ground. No, I mean score more points. And so that's what they're trying to do Peter, for all intents and purposes, is saying to those that he's writing to that they're in a two-minute warning. Now, of course, retrospectively, looking back, it wasn't the two-minute warning. We're 2,000 years later, nearly. Christ has not yet returned. But the same truth that gripped Peter and that he was passing on to the church should also grip us. The issue is not the exact time in which Christ will return. That is not what we're to give our attention to or concern about the exact time, but rather to live as though he's going to return any moment. And the truth is, Peter didn't know, and neither do we. Christ could return in the next moment. The issue is how are we to live in the meantime? Peter is clear. That it is love in action and grace in service. Love in action and grace in service. But before he even gets to those, he has this opening verse that the end of all things is near. Therefore, be clear-minded and self-controlled so that you can pray. Now the way it works in the original language is that the word prey is connected both to being clear-minded and self-controlled. But what he's trying to instruct the church to do is instead of, as in the verses earlier, instead of being drawn into drunkenness and self indulgence, He's saying to the church, pay attention to the world around you. Don't pull out of the world, but engage. Look what's going on. Look at the ways in which you're being tempted not to follow Christ. Consider the ways in which you're to engage the world, engage your relationships, engage your task, engage your work with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Be clear-minded and self-controlled. As we'll look at later, that is very much connected to what he's already said earlier in the letter, to being spirit-filled. Convinced and embraced by the love of God in Christ through Christ's work, and also being empowered by the gift of the Spirit from God. Being clear-minded, self-controlled by the Spirit, and pray. Pray And then he says these words Above all, love each other deeply. Because love covers a multitude of sins. He says to us, above all things Waiting for Christ to return. You do not wait held up in a room behind a wall. It's rather you're out in the world, you are self-controlled, you are clear-minded, you are praying, but above all, love But it isn't just this bland idea of love. He puts flesh on that word. And he says here, love deeply. He is carrying on what he has already stated in the first chapter when he says these words, verse 22 and following, he says, Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth, Literally, now that you have become a Christian, now that you have been saved by the work of Christ, and you are seeking to follow Him, you are being sanctified. You're growing up, you're maturing as a Christian. He says, now that you are doing that and you're obeying the truth, he says, so that you have sincere love for your brothers, love one another deeply from the heart. And then in chapter 4, he comes back to this theme, carrying on the same themes that he did in chapter 1, and that is to love deeply. means not with emotions first, but going down to the place that is at the very center, that which controls actions and motivates behaviors. It is the heart itself, which he says, love from the heart. And then he says, love the brothers. Now here he means those who are of course Brothers and sisters in the Lord Jesus Christ. But because he throws in hospitality here in just a moment, don't think it's just to those who profess faith. It's also carrying on the great Teaching of Jesus himself when he said in the Sermon on the Mount, I say, love your enemies. Love deeply from the heart. When he says the word deeply there, He's referring to this reality. The word deeply literally means to stretch. That in your love, you, your heart, is being stretched. And I will tell you, when he uses that word, stretch, he literally is tapping into something that is very, very easy to understand. That when we are stretched, it's going to hurt. Which is why I hate stretching. There's a reason why I'm a cyclist. I think part of the reason I'm a cyclist is so that I could avoid running because I'd always associated running with stretching. So really it's just a grand scheme never to have to stretch. And most cyclists don't stretch. I married someone whose family all seems to be able to stretch really well as athletes. I I don't get it, I don't like it And so God gave us a daughter who, like me, is tightly ligamented, and we both don't like stretching. We must be motivated by dessert or sugar or something to get us to stretch. It's because It hurts. Why do we do it? Because stretching can also bring about healing. That the lack of stretching can bring immobility. It can bring a stiffness. When Peter says here to love deeply, And from chapter one, from the heart, he's asking us to do something towards others that is absolutely counter to what we really want to do. I am not by nature a stretcher. But I don't think any of us are by nature lovers either Because what's interesting, he says, of course, to love the brothers, but what's oftentimes, and many of you will I think concur, that those who are hardest to love are often those that we know the best. And it's also very hard to love those whose face towards us is not of love, but of enmity. But he says clearly Love to the point of being stretched at the very seat of your will. But he goes further. He doesn't just describe the kind of love, he describes what this kind of love does when he says, For love covers a multitude of sins. The word covers there, we need to unpack just a little bit, because what he is tapping into is a grand biblical theme. Which we have already sung about this morning. When he uses the word covers there, he's referring to this biblical theme that stretches all the way back to Genesis chapter 3. And then moves forward. And in Genesis chapter 3, after Adam and Eve have rebelled against God in their sin, God judges them. He doesn't kill them. In grace, He tells them, I am judging you, I am banishing you from the garden, but I'm going to save you. I'm going to send one who will defeat the enemy, that is Satan. But he goes further, and Adam and Eve recognizing their nakedness, which is a metaphor for recognizing their sin before a holy God, they attempt to provide coverings for their nakedness by their own hand. God does not allow that to happen. He removes from them their man-made coverings. And he fashions for them a divine gift of his covering. That is to be A sign of the promise that he just gave in verse 15 of chapter 3, of what Christ will ultimately do. So that covering that God provides points back to the promise, but points forward to the better promise. And that theme continues on. It's the idea of expiation, where sin is taken from the face of God and hidden behind his back. The idea of not covering the sinner, but covering the sin, is specifically what expiation is talking about. We've already sung of propitiation, that Christ in our place. But what is being talked about is also the idea of what the sacrificial system in the Old Testament did, that when the the sin offering was was given, that the blood of the sacrifice was to cover the sin. As well as to pay the price. The problem is, while it is at the same time building on the promise that God gave in Genesis chapter 3, It's also pointing forward to a better covenant, to a better work of God that would ultimately be seen in Christ. That in Christ's death on the cross, not only was Christ in our place, dying for our sins, taking our sins upon himself, that his blood, as we sing, I have been washed by the blood of Christ. His blood covers my sin. Therefore, as God looks at us, he sees Christ as you embrace Christ as Savior. He sees us, but our sin is covered. He sees us through the work of Christ. And when Peter says love covers a multitude of sins, He's saying that the person who proclaims Christ who receives what Christ did on the cross Then to love others deeply, being stretched at the heart, means that there's going to be the opportunity and the necessity to To learn how to love in such a way that when sin appears between you and someone else, you draw upon the work of Christ so that you don't countenance, so that you don't look at the sin. Before you see the person. You're not counting it against them. Here's the issue, however. When he says to love deeply And that love covers a multitude of sins, calling us to the act of forgiveness. He's asking us to do the very thing that is impossible for us to do. We are not by nature's those by nature those who love deeply. We are not by nature those who want to forgive. And here I'm so thankful for the work of Ken Sandy and the Peacemaker Ministry, where they clearly outline, broadly speaking, two ways in which so oftentimes human beings. Respond when they are sinned against. The first is that when we're sinned against, we either one attack with revenge those who've sinned against us. Or two, instead of acting out in revenge, we withhold the hate inside and we carry on a cold war. So the two broad responses are peace-breaking by being in open warfare with others who've sinned against us, or it's being involved in a cold war. Where we hold it back. But here's the problem, that when hate and revenge and the lack of forgiveness grips the human heart. It will take the heart and it will twist it. It will affect you emotionally. It'll affect you relationally. It'll affect you spiritually. It'll affect you physically. That is what grips the heart, and I was reminded of this this past week, when the story of a man who spoke of just what this kind of hate can do. His name is Charlie Morris. He took the opportunity to have his story recorded in Memphis, Tennessee at one of the things called Story Core recording booth where you can go. and record your story and those stories are then taken and put into the Library of Congress. You can go and share your story whatever it is. Well Charlie Morris got a story to tell. Here's his story. According to reports, Charlie Morris, who is now 91, lost his brother Jesse Lee in 1939. According to police records, his brother Jesse fell into a river and was drowned. But Charlie and his family knew better. And they had maintained that after an argument with a white shop owner, his brother, their son, Jesse, Was lynched and murdered and then drowned in a river. So Charlie comes to this story core recording booth to share his story. He says, I was at school, and they called me to the office, and they told me that my brother had been murdered, and all I wanted to do was to get revenge. So I went to my grandmother's and I'd carried with me a 38 revolver, and I was crying. And she said, Don't do this. I've got one grandson dead. I don't want the burden of another grandson being dead. To be honest with you, I carried a burden of hatred on my shoulders for more than 10 years. I was just sick and I was aching I go to the doctor, and the doctor couldn't find anything wrong with me. But one day the doctor said, When you come next week, bring your wife with you. So the next Thursday I carried my wife with me and we went in there and he started to question her. It was at that point that I found out from her that I was having nightmares, but she had not told me. I was crying in my sleep. I was calling out for my brother. And then I began to realize what was happening. And the doctor looked at me and he said, I am the wrong doctor for you. It was at this point that I began to forgive. There was all the answers to my illness. I didn't have to go to the doctor anymore. I didn't have those pains. But it did put a dent in my life for a long time In our hearts, we carry with us thirty-eight revolvers. Some of us lash out. Some of us just nurse it in private. But what is so interesting about the nature of hate and anger, it is so powerful in our world and in our culture because we have not gutted hate of its real meaning. Meaning. We know what it is. But so often we have gutted our understanding of love. Love now means tolerance, that we don't tell the truth That is not what love is. And what he exemplifies for us is a picture of what Peter is driving us to By nature, this is not natural to us. It is only when we are able to embrace what Jesus Christ did for you at the cross, taking your sin, are we able then to say, I have now the foundation of understanding my sinfulness, how I caused my Savior to die, why my sin, why he was the one rather who should have judged me in my sin. He was the one who deserved to be carrying the 38 revolver, if you will. But he did not. And he welcomed me in, and he invites us in, yet again this morning. To the work of his grace. And it is Peter that says, We cannot love. We cannot love deeply. We cannot have a love that covers a multitude of sins unless we know how it has done that for us. But if we don't, hate will grip us in our hearts and it will twist us into a mangled mess And it will not let us go. But note this just as Charlie Morris said this, and even at ninety-one years old, Sin still leaves a dent. Let me illustrate it this way. One of my best friends, we shared coffee every week on a Tuesday morning. Not once, but twice during those ten years of meeting together, wearing his nice suit, I accidentally, in all my gesticulations, hit his coffee cup. And it spilled on his nice suit. I left a stain. And so I said Let me pay for the dry cleaning. I'm so sorry for my clumsiness for not paying attention. And he said, that's okay. I will pay for it. Do you see what happened there? I left a stain. I left a dent. He still had to pay for it. But he recognized Metaphorically speaking, though someone may leave the stain and the dent of sin on me, I know that the blood of the cross of Jesus removes my saying and removes theirs and gives me the foundation upon which to move in love and forgiveness towards others. I am not saying that we forgive and forget. We cannot. But we can forgive And the dent can be filled by the grace of Christ. The dent doesn't have to define us. The stain doesn't have to leave us twisted in a relational, spiritual, or a physical mess. This is full-orbed gospel reality that Peter is calling to us here. Above all things, love one another deeply. That covers a multitude of sins. But know this: none of us can leave this room and do these things unless we Have been gripped by our need of it as well. And then he says, that's love and action. But that brings forth grace in service. It's not enough just to take all the wonderful truths and the gifts and the benefits of Jesus for ourselves. It is meant to give away. As grace in service. And he continues when he says these words offer hospitality to one another without grumbling Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others faithfully. Do you note? That everything he's going to talk about, whether hospitality or the gift of speech, do you notice what he's saying? It's not about us for the reason. It's not about making us better, more successful. Those gifts were always a gift of grace that we've received from our Heavenly Father, meant to be given for the building up of others. And so he says here, hospitality. Now in the English word hospitality is embedded the word hospital. But hospitality, we know, as we've said before, oftentimes does not carry with it the idea of a hospital. For what happens in a hospital? Strangers come to doctors asking and needing healing. They come to get medicines and care. But so oftentimes within our own culture, in our contemporary day, hospitality is more connected not with hospitals, but with Martha Stewart. Right? It's more about fine linens and the right china and the right meal on the table. I've learned this as a pastor Our very fur my very first senior pastor that I served under, he and his wife understood that hospitality oftentimes just meant inviting people over, putting up a card table, and putting out peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. I'll be honest with you, being reared in the South. That didn't say hospitality to me But you know what I learned from Eric and Boo Mullinax? Yes, her name was Boo. What I learned from them is it's not about what you serve. It's about the ones you're serving. And I've learned it's hard to break Southern living habits. But that's not hospitality at its heart. You see, it's right here in the word. In fact, in the Greek word, it's even a better word than hospitality, because it contains two words together, phileo and xenos. And these two words, phileo means brotherly love. Xenos means stranger, and that is to show acts of love by providing something for a stranger. It doesn't necessarily mean someone who is literally someone you don't know, but maybe somebody you do know that is a stranger to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Maybe someone who is a who is someone that you barely know, but not w you you provide something for them. Sometimes it's not necessarily inviting them into your house, it's sometimes it's you taking your house to them by providing a meal. Or what have you. And I'm so grateful for the seminar yesterday where I was reminded by our own Ken Williams, who said, so oftentimes when those who lose a loved one We don't know how to often respond, and when we do, we just want to give a blank check. Is there anything I can do for you? And I was reminded by him yesterday. That in many ways, if I may co-opt his message into my own, and that is the hospitable thing to do is to instead of just saying, is there anything I can do, sometimes it's offering something very concrete and specific. But but that's hard to do in our American culture because we don't want to be rejected. Well no, I don't need that. But oftentimes people who've lost loved ones say it's not the general, it's the the specific thing that someone offered. Maybe I didn't need it. That meant a great deal. Maybe it's do you can I give you a ride somewhere? Can I can I go to the store to pick up some things? I'm bringing a meal to your house. Can I help you babysit the kids? But here's the issue, right? It's really hard. We know that because he says, do it without grumbling. I'm thankful for Peter because he knows that showing hospitality so oftentimes erupts within us. Right? Or it's the quid pro quo. It's well they did it for us, so maybe we need to do it for them. I mean I really wanted to have John over, but I know they okay. Right? Or it's that you're trying to you're you're you know you're trying to compete. Well, they didn't that. Let's do this. You know. It and it so oftentimes doesn't come from a place of responding and love, it comes from a place of competition. It comes from a place of trying to do something for someone that's done something for you. And it's hard. Just like loving it hard. But isn't it wonderful? And I'm so thankful for the work of Christine Pohl and her book A making room, recovering hospitality as a Christian tradition. I highly recommend it. Very convicting, very helpful. Where she says these words. She goes, Jesus gave his life. so that persons could be welcomed into the kingdom and in doing so linked hospitality, grace, and sacrifice in the deepest and most personal way imaginable. She's telling us that the cross and resurrection is God's act of hospitality. In the most personal, in the most sacrificial and radical way of giving himself for aliens, for strangers, for his enemies to welcome us in. He made room. And when that begins to grip us That is what fuels our hospitality and replaces a grudging spirit with a joyful spirit It's hard. But it is what Peter believes that Christ is to be doing in us. But finally, not just hospitality, but with speech. When he says these words Oh boy. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. All right. When I read those words again this week, preparing for this sermon. Oh So deeply convicting. As a pastor, I'm a man of many words. And so many of them are not said as if I'm speaking the words. of Christ. In fact, this week, when presented with something someone else said, My first response, I want to confess to you, and I confess to them and ask them for it. My first response was, how can they say that? First of all, do you hear do you hear what I was thinking is, how dare they? And so instead of responding in a teachable spirit, I responded in a defensive spirit, and my mouth poured forth. And then I had to preach this. So let me say, I want to be the first in line that I am a work in progress. But these words remind me of the words of James in chapter 3 of his letter that says that the tongue is the root of a lot of evil. And can set a life on fire. It is a restless evil. Even though it is small, it can direct a life. But the reality that James brings us to, and I believe that Peter is doing the same, we cannot tame our own tongues. It is impossible to do so. And so you'll see in the screens, I can tell it because you're looking up at the screens. I think there's we have uh can we put that up on the screen? The uh think. Thank you. I learned this from my very first youth pastor. I've always held on to it in the context of this passage, but also in the context of James chapter 3. If we can't tame our own tongues, then we need to think before we speak, which means this. If I can't love, if I can't serve without the power of God in Christ and his Spirit working in me, neither can I speak. And if I am to hear this word from Peter, then I need the Spirit to tame my tongue. And I was given this. That pray this, Father, Spirit, tame my tongue and help me to think before I speak. That is, T, help me to say that which is only true. Number two, H, to speak that which is only honest, that I say the same thing in front of one party as I do another. To say that which is inspiring, does it build up or does it tear down? Is it necessary? Is it kind? And in preparing for this sermon and thinking about this mnemonic again, I acrostic, not mnemonic, acrostic, I I wanted to shut up, to be honest. We cannot speak as if it's the very words of God, unless we ask the Lord to tame our tongues. And may the Lord help us to think before we speak To what end, however, does all this drive? To what end is our love? To what end is our service of grace? To what end is our speech? Well, he tells us The goal of love and grace is this, so that God who's given gifts and by his strength He tells us there, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ, to Him be glory and the power forever and ever. And here Peter is saying That Christ is the goal and the recipient of our actions and our words That means that as I seek to love others, as you seek to love one another and to even love your enemies, it is to recognize that it is God's image that is placed on the other. It is God who has worked on their behalf in Jesus Christ to provide them salvation. It is in Christ That they find their ultimate identity. So therefore, as I seek to greet and speak to others, as I move towards them, it is with the goal of recognizing I'm as I do unto them, I'm doing unto my Savior. Because his glory, not ours, his glory, not mine, is what is in view. Because the gifts that he's given us is for his glory as well. It is a tall order that Peter calls us to, this love in the meantime. But it is because at just the right time Christ died for the unrighteous That we might have life, this kind of life, for his glory. Let's pray. Even this day. Have mercy upon us. But may the work of your Son, Holy Father, Jesus Christ. Through whom your love has been spread abroad. May we fall under your grace, your mercy, and may you remake us by your power. To be the people of God you want us to be. Not that we would receive the glory, but that you would. But until your return, Lord Jesus, we will live this out in peace. perfectly. But Lord, may this day be a day of renewal. Help us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.