Thank you, Pete. It's a joy and honor to worship with the family of Columbia Presbyterian Church this morning. And to bring you the word of God in this series of Paul's exhortations to his young son in the faith, Timothy. uh in that disciple making movement. Uh by the way, these passages uh that uh Stan I understand is going to be coming to preach uh through some of these passages in Timothy and myself. Avi this this uh book uh was written to uh a church really in leadership transition. Paul had sent Timothy there to Ephesus to carry on a strategic disciple-making mission. uh work there. And so the Lord is very much aware of the challenges and he has great interest in uh healthy gospel leadership uh transitions in his church. And so the Lord is with you. Columbia. And in your pursuit of the next pastor. But these words here of Paul to Timothy are not just for leaders, it's really for all disciples. And I think that's one of the reasons the Lord in uh inscripturate them for us. The exhortation theme of Paul's charge is fight the good fight. And he's calling uh all disciples to engage the gospel call of disciple making uh in our fallen and desperate world. Uh this is a good fight. It's a good fight. It's a praiseworthy. It's honorable. It's a noble fight. It's a precious, eternally precious fight that believers, all believers are called to. So Paul said in Timothy uh his son in the faith to be a delegate to Ephesus uh to address a spiritual crisis. Uh we find if you turn to uh you don't have to do that here, but If you look in Acts chapter 20, Paul gives a farewell address to the Ephesian elders. And in that address, he warns the elders who he calls the shepherds of God's church. He warns them about what is going to soon happen. And this is what he says in chapter 20, 29 to 31. I know that after I leave Savage wolves will come in among you and will not spare the flock. Even from your own number men will arise and distort the truth in order to draw away disciples after them. So be On your guard. Remember for that for three years I never stopped warning each of you night and day with tears. And so as we read soon the opening words of 1 Timothy, we find that the savage wolves had indeed come to the church. And so here Paul sent young, timid, frail Timothy into the eye of this spiritual storm center to address and to correct the situation in order to protect the church and to promote the gospel work there, this fight, this good gospel fight. You know, maybe you're here today and you are feeling beat up. Not just in your own life, but in the attempts to live out a true gospel witness where you live, where you work. uh and where you you abide. And so welcome. Welcome you are at the war front of the kingdom. And this is a good place to be. You're in the right place. You are in the good war. But you need to know that the victory has already been accomplished and Christ. has been the victor and he delights to work through and with his disciple makers. We find here that Paul reveals for us the spiritual truths the character and the practices not only that makes a healthy church, but that makes a healthy Christ follower and leader. So let's look at 1 Timothy 1, verses 3 through 14, where God reveals the essentials of our call and the gospel ministry. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remained at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine. nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies which promote speculations rather than the stewardship from God that is by faith The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith Certain persons, by swerving from these, have wandered away into vain discussion, desiring to be teachers of the law without understanding either what they are saying. or the things about which they make confident assertions. Now we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully Understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers for murderers, the sexually immoral, men who practiced homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else. is contrary to sound doctrine, in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointed me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, an insolent uh opponent. But I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Lord God, we have recited The psalmist who said, Great peace have those who love your law, and nothing can make them stumble. I will run in the path of your laws, for you have set my heart free. Open my eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of your laws. So, Holy Spirit. We ask that you would come now, that you would open our eyes to see the wondrous things in your word. We remain blind and deaf to your truths unless you work. We ask that you would free us to run with abandonment in the path of your word. We pray your peace and sure footing as we love your law. Lord God, deepen our affections for you through your word. In Christ we pray. Amen. Doctrine divides. Love unites. That's a popular, catchy saying that many people intuitively nod their heads to in affirmation, often referring to the many denominations and divisions within Christianity over differences and theological nuances. Doctrine merely means teaching. And one problem with that statement is that it makes no distinction between sound true and healthy teaching and unsound, false and unhealthy teaching of doctrine, or how to tell the difference. Paul in this passage makes clear for believers the such a thing as sound doctrine and unsound. I had to learn this fast in my first year, our first year, Maria, my first year as a young church planner, having been propelled from the safe discourses of seminary studies. We were needing to find a place for an afternoon worship service, and I was inquired with some of the neighborhood churches about the possibility of renting a space for a Sunday afternoon service there in Baltimore City in what in the Waverley community. I was able to get in touch with one pastor of a specific kind of Presbyterian church. and told him about our little mission group and what we were, that we were part of the Presbyterian Church in America. I noticed a pause. And I asked him whether he was familiar with our group. And he said, Oh yes, I know all about your dissentious group. I can tell you I want nothing to do with you. Now it was the first time that I heard the word dissensus used in a sentence, and I needed to go home and look it up. I knew it was something bad. Suddenly, all of the arguments that I memorized in seminary about theological liberalism came front and center. And I said, isn't our disagreements concerning our differing views on the nature of the authority of God's Word? And he said, I'm not interested in debating this. I will inform the session about your request, but you need to know that I want nothing to do with you or your kind. Wow, I said, so this is the war. And I learned that you could lead or belong to such a church And not believe that the Bible is the Word of God. Not believe that Jesus Christ was the divine Son of God and the only Savior. Not believe that Jesus rode bodily from the grave and other historic beliefs. that have been foundational to the Christian faith through the centuries, of which Paul would say are part of the essence of sound and healthy doctrine. That particular church, by the way, no longer exists. The Apostle Paul would not be surprised that in our day that people and leaders have wandered away from these foundational things. And in these opening verses to his letter to Timothy, God through Paul's writing reveals the essentials of our gospel call and the mission to the world And the essentials of Timothy's call and the essential of really every follower of Christ are these. Guard the truth, apply the gospel, experience the grace. Guard the truth, apply the gospel, experience the grace. And so he opens up at these verses of three to seven where he Urges Timothy, as he goes to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrines. Paul's preoccupation in this first chapter is with the importance of maintaining true and sound doctrine and refuting false doctrine. And Paul urges Timothy to stay in emphasis precisely in order to stop the spreading of false teaching. And he calls these teachers, the activity he uses is this Greek word heterodoskaleo. Which uh is actually it could have been coined by Paul, but it's teaching doctrine which is heterous. That it is not pr not meaning that it's primarily false or strange or erroneous or new, but that it's different. It's different. from the teaching of the apostles. Similarly, Paul complained about the Galatians. They had deserted the grace of Christ, he says, for a different gospel. In Corinthians, we find that they were being led astray to a different Jesus, a different spirit. A different gospel from that which was first received. And so that word indicates that there is a norm of doctrine from which false teachers have deviated And so we find actually that at this point in the history of the church that there was a body of truth. that was understood as being uh the foundational truths of gospel of the gospel. It's been called the faith, or uh the s our the sound doctrine, or the teaching, and we find this in 1 Timothy 4 He says in chapter verse 6, he says, the Spirit clearly says that in later times some will abandon the faith. And will follow deceiving spirits, things taught by demons. He tells Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to your care. Turn away from godless chatter and opposing ideas of what is falsely called knowledge, which some have professed and in doing so have departed from the faith. And then in 1 Timothy 2, he says, God our Savior, he wants all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. And so he gives these definite articles to these aspects, the faith, the truth. And he is understood that there is this body of doctrine that existed as the agreed standard by which the teachings could be tested and judged. It was the teaching of Christ and his apostles. And so Paul, he charges Timothy to deal with the false teachers. And we're not given a lot of information exactly what those particular false teachings were. The concern here is not so much about the identity of these false teachers, but their effect. that they were leading people away, useless speculations, vain discussions, promoting controversies versus God's work. And so Paul is correcting, or he's giving this charge to Timothy to call these teachers to stop. In the first uh several months of coming uh to lead uh this group at faith uh well at this point it really wasn't a church, it was just a mission group. Uh it was about eleven or twelve people, about half of us were street, you know, there were underemployed, uh a lot of were street people. Anyhow So we as we gathered, there was one particular uh ex-seminarian. Actually, he had been kicked out of seminary. And he w he was seeking to lead this group forward. Let's call him Hank. Well, Hank. uh believed in a theology called theonymy, theonymy, uh which means God law. Uh and back then uh that the the nature of that particular theology was the belief that um the judicial laws of the Old Testament should be observed by modern societies. like Israel's time under Moses or David. And Christians should be working for this incorporation into society. And I believe, as you would believe, that this was a wrong-headed idea. We are no longer living in a political theocracy. uh where God is reigning politically as king, we are living in a pluralistic democracy where we are seeking to be uh sought and light in our society as gospel witnesses. But Hank took this further, and he also believed that just like in the Old Testament, God would raise up false prophets, or that he would raise up prophets like Samson. uh to use violence against wicked institutions. And so there was one mentally unstable brother named Larry uh who took up the cause, who took up the prophetic mantle, and he went around and sprained 666 over the bars And uh he threw a brick through the pornographic bookstore window and uh Larry went to prison uh for like four months. So this is the beginning of a great church plant. The next Sunday, after Larry went to jail, uh we had this little gathering uh where Hank and myself were to have a public discourse or public debate. about what the scriptures taught, particularly concerning these doctrines about theonomy. Well Hank actually did not show up. But I basically recounted that, you know, we do not live in an Old Testament theocracy, that Jesus said his kingdom was not of this world. He rebuked Peter for picking up the sword, and he called his disciples to love their enemies. And that seems to satisfy this little band. And that became the foundation for faith Christian fellowship. The fact is that ferocious wolves are a reality in the church. Watch out, Jesus says. Paul says that the Spirit is explicit about these things. Expect such disturbing departures and abandonments and the efforts of false teachers to lead weak sheep astray. But Paul also makes it clear what the goal of the command is, the end of all gospel instruction. He says, the aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart and a good conscience. and a sincere faith. The aim of the apostolic instruction is love. And he's really showing uh the contrast between uh the results and the fruit of of these false teachers. and what should result from gospel instruction. And so Paul paints a double contrast between the speculation and faith in God's revelation and between controversy and the love for one another. And there's two practical tests that you can apply for all such teachings. He says the first test is the test of faith Does it come from God and does it agree with apostolic doctrine? Or is it the product of f uh furt of uh uh f futile human imagination. And the second is the test of love. Does it promote unity in the body of Christ? Or is it irresponsibly divisive? And so these are the tests for that you can apply when things seem to be off. You know, is this consistent with the truth of God's word? For the glory of God, and does it promote love and unity? You know, many of us uh maybe have been touched or uh wondering about what appears to be this revival at Asbury uh University and and the seminary there in Kentucky Some are calling it an outpouring of the Holy Spirit. And many are wondering, is this true? Is this actually really happening in our day? Uh and many would say we had would caution was a little too early to fully tell. But you know, there are many uh positive signs about about the emergence of this One is that it began in a simple chapel meeting with students of a gospel message on Romans chapter 12. uh where the the expositor just encouraged people uh to be full of the love of God in order to to fulfill uh the gospel ministry. And so he says if you're not filled with the Holy Spirit, if you're not filled with with the word with the love of God, it's gonna be impossible to apply uh these l were basically thirty uh callings and thirteen verses in chapter twelve. And so the chapel was dismissed, but A bunch of the students remained. They just lingered. They just they felt like they needed to stay in order to experience the love of God. And so that began what appears to be this uh outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Now the Great Awakening that happened in the 1700s. uh when the m multitudes in uh came to faith in Christ which uh the nominal uh became devoted and the unconverted converted and and it was a tremendous movement Out of that great awakening, there were five distinguishing marks of the Spirit. And it was these five marks was to evaluate whether this was truly a work of God. Does it exalt Jesus Christ? Does it attack the kingdom of darkness? Does it honor the scriptures? Does it promote sound doctrine? And it involves and does is there an involvement of the outpouring of love toward God and man Uh there was a church historian Richard Loveless. He said the proliferation of meetings of religiosity in the form of meetings, prayer singing, and religious talk will not promote or sustain revival without works of love. and mercy, which will bring the love of God down from heaven to earth. And so uh what you would see in any true revival is besides conversions of people coming to know Christ, besides nominal uh believers becoming devoted believers, is that you will see an outpouring of love. And actually the Great Awakening was really the foundation for abolition in our country. And among many other things. And so we see this. And but you know, we practice these things just as a calling of believers. And I want to just I want to say thank you, uh Columbia Presbyterian Church, for your uh commitment to uh to bomb and uh to the recent project that we're working with uh the salam center in the project final pushes There's a building that's being renovated to expand and to create a great gospel ministry among the 14 nations of refugees and immigrants that are coming into Baltimore. uh to in that center. We have a work project the on the 10th and 11th of March, a demolition uh weekend. If you're interested in uh joining us to get your hands dirty to explain The spread gospel love. We welcome you. You can go to our website. So how do we guard how do we how do we guard the gospel of truth? Well Uh really we have to make much of God's word and be careful about secondary sources. The first test of the faith, does it come, does it come from God? Is it in agreement with apostolic doctrine and does it promote unity? and love. Your daily devotions are so critical. Your engagement in the Word of God every day is so important to the health of this church and to your own health. And so we need to be like the Bereans in uh Acts chapter 17 that received the Word of God with great eagerness, but they examined the scriptures daily to see if what Paul was saying was true. You are responsible to assess whether what you're hearing is true. And so then we see the call to apply the gospel. Paul moves the discussion about what the right use of the law is and how the gospel is applied. And he says in verse 8, now we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. understanding this that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless. And so here Paul is talking about the nature or the purpose of the law. Uh that that it uh that it is good if one uses it lawfully or rightly. I I believe that uh Pastor uh P. D. uh presented a review of Philippians 3 last week and he he raised the issues of the Judaizers and those that were misusing of God's law And so we see that he gives a list of of the uh of those that would be considered uh unlawful. And actually if you look at the list uh from 1 Timothy 1, chapter uh verse 9 to 10, you can actually see that it's really following uh the laws of the Ten Commandments. Uh the first one though uh that the laws for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane. And when you think about the Ten Commandments, well You know, you shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself an idol. You shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God. Observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy. So there's the opening is really dealing with our relationship with God. Then he says, those who strike fathers and mothers. Well, then you have The fourth commandment, honor your father and mother, for murderers you shall not murder. The sexually immoral men who practice uh homosexuality Sexuality, uh you shall not commit adultery. Enslavers uh you shall not steal. Liars and perjurers You shall not give false testament against your neighbor. And so we we can see that Paul is actually mirroring uh the purpose of the law in this sense. Martin Luther, in his commentary to the Galatians, revealed that there were two uses for the law that's given. One is to restrain sin. The purpose of the law accordingly is to restrain the wicked. The devil gets people into all kinds of scrapes. Therefore, God instituted governments and parents, laws, restrictions, and civil ordinances. At least they can help to tie the devil's hands so that he does not rage up and down the earth. This civil restraint by the law is intended by God for the preservation of all things, particularly. for the good of the gospel that it should not be hindered too much by the tumult of the wicked. And so that's one of the purposes of the law, to restrain evil. Uh and you think really, I mean, in our particular day, uh you think about uh we've you know, the war of Russ of uh Putin against uh the Ukrainian people, uh had it not been for the other nations rallying to provide restraint. So God raises up institutions to to provide restraint. The second purpose of the law is to is spiritual and divine. Paul describes the spiritual purpose of the law in these words. Because of Transgressions to reveal to a person his sin, his blindness, misery, his ignorance, hatred, and contempt for God. And so he says, the law is the hammer of death. The thunder of hell and the lightning of God's wrath to bring down the proud and the shameless hypocrites. As long as the person thinks he is right, he is going to be incomprehensibly proud and presumptuous. The monster of self-righteousness, the stiff-necked beast, needs a big axe. And that is what the law is. The law is a big axe. Accordingly, the proper use and function of the law is to threaten until the conscience is scared stiff. This is Martin Luther in his commentary to the Galatians. And so in this sense, this law serves as a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. Uh the business of the gospel, on the other hand, is to quicken, to comfort, to raise the fallen. The gospel, the good news carries the news that God for Christ's sake is merciful to the most unworthy sinners if they will only believe that Christ has by his death has delivered them from sin and everlasting death unto grace, forgiveness, and everlasting life. And so it's so critical for us to see uh these critical purposes of the law. It restrains evil, but it also leads a person to see their need for a savior. Calvin introduced a third purpose, which was bas which was to teach and exhort believers to educate them concerning the nature of Christ. of who God is and his character. Johnstead says this, God sent his son to die for us and now he puts his spirit within us. in order that the righteous requirement of the law may be fulfilled in us. There is no antithesis between law and gospel and the moral standards by which they teach. The antithesis is in the way of salvation. Since the law condemns while the gospel justifies. And so it's a beautiful thing when you look at the law not as the means to save us. But the means to sanctify, to help us to be conform to Jesus, to his character, our Savior And so John Stutz says this, once I face the pure law and expose my polluted soul, I am ready and driven to the gospel for the glory of the blessed God who by his amazing grace has freed me to run after the law, not to save me, but to help me to be like my Savior whom I love. In this way, su such understanding of sound, healthy doctrine is transformative. And so it's important for us to see the power of good doctrine. It's transformative. It changes us into the person and the image of Christ, our Savior. Uh it's been uh there was a research done by uh George Barna uh on uh the contrast uh of between evangelicals And a smaller sect of evangelicals are called those that hold a biblical worldview And he said the large sector of evangelicals, those who would uh claim to have made a personal commitment to Jesus Christ as their Savior. He says, but there's a substantial difference. He says, when he did the study of their behaviors, he says they do not live substantially. This is evangelicals as a whole. They do not live substantially different than the world in terms of their charitable giving, their sexual practices, or their racial attitudes. There's a Christian culture, but it's not transforming their hearts into gospel ministers. But he says, those who hold a biblical worldview, who hold that the Bible is the moral standard and that absolute moral truth exist, and are conveyed through the Bible, who believe that God is the all-knowing, all-powerful Creator who still rules the universe, that salvation cannot be earned by their deeds, and that the Bible is totally accurate in all that it teaches. It says This smaller segment of the evangelical group, he says, are nine times more likely than others to avoid pornographic material on the internet. They're twice as likely to volunteer time to help needy people. And he says Barnes' findings on the different Behavior of Christians with the biblical worldview underline the importance of theology. Biblical orthodoxy does matter And so it's important for us. I mean, I was hearing overhearing the you know some of the teaching, the classes that you have in your your adult education class or Sunday school. I know that there's community groups that are meeting throughout the week that are studying the scriptures. Brothers and sisters, this is so vital to the spiritual health of gospel ministry, of our calling to be disciple makers in our world. But finally, Paul moves from the call to guard the truth and to apply the gospel to experience the grace. Paul does not raise other people's sins. without confessing his own. And he says, I thank him who has given me strength. Christ Jesus our Lord, because he does me faithful, appointed me to this service, though formerly I was a blasphemer, a persecutor, insolent opponent. I have received mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief, and the grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. And so Paul is uh he he's going to a an extremely personal statement about his his own life. Um and he opens up with thanksgiving, you know, that the Lord has given him strength. He refers to the inner strength that Christ has given him before he specifies the ministry for which he needs to be strengthened in. He says that, you know, I thank God who considered me faithful. Now that cannot mean that Jesus Christ trusted him because he perceived him as inherently trustworthy. His fitness or faithful faithfulness was due to the inner strength that Christ had given him. And then he says, I thank my God for appointing me to this service, to the service of the gospel to the Gentiles. And so he gives this list of the mercy that was poured out on him, and he talks about that he was a blasphemy, a blasphemer, a persecutor, a violent man. Uh and he uh you know basically it's kind of an you know uh an ascending uh scale of evil in some sense uh that he's referring to. But humanly speaking, there was no hope for someone like Paul. You know It appeared, you know, well, the man of that kind of vicious personality, uh a violent man, a blasphemer. I mean, is there hope? But he says that I was shown mercy. The grace of our Lord Jesus was poured out on me abundantly. It's like a flood that overflows the banks. And that's not just is not to destroy things, but it's producing fruit. And so we see this, and that really Paul seems to speak to us across the centuries. Don't despair. Christ had mercy even on me, the worst of sinners, and he can have mercy on you. And he can have mercy on your friends or family members or people that you think are just beyond the reach of God. Becky Pippert, she wrote this book on The Heart of Missions, and she says one implication of the cross is that it's very democratic. Everybody is in trouble. We all share that. There isn't anybody who's better off than somebody else We all desperately need God. Consequently, there is no room for superiority, and there is no room for inferiority. Now what does that mean in the context of evangelism? It means that we can't look at someone in the world and say, oh, I I could never relate to them. They're not godly. They're sinners. as if the experience of sin is something foreign to us. And she shares this experience with her husband who is on assignment. uh and uh they became very close to a couple of of political reporters. Uh and the woman's name was Helen. She the she be became friends with and she says even by the most secular standards she was somewhat shocking. She was jazzy and wore very seductive clothes. I used to tease her that I couldn't imagine she had paid money for so little material. She smoked these slim cigars and always made a statement whenever she came into a room. I got to know her and found that she was bright and sensitive and tortured. Knowing that I knew she was married and had two children, She told me that she was having an affair with a man who was also married and had some children. And Becky says that I loved her and I shared my life with her, and I kept encouraging her to read the Bible. And she says, I remember one day she came to my house and said, Becky, I have a specific question about the Gospel of Mark. And Becky says, I knew it. I've been praying for you and loving you and always telling you that you need to read the scriptures. It's because I've been doing that. She said, No, actually, I was with my lover last week. He is Jewish and very unexpectedly he turned to me and said, What do you think about Jesus? And Helen said, pardon me. He explained, Well, I'm a Jew. I know something of the Old Testament. I just decided I should know something of the New Testament, and I am struck by Jesus. There is something very beautiful about who he is, so I thought you would tell me. And Helen said to him, Well, I'm very sorry. I take all my religious questions to Becky. So she had this list of questions, and the parting words from her lover was, Next week, when we get together, among other things, I would like to study the Gospel of Mark. Becky says, Now I have heard of unusual settings for a Bible study, but this gets first place. And so Becky said to Helen, look, Helen, if you're really going to do a Bible study with him and you've never read the Bible, let's study it together. She said, okay. So we began to read the Bible. The first time we were together, she got very nervous and uptight. And I said, what's the matter? Well, excuse me, but could I ask you a personal question? And Becky said, yes. She says, do you think the Bible would mind if I smoke a cigar? And Becky said, I think it can handle that, yeah. So she lit up her cigar and we're into the passage and she says, excuse me, uh, but can I ask you another question? Sure. Uh, do you think the Bible would mind if I had a glass of wine? I said, you could always ask it. I don't know And so from that point on, they met weekly, they read the scriptures, and she with a glass of wine and a cigar in her hand, they would read about Jesus. It was amazing to see her responses. And I remember one study in particular about when Jesus was with the prostitute at Simon's banquet. Helen looked at me and said, Becky, All of my life I have thought that I was worth a piece of dirt. And I was sure that if there were a God, I don't think there is, that he would occur concur with my analysis. Nobody needs to tell me that I'm lost. I know I'm lost. I know I'm groping in the dark. I thought if there is a God, he despises my blindness and my lostness. What I can't get over is that if you're lost, Jesus loves you more than ever. And if you're lost, And you know you're lost, you're probably close to the kingdom of God. Can you imagine that? Me, close to the kingdom of God. And Becky said, Oh yes, I can. And she said, Becky, I can't get over Jesus. Becky put her Bible down and began to cry and said, you know, I've been a Christian for 20 years and I can't get over Jesus either. I don't know what's going to happen to you, Helen. I hope with all my heart that you become a Christian and that you find the wholeness that God wants, but you'll never be the same. Well, Helen apparently broke off that relationship with that man, uh, and she is trying to make her marriage work at that time. She and her husband were assigned overseas, and one day Helen called Becky and she says, I haven't become a Christian yet, but I'm reading the Bible, and I'm reading the Bible to my children. I found a minister and his wife. I don't know, Becky. They have an aroma that reminds me of you. But she said frankly, I find the church a little uptight. Friends. We have a beautiful Savior. He loves sinners. And he wants to work with and through you. To the lost, desperate people who feel like they have absolutely no hope, that they can never believe that they have such a God who would would descend to their place and to love them where they are. I encourage you family of CPC, to be the gospel ministers you are called to be, that you would guard the truth, that you would apply the gospel, and that you would experience his love so that you could be his fragrance in the world. Let's pray. Lord God, we great we're grateful for these words from Paul to to this young Timothy uh who who was given a hard calling. We thank you for Timothy's faithfulness. God, we thank you for this gospel of grace that you have claimed us in this room. Lord, there might be some in this room right now who are struggling with their faith or who maybe are struggling with belief. Lord, I pray that you would work. Deep sense of your spirit's love for them through Christ. Lord, help us to give ourselves away to you that we might be faithful servants. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.