Word to you. I've been so excited uh as we've uh sung our worship uh our songs Uh I kept try trying to hold back so that I could have my voice left to do what I was supposed to do up here today. What a great God we serve What a great thing he has done. If you would, uh if you have a copy of the scriptures, turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 7. And we'll um we'll take a glimpse at uh uh an event that occurred in the life of Jesus starting in verse 36. I think it's interesting to note that there is another occasion found in Matthew twenty-six and mark fourteen where Jesus is at the home of another man named Simon. uh Simon the leper, he is described, and uh a woman anoints his head with oil. And the uh the emphasis in those two accounts is the expense of the um perfume or the oil. And I think there's enough distinction between those two accounts and this one to consider this um a separate event. If you will. With that said, let's look at the word of the Lord and see what he might have us to learn about the Christian experience today. Now, one of the Pharisees had invited Jesus to have dinner with him, so he went to the Pharisee's house and he reclined at the table. When a woman who had lived a sinful life in that town learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee's house, she brought an alabaster jar of perfume. And as she stood behind him, at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and she wiped them with her hair And she kissed them, and she poured perfume on them. Now when the Pharisee, who had invited him, saw this, he said to himself, If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him and what kind of woman she is. That she is a sinner. And Jesus answered him. Simon, I have something to tell you. Teach me, teacher. Tell me, he said. Two men owed money to a certain moneylender. One owed him five hundred denarii, and the other fifty. But neither of them had the money to pay him back, and so he cancelled the debts of them both. Now, which of them will love him more? Simon replied, I Suppose the one who had the bigger debt canceled. You have judged correctly, Jesus said. And then he turned toward the woman, and he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I came into your house, and you did not give me any water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears. And she has wiped them with her hair. You did not give me a kiss. But from the time that I entered, this woman has not stopped kissing my feet You did not pour oil on my head, but she has poured perfume on my feet, and therefore I tell you Her sins, which are many, have been forgiven. For she has loved much. But he who has been forgiven little loves little. And then Jesus said to her, Your sins are forgiven. The other guests began to say among themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins? And Jesus said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. Such, such a drama played out. The setting for this dinner is uh found uh just a couple of verses before verse 36. It's after Jesus has been observed as a friend to publicans and sinners. Um there's a comparison made between John the Baptist and between Jesus and their styles of ministry, and I'm not going to go into the details there. In fact, if you want a really good message on the subject, uh you recall our pastor Alan Harris. Um preached that text just a little while ago so you can see um Paul Eisen and find out what tape number that is. I recommend it But we have three main characters in this drama: Simon, the Pharisee, presumably interested in getting to know Jesus better because he has invited him to dinner at his house. Now, um we can speculate whether or not this invitation has malicious intent or something like that, but uh probably We can maybe guess that Simon invited him to see what Jesus' response would be. I personally think that Jesus accepted the invitation to prove the fact that Jesus does in fact eat and drink with sinners. We'll see that in just a little bit, I hope. Simon had a lesson waiting for him that day, but he didn't know it yet. And then we have this woman. Again, um, presumably uh former um prostitute. Um the way in which uh she's described her sins, which were many, well known in the town Um several scholars that I read uh attempt to make a case that she's married Magdalene. Um I think it's sufficient to state that uh she's a well known sinner in that town and she is a woman who has come. Uh to see Jesus. More than likely she was not an invited guest at the table, but she was taking advantage of the custom of the day where people who were in need could attend a banquet like that and uh beg scraps from the table. And so you get an idea, a flavor for this woman as she uh has come to the same dinner. And then we have Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, the creator of all things, clothed in humanity. Accepting an invitation to dinner, receiving worship from a humble sinner. And caring enough about Simon to take the time out to teach him about his heart. So let's take a look at the action. Jesus is reclining at the table. If you're um uh using the children's bulletin to track with the message and you see the picture on the inside, that's a little bit different presentation than probably what was occurring. As they reclined at the table in those days, their feet were tucked back behind them. And so Luke tells us that she has uh taken a stance Behind Jesus. And I was talking with someone in between the two services, a lady, and she was sharing with me how You know, she might not have come, that woman, prepared to do anything other than observe her Lord. But as she came close, The shame of her sin hit her once again. The great love that he had displayed hit her once again, and she began to weep. And she began to weep probably uncontrollably. And this lady was telling me, and I've witnessed this a couple of times, when um Females start to cry, there's no holding it back. You try, but it's hard. And ladies, it's not just you. When it hits us, the reality of what God has done, sometimes the tears just start to flow. And I think that's probably what happened with her. Enough so that she wet his feet with her tea with her with her tears. And having no towel prepared for the wiping of those feet, she used her hair. Her hair that was hanging loose, probably at one point in her previous life, uh plaited and braided with gold in order to attract the customers that she wanted And now she used her hair to to dry the dirt from his feet in this act of worship. She took the jar that held perfume. Maybe she came prepared, maybe she didn't, and she poured it over his feet And Jesus received the worship. And then there's Simon You know, he's probably kicked back there. He wanted to have the great rabbi over, he wanted to have him at his house. Again, we speculate, we guess why, but He's observing the scene, you know, and he's uh, you know, he probably had a beard and that's what you can do when you have a beard. You can kind of mull over things and examine stuff And he's watching. And he's thinking to himself, Luke tells us. And he says If this man were a prophet, he would know what kind of a woman this is. And if he knew what kind of a woman this is, he wouldn't let her do what she's doing. You know, he might have concluded he must not be a prophet And I'm reminded of Isaiah chapter 65 and verse 5 as the prophet describes the self-righteousness of the people, as he describes the arrogance as they observe others. And do you have a chance to look that verse up? The rebuke comes from the prophet, and he says, You're the kind of people who observe the world around you, and you say, stand back. Give me distance, for I am holier than you are. You see, that's what that's what Simon is thinking to himself How many times we project our own thoughts off onto God or onto others Well, for Simon we have to say that Jesus is a prophet and then some. Because Jesus It says that Simon was saying to himself, and Jesus responded to Simon. You ever pray the prayer of the psalmist? Lord, search me, know me, see if there be any anxious way within me. Well, God responds to that. He knows you. He knows your heart. He knows the deep inner workings of your mind, the way you think. The motives, the way we do things. He knows us. He sees right through us. And he saw right through Simon. And he responded Don't let that truth pass over you too quickly. God responds. He may do it directly through his word. He may do it through his servant Alan as he preaches from this pulpit week in, week out. He may do it through a series of encounters that you and I have with fellow believers as we share in this gospel community that he's graciously given us the opportunity to be a part of. But don't miss this. God responds. He replies. He speaks. And that's what he did to Simon. But parents take note. He didn't go straight to the rebuke and hold his finger out like I know I'm prone to do. I see what's wrong. Emma, do you know Kevin? Jesus says, Simon, uh, I have something for you. I want to tell you something. And Simon probably again thinking to himself, I'm speculating here. Okay, uh, tell me, what is it? You know, I as a rabbi, as a as a as a as a Pharisee, when I invite it to someone's house, they ask me to speak, and I uh have a can-prepared statement to make, and I'll make it So that's probably what he's expecting from Jesus. Simon, I have something for you. Tell me. Teach me. So Jesus says, well, there were two men who owed a debt. One owed about fifty days' wage, and one owed ten times as much. But neither one of the men could pay back what they owed. They were debtors. And the creditor, knowing that they couldn't pay back what they owed, had mercy on them. Luke uses a phrase there. He graciously forgave their debts, is the way it's translated. He graciously forgave their debts. And um and Jesus says, Simon. Which one of these do you think loved more? And now Simon is probably starting to feel a little bit of the heat. Eeeh. Because Simon knows what he was just thinking, right? And now he's starting to figure out maybe this prophet does too. And Simon says, I suppose the one with the greater debt. You know, in that parable Simon's well aware of the law of the day that the The law could be applied to those debtors, and they would be sent to the tormentors, or they could have their children taken and sold in order to pay back the debt. So he realizes the point being made here is that this is a gracious act that they do not deserve. Which one loves more? I suppose the one with the greater debt. And Jesus says, Simon, you have judged correctly. And then in order to put The exclamation point on the story, Jesus turns to the woman and he pronounces some words. I want you to see this as well. As I read over this passage again and again, Jesus turns to the woman. She probably didn't want to be noticed She probably didn't want to be the spectacle or held up as something, anything. And Jesus turns to the woman who is behind her, Luke tells us. And then he calls Simon's attention to it. Simon, do you see this woman? Simon, you didn't even do what was expected of you. You see, in Jesus' word, there is both conviction That cuts to the very core of our being, and there is comfort. In this same message, in the same sermon that you hear There is conviction for some, where we are undone. We are laid before our Lord bare, and we know our sin. And there is comfort in the same word of Christ, as he comforts us with his accomplished work. And that's what we see here. Jesus to Simon, a rebuke. He says, Simon, do you see this woman What was expected of you, you didn't even do. You didn't give me water for my feet, but she has with her tears. Wah washed my feet. With her hair, she's she's dried them. You didn't bring oil to anoint my head But she's poured out this perfume on my feet. Simon, you didn't even greet me with a kiss, but she has extended herself in such a way that she has not stopped kissing my feet since I entered the room, Jesus says. You see, Simon, the lesson here is that she realizes she has been forgiven much. She is responding to a love that has been demonstrated already to her. And she's responding in the way that she sees fit, and that is worship. Extending herself in worship. Simon, to those who have been forgiven little, they love little And then Christ's words, to the woman, to Simon a rebuke, but to the woman refuge. To us who encounter Christ's word and what he's done for us, refuge, comfort, look at Jesus, what he says to the woman, your sins are forgiven. He is pronouncing to her the assurance of forgiveness. Can you imagine the comfort that she felt? The relief that she once again experienced as she hears it from his lips. Your sins, which are many. I know you, woman. I know you. I know the life that you have lived, and your sins, which are many, are forgiven. They are canceled. The payment that you were required to pay has been paid in full. Probably she was a prostitute. This thing of sexual sin, I think, cuts even more deeply to the core when we realize our failure in that area. It's the only sin Paul describes in 1 Corinthians as one that is against one's own body. All other sins, he says, are outside, but this one is such that he says, flee sexual immorality. Now she understands the grace of her Savior, and she demonstrates that understanding with her love. She's able to honestly now deal with her sin. No more pretending to be happy. No more faking joy and peace Jesus paid it all. All to him she owes. Because the sin that she was so quick to run to had left a crimson stain. And Jesus washed it white as snow. Sadly, um many will gather tomorrow on the mall in D. C. to uh commemorate the decision of the Supreme Court. Roe versus Wade, our sexual revolution brought us to that point. And how many poor dear women have been exploited by the abortion industry? And by people looking to make money off of their pain and their strife They need to hear the forgiveness that Jesus offers. We need to hear the forgiveness that Jesus offers. Jesus was able to forgive sins because he is God Almighty. And this raised a stir as well. A man claiming to forgive sins. I have a great quote from C. S. Lewis, but for the sake of time, see me afterwards. I'll give it to you. There's a hubbub at the table. Who is this one that claims to forgive sins? And I want you to see this When I saw it, it was just this week. And I've been looking at this text for I guess a while since ever I knew I was supposed to preach today But look at what Jesus does. Here's this hubbub. And there are times in his ministry where he directly speaks to those who are accusing him of things. And he answers their charge, and he claims to be who he was and he proves it and he vindicates himself. But in this encounter, the hubbub started, who is this one who claims to forgive sin? And look at Jesus. To the woman again, he says, your faith has saved you. Go in peace. The phrase for saved you is in the perfect tense in the Greek. It expresses a completed, finished act with ongoing benefit. That's what he's done. And then he pronounces the benediction on her. He says, Woman, go in peace. And we're reminded again of the Apostle Paul's writing when he wrote to the Romans in chapter 5, and he says Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we now have peace with God. Through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace by now which we stand. Peace with God. A holy God whose anger burns against the wicked every day. And we have been afforded peace with this one through Jesus Christ. I think there's some lessons to be learned in this dramatic event as well. Lessons for us, lessons for me. We owe a great debt So huge in fact that there's no way that you or I could ever hope to uh do anything to bring God down and say, Oh, I see what you've done. Now I will forgive you. Now, the only way to understand the depth of our sin is to encounter the truth of God's holiness. It's like if you're driving down 175 on the way to pick up milk. You know, you just you're not out for a long trip to Virginia or anything. And You haven't applied your safety harness the way your manual has stated that you need to do before you leave the driveway, and you see a car that's got printing on the door, Howard County police to protect and to serve, and you see the bubbles on top. What's the first thing you do when you see that car? And especially if your kids are in the car, you know, you want to make it right. You want to make it right why? Because the law reveals to us that we are lawbreakers If I didn't know there was a law in the books and if I didn't know based on what people close to me and my family have understood in recent days that there's a twenty-five dollar fine for not wearing your safety belt If I didn't know that law, seeing the law would not remind me of my lawbreaker status, but understanding the law Understanding the perfection of God revealed through the law helps me to see my utter sinfulness. Remember Isaiah chapter 6? You know, this great scene where Isaiah is caught up in this vision where he sees the Lord high and lifted up in the The trains of his robe fill the temple in majestic grandeur and righteousness, purity and holiness. And Isaiah's response, you recall Hey buddy, good to see ya. Glad to be here with ya. All right, good. No, not at all. I am a man who is undone. I am, I see myself. I, woe is me. I am spent. There is no hope for me in the presence of a holy God. You see the Lord's Grace and mercy pictured there. He takes the coal and he applies it to Isaiah's lips and he cleanses him And he commissions him. You know, who will go for me? Here my Lord send me. I think a full understanding of our sinfulness helps us to have a A deep and lasting appreciation of God's grace and what He's done for us. We want to make it right, but the only way to make it right It's to run to the cross. The only way to make it right with a holy God is to allow whatever that holy God has done to bring us to Himself to be applied to our lives by faith. It forces us to the cross for cleansing. We don't earn God's love by being Faithful attenders at church. We don't earn God's love by tithing our monies. We don't earn God's love by teaching Sunday school or showing up for worship when it snows God loves us and He demonstrates that love on the cross of Christ. And we do these things when we see the great thing that He has done for us, we respond with love. We love because He first loved us. I wonder, do we understand, do I understand the depth of my sinfulness? I think it's something that we grow in. Um some of you know that I had a roofing business in Georgia. Georgia, however you're saying. For six years when I was down there, uh had a a roofing business. I was a roofer guy and uh took contracts from house and did 'em and and the If you could do a tear-off job, which meant which meant take the old roof off and put the new roof on, you got more money, so you look for the tear-off jobs and I got an opportunity in May of ninety-six and I remember because I finished the roof job on the last day uh the last day of the roof job, uh Leah Flora, my third, was born I remember that day specifically. I'll tell you why if you want later. Um I bid the job because it was forty five hundred square feet of roof and it was two layers and we could make a bundle of money. uh these five guys that worked for me. And so as we got up there, we started peeling back the first layer. Yeah, it's usually pretty easy. And uh, you know, sometimes it all stays together and you can peel big strips off and stuff. And then the second layer is a bit more difficult 'cause the nails are kind of corroded and everything wants to hold on. Well you know, to our shock and dismay, especially because it was uh record setting heat that week in Covington, Georgia. There was a third layer underneath. And you never want to see a third layer. You hardly hate to see second layers, but as a roofer, a third layer is just Death. Because that roof wants to hang on for dear life. It's nasty. It stinks. Everything's corroded and you have to really get down there and work at it. And I think that's the way it is with our sin. When we come to Christ, we understand his holiness and we understand our sinfulness, but we have a small understanding of it. And as uh Steve Green is is fond of saying, you know, it's the Lord peeling back that onion and just letting us see more of our heart, more of him forcing us to the cross. There's a chart in your handout that depicts what normal Christian growth ought to look like. You see that? It's from World Harvest Mission. And along with this chart comes an analogy. Analogy of a married couple. I was 14 when I met Dana, my wife. And I was twenty-four when she and I stood in front of a bunch of people and made promises to one another before God and before men and became husband and wife. I'm 36 now. And I'll tell you, I thought I knew everything about marriage and most everything about Dana. When I stood there on that stage, and I came to find out about the first week, I knew very little about marriage and slightly less about Dana I think that's the way it is with our walk with the Lord, but I grew in my understanding. Sometimes I grow by leaps and bounds. The Lord has got me an intense learning time. And sometimes I grow small little baby steps, but I grow as I go. And I think that's what God wants us to see today that it is a pilgrimage in the truest sense of the word We have an understanding of God's holiness and our sinfulness, and the truth that Jesus' death on the cross is the only thing that reconciles those two. How about us? How about you? I wrote some questions when I was doing uh some journaling and prayer stuff. And I listed them in your handout. I I commend them to you. One of the things that they did for me was drive me to the cross. Answer the first question, uh, and if you pause, maybe go straight to the second question. Because that's what I had to do. The third question I would just commend to you because I think that it is on us, Peter says in his second letter, do everything you can with all diligence to make your call and your election sure for yourself. God knows who his elect are, but he wants you to know that you belong to him. And this involves a lot of things. Bible study, prayer. For some of you today, it involves church membership. Because when Christ pronounced to her, your sins are forgiven, he still does that today. There is an objective assurance that we have as believers when we come to the church and the church recognizes our credible profession of faith. We don't put all our eggs in that basket, but we put some of our eggs in the in the objective assurance that Christ Church says you belong to Christ. And we come to the table, and he feeds us and he keeps us and he preserves us. Are you doing everything you can to make your call and election sure, to grow in an understanding of his love for you? And do you need to talk to someone? That's the fourth question. About your relationship to Christ. Listen, I only put one blank in my handout today, and it's this one. I I want you the first answer to be the Lord Jesus Christ. And then I want you to maybe draw a slash. And is there someone? I hope there is. Who you feel safe with, who you know loves the Lord, loves you, that you can talk to honestly about your sin. I want to close with an excerpt, an excerpt from an email I received this week. A guy I'd been sharing with via email, in person, different things. In a previous email, he had asked me a question, a general question about a specific type of sin. And you know, as we're kind of, I don't know, maybe we're trained to do in seminary or working with Stephen Al, it's made me do this, but I sent him an email back with some probing questions because I thought that there was probably more there and I just wanted to give him an opportunity if he wanted it. Sure enough, it seemed that uh the Lord had been Using different things in this guy's life to bring him to the point where my questions were just the final straw in a in a big bundle of straws, to bring him to an honest view of himself. And he sent me this email after he'd taken a severely honest look at his own heart. And the the paragraph I want to close with is just a um small portion of about a two and a half page, two page email. And he says this. And then it hit me. I was gonna have to talk to you about the sin that I was struggling with. It was weird It was actually a feeling of relief. I had envisioned that when I finally confessed my sin to someone else it would be a thoroughly dreadful experience. But that's not the feeling that I had at all. I I felt like a terrible burden. had been lifted off of my shoulders. And then I heard Pastor Green's sermon. It was just convicting. He was talking about me. I saw God's chief desire for me to be holy. But out of this came a feeling that I wanted other people to see that I was holy. I didn't want other people to know that I'm a sinner. I was screwed up. I am screwed up But God is working on me. One thing I'm seeing now is just the total idol that I had made out of my reputation. It was the most important thing to me. It was the mo it was more important than my relationship with God, but thank God God wouldn't allow it. I never really have spent consistent time with God until this past fall. This past fall, I made it a priority for every morning. And that's the way I started my day. I know God used those times to bring me to this point. My relationship with Him grew until finally now I see that my relationship with Him is the only thing that matters. No more idols. Let's pray together. Father, please Please reveal yourself to us Lord, use this time of meditation to speak directly to our hearts