Well, I also would like to welcome all of you this morning as we gather and worship and now hear the Word of God read and preached. My name is Bob Bierkus. I'm the pastor here, and it's wonderful to have all of you here. If you're visiting today, I'd love to meet you at the welcome desk after the service. And if you're not visiting, I'd still love to meet you there. I'm there every Sunday after the service. If you have your Bible with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke. Our text this morning is the Gospel of Luke, chapter six, beginning with verse twenty-seven. Let's pray. Almighty God, we thank you that we can come just as we are, as was so beautifully. impressed upon us moments ago, Lord, we thank you that we can come tired, we can come energized, we can come happy or sad, rich or poor. We can come in any state the human condition finds itself. And your word can speak to us where we are. And it always tells us the way home. How to draw one step closer to you, how to get one step further away from all that is wrong and sad. And Father, we pray that you would bless the reading of your word to us. We pray that as the scriptures are read, we would receive it with gratitude and anticipation because it is the word of God. And it is precious, and it is incredibly powerful when received by faith and blessed by your Spirit. And that's what we're asking God. The Father in the preaching that follows the reading of your word. And as much as it is faithful, Lord, make it helpful. We ask these blessings in Christ's name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke chapter 6, beginning with verse 27, the Word of God. But I say to you who hear, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who abuse you. To one who strikes you on the cheek, offer the other also. And from one who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either. Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods, do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them? And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners to get back the same amount. But love your enemies and do good and land, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. This ends the reading of God's Word. So every once in a while in the church office, I work with an open door so I can uh be part of the life of uh the Potter's House environment And every once in a while I'll walk out and say, hey, guess what? Because I'll have learned something pretty remarkable, or I'll have read something that really got my attention. And this week I learned two things that I had never ever noticed before about this text. First, I noticed that this is the first command God gives in the Gospel of Luke through Christ. Jesus has done a lot of teaching before his model and made a lot of statements, but the first time he uses the imperative mode and actually commands his disciples to do anything. It is to love their enemies. You see, Luke, inspired by the Holy Spirit to give us this testimony of the life of Christ, is insistent, and he puts it right at the beginning. This most difficult of commands. Love your enemies. The second thing I noticed, this is probably in many respects more trivial. Many of us know that King David, when he wrote his Psalms, he seemed to think in two. He always says things twice. He says something, then paraphrases it, says something, then paraphrases it. Paul, the apostle, if you've done any study of his epistles, he seems to think in three. He's always got sets of three ideas. I'd never noticed before that Luke, throughout the Gospels in Acts, thinks in sets of four. And here we see three sets of four. We see four commands. About loving enemies, doing good to haters, blessing those who curse, praying for those who abuse. And we see another set of four to the one who strikes you on the cheek, to the one who takes away your cloak. To the one who begs from you and from one who takes away. Four. And then we have another set of four, all about reward. What benefit is it to you? What benefit it is to you? What credit is that to you? Your reward will be great. And so this passage falls very neatly into three parts. And as we look at them, we're going to look at the first two parts together because the first two parts Verses 12, pardon me, verses 27 through 31 are summarized by this statement, and as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. The Golden Rule. And so the very first thing we see about the first command of Jesus in the Gospel of Luke is concerning the Golden Rule. But there's something we should notice about this. The Golden Rule is not unique to Judeo-Christian tradition. In fact, there are a lot of places we find expressions of what we would recognize as the Golden Rule, even at the time of Christ. from non-Judeo Christian sources. However, they aren't worded this way This is worded in a positive way. You do to others what you would have them do to you. See, in all the other traditions, it's worded the backwards way. Do not do to others what you would not want them to do to you. So in one sense, in the other traditions, the golden rule basically says, and this is true if you're in the Far East or in the Mideast, That's where we have other expressions of this statement. One comes from Egypt before the time Jesus utters this. They're saying, curb your restraint to do evil. Don't do bad things to people that you wouldn't want them to do to you. That's the extent of it. That's not a golden rule. That's kind of a brass rule. Maybe, maybe copper. The golden rule, as Jesus puts it to us, is a positive command. You do the good, the beautiful, the righteous thing to others that you wish they had done to you. It's very different. You see, Jesus has a way of drilling deeper into the human condition and touching the soul in a more profound way than any Confucius ever could. And he calls us to live a transformed life and to be more than children of great men. He calls us to be children of the Most High. And I want you to look at this list of four test conditions. These are conditions that help you understand who it is that you need to focus on treating with love. with good works, who you need to pray for and who you need to bless. The first test condition, are they your enemy? Second, do they hate you? Third, do they curse you? And fourth, a hot button word in our culture today, do they abuse you? We could scarcely think of a worst set of criteria to describe someone in their relation to us. Now we can play all kinds of mental gymnastics and put all of these in a in a you know a small like number six point font and really light gray, so you can barely notice it And I could use the gifts that God gives preachers to be clever and word things well and qualify things to marginalize these ideas such that they are irrelevant to your life. In fact, I could preach to you in such a way that you might leave here thinking, you actually do love your enemies. Go home and enjoy your shepherd's pie and wait for the Super Bowl and don't be troubled at all. I have often thought in my pastor's study that I have not prepared a sermon to preach unless I myself have felt the lively sting deep in my conscience. And the goading of the Spirit of God to try to be different. And I would be an utter failure as a pastor. If we as a congregation left here not feeling called to love someone better who hates us, to bless someone who curses us, and to do good even to enemies. So I would dare you to think about people that really wish ill upon you. Maybe they've actively imposed ill harm, evil crime, sin upon you. Maybe they just despise you with an irrational disgust. I'd be surprised if there's not someone in your life like that, because you're living in the same world I am. And the question that the disciple of Christ, the one who would follow Jesus to learn from him, to become like him, That person has to ask themselves this question. Do I love them? Do I do good to them? Do I bless them? Do I pray for them? Let's talk about those things for a minute Now, love we think of today in our culture as an affection over which we have no control. I can't tell you how many times I've heard the troubled spouse say, but Pastor, I just don't love them anymore. And I say, that word love, it does not mean what you think it means. We act as if love is something that we either have or don't have. We have no control. We can't exercise it. We it's either we love someone or we don't, and that's really up to them and whatever we had for breakfast. If God says to you, I command you to love that person, you may be sure of one thing. It's possible for you to do that right now. You see, love is so much more than a feeling, and we need to rebuke the culture that tells us it's a feeling that comes and goes of its own will. And we need to teach our kids that love is a settled, decided commitment to be good and do good to another. And you might say, well, how do we love then? Well, let's look at the text that our worship leader, Gary, showed us earlier, referred to it in 1 Corinthians. Be patient, be kind, be gentle. You see, any one of us can be any of those things to anybody, regardless of our feelings. And you, dear friend, are called to love even your enemy. And we can see three specific ways that that love manifests or shows itself in the context of people that really, really do not care for us. It involves doing good. If you have an opportunity to do good for a person. Even when they've done nothing but make your life miserable. Share an example of this that uh because my wife isn't here and she can't jump up here and stop me. When we were first married, um I'd like to think I've become a better spouse since then. I've had almost 30 years of practice. But We got into a fight about something, and I can't even remember what it was, but I'm pretty sure I was the wrong party in that fight. And it was just a squabble. So it was just an argument, yeah, yeah, you know, going at each other. We were living in an apartment right here by Hickory Ridge No kids, newlyweds. And it was time for dinner and Carrie went in the kitchen and she tells the story better than I do. She might be a little uh nonplussed when she finds out I told it for her. Uh then we'll have another fight and I'll be the bad guy again. But in any event she went into the into the kitchen and she was gonna make uh uh tuna salad for herself for dinner. She was like, I'm not making him dinner. That was what her inner dialogue was saying. And then the Holy Spirit did his work. Thank you, Jesus. Because I'd have been very hungry if not. She said, you know what? He's my husband. I'm called to love him. I do love him. And even though I'm really mad at him right now, because he can be, you know, and I always I I told her, look You gotta realize jerk is right in my name. Even though he's a jerk, I'm gonna make that guy tuna salad for dinner. And that's kind of a silly, fun story, but think about when it's harder. How many of you have heard of a bell curve? I'm guessing all of you. Kids, for those of you who are young here, a bell curve is like a curve that shows you at each end of this curve. There's small numbers of people, but as you get to the middle, there's a lot of people. One thing I've observed in coaching lacrosse, I've coached lacrosse for over 30 years. Is that generally in a healthy team situation you you have a bell curve. As a coach, there's a couple kids that just want to be just like you. They think you're the best coach they've ever had. And there's a couple kids that want to put your picture on that red circle in the middle of their dartboard. And then everybody else sort of a healthy positive respect. Well, I had a kid who was just an absolute curmudgeon, good athlete, and just really, really a stone in my shoe, if you know the type. And I had someone ask about him on a travel team and what his strengths and weaknesses were. And my first instinct was to throw that kid under the bus hard. But then, if I can quote Joshua Chamberlain, the Civil War colonel, I listened to the higher angels. I said, you know, he's a great kid. Every once in a while he's hard to get along with, but he works hard. He's got a solid offhand, and he shares the ball well. He'd be good on your team. You see, an opportunity to do good even to those who don't like you. We don't think you're one of the best coaches they had. Spouses, to do good and not think that you are excused from doing good or permitted to do wrong. Because after all, they don't treat you that well. Shame on us for thinking such silly thoughts. We are not disciples of Christ. Not like that. We are called to bless and to pray. What does it mean to bless people who curse you? Well, we think of blessing now as what you do after a sneeze. And I'm not saying it's anything that trite. It's something far deeper. Go back into the ancient world of the Bible, and to bless someone means to declare, to in a sense prophesy, think of that with a lowercase p, good and awesome things for that person. And Be committed to see it happen. When I bless a kid, whether it's mine or a kid at battalion or a kid in the youth group or in the Sunday school to have a chance to talk to, and I say, you know, one day you are going to be a pillar in this church. Not only am I declaring something over them, but I am committing myself to I'm going to do everything I can for your spiritual flourishing so that you can be mighty in the Lord. And when people curse, even if they curse me and say, I wish nothing but the worst for you, Bob, It is my calling as a Christian to wish for and work for the very best for them. I bless them. And I pray for them. And this is not the way the prayer goes. Lord, please in your divine providence and justice, have them run off the road this morning on their way to work. The imprecatory prayers are not what God has in mind here. Pray for them. Lord, bless them. You know, I can't tell you how many times I've met Christians who struggle with praying for the president if they didn't vote for him. And we live in such hateful, outrageous eras where you either seem to really love someone or really hate them, and there's no middle ground anymore. I prayed for Obama. I pray for Trump. What I think or feel about one or the other is profoundly irrelevant. When it comes to my Christian duty. And we have forgotten this. We have imbibed the drink of an outraged culture that's handed out in every news outlet in America. And we think we're not good people unless we hate those who are hateful and unless we uh curse those who are curseable and unless we And we don't smell like heaven when we act that way. We smell like hell itself. The golden rule requires us to be so counter-cultural that our very existence repudiates the world. And we see that in the next set of four. This very difficult passage that basically says the one who strikes you on the cheek, that could be translated jaw. That's not just a social effrontery that doesn't hurt. That's a roundhouse. Offer the other also. From one who takes away your cloak, give him your tunic too. You know, if he if he takes away your jacket, give him your shirt to go with it. If he begs, if he's importune in his pleading, give him. And if he takes stuff away from you by force, if he steals from you. Don't demand it back. What is the point being made here? And to be sure, there is a measure of hyperbole here. It's not as if the Bible never permits self-defense or never permits uh pleading before a judge. But it's basically insisting that when we engage with others, especially those who do wrong for us, we cannot simply be thinking about ourselves, our prerogatives, and our rights. We have to be thinking about them and we have to take a very long view on that relationship. We can't be so fixed on our well-being that we're not looking to their interests, even if their interests are at this particular moment not only contrary to mine, but denigrating of mine, oppressive to me. We have to see ourselves as men and women who have come to serve even people who would abuse us, mentally, emotionally, physically, who would curse us. He would hate us and who would acknowledge that there are enemies. That's a difficult thing, isn't it? It's difficult to do unto others as you would have them do unto us. Jesus' first command applies the golden rule in a deep and searching way, but it also pursues the greatest reward. Think about these three things he says. If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love him? If you're the Calix spouse who says, you know, I'm going to love you, husband, or I'm going to love you, wife, if you love me back, well, there's a word for that. That's secular pagan relationship 101. There's nothing spiritually commendable about loving people who love you. Nothing at all. Hell is going to be full of people who were experts at loving people who loved them. But what about the next one? If you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. Hell is going to be full of people who hold the door open for people who hold the door open for them. Hell is not going to be full of people who hold the door open for people who slam the door on them. Hell is not going to be full of people who love people. Who are their enemies? What about the third one? What benefit is changed for how is that to your credit? What credit is that to you? If you uh If you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what what credit is that to you? If you don't take any risks in helping people who need help when you have the capacity to help them, How are you different from Wall Street? And does not God have a higher standard for us than the best practices of a capitalist society? Doesn't He? Doesn't he call us to lend freely? Doesn't he call us, and this is a personal statement, by the way. This isn't about public policy. These are commands for disciples individually. I should be willing to lend even to someone that I think they're not going to be able to pay me back. They're probably not going to be able to pay me back. They definitely won't pay me back. If they need it and I have it. Given that heaven could start tomorrow and Jesus could come back before I finish this sermon. If I have such a perspective and I have something and I have the capacity to share it, should I not? You see, if I don't, I'm no different than the rest of the world. And that's the point that Jesus is making and that Luke wants stated at the very beginning of the commandments of Jesus Christ. But what about that great reward? Luke has been dealing with sets of four things, and in this set of four things there's three negative, and then we'll One positive says, What benefit, what benefit, what credit? You know, what there's no reward in these things. Here is a great reward. Love your enemies and do good and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great. And you will be sons of the Most High, for he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. O Christian. Would that you and I were kind to the ungrateful and the evil, and were merciful. Who do we act like? I had a teacher when I was in fourth grade. His name was Mr. Weida. He was at Schwansfield Elementary School. And for whatever reason, fourth grade Bobby Bierkus just thought Mr. Weida was awesome, even though he taught math. And Mr. Waida was fighting cancer. I didn't know it at the time. I found out later. He ended up dying from it while I was in middle school. But Mr. Waida, partly because of medical problems, he was bow-legged. And you'd be shocked how many kids in my fourth grade class, little boys, walked kind of bow-legged, trying to imitate Mr. Wyda. Because he was so cool. Do I walk like my Heavenly Father? Am I kind to evil people? Evil Am I merciful to unrighteous people? Do I do good to people who treat me badly? You see, when the Bible describes me as a person, your Bible describes me as a person with these two phrases. An enemy of God. and an object of wrath. Now I'm talking about me prior to my union with Christ by grace through faith, me being born again, me in my flesh. We as humans, if it says it about me, beloved, it says it about you. We as people are described in the Bible as enemies of God and objects of wrath. evil and ungrateful. And yet God is kind to us. He causes the rain to fall on the just and the unjust alike, the Bible says And he came and took on our flesh to die for sinners like you and me, enemies of the Most High, people who lived in rebellion against our Maker. And he says to people who hate him, come if you're thirsty, and drink, you who believe in me. He says to those who do ill to him. And Luke alone of the gospel writers narrates this blessed word from the cross. Even as they're pounding nails in his flesh, Father forgive them, for they know not what they do. In Acts chapter 6, the same phrase comes out of Stephen, the deacon who was martyred. Father, forgive them, even as they're killing him by throwing rocks. You see, when we act like the children of the living God It must be demonstrated in how we treat others who don't like us who do wrong to us, who withhold good things from us. That is the distinctive saltiness of the Christian life, which once it is lost, what is left? merely the conduct of a reasonable sinner. The power is in how we treat the person who hates us. The power is in whether or not we love the person who's not deserving of it. The power is in whether we bless those who curse us and turn the other cheek. This week I read a book that uh I'll go ahead and call them out because that's how I do what I do. Uh Michael Hall gave me this book. So thank you, Michael. I've already finished it. You can give me another book anytime. Where's Michael? Is he over there somewhere? There he is. I'm already done, buddy, so I need another book. Leonard Ravenhill, Why Revival Tarries? I'd heard of this book, I'd never read it, and boy am I glad I read it. But let me read you something that starts his chapter here. How many of you would like Revival? Okay, I I don't see well, so someone tell me every hand is up. When you look at what God has done in seasons of revival in churches and communities, it just makes you weep for joy. And I have longed to experience revival, even at a distance, and hear about it. When I hear about what's happened at Asbury twice in the last 30 years. Hundreds of young people giving their life to Christ. Prayer meetings lasting for days. When I hear about what's happening in the global south, I just want to go. I want to see it. I want to be a part of it. Amen. Well, I think one of the reasons revival tarry is that this fellow Leonard Ravenhill points out so well is that we don't really take God at his word anymore. Listen to what he says here. He begins chapter 8. One of these days, some simple soul will pick up the book of God. It's right here, the Bible. One of these days, some simple soul will pick up the book of God, read it, and believe it. Then the rest of us will be embarrassed. Love your enemies. Do not qualify Those terms. Your enemy is the person who hates you the most. Love means treat them. The way Jesus treated those who killed him. Do not qualify and parse out and carefully minimize the impact. of doing good to people who don't do good to you, and watch your marriages catch fire in the best way possible Love your kids, who are sometimes anything but lovable. Love your parents, even if they have done you wrong. For there is no righteous parent. There are only repentant parents. Love your cousins, love your neighbors, love the people sitting around you. I'll be shameless. Love your pastor. I will love you. Love Edward the intern. He's an amazing guy. Love your church staff. Love your neighbor. Bless everyone you encounter. Pray for everyone whose name ever crosses your mind. For good reasons or bad. Act like your heavenly Father. You know, there is no higher description in the Gospel of Luke up until this point. You demonstrate your identity by acting like God. In Luke chapter 1, verse 32. When the angel Gabriel talks to Mary and says, you are going to give birth to a child, and he will be the Son of the Most High. And if we will act like this, we too will be called sons, children, daughters of the Most High. There is no greater accomplishment in this life. than having the Bible attest to the fact that this one acts like Jesus himself The imitation of your merciful Father is a great mercy to those around you because God just might use you to draw someone to Himself. And so this difficult text, this first command of Jesus for disciples like me and you, it calls me to ask this, who do I Who do you need to start loving? I will I have struggled to write this because there's people that I do not want to love. Not here. I want to love all of you. There are people in my past that to my shame I would not weep if I heard they got hit by a truck. Are you like me? Do you need to join your pastor in repentance and say, that is not the attitude of Christ. Are there people in your life who've hurt you badly? That you have a sort of Schaden Freud sort of rejoicing at misfortune when it comes to their life? When you need to rather have your heart broken that they are suffering, and long for and wish for and pray for nothing but the best for them. I would ask all of you to consider something Gary said at the very beginning in the call to worship, when he read that beautiful description from Peter about how we are a chosen race, a royal priesthood. And he invited us to consider whether that describes us. I would ask also: are you a child of the Most High? Has God looked upon you in your disregard for himself? Your disobedience to the one to whom obedience is owed. And have you received the mercy that he offers? The mercy that he offers is the fact that this teacher who uttered these words, Jesus of Nazareth, was indeed the Son of the Most High, not by imitation. But by personal identity. And he came and lived and died for us, modeling for us this radical, crazy love. This abundant blessing, this utterly devoted constant prayer, a perpetual doing of good When they nailed one of his hands to the cross, he gave him the other as well. And they stripped him down to nothing but the bare minimum in decent society. To pay the penalty for our sins, to endure the wrath of God, not just the scorn of men, so that we who look to Him with faith can be forgiven, renewed, receive mercy. And then show that mercy to one another. Amen. Almighty God, we thank you for your amazing love. And it is amazing because you loved us. You loved us first when we didn't love you at all, and our whole life was a a demonstration of either antipathy or ignorance or hatred towards you. One way or the other we Utterly despised the offer of the gospel until it became sweet to us by your grace and we embraced it. Almighty God, we ask your every blessing on us. Help us. to take great pains this week to apply this very difficult first command of Jesus in the Gospel of Luke. Help us, O living God, to love our enemies. And, oh God, forgive us for not loving them Create in us a new heart. Renew a right spirit, a steadfast spirit within us. Lead us in ways of righteousness for your name's sake, for we would be nothing. Other than children of the living God, the Most High. Hear our prayers in Christ's name. Amen.