Now let's turn to God's Word as we come down to the next to the last message on this book, The Fall of Psalms. The word of God to us. Let us consider God's word from the Song of Psalms now, chapter 8. Verses 5 to 7. Psalm of Psalm 8, verse 5 to 7. Let's give God's word our attention. Who is this coming up from the desert, leaning on her beloved Under the apple tree I roused you. There your mother conceived you. There she who was in labor gave you birth Face me like a seal over your heart. Like a seal on your arm. The love is as strong as death. It's jealousy unyielding as the grave. It burns like blazing fire, like a mighty flame. Many waters cannot quench love. Rivers cannot wash it away. If one were to give all the wealth of his house for love, it would be utterly score. Who is this strange, four-legged creature coming up slowly from the desert? Oh, two people. It's a man and a woman. They're so close together they look like God They're cleaving together. And we're so wrapped up in each other that they don't seem to notice anyone else around us. And as they come closer to it, you notice that they're reflecting on their life This is the couple that we've been following for some weeks now. The couple whose love we have been investigating over the months and the years of their relationship. And now after this time, they're reflecting on the essence of their love together. They've experienced erotic love. We've seen them as playful companions. And now as they come up from the desert, they're reflecting on what it is that is the essence of their love together, the very love of God. And as they do this, they give us in these three verses five insights into the essence of biblical love. I want to look at those this morning. Those five insights. You see them there in the bulletin outline, and I've made them alliterative so that might help us to remember them. First of all, that love has perspective. Secondly, that love is possessive. Thirdly, that love is powerful. Firstly, that love is perpetual, and fifthly, that love is priceless. First of all then, love has perspective. Verse 5. Under the apple tree I roused you, where your mother conceived you. He who was in labor gave you birth. The Hebrew endings of this and these other verses here are all masculine, indicating that it's the woman who's speaking here now, and she speaks to him about the origin of their life. And then reflects back beyond that. And we see in what she's saying here that one of the marks of love is that it's not arrogance. Brother's been arrogant and thinks that there's never been a love like ours. We're Romeo and Juliet incarnate yet. There's never been a love like ours, and there never will be. That's the mark of infatuation. Infatuation believes that no one can ever understand them. We're absolutely unique. The true love is humble. It has perspectives. The apple tree you see is a symbol of uh erotic love in this culture. And so what she's saying is, not only the apple tree, I aroused you, I also realized that we're not the only ones who have ever felt like this. Our parents felt like this. And that's how you and I came into being. Our parents experience passion. And so she reflects on that, and there's a humility in recognizing that your parents and my parents love one another in the greatest passion that you or I might think that we have ever experienced love too. And we don't think that we're absolutely unique in that. And so true love is realistic. But its realism does not mean that it doesn't have passion. And so while she reflects on that But it was there in that same kind of atmosphere that your mother conceived you and she moves and labor gave you birth, that she then moves on to the second point of her own passionate longing to be possessed by her. And so we see in verse 6, the beginning of that verse, place be like a seal over your heart. And like a seal over your arms. The seal in that culture was the mark of ownership of something that was particularly precious. She says, thank you as a seal over your heart So I will be close to your affections. And it should place me as a seal over your arms, that I will be under your protection. Your affections and your perceptions. And it seems that mark of precious ownership that I belong to you. And that reminds us of the love of God. Do you remember the garments of the high priest as God dictated those in Exodus chapter 28? Probably the most prominent part of that garment was the breastplate. But you remember what God said in Exodus 28, that the breastplate was to be and what it was to look like We read in Exodus chapter 28 and verse 21 that there are to be 12 stones on this breastplate. One for each of the names of the sons of Israel, representing each tribe, and that symbolizing all of God's people, each engraved like a seal with the name of one of the twelve tribes. So what is this breastplate? It's a row of four by three precious stones, each one with the name of God's people. And those are precious stones, because our people are precious to him. And those stones are where? Those of his heart. And so you read down in verse 29. Whenever Aaron enters the holy place, he will bear the names of the sons of Israel over his heart. That's the whole meaning of the breast place. That God's people will be over his heart from the breastfed decision of the continuing memorial before the Lord. Isaiah put it like this. He said that God says, that you're engraved on the very palms of my hands. And God says through Isaiah, could a mother forget a little suffering child? Yes, she might forget. And yet I could never forget you. It's easier for a mother to forget her baby than for God to forget us. And so we see Jesus, the great high priest. And he comes into the very holy of holies in God's presence and interseeds where And uh where are we in that? You see the picture is that we're over his heart. Where is a seal at that breastplate? Over the heart of Jesus And God is saying here to the Psalm of Paul that if the man's love for the woman reflects the love of Christ for us, so we are over his heart. As the woman is over the heart of this man. That's why we wear weddings. A wedding we see is a seal of ownership. And then somebody sees that ring when a person stands from a long finger. And somebody sees uh, that's a feel of the fact that I graduated from college. This is the feel of the fact that I belonged to Kathy over here Then you see that then, and then you realize that I am only. I belong to my mother. And she's mine And because of that, that means that there's an exclusive relationship. She possesses me, and I possess her. And that's why wedding rings are always a goal. Because gold is the metal that symbolizes preciousness. It's the precious metal. And so the idea of the wedding ring is that it's a precious seal. And that's what Psalm of Psalm 8. 5 is talking about. 8. 6. Place me like a seal over your affection. Place me like a seal under your protection. And so the Lord Jesus Christ has placed his seal on you and me. We've been given the mark of baptism, and that seals us to Jesus Christ. And because of that, you have your sin of mind, and you may never be unfaithful to him. For our God is a jealous God. And that's why Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 11. 2 Timothy 11, verse 2 says, I am jealous for you, with a godly jealousy. I promise you to one husband, to Christ. So that I might present you, the church, as a pure virgin to live. But Paul says, I'm afraid the church of Eve was deceived by the purpose kind. Your life may somehow be led astray from your sincere and sure devotion to Christ. Christian, I call you in the name of Jesus Christ, just as you take in the wedding vows, those of you who are married. And for all of us, married or unmarried, who have taken the vows of belonging to Jesus Christ and given the seal of his baptism, be faith in Christ. Let not your devotion part from him. Let not your affections, let not your eyes stray from him as the center of your devotion and affection. For God is a jealous God. And the seal of his own issue is upon him. But the seal of that ownership is just as those gems upon the breastplate of the high priest. The seal of his love. But that's to you that he will never forget you. And never for one instant Are you out of his mind with all of his love set upon him? No matter how your circumstances may seem, God remembers and he's placed you over his heart The third thing we see about love here is the power of love. Love is powerful. It was on in verse 6 to say, the love is as strong as death. It's jealousy as unyielding as the grave. It burns like a blazing fire, like a mighty flame. You see the two symbols here in that first part. Death and the grave. Why? Well, think about it. Death and the grave hold a relentless grip Upon every person. All men are held in the grip of death. And yet, God's word is teaching us here that there is a power that is stronger than death. A power that is stronger than the grave. It's the love of Christ. It's the love of Christ so that when he saw you and me in the grip of death When he saw you and me under the power of the thread of the grave, Jesus Christ saw us at the jaws of death, and he knew that there was absolutely nothing that could deliver us Except for him to become a mortal man, for him to live so that he would be in full accord to God's law And become by that an eligible sacrifice so that he would be able to go to the cross of Calvary and lay down his life, then his love for you would drive him consciously to give up his own life. Drive him to death. Drive him to the grave. So that in his going to death, he might free you and me from the threat and the power of death itself. So that from his resurrection, you and I are free from death. Because there is a power that is strong and even stronger than death Love the strongest death. Love, in fact, the love of Christ has released us from the grip of death. And that love has released you. This is statement. The feeling there is behind a person's simple statement. American things do some tough hearts. And you may see a trace of a smile as a person says that, with a kind of sadness that lets you know that there's a world of feeling behind those words. And lying awake in bed, with his stomach churning, thinking I've been hurt so very much that I can't be hurt anymore Feeling absolutely none. Feeling like you can't feel anymore. Feeling the energy Imagine yourself, where can I go? What can I do? I'm trapped. Who can I tell? Who would understand? Who would be able to help me? What can we do so that we can go on? There seems to be no hope left. Who would understand that? But all of a sudden with your mind there, you think, why not tell Jesus? But then you think, but that seems so unreal. It just seems like I'd be crawling out in the darkness. And then you say to yourself, how can I know the reality of Jesus? Well, you realize it's three words. And so, with a sense of desperation, you go to your Bible and you begin to read about Jesus. You want to become real, you want for someone to understand in your own emptiness. And as you read about him, all of a sudden he realized that here is someone he could understand more than any human being he could ever tell. Because as you go through the record, that historical record on which we can rely to find out that here is a man who not is no man And was unresponded to as no one has been unresponded to. He came, as we said earlier, to give his life, to save you and me from death, to save his disciples. And yet every time he even brought up the subject about the fact that he was going to die, either they changed the subject, they misunderstood what he said, or they began to talk about which one of them was going to be the biggest shot in the kingdom. And as he approached the time of his death, he was betrayed. He was abandoned. There was no light to comfort him. He simply poured out his life for those whom he loved. And his love came utterly unrequited. But all of a sudden you realize here's someone who understands. Here's someone whose love was stronger than death. whose love was stronger than anything that could quench. It was a burning flame. And it was a love that was so perpetual. And that's the first thing. So perpetual that no blood could ever put it out. You see, she says that not like a burning flame, like a mighty flame. And then we're going to verse 7 to say that many waters cannot quench this flame. Rivers. Of unresponsiveness, of coldness, of sin, your sin, my sin, nothing can quench the love of Christ It's a flame that is like the burning dish before Moses. It was burning and burning and ever consumed. It was like the sacrifice at Mount Carmel. The cave and licked up the stones and licked up the water in the fresh, but everything before it was consumed and nothing could put it down. For it's the very flame of God, and that's an all-in-a-possible reading of what the Hebrew says here. It's God's own flame of love. A flame which is unquenchable Here it is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and gave his son to be a feeling sacrifice for our sake. We could not quench that love. And that's why Paul, when he describes the nature of love in 1 Corinthians 13, finishes up by saying in verse 7 and 8 that love always protects. Love always trust. Love always hope. Love always perseveres. The love never fails. Never fails. The love of Christ can never fail. His love for you can never fail. And so whatever the circumstance that I'm in, I can rise up and I can say, Jesus, I will set my love on that person. Because your love for me has been so great and so overwhelming. And you told me that the one way that I can show my gratitude to you for your love is to love one another, is to set my love on another person. And let you love that person really by your Spirit. And that love will be perpetual. Because the lack of response can never quench such a love. It's supernatural. That love will go on and on and on. And that's why, you see, the God is in it Our culture and the way we use the ring, the fact that it's a ring that we use in a wedding ceremony. It's not a necklace, it's not anything else but a circle. A simple circle. Because the circle is the symbol of eternity. The circle is the symbol of something that never ends. And so not only is the ring a seal, but a precious seal. But it's a seal of perpetuity, a seal of a love that will never ever end. It's a seal of something that announces a man who after years of living with a woman Like such words of Jesus. Your wedding rings wears thin, dear wife. Ah, summer's not a few, since I put it on your finger first as head for a meal youth. And love, what changes we have seen, what cares and pleasures too, since you became my own dear wife, when this old thing was new How well do I remember now your young sweet face that then? How fair you were, how dear you were, my cold and heart and things. Now how I voted on you. Oh how proud I was of you. But did I love you more than now, when this old thing was me? No, no No pharaoh were you then than at this hour to me. And dear as life to me this day, how could you deal with me? But did I know your heart as well? That sweet your face might be that day. If not it is, tis true. But did I know your heart as well when this old thing was new? The past is dear, it sleeps still our memory's treasure yet. The grief sleep, Lord, together, boys. We would not now forget Whatever then the future brings, heart unto hearts still true, will share as we have shared all else since this old ring was moved. And if God stirs amongst our sons and daughters to grow old, now his goodness will not let your heart or mind grow cold. Your aged eyes will see mine, always still shown to you, and mine in yours, all they have seen since this old thing was moved. And then when death shall come at last, to bid me to my rest, may I die looking at those eyes and resting on that breast May my parting gaze be blessed with just the sight of you. Of those fond eyes, find that they were And this old brain is here. Love is perpetual in God's word. And some of you have suddenly experienced the fact that it is not. Many of us here have experienced divorce. And yet we even enched the tragedy of that in our own minds. are reminded of the contrast of Christ's love. That his love can never fail. You know that if you were to receive this week the news that you had a terminal illness, In an American today, there would be a 70% chance that your spouse would divorce you before you died. 70% of marriage has fails under the terminal illness because the strain is too great. There's no sense of perpetuity. There's no sense of the love of Christ. He was so richly expressed. In the words of the poem by that Puritan Horacious Donard, I hear the words of love. I gaze upon the blood. I see the mighty sacrifice, and I have peace with God. Tis ever and lasting peace, sure as Jehovah's name, tis stable as his steadfast home, forevermore the same. The clouds may come and go. And storms may sweep my sky. This blood-seal friendship changes not. The cross is ever lying. My life is all time as low. My joy still ends and flows But peace with him remains the same. No change, Jehovah. I change. He changes not. The Christ can never die. His love, not mine, the resting place. This truth, not mine, is high. Hallelujah. But God has given to us such a love as that. And that is why you see in the final place, love is priceless. That's why love is crisis. You think a love that says that I will love you as long as you respond in a loving way to me is cheap. I see it every day A letter says that I will care for you and I will invest in this relationship as long as there's a return on my investment. It's cheap. You've seen all the rest. The Lord which says that I will put into this and I will be kind to you and I will stay with you and I will treat you the best I can as long as you there's the conditions laid out is cheaper You see it all the time. But a language places no conditions. A language says that I will love you, I will treat you with kindness I will put you first in my heart's affection. I will put your interest before mine, no matter how much it costs me, even to the laying down of my life, is priceless. If one were to give all the wealth of his house for such a love, it would be utterly scorned. You see, as you see the progression of those thoughts and those verses, that is the love which is Christless. That is the love of Christ that has bought you and can never leave you. To help you to get just a glimpse of this month, I want to finish by telling you a story. It's a story of a man and a woman that I read about. A man and a woman who married and who loved one another. And who grew uh older through the years in that love that they had together. When she reached about sixty and he was a little older, she looked about forty-five or fifty. They were a handsome couple. She was a very attractive woman. They were uh had a very good life together when she received the news that she had developed cerebral arterial scores Chronic brain syndrome. The same effects of this were that she would be driving in the car, for instance, somewhere alone And did she wake up uh in her consciousness to realize that she was someplace that she didn't know and she had no idea how to get home And this happened with increasing frequencies until finally her husband had to take the keys away from her to reply for her own safety. He would take her out and she would look her best, dazzling and bright. And while they were in company with other people, she would make an entirely inappropriate or utterly embarrassing remark. He never responded with embarrassment. He never indicated that he was ashamed of her in any way. He continued to treat her with the utmost courtesy and respect and never apologized for her. As things developed, she finally got to the place where she uh simply lost any sense of her faculties. She was unable to take care of herself, and she had to have his constant attention for five long years. He continued to take her out, he continued to do everything for her, even though more and more she was unresponsive, until after five years she had to be put into a nursing home with intensive care for her own life. But did he abandon her there? He continued to visit her every single day. On days when she was feeling good enough, he would take her out every afternoon or drive in the car. Even though she was utterly unresponsive to him as another human being, her mind was totally gone. There would be only fleeting glimpses of any kind of recognition. And he continues to love her. Arthritis said in, and she was more and more difficult to take care of. And she lived in that way for another ten years. He continued to love us. He never complained to any friends about the care that it was to take care of us. He never complained to anyone about the very high cost of the nursing home and all the intensive care of the nursing care that he had to expend and everything that he had to take care of. He never once criticized her. He never ever treated her again with anything but respect, not complaining against her. And showing her that she was as precious to him then as she had ever been before. And when after 15 years she died, he had invested 15 years of a goddamn. For a person who was not responsive, who was not erotic love, he was not even the love of companionship. But similar to what we talked about last week, he was simply a goddamn. His son, who watched these 15 years of his parents' relationship, saw in that the demonstration of God's love. And not only did he give his wife to Jesus Christ, But he became Dr. Ed We, who with Ed engaged we wrote the book intended for pleasure, not life I have put on marriage seminars for thousands of people across this country, one of the most prominent men in the almost sexual and more broadly simply Christian marriage counseling today. Because we saw the model of the love of Christ demonstrated in a man and a woman. And that's God's purpose, dear friends, for those of us that God has called to marriage. is that that love of Christ, which this example barely even touches. The love of Christ goes far beyond that. has given to us the privilege and the opportunity to show the people around us something of the reflection of that love. And the less there is the response The more difficult the circumstance God might place you in, whether it's for just a brief spat, whether a chronic unresponsiveness of your life's partner. It is in that the opportunity to demonstrate the love of Christ. Let's pray Oh Lord. Oh how easy. Thank you that Who has set us as a seal over your heart? Lord we pray for anyone here this morning that sees such a love open up and displayed before them. He is not responding to that love. Lord, how could we ever turn away from Allah like this? Lord we pray. That you would work in that person's heart, that they might come to the spine So that the threat and the grip of death and the grave might no longer terrorize them. Because you, Lord Jesus, have given your life So that we would not be subject to grace. Amen. Lord, how we praise you, that your love was so great that it drove you to death so that we would have life. That you've set up as an eternal seal by your covenant over your heart. And that your love is perpetual and it can never, ever end Our floods of sin cannot quench it. Lord, how we might be that that love is free of sin. That we could never buy it. For he could never purchase such a life. Oh Lord, how we thank you for that. I praise you for the freedom. We can only receive it. Lord, we pray. That your words be our lives In whatever situation we place us in, when we think of that person in our lives, whether it's a husband, a wife, someone at work, someone who's close to us an apartment made or someone that we live with that we find it impossible to love. It should remind us of your love. And there it is, the contemplation of that love. We might be so overwhelmed. But out of sheer gratitude for your love for us We enjoy and thank you for the perfect of demonstrating your supernatural love to another person. Well, do that. That's supernatural. What I can't do it, I can't persuade these people to do it. We couldn't just exhort one another to do it. That is the work of your spirit. And so we pray for that We seek that from you, as those who come by faith through Jesus Christ, to ask you to do a supernatural work in us. And so we ask you to do that, because Lord, by that you are glorified. And that's what we want. Amen.