We've been considering in the last couple of weeks together the matter of the faith and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. So we share our time and life together in Jesus Christ. But what is it that we're actually to do with and pour one another in Christmas? About where we put one another greater control to come through the new fact How about word because it's one word in the Greek? How about word of view and what we are told to do to one another and with one another through the New Testament? uh the learned that it's studying but it's been thirty one thirty south it's just a custom of the way that word one another is used And to go through that, we see that there are many things favored that we have to do to one another. For example, we're told to speak the truth to one another, we've told the members of one another, we're told to live in harmony with one another. We're told to care for one another. We're told to bear one another's burdens. We're told to be devoted to one another. We're told to provoke one another to love Seven to good roll. Because we can start our things to one another, to close for one another, to be my deals, and to teach one another, to acknowledge one another, to call for one another, to consecute one another Many, many other things that we're called to do to one another and call one another in Christians. But there are those names that stand out in great prominence beyond all of these particular commands. Two things we find out most family reader to do to one another. First of all, to love one another And secondly, to serve one another. To love one another and to serve one another. By emphasis, by repetition, these things they turn out more prominently than anything else. Because people are only taking a look at the commands and love one another. You then what people are willing to take a look at the commands expose one another And that will complete our study of the church as the people of God, the body of Christ, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. So we are called to love one another. Fifteen times at least in the New Testament are kind of just least that we are currently to love one another. If you have those fifteen times that I've found, eight of those appear in John's writings alone. In time John choses to love one another. And the effect of that is either going to be to encourage it, but John really wants to get across to really love one another. Because he says it so often. Or like when our mom tells us to be careful when we go out to play on the screenbooks or I would just say clean it out and say, Well I heard that so many times do anything anymore. And I'm afraid that too often that the matter has been the And so these are seriously, the entrances would just be a place from this commandment that don't say, I'm telling you all this time to love one another because I really mean that what you need to do is to love one another. And so I want to choose one test and I want to take a look at it. We don't have recently 1 John chapter 3, where he tells us to love one another. One example in this is represented here. And uh take a look at those verses, first John chapter Verses 10 to 18. Stephen in context. Let's look at that for it now. First John chapter 3, beginning with verse 1, and we're going on three to verse 18. Let's hear the word of God. What great is the love that the Father has not used us? You should be called children of God. And this is what we are But he thinks the world does not know using that it does not know him. Here things now we are children of God and what we shall do will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when he appears, we shall But we have too many years. Everyone who has good hope in him glorifies himself. He will see. Everyone who sinned breaks the law. In fact, sin is lower few. Because he maybe appeared so that he may take a wild fee. But in him is no sin. No one who lives in him keeps on him. No one who continues with him. Has he within him or know him? You said, not let anyone leave your love. He who does what is right is righteous, that's what he is righteous. He who does what is sinful is of the devil. No one who was born after some become because God's easy names again. He's still not born. Because we have been born of God. This is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God. Neither is anyone who does not love his. This is the message we've heard from the beginning. We should love one another. Not be like Cain who belonged to the evil one and murdered his brother. Why did he know to him? Well is it his own actions? They were evil. That is what is the righteous. Do not be surprised, nobody just rewards him. You know that we are passed from death to life because we love our brothers. Anyone who does not love remains in death. Anyone who hates his brother is in murder. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. And we have to lay down our lives for our brothers. Anyone has material development and easy whether in easy has material. What are the love of time? Because the letters love matters, no But it's asking in the truth. This one is how we know that we belong to the truth. And how we have set our parts at the rest of the hipsa or health and venues. I want to take a look at two things these home. about love and this portion of the word of God. You see those four things that you're doing that it makes sense. But love is first of all Come on for the person. Secondly, love is a command for the person. Thirdly, that love is understood By the person, and fourthly, that love is compelled through the system. First of all, then we see here that love is a marked of the Christians. Verse ten. This is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who did not do what is right is not a child of God. Neither is anyone who did not Verse 14. We know that we have passed and death to life, why? Because we love our blood Anyone who does not know remains in dance. Think of the death. Science is an observer of wicked. You can die. Look at the fella. And you can see by how he treats his brother, whether in fact he's a Christian. In many other places he's done progress, you see him look at there in the benefits within the ability outline. Take a look at just one here, chapter four, verse twenty. John says if anyone says I love God and yet he forgot it, he's a liar. Some doesn't mean things. Well anyone who does not love his belly, who needs peace and not love God, whom he has not peace. The principle is quite simply. Every Christian likes system. No finding that. Every person likes system. What bad is new though is we don't believe that. We really don't believe that today. Who cares if you three people say I've trusted Jesus as my Lord and Savior. I even asked Christian TV. And uh read Christian books. You read the Bible with some sort of irregularity But uh no case of 50 states. What can ever care to be with 50? Do we call into questions? That person's traveling. And they um if they take them at their word. Now quite uh you go for them. You look at that person's life and take them up You find that you consider it further that often there's been a deep purse. I was in touch and such a congregation and have I a law meeting and what those people did to me, well I just circle back to that church. Because I'd love a great place to get these sympathy. So we could say, yeah, well, I wish if I had that experience, I probably didn't get back to me. I can understand. We tend to want to synthesize with it And they tell us about what how hypocritical the people were to justify their hidden. We and I need to be very patient with people, right? But what we are feeling to see is we first permit them to get away with us. What if we love them? We first permit them. You gotta commit a person to continue to simply stay apart from Christian things. And think to ourselves, yeah, you know, it's what the spokes of Basic and miss out on the blessings of fellowship and weird people, not the spirit. I see Some folks are faithful, heaven and health. Some say you can't claim that you are fitted. You can't claim that you belong to Jesus Christ. And hate the brother. You told Cog that you belong to Jesus Christ. And that lovely brother. Well it's because in verse point two because we know that we passed and death tonight because we love our death Anyone who does not love he may even die. One of those proceeds that anyone who thinks his blood is a murderer. Uh so I don't know, really How about that whole red area in the cruise? See, I know people maybe no more than I I don't know Christians But it's too slow to say that this person speaks to He said that what do you do when you don't have any feelings towards the wife and separately But all I do because I you know the phone again. I said, Tommy, looking at C that the reason you don't feel any things in your life is because you have such bitterness, but you are not so exhausted It just is just dissipated everything. You just don't want to spoke it. You don't want to blow up all those things anywhere until you've insulated yourself in your own emotions. And I'm Because we're saying if we do, all of these feelings of the well up. You don't want to have to face that. Because yeah, that's fine. Okay. See the damn thing here is that if you're a Christian, you're part of the fellowship that we talked about in A That's the only kind of a person in the New Testament recognizes, appropriately baptized in the fellowship. Into the close context we saw in the book of Acts You cannot be in that kind of position and be neutral for Christians. If you are trusting with Christians, if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, now couldn't be a belly You're gonna love those people or you're gonna hate them. Now the word hate you see means to reject, to require, to want to have nothing to do with. And that's what I'm talking about. I'm not saying Yeah, it's a apoplexic and the blood vessels pop every time you think of cookies. I'm talking about a person who couldn't say, I don't want to have anything to do with that. That's what I'm saying. The mark of the Christian is that he wants to be with Christians. He wants to have something to do with. He loves to have something. And the person who has to do is Christian. He does not want that because our no neutral is appropriate for feeding itself. It's not an applicant completely juggling the fellow countries. The Bible says that that person can't fall anything. I'm not saying that a person who's not in politics can't be a Christian. I'm simply saying that that person is in a dangerous position because the throws that John gives them for their salvation used for the love of the brothers and it says don't say that God They need to call and we need to in loving them call into question whether they really know the name. If you find yourself a belief, then you say that I do not search. I mean it always happens and it's not always easy, but I want to be respectful. I do want to be part of the process. It's a transformation to you. That's evidence of the question. You know, and you say uh one if I have a two first item on there, one of those one of the most grandmigless. Because it's the most loaded two notice. You don't think something look for a code for us, you want to look at control to the three, because that works enough. But I do want to be in Christian displays. Okay. But I don't think crazy about it. Before you get beautiful answers. Come on goes on to talk about uh not only the rubber screen marks up the system, but it's also command Because after having said in verse ten, that this is how we know person to person and person to anyone who does not see what Christ is not a child of God, and even if anyone who doesn't have love for I have nothing rather to say and not to be honest to say, this is the message you heard from the beginning. We should love one another. I just I said that we do, and now he said he should. Why is that? Simply because it's not enough for you and for me to simply say that if you are Christians, you will love Christians. If I lost it not to be bad, I would re Yeah, that's that was one thing. He's giving us an extent to say this is the message we've heard that we should like on a We need that exaltation. We knew that plans. Paul said in First Thessalonians in chapter four, writing to the people says that now brother enough, I don't need to write you. That's a magic weapon. I don't even write you about brother and nothing. He's always been taught by God to love himself. Oh, in fact, he do love the brother throughout the He's happy, he's worthy, the love of the goes right on the side. Yep, you urge your brother to do so more and more. What's I'm going to say? So that's where it tells me if you're fixed with one degree of place and one of the evidence of life because a lot of things. You and I need the exhortations, urges, encourages to say, get more and more, that's love and get more and more you and I need to examine ourselves and take a look at that love that we have for one of them. Reflect on it. And then from God's word, receive that word into our lives. We said, Lord, what into love and brothers and sisters, Lord. Lord, I need to work this land into my life. Makes him says in the next chapter, chapter four. Where he says there that he said before. If anyone chapter four, verse twenty, if anyone says I love God that he can he's a lie. If anyone doesn't love his brother, he makes you have to do it. Of God in the opposite. Simple statement of action. Then again, what do you follow it with? Verse 21. And he's given us this command. Whoever loves God must also love his brother. The reverse is a plan to receive the own process to love on us. The temple had to learn to love one another. Let's grab it, no funny, we can speak speaker to them. Love one another. And he tells us that we love one another, we go to love one another, perhaps we love one another. Uh live in harmony with one another. You need to be remarkable. Somebody in the country has an alienators. And so I went to the fellow and I thought uh it it it is cool, you have some things that uh that uh are bothering you, maybe a lot of cost is something that um that we need to talk about. And uh indeed it works to be able to put together and talk that through and discuss it and because the great benefit we've blessed to basically be able to have that time together. Yes. So if you I did it when I heard that say, well, you know, uh this open health partner will be the system. He'll automatically come to me. I don't have to deal with that. The self blessed. We have to ask on the word of God. He has to go think this word and word that it be a part of God will bless. But sometimes you have to take it. And you have to act on loving one another. You see it's not an automatic feeling that will come along. But it's an act of a reader to see an I use the things What are you doing in my life? But he's increasing me my life to other people in the time of these other people that I'm in college with you. It would be dangerous if we say to love one another, but it can be very tight. We do have to take the content. But the third time is that not everybody could buy the system. is by contrast. That's one of the best ways to keep any dialogue substance. Which is not only what it is, but in contrast it is what it is not Case down says this is what lovers might, and now this is what night does. Case down says what lovers not. And the first thing that lovers not is hatred. But maybe not as much as we think. He thought that love is not used. It's not like pain, you think, is a false of Christian. He also likes pain to belong to the evil one and murder his brother. Why did he matter it? Because his own actions were evil and his bodies were righteous. How did he say that? Is it something so very fine from you to me? Who made his evil because he was angry? Because he was jealous of it. Because he had a critical truth for it in Because he could establish his own self-righteousness was threatened by reason. What's the deal about your water? My daughter just costs me just as much as him. It became like suggestifying stuff. He's able to think of me very well. Yeah, it doesn't remind you of that. Youth of Science from I don't know if any of you are that means no use of silence from Square flu, full downs, nine and so I can find the start path or one thing. We blow me to tell and we almost reserve it. Well, you know, he said well, what a slutty little fella. He was so little bit that when they saw he was little, they thought that a a A dragon had eaten him and he probably poisoned the dragon. Reseless was the kind of Mimediai who did everybody, critical of everybody's action But in particular, you think was critical of people's virtuous pastors. He thinks that they did were right. He had already fixed the motive. He would distort what they did. Because if he couldn't stand to be in the face of that threat and situation, always wanted to distort the things that he Remember the third day was that one day he was on an island, Lucas would turn into a driver, more uh appropriate to his uh personality and to his death And here he was struck as a driver. Because one day he met our friends, that royal lines, representing the person of the region. So what did I do? Because we've got to take off our dragon. So we could size two or three times and flowers come off and do a dragon lower Until Africa said he saw that means. And then Jesus said, remember he was saying to that, but if he took his claws and he went through my feet at that was the first whip that he was saying, he went through to my heart. It is the deepest cup that I have ever felt in my life, and it exposed completely. The cup of it like the deepest thing to insult with the universe. And in that moment of not teaching to defend himself anymore and to establish his own righteousness, Eustace was vulnerable. Eustace was made a new person. And the result of that was that Eustace was back on his paradigms where the miserable things would be done. He says I hated everything. But this is one parasite. very hard to look for all you could be young to be a little oh yeah, he would be a little doesn't come to But Larry Eustace was a new person. He was no longer threatened by the others in the same way he was before because Larry had a few page. Is somebody in the country? That would be that would you perhaps because of their old righteousness and their life with Jesus Christ? Well people signify because the pergagation is over there. The pergagation requires select committee. Well, if that's true, is that standard or unbiblical? That means we can tell it answers. That can do that can help it the people that react to that is all right. But the question me is not so much how high is our commitment. But what's coming up first? Do we threaten one another in our relationship? Maybe if we do, but the problem is that you and I have a little bit of that attitude of truth. We see what he is doing and we say, what's so great about him? And in order to defend ourselves and set up our own self-righteousness, we become critical. And becoming critical, our fear rather rather than gratefulness to our rather than Christian turns into one of believers. I don't know what it's about in somebody's buttons What very thing does this mean? Anyone who hope to govern to the motivation. Remember that word hope means to not not want to have anything to do with, to despise. Before we conclude too quickly that this has nothing to do with us. What examinar has to see if we have anything with a spirit of pain? But that's another pedophile. The second thing, the band thing, that love is not. What is in those of those seven teams? If anyone has McCa's even see his brother in me but has no kidding, how can the level file begin? Talking about a person who needs some release. She can help at one point or another. Whether it's money or baby filling or helping their home and relationships, something seems too have brought it to your attention that you And you know that you could have if you really wanted to and I glass a lot uh you know we have events allowed and go along and please You say I really like the message. It's only even this is not about too far now. Yeah, you know I put my scheduling in multiples on top of each other and and and uh deep thing. I can't put everything on one layer of paper. It's just ridiculous. That's clear compassion. I do afraid that the priests and the Levites did not say it could leave it. A good plan to help the fellows that they felt even the room. I do say that it's not who came along further and probably did not find it convenient when his own skills put him on a balcony, go out of his ranger room. What John tell you here is not whether you find it convenient, but whether I find it convenient because I am as guilty as any of you in the rascalizing these kinds of things. I can always raskalize and make sense. Rather a question of do I free to leave or am I willing to leave it? Do you want to leave it? And so that I would agree with the opportunity. So what love is you see something. Both of our love is example who might have everything. Love is rejoicing and our body's welcome, no children. Because we love our body. And his attitude toward his very interesting. Because in contrast to cold, he felt hostility and bitterness when he saw his brother's righteousness. We might situation we love our woman. And we rejoice our women. Love and great is in the greatest. I don't find where you could criticize the person who's that is me. I can stand and I can be honest with myself and I can say, Thank you, Lord, for giving that person. Before the Lord is not a life It's a kind of policy that says I can learn something from that person. Software 3D, and I use a token with a very new person The minute the deeper in my own life and controls me in an area that I would fail in. Very easy to leave if I wrote that up. Yeah, I mean I'm I'm healthy, I've known that I just known the Lord for T each ridiculous. But God had a new that I humble me to say, Lord, I can learn I don't think it's a purpose and happiness to be in an area of my life that I have a doctor. We need that kind of rejoices in one another's righteousness so that we can then be free to love one another, to find the safety in loving one another, because we don't have to compete for righteousness But rather being vulnerable and realizing that our serving is based on the righteousness of Jesus. And that's something that's included to us. That's something that's given to us. We just have to be through the present. I can rejoice and make that telly guys. It could threaten us if I wanted to compete. And I mentioned a little before about this model of the palace. He threatened us The person in a pergaban who threatened by the paragraph is being threatened by a higher degree of commitment to do this thing. What about those who you perceive as less politics to believe this person? What realities for words? But do we come across as a congregation that's judgment? As a congregation that's critical. You know, I'm carrying the cost and carrying my weight around here. Why don't you And rather than drawing people into a deeper commitment to Green's God, we may have a mess. Same problem. We're fabricing our own devices look at we revoke the fact and we're irritated by the fact that other people don't maybe know. And they might be candling, hopefully, feelings still the fear that God's working in doing for this thing. Maybe what they're doing at this point in their life It's far more difficult because of where they come from than what we're doing and how we're doing from. But you see when we begin to judge that we have not loved. Romans chapter fourteen tells you. And now we're in a situation like that, Romans fourteen verse twelve and thirteen tell them each of us will give an account of his tasks to the name. I'm not responsible to be going to practice how you're following Jesus Christ to the Lord. I'm responsible to love you. So he says in verse 13, therefore let us stop her for judgment from one another. And instead make up your mind not to put any thundering glasses. We have that word one another. Stoke word one another. In contrast after that because if you see that and you can love one another, what do you do? The word one another appears again in verse nineteen. Let us therefore Romans fourteen nineteen. Let us let us therefore make every effort to do what needs to please and to look at a Literally let's build up one another. I ask them to take it like this. Think about taking the taste of light Where people if they see that commitment to Jesus Christ, a biblical commitment of the fellowship of believers, are drawn because they say they are And I felt that love and how they reached out to me. I felt that love and how they admin have administered to you, how they've been hospitable to me, how they've invited me over for life. Your service and draw me into the fellows so that I was drawn to a deeper walk with deeper senses, not people that I felt uncomfortable, because of a federal liberalism of long heaven It is not level one and eight. Topoling standpoint here. But level we should give our lives. Yes, we have a laid out our law so that's controlled over. What we find is real because it's community, we have a common lack to this. It's not simply good enough to you and I hope you hang in once. So we realize if you are practical work there and look at some answers. And to put into very serious business, they Uh there are going to be uh devastations. But we're going to give ourselves to one another in that context. Give ourselves evidence. The given I think we material um good with compassion, so that's the compassion with God is very personal. Your brother will be but uh God believes a heavy dialogue in my time. Yes. It's that regular daily and weekly need of a minor sacrifice, a minor inconvenience, and sometimes maybe not You know, rearranging a dress project with my group so that I don't laugh her when I say that's what matters. And I do it not because I'm because That brings us to the final thing. Love them. It's not only among the person, it's not only to the children, it's not only understood by the children, but The law so far could be seen as simply the law. And everything that I've said so far could be taken very legalistically without a proper meeting. How is it that we allow love? How is it that we have love in our hearts? How is it that we can love that person to go in a That person of badness. Stop personally innocent. That person is even hopeless. How about it that you know not in that situation And then I love this not a matter of feelings. I simply flip between my stuff and I say I might love that person. I'm going to still love them things for me. If I don't get my people say I love you that's killing it. Most Christians have that answer. Love is discipline. You've got to do the love and things. Love is not a matter of the few. Love is a matter of the world. What do you see from the different panels if you're going to leverage something? We need to be comfortable to be spared because it's done quickly out of the matter of the world. Because it's all in the low plane. It's calling the flag. And that is loadable. How is it that we know left? How is it that we have left? We put two thousand life. This is how we love now. Jesus said, Lay Down at Lancers. Jesus, Ladalic Lances. For you. He the fellows can be on the land. Because when I can say it's too low, a feeling that we tell you before, but it took the side place. We never feel if you follow Jesus Christ. But always declare his love for the Lord Jesus. Peter was always saying something with a flexible massive view from one that time came for the end of the remember with Peter he said low and beautiful said more than began to be helped them, began to afraid them. People said, Lord, that will never be free of me. Lord, I love you enough to die for you. Lord, my love goes without limit and I will lay down my life for you. Jesus is fantastic stuff to be a demand. What is that, carving? How does that refer to the past? Down never referred to his life. In every single instance God results to himself as to disciple. He's not a Jesus. He is that under the type of loved Jesus. To Jesus lost. It was the only deposit of the child who saved the Jesus for the whole cloud. He stood at the foot of the cloud so that when Jesus took his love. And the table of the home settings is gone to intelligence because John is more than one of them. John understood men. God said, here's how we know Lord, Jesus laid down his light for us. And so it's down what Jesus said in chapter four. We both say, This is life. Not that we love God. Not that we could love one another. This is love. Not that we love God. So that is part of that telephone big sad So you see that person is not a dark of us. It doesn't prevail with your love, and you say, No. Well the big reality. Well the right company to you is there are two of these. And you think that an abandonment is going to come from a few people. Look at that person that bodies you, who irritates you. So that takes a child and I think it's again. So how many times I said that I was going to please look at that or go back and go? That's very funny. So I hopefully see something to say. Then you do it again to people today. Because we're not in the world. When it's about Christmas He's even hateful. He's done evil things to us. He's told lies about things. He's recorded the motives and we want to punish them for these things. Husbands and wild, we did it to each other out of the time. There is a crazy person, crazy boss. You think of how much grievous love we did with love. The Jesus brought me into a relationship and passed very great. And not to the last. and by the patient. Everybody see if you begin to do this sooner or later if there is a donor revolver. If the people I don't like can help me to understand your love better than the people I do. Because the people that I don't like are not not those people. are the people that pass me back to think about your mind to me. Lord, I come to a place where I can thank you for that. I thank you for the fact that this place we got and quickly elicit from me all those level feelings. But in the case of the person that gives the country to love, Lord, I gave you, and I remind you that you those one kind of men, their sill, they are reverence, and they're not And I think it's that kind of work and I'm able to make it. So many times when scientists, small eyes, loves me for wonderfully and be De three so well, I find that after a while it's a tendency to take advantage the way for food. And maybe take advantage of that a little bit. You're gonna take a little bit. Take advantage of that person's love and take it advantage. And it's then when something happens where he is not treating me so otherwise, so all of a sudden I'm It's not something that I do naturally. It's not an automatic thing because you do not know But it's going to do this faith, meditating on his level, having good people afterhand in order to learn. That's what I was looking for. The games are the type of the husbands and wives, servants, lovely elements, lovely wives. Let's go together. What does that mean to love that person in a way that they receive not simply in a way that I wanted with How can I love that kids be away with parents? Love your children. Love them and Sake that time this is quality time from this. Sake with special time business. It is good. And I don't know if we come along with a furniture in the house. So it's so easy to help them for this. Support of wearings. And he's just a lot of Jesus to use brothers and sisters last kids There's not many things in this world that you and expertise. Mother's one thing in this world that you are the world's speak expert out. How to different Nobody in the world knows better how to rise them up the world to read this. I feel that love that When we use that knowledge not only to know how to drive them up the road, but how to bring them back down again and how to help them out. Brothers and sisters and friends. And I understand you. With a candle, whatever brothers and sisters you can make. Campbells of each pound. 15 pounds of equipment. I'll tell you one last time. That's not the one. And the level third is a legend. Lord, how easy it is to come. How easy it is to feel. I just love the other hand to the mouth. And what about how many exemptions we meet? We feel that single bitterness, that jealousy, uh that irritation And all of a sudden, Father, our our minds and our hearts go to how we can love. And all the advocations about love lie right after us. Father returned, you'd be like a very practical thing. And our own bitterness at those petty little irritations that we go around with us. Happy Father to know the little spirit of the past of Jesus. Help your father to follow what God has said you. So we would be a calder group from the people who would not speak to family, then the separate group is a calgary to love one another in our own strength. Come on one another in living. The father didn't deep to love one another. Because in Bundy spirit and we've had inspired deeply into our heart to let us come. The Father wants how to meditate and daily meditated and entering more and more deeply into what the emotional life is and how that is demonstrated to things with the Solomon. You can tell about other person, we've been caring to the problem, we've been caring about, we can disturbing up and grabbing up the teeth. And I've worried to People fight it alone heavy than they are, maybe edifying, building a man. Bad of the thing hasn't been to before.