Chapter 13, I remind you again that this portrait of love is sandwiched in between two chapters Concerning the right use of spiritual gifts. So Paul is talking to us here about how we are to minister. That activity and ministry without love are worth nothing. 1 Corinthians 13, let's hear the word of God. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. If I give all that I possess to the poor, and surrender my body to the flames, but have not love, I gain nothing. Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It is not proud. It is not rude, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will cease. Where there are tongues, they will be still. Where there is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part. But when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears. When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put childish ways behind me. Now we see but a poor reflection. Then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part. Then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. And now these three remain: faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is love Love is patience. And patience isn't patience until it's tried I remember once reading about a pastor who was trying very much to love a young Christian named Rick. Who was a rather bull-headed, inconsiderate, and impatient sort of fellow. It was the fall of the year And Rook offered to the pastor an opportunity to get some firewood. Now the pastor had intended to pay twenty dollars to get a quart of it delivered Uh, I don't know where or when he could do that, but he had himself a good deal. A quart of wood, twenty dollars delivered to his door. But uh going out with Rick to get the wood seemed like a better opportunity, and so he took advantage of it. Rick picked him up in his truck and off they took on that Monday morning to get some free firework. It was on a property that Rick knew about. The pastor asked, have you called ahead and made sure you got permission for this? He said, Well I didn't call, but I know I have permission. So they went out to the uh place where the wood was to be, uh, parked the truck off of the road, and in an hour they had the truck full of a half a quart of wood. It had rained heavy rather recently, and so when he got in the truck and they went to go back up the grassy slope, they got stuck. A half hour later they were still stuck, had the wood, but they couldn't get out. At that point, uh, things were a little irritating, but the pastor decided we need to pray about this. And then he asked, do you have towing insurance? No, I don't. Well, let's pray and let's go over to that farmhouse yonder and see if we can get some help. They prayed and they went over to the farmhouse and told the woman, We've got some wood from over in so and so's property over here, but we're stuck. Uh you could we borrow your phone to call a tow truck? Without smiling, the woman told him that wasn't so-and-so's property over there. That was her property over there, and that was her wood, and it wasn't for sale. Now they had a truckload of wood that wasn't theirs and they were still stuck. He talked her into selling him the half a quart of wood for nineteen dollars, almost twice what he would have paid to have it delivered to his door. Then called the tow truck and a tow truck came out in another hour. The tow truck was too small to pull out of their truck and so it got stuck too He uh asked if he knew what he was doing. He said, There's no problem in my pulling you out. Even if I can't, I've got a two-way radio. The two-way radio didn't work So back to the farmhouse again for another call. They called and got another tow truck, a larger this this time. The second tow truck came out and it got stuck. Now they had three trucks in a row, all lined up the grassy slope, and still couldn't get out with their half a quart of wood. However, the larger tow truck had a winch. And so they wrapped the winch around an old apple tree, and the pastor said, Are you sure that tree's going to hold? He said, No problem. Five minutes later you guessed it. The tree was laying down there with the two trucks and their truck with the wood. It took them over five hours to get out of that hill. He paid $50 for the two tow trucks and $19 for the wood, $69 for some free wood and a whole day. Uh the capstone he says to that day in his life was when he got back he found out that his office had been robbed that morning. Patience isn't patience unless it's tried. And yet that fellow Rick said he wouldn't have traded that day for anything. Because he learned more about love in seeing how that pastor treated him. In a situation of utmost trial of patience, more than he would have ever learned In ever reading about patience, or ever seeing him live in situations that didn't try his patience. Love is patience And isn't this where you and I find our love tested more than in any other way? Not the great challenges to our faithfulness, but the daily irritations, the daily rubbing us the wrong way that produces alienation. And so Paul, as he begins his portrait of love, begins with a foundational statement, first before anything else Love is patient. Love is patient. And in that brief statement, I want to consider two things I want to consider first of all what patient love does, and then I want to consider secondly why it doesn't. What it does and why it doesn't. What does patient love do? What does it look like? What does it act like? Well, there are two sides to love in its patience. I believe that there's the negative side and there's the positive side of what patience is. Negatively, love doesn't react to irritations. Positively, love can wait. First of all, then love doesn't react to irritations. You come home and your spouse has had a hard day, and they begin to snap at you and make unreasonable demands. And it's clear that it's not going to be a peaceful evening. Well, your day hasn't been the hottest either. And so you begin to snap back. What right has that person to treat you like that just because the kids have been tough? Or because things have gone bad at the office? And so there is the action and reaction. And the next thing you know, all those pleasant and warm and loving thoughts that you had while you were apart from the person have all gone right down the drain in the interaction of your living together. But love doesn't react to the irritations. Kathy and I discuss a problem that she's struggled with, and we've talked about it for 10,000 times. I get irritated that she's got to bring it up again. Then I remember a problem that we've discussed that I have, that we've discussed 12,000 times. And my reaction is, why can't you understand that's difficult for me and just simply be patient? We feel very loved when someone is patient toward us. Why do we find it so hard to be patient? Love is a fruit of the spirit, a supernatural quality, and love is patience. Patience is a fruit of the spirit. A supernatural quality. It's supernatural and not anything natural to us to not react to an irritation. That's not the way we are. That's of God to produce that quality in us. Provocation without love produces petulance. A snappy retort. Provocation with love produces patience. Secondly, love can wait Not only does it not react to irritations and provocations, but positively love The King James version of this you may remember from days gone by was charity suffereth long. The Greek word literally means to suffer something long, to be long suffering. Patience is continuing when you want to give up. Patience is going on when you want to quit. Patience is like one of the most remarkable plants in the botanical kingdom, a little plant called the Ibervilia sonorae. Now this little plant, the I Borvilia sonorae, is remarkable because it can live for unusual amounts of times without any soil or water. The New York Botanical Gardens kept a little specimen of Ibervillia sonorae in their glass case in order to see just how long this plant could go without soil and water. For seven years, seven springs, this little plant would put out shoots to see if there was any soil or any water that it was going to come in contact with. And for seven springs finding no soil and no water, they simply dried up again and hope for better luck next year. The patients can run out even for the Ibervillia sonora. On the 8th spring, rather sadistic folks at the botanical gardens had a dead plant on their hands. The patients can wait It can hang on when you don't see any reason to continue to hang on before you. The scripture gives us examples of patience And James gives us three startling examples in chapter 5, where he talks about patience. Take a look at James chapter 5 for a moment. You see there are three examples of patience. James chapter 5, beginning with verse 7. James tells us, be patient, then, brothers, until the Lord's coming See how the farmer waits for the land to yield its valuable crop and how patient he is for the fall and the spring rains. You too be patient and stand firm because the Lord's coming is near. Don't grumble against each other, brothers, or you'll be judged. The judge is standing at the door. The first example is the farmer. The second example, brothers, as an example of patience in the face of suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. As you know, we consider blessed those who persevered. The third example, you've heard of Job's perseverance. And the seeing what the Lord finally brought about, the Lord is full of compassion and mercy First of all, then the farmer is an example of hanging on and patience to us. One of the reasons that I love gardening is because it's such a good teacher of patience. Right now we're enjoying a rather modest harvest of tomatoes and radishes and lettuce and cucumbers and especially cucumbers and uh certain other things, broccoli we've had and carrots and peas. But when I planted those things in the spring, there's absolutely no way that I could shout at them and yell and scream and get them to shape up so that they'd come out of the ground and I'd be enjoying them next week. There's nothing the farmer can do but to wait. And James says, take a look at that as an example of your walk with Jesus Christ. Patience learns to wait for the harvest. Patience can hang on. Secondly, he talked about the prophets. Now the prophets, he said, dealt with a rather stubborn people, you remember. As they prophesied again and again, the people were not only resistant, they were ungrateful. In some cases, they even killed them for their trouble. But the prophets continued to prophesy. They continued in the spite of ungratefulness, in the spite of feeling unappreciated. The prophets continued to be faithful. Now I think of an example in the scripture of David. You remember David in 1 Samuel 24 being hunted and chased by Saul? David, who should be on the throne, who's anointed of God to be his ruler, is now living in a cave, like a hunted animal. Then comes the big day. God providentially brings Saul into the cave. Saul, unarmed, puts his robe aside, and there's Saul at David's mercy. Uh David can all he has to do is draw a sword and s and cut him through or chop off his head and all his troubles are over. Why doesn't David do it? Because David knows that it's better to wait for God's ways. It is better for God to take care of Saul in his time and in his way. Because God has raised Saul up, and it's not David's prerogative to cut Saul down. And because David is patient, He's able to love Saul and to spare him, and even later on to minister to him by that display of his mercy. To seek to call Saul to repentance. Love is patience. Love hangs on. When love wants to take things in its own hands and says, I want it now. Love can hang on. James says, look at Job. Not only did Job have irritating circumstances Not only was Job put to the extremity of suffering, not only did Job have his family taken away from him, his health taken away from him, so that he was hurting every day and every night. Job's friends were worse than his other miseries. Job had friends that added to all his troubles. James says, look at Job. Because Job hung on when everything in him wanted to curse God and to die. Job was patient. What does that move for our situation today? It means, first of all, that this description of love as patient gives you one of the descriptions of love to help you to know whether in fact you love someone else or they love you. If you're in a relationship, perhaps you're dating, a clue to whether a person loves you or not is whether they're willing to wait. For things in your relationship to go God's way in God's timing. Lust says, I want you now. And I can't wait. I must have you now. Love says, I will wait. I will wait if necessary as Jacob waited seven years for Rachel. Because I love him. And I want things to be done in God's way, in his time. Lust grasp. Love is patient and can wait. Sometimes God puts us in helpless situations in order for us to learn long suffering and patience. He may make us suffer long so that we'll learn long suffering. You think of Johnny Erickson. Johnny Erickson in the peak of health Would never have chosen to break her neck and become a quadriplegic. But God chose that for her. And through that God taught her patience And God gave her a ministry that nothing else would have given her in the same way. Johnny waits for the redemption of her body. For Jesus to take her or to come, to take her before he comes by death, or to take her by coming presently himself. But that patience can wait. It can hang on until God's time is right. What about the situation you find yourself in? Do you sometimes feel trapped in a relationship or some circumstance? So that you feel that the irritations are daily to you and you can't bear them any longer? Do you sometimes feel like God's asking too much of you Love is patience. And that's a fruit of the Spirit. It's supernatural. Patience is never learned. without the trial, without the provocation. I've never met a person yet who is characterized by patience Who said that they learned that by reading about it or by thinking about it, or they learned it in ease. Patience is learned on the battlefield Patience is learned when you say, I can't be patient any longer. Patience is learned when you say, I can't be patient in my own strength. And the Lord then patiently draws us to himself. And he says, that's what I've been waiting for you to recognize. Now come. And let me make you a patient person. Patience is something God does not teach us because he delights to see us suffer. Patience is something that God produces in us because he loves us And wants to form the image of Jesus in us. But it costs. Love is patience. And that's love very often through something. But why? Why does love behave that way? Well, I believe there are two reasons, primarily, why love does that. First of all, because it knows that God's promises will be fulfilled. Love has confidence that God not only is in control But that he'll be faithful in fulfilling all of the promises that he's given to us. Love, you see, learns to plead the promises. That's how it gets its patience. Now back to James chapter 5 again. You notice the example of the farmers, the prophets, and of Job. Why does he say to be patient? You notice there in verse 7 and verse 8. Be patient until the Lord's coming. Verse 7. Verse 8. Stand firm because the Lord's coming is near. Why is it that you and I can be patient? Because we know that we're at the threshold of all the promises being fulfilled in all of their completion. Because we know that the Lord who has given us a down payment of those promises is on the verge of giving us the full payment. All of the promises are about to be cashed in. But we don't know it could be today or this week or next month, maybe next year, maybe longer. But you know you can be patient when you don't know how long it's going to be. If you know that at any time there may be release, you can hang on. As a Christian, we know that the promises are sure. And they're about to be cashed in. And so because the Lord's coming is at hand, it's near, the judge is at the door, we can hang on a little longer. One of the reasons that I love Kate Cobb is because it's such a good lesson in patience and in God's ways. Cape Cod, that neck of land that sticks out off of the coast of Massachusetts, you may know or not know, has not a single stone of bedrock. Cape Cod did not exist twenty thousand years ago. It was simply ocean. But in the coming of the glaciers, 50,000 or whatever years ago, those glacier masses uh came down upon the northeastern United States in that particular area It brought grain by grain, stone by stone, boulder by boulder, landmass. And Cape Cod was on the edge of that glacier, and so year by year, inch by inch, Stones, rocks, sand would be moved down to Maine and taken and deposited grain by grain and stone by stone in what is now today Creek Cod and Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket Island. It took ten thousand years for the waves to move that sand up to form Truro and Provincetown, two little towns. Ten thousand years God formed them grain by grain by the motion by the motion of the ocean. And waves. I look at God's promises and I say, Lord, I've been waiting a couple years for this. Why haven't you fulfilled it? I've been praying for this thing for five years now, Lord. Why aren't you coming through? Aren't you faithful to your promise? God takes me back to the creation, the formation, the movement of his world. He says, I'm a patient God. And the works that I do, I may sometimes do slowly, but they're sure to come to pass. So it is in your life and in my life. When we recognize that God's promises are sure to come to pass, we can be patient. Because though we know that God's timetable may not be ours, his faithfulness is sure. The second reason why the Christian can be patient, why love is patient is because we consider how very patient the Lord is to us. How very patient He is to us. Paul says, love is patience, and God is love, and he is so patient to us. Consider his patience to us. Consider the fact, for instance, that the Lord waited for you and for me before he decided to wrap up history. You talk about delaying and waiting and hanging on for the good of your beloved. Did you ever stop to think that the Lord has delayed history for you and for me? I mean after he had sent Jesus Christ and there had been that going to the ends of the earth of the gospel, which was accomplished within the first century. Why didn't the Lord then just simply wrap up history? Why didn't he put down Satan for that final uh vanquishment of the enemy? But why didn't he destroy all those that were arrayed against him and set up his new heavens and his new earth right then? Why didn't he accomplish it right then? You know the Bible tells us why? First in Second Peter. Second Peter chapter three, verse nine. The Lord says You wonder why the new heavens and the new earth haven't come to pass yet. And you think maybe that's because the Lord is slow. Peter says, the Lord's not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand slowness. Rather, he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but for everyone to come to repentance. Why didn't the Lord wrap up history? Because he's waiting for you. Because he's waiting for you as part of his church to be brought in. patiently delayed the desire of his heart to see every foe made the footstool of the foot of the feet of his son But he's waiting for that. He's delaying the fulfillment of that. He's patient. Why? So that more of his people will be brought in. And you're one of them. So the next time you find it hard to be patient with someone who you love, remember The Lord is so patient with you and with me that he's delaying the return of his son so that others like you and like me can be brought to himself because we're so precious to him. Not only has he delayed that and shown his patience in that, but secondly, we consider how patient he is with our sin. How patient the Lord is with our sin. Now many Christians wonder, as I sort of bumble along in the Christian life, learning things and Sometimes I think the more I learn, it's just more opportunities to be disobedient in other areas that I didn't know I was being disobedient in before. And I look at the Lord and I say, Lord, what do you think of me? How do you look at me as I sort of struggle along, seeking to obey and be faithful in the areas that you've revealed to me are your will? Are you smiling at me or are you frowning at me? So many of us as Christians are convinced that the Lord's frowning at us. We're convinced that He's up there sort of uh rubbing his palms and uh a sense of d almost exasperation that we are so slow to learn the lessons somehow he is looking at us as those who are little children very hard to put up with That's not the picture that the Bible gives. That's not the picture that the Bible gives. That's the forming of our imagination based on our relationships How did the Lord treat Israel? Here's that ragtag mob of a couple million coming right out of Egypt. And they've just sung a brand new song, the song of redemption. Moses composed it and Miriam sang it, and she's there dancing with all her tambourines. The Lord has accomplished redemption. The horse and the rider he's thrown into the sea. And hardly of the strains of that melody died away. And they come to Narah, and the waters are bitter at Mara. So what do the people do? They grumble. And they complain and they've just thought how great and how victorious the Lord is and now they're saying, why did you bring us out here to drink this bitter water? Would we were back in Egypt? And what did the Lord do? Did he say, yeah, fine, go back to Egypt. Pick them up on a cloud and send them right back? No. You read that the Lord showed Moses a tree, and he took that tree and he put it into the waters and made them sweet. Because of his patience with his people. Then to top it off, he brings them to Elam, where there's twelve springs, and there's a palm palm tree, and there's an oasis for them to delight themselves in. And they go on to Sinai, and God gives them his word, his commandments. The word that we read earlier this morning. And they hear this word, and their response is this one person, and they say, all that we hear will obey and will do it. And Mirza says, fine, now I want to spell this out a little bit more. Excuse me when I go up to the mountain and get a few more details on this. And while he's gone, Aaron makes a golden calf. Moses comes back and the people are in lascivious idolatry, like the worst of the heathen nations. Has God wiped them out and destroyed them on the spot for such insolence and arrogance? I agreed that he punished them, but he did not reject them. Israel continued because God is patient. They come to the land and they send in spies and the spies say, yeah, it's a great land, just like God said. We're like grasshoppers in the sight of the people that rule it. We'll never have a chance in taking it. God says, you don't trust me So the people were held back from the land for forty years until a new generation was raised up. But he did not reject them. And he brought them into that land that he had promised them. Because he's patient. If you look at Jesus and how he treated the disciples, let me remind you again, as I've done many times before When you see how Jesus treated the disciples, that is precisely a picture of how he treats you and me. We don't have to ever wonder how does Jesus look at me. All we have to do is look at the disciples and how Jesus responded to what they did. And he's the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's the one who came in fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy, that he would not break a bruised reed, a reed that you've bent so that it's ready to topple over. And he won't even break that off, but he'll hold it up. And a smoking wick, you know when a wick smokes, that means it's just about to go out. You see the extra smoke come from the candle. And that means it's just about ready to extinguish. And it says he won't extinguish the smoking wick. He'll fan it into flame. He'll help it along so that it'll burn more brightly. Is that your picture of how Jesus treats your faith and your obedience? Love is patient. Jesus is patient toward you and me. He comes just after his cousin and beloved friend John the Baptist was beheaded. And he takes off for the mountains in his grief to think about that, to go to be with the Father. And he can't even get alone. There's 5,000 people, plus women and children, all clamoring for his teaching. And he doesn't snap at them and send them away, but he's patient with them and he teaches them. And the disciples have just come back from the mission, and at the end of the day they found, now Lord, that's enough. Let's send them away so that we can rest. And Jesus says, Oh no, the people are hungry. Give them something to eat. The disciples say, oh come on, this is ridiculous. It was bad enough listening to them all afternoon, having them hang around here. Now at least let's get away from this mob. But Jesus is patient. And he uses that as an example to teach patience and compassion to the disciples. And so he feeds all 5,000 from the five loaves and the two fishes. And then if that's not enough, Jesus then goes up to spend the night on the mountain with his father, still longing to be alone in that time he hadn't gotten before. And the disciples go rowing across the lake. And they're caught in a storm. Does Jesus simply let them go? Does he simply say, they know what to do? They could call upon the Father. I've taught them that. But they don't. They panic, as you and I do. And Jesus comes to them patiently to meet the need, to calm the storm, to take care of them. And even just after that, he sets out with them again. And Jesus, in using that illustration, takes it for a lesson to them, and he says, Beware of the leaven. of the Sadducees and the Pharisees. They think back and say, Oh boy, we didn't bring the bread before and now he's upset about this bread again and they say, Well it's 'cause we didn't bring the bread along. I told you you should have brought the bread. Did you get the bread? No I didn't get the bread. See he's madass, we didn't bring the bread. And Jesus is Fellows, that's not what I'm saying. But patiently he instructs them. I'm talking about the teaching of the Pharisees and the Sadducees Nothing so irritating is there, as trying to make a clever point, trying to help somebody to see something, and they totally miss your point and make some obtuse comment that shows they haven't even been listening to you. Jesus is patient. He calls love. He's patient. He reveals to them the whole purpose of his ministry, his person, and his work. And he tells them how he's going up to Jerusalem to there be tormented and to be crucified and to rise again the third day. And what's the response? They come and they say, Hey Lord, we have a request for you. Uh James and John's mother has uh a desire. Could uh my sons be the first and second place in the kingdom Many others hear that. Of course they're very upset, not because James and John were so insensitive to respond to the Lord's pleading of his heart, but because they got there first And so they begin to grumble about which one of them should be the first in the kingdom. And how does Jesus respond? You talk about provocation? He's patient with him. And he uses as an example to teach them about servanthood and what it really means. And then he illustrates it right on down the road when the blind man from Jericho calls out to him. Not only that, it's just that's not bad enough. But you find them at the Last Supper still having the same argument You talk about rubbing it in. They still haven't learned. He's now telling them this is his body and his blood, and the response to the outpouring of his words to them. He says, Now who is going to be first in the kingdom again? Let's get this straight here. I think I got the right to that. Again, he doesn't Throw the table over, he doesn't toss them out the window, he doesn't storm off and leave, he doesn't say, I've had it with you guys, that's enough. Again, he patiently instructs them. Why do you think he's any different with you? Why do you think he's any different with me? I'll tell you something else. You begin to think about that kind of patience. You begin to think about how the Lord Jesus treats you and treats me. And find out what your response is the next time you're irritated and provoked by one that you care for. Oh, it's patient. Why? Because love considers the patience that we've received from Him. Finally, they have Peter. Peter comes to Jesus, you remember that time and he says, Lord How many times I gotta forgive my brother? I mean these guys are really getting to me, Lord. You know, I've forgiven this guy three times now. How many times I gotta forgive him? Seven times Jesus says to Peter, Peter, you don't understand patience. Love doesn't forgive just seven times. Love forgives even seventy times seven. Do you remember that occasion in Matthew 18, Jesus told them a parable? He told them about a servant who owed a debt of over $10 million. Now don't ask me how a servant could owe over $10 million to his master. But this fella was in deep trouble. He owed over ten million dollars, and he comes to the master and he says, in what is uh always strikes me as a kind of humorous arrogance, be patient with me and I will pay it. Now where he's going to get ten million dollars, I don't care how patient the fellow is, don't ask me. But that's his plea. Be patient with me, and I will pay We read in Matthew eighteen that the servant's master took pity on him and he canceled the debt and let him go. His patience was not simply limited, it was limitless. It was infinite In other words, he didn't simply say, I will wait until you pay the debt. He canceled the debt. There was no debt left. The patience was infinite. It covered the debt. And then we read that that servant went out. He found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. A hundred denarii is about a hundred days wage. You might put that in the realm of a couple thousand dollars perhaps. In our earnings. Not a small debt, but nothing like ten million dollars. And he grounded them and he began to choke them. Pay back what you owe me, he demanded. Now notice this. Fellow servant fell to his knees and he begged him in exactly the same words. Be patient with me, and I will pay you back. Sure, I've wronged you, but be patient. And he refused, and instead he went off and had the man thrown into prison until he could pay the debt when the other servants saw what had happened. They were greatly distressed. And they went and told their master everything that had happened. The master called the servant and he said, You wicked servant, I canceled all your debt because you begged me, shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant just as I had on you? In anger his master, turn him over to the jailers until he should pay back all that debt. That's how my heavenly father will treat you unless you forgive your brother from your heart. For those of you who have been here for a long time, you remember when we considered that passage together, we saw that what Jesus was saying there was not that you would lose salvation. He was not talking about salvation there, he's talking about God's discipline. And what he's saying is that if you in fact forget what God's patience is to you, God's going to make it very warm for you until you remember, until you understand that love is patient. In his love and in his patience in dealing with you, he will bring you to understand patience. And he will not do anything more than is necessary, but he will teach us patience. So you and I look at our own lives. Do you have a hot temper? What are the ways that you have reacted impatiently to those around you? Consider the death the Lord has canceled for you. Consider that you have offended a holy God again and again and again. Jesus has come with no other reason than because of his own great mercy. And Jesus who deserves nothing of that punishment. Put the whole curse upon himself so that the Father could cancel your debt. His patience to you and to me has been infinite. It's without limit, day by day by day. Then he calls us to reflect his patience toward one another. Patience comes by realizing that the promises will be fulfilled. Patience comes by realizing how patient the Lord has been toward us. But there's really a third and last thing that I didn't put in there that we need to finish with, and that is that patience comes supernaturally. Patience doesn't simply come by reflection. It comes by prayer. And when you and I are finally down to it and we realize that we can't be patient, it's not a question of simply saying, Lord. Give me patience. It's coming to him himself and saying, Lord, take me to yourself and make me a patient person. Give me the understanding and the character of Jesus in this situation. Patience, ultimately, is the fruit of the Spirit, and that's supernatural. May God work it in us. As his people. The love is patience. And Jesus is love. Let's pray. Let's take a moment for us each to talk to the Lord about the things that He's been speaking to us about.