Again. Today as we have uh taken this detour with Pastor Bob being away and we're not going to be in uh the book of Luke and continuing that series, we're going to detour into the book of Philippians. And we'll look at chapter two of the book of Philippians. And another aspect of our detour today will also be the translation that we use. It'll be on the screen as you see there, but it's also in the back of your bulletin on the insert. If you have your insert. Which, for the sake of clarity, the way that I've I've kind of outlined it there in that bulletin, I I I put it that way. In case it interests you with respect to how I've thought through the flow of the text, how it seems to me that the text flows, and how I've structured it in my study today. for today. If it helps, great. If not, that's okay too. And you'll also see on the screen for those of us who are following online, because you don't have the text Uh in a in a bulletiner if you want detects in the bulletin, please you can find it there through this QR code on there on the screen. And the reason why I'm doing this, by the way, is because this text here has been um this 1984 NIV translation. This was the text that I used when I first became a Christian, and just by God's providence, it just became the one Bible that I picked up from the Christian bookstore. But uh you might be familiar with that phenomenon where as you read the Bible regularly enough, you remember where certain words are on a page and certain phrases and texts and sayings and everything like that. So This translation, this particular text this morning had become dear to me in that way. I I had it I you know I have it memorized, but it's um so it's just ministered to me a whole lot over the years. But The other reason why we're doing this text, and the other reason why we're going to talk about this theme today, the title of our sermon today is Loving Your Church. So you might also know since I'm your pastoral intern, the one-year mark just passed at the end of February. So I'm in now what I think of as internship 2. 0. And the 10,000-foot takeaway, the thing that has left my heart uh in great contemplation over this past year has been this question of what it means to love the church. And that's part of the as part of the journey of, I guess, pastoral internships and people who are seeking the ministry and elders and deacons. There's a sense in which they need to learn and know and actually have for themselves that they love the church. And that they love it not because of anything that we get out of it, not because that she does anything for us, but we love her for her. We love her for Christ's sake And so there's some some questions that I think about over the over this past year. I mean, do I love the local church because of what I get out of it? When I have to go what we call church shopping, do I do I shop for a church? Because this is where I can see myself serving, where I know they have needs, and I want to serve here and love her here. Do we do we love the local church in the face of that proverbial phrase nowadays, church hurt? When we've been injured and we've been wounded, when people have offended us and hurt us. And we'll talk a little bit more about that this morning as well. But before we dive in, and the reason why I think this is important, there's a text here in 3-1. I'll just quickly read it for us, chapters 3, verse 1. It says, Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. It is no trouble for me to write the same things to you again. The point there is that we know intuitively we need to love the church, right? That's kind of a given. But it's good for us as Christians to talk about this, to think about this again and again and again, to be reminded. and to hem in ourselves what it means to love the church and how can we love the church evermore. So before we dive into the text, I want to provide a little bit of context. We're jumping in the middle of a brand new book, in the middle of a chapter. So Philippians was written, Paul's first acquaintance with the Philippian church is in Acts 16. So if you're kind of tracking along the development as the church is developing and growing, Acts 16 is your is your go-to first text. And this letter was written about after his second missionary journey while he's in jail. So Paul's writing in prison. And if you read the rest of the letter, the whole letter in context. You might pick up anywhere between three and five different um correspondences that are going back and forth between the Philippian church and him. Not five letters, but just five envoys, and Paul's sending somebody to go and find out the well-being of the church and coming back with a good report. And the main theme, the meta theme of fli of the Philippian letter here is to address an issue of related to unity. and discord. And he's urging them and calling them because there are people here that when we'll talk about today who are creating uh disunity. And who are causing consternation. Do we things out of selfish ambition, doing things out of vain conceit and false motives, and we'll see that a little bit more But the main exegetical theme for this morning, which if you can flip the slide before we read the text, the 10,000-foot thing that I want us to think about today. Is having the mind of Christ calls us to pursue the church's needs and the church's good regardless of our personal outcome? Having the mind of Christ calls us to pursue the church's good regardless of our personal outcome. Okay, and that's the main the main point today. So now we can read the text. You want to follow along on the screen or in your bulletin? Hear God's word. If you have any encouragement from being united with Christ. If any comfort from his love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any tenderness and compassion, then make my joy complete by being like-minded, having the same love, being in one being in spirit being one in spirit and purpose. Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider others better than yourselves Each of you should look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others. Your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus, who, being in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped. But made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross. This ends the reading of God's Word. Let's pray. Gracious Father, thank you so much for your word that was written thousands of years ago, a word upon which we stand and find our hope. And find our surety. So we submit to it this morning, asking that by your spirit you would spur us on where we need to be spurred on. You would prune us where we need to be pruned and you would encourage us. this morning we ask for the sake of our good and your glory. In Christ's name. Amen. So the first point today, you'll see there in your bulletin outline is Paul describes the inherent connection between fellowship with Christ and fellowship amongst one another. And that is developed there in the first four verses. A description of the connection between what it's like for us to be in relationship with Christ and how that necessarily impacts our relationship with one another. He says in verse 1: if you have any encouragement. If you have any comfort, any fellowship, any tenderness and compassion. And these aren't action words strictly. I mean, though we do these things, Paul is asking if you have these things. So in the Greek they're they're functioning as nouns. It's like, do I have this Bible in my hand? Do I have encouragement? Do I have comfort? And all of this is coming from a relationship with Jesus. And so there's interesting things to observe about this where Paul's having their minds go. These words, I think, as I thought this through. I mean these are these are words that elicit a deeply experiential aspect of our relationship with Jesus and an emotional experience with Jesus. And what I mean by that, that phrase, tenderness and compassion. Tenderness means bowels. And compassion is another word that has us to think about our emotions that come from our bowels. So, Paul is having them think about what is the deepest visceral response that you have when you are in fellowship with Christ, when you are walking along in the Spirit and receiving comfort and encouragement. He's having them think about this, the deepest aspects of our life in Christ. And then he says, make my joy complete. If these things are true about what it's like for you to walk with Christ, then make my joy complete. There's actually three things that he does there. He tells them to make my joy complete, do nothing out of selfish ambition, and then look out for one another. So making my joy complete. It seems almost strange if we're not quite careful enough, but it seems strange that he's having them think about their walk with the Lord, and then he says, make my joy complete. Almost as if there's a putting the attention back on himself in some way, shape, or form. What's that about? What difference does it make, Paul's joy, with their great fellowship with Christ Himself? Well, not to be not to be funny, but it does have a lot to do. It has everything to do with it. And what we mean by that, and what I mean by that, is that Paul is their pastor. We've got to remember that Paul's your pastor. He planted this church. He loves this church. He's been nourishing this church. He's been invested in this church. And he's doing so even from prison. And what do we notice in verse in chapter one though? Let me quickly go back, if you remember. I think my God, every time I remember you in all my prayers for all of you. I always pray with joy because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this that he who began a good work in you will carry it onto completion until the day of Christ Jesus. So Paul preached the gospel to the Philippians. He saw them put their faith in Christ. He saw them having their lives completely turned around. And so it's it's an obvious. He saw the beginning work that God was doing, and he is confident, and there's joyful anticipation that God's going to bring whatever work is doing that he's doing in them, he's going to bring it to completion. And so it matters whether or not Joy has Paul has joy, because he's their pastor. And I and I think, as I was thinking this through even more, that this I think could be a good go-to proof text. When we're in the Westminster larger catechism, thinking about that fifth commandment, if you're familiar with the fifth commandment, which is to honor your father and your mother, right? Love them and obey them. But we, in our Reformed tradition, expand that and want to talk, we we flesh that out in some pretty detailed ways. What is actually meant by father and mother exactly? In case you're curious, you can look it up. It's question 124 of the larger catechism. The question is, is who are meant by father and mother in the fifth commandment? The answer is, by father and mother in the fifth commandment are meant not only natural parents, but all superiors in age and gifts. And especially such as by God's ordinance are over us in a place of authority, whether in family, church, or commonwealth. So Paul is the superior. He's their pastor. And our pastors here, and our pastor here, our elders here, our deacons here, they are our superiors as well. That's kind of the gist of that. They're not superior to us in sort of quality or worth. That's not what that means. It just means it's sort of like we have superiors at work who have a position of authority over us. And so when Paul, and I didn't mention this earlier, oh no, I did, that there's an issue of discord and unity, and he's he's shearing up and addressing this. And so there are times when a church stands or falls Not so much on the quality of the superior or the pastor, the elders, or the deacons, inasmuch as the quality of our love for one another. Okay? We'll un tease that out a little bit more in a moment, but there's also times when a church stands or falls less on the quality of the superior but more on the quality of our interest in the superior's joy or in the pastor's joy and those who have authority over us. Do we even have any interest in their joy at all? Paul's not the only one who thinks in these terms. 3 John 1:4. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in the truth. Or walk or walking in the truth. Or Hebrews 13, 17, he says, Obey your leaders, submit to their authority. They keep watch over you as men who must give an account. Obey them so that Their work will be a joy, not a burden, because that would be of no advantage to you. Now, if you're like me, I'm going to make a brief confession here, in my natural self, in in the fleshly parts of who I am, I don't do this. I don't want to do this. I don't want to submit to my elders and deacons and those who have authority over me. I resist. There's a natural impulse in my spirit to push back and to challenge. To resist submission. And everywhere where that ends up leading to the second and third order effect of division and consternation in a church, that's evil. And I have to repent of that. But that's the first thing that Paul says. The second thing that he points out to you, if you have this encouragement from being in Christ, any comfort from his love, then here's the other thing that he wants them to do: do nothing. Out of selfish ambition or vain conceit. But in humility, consider others better than yourselves. If you had to put in one word or one sentence Like, what's the basic sin that that creates disunity and creates a church breakup, that creates church hurt? It's selfish ambition, it's vain conceit. And when selfish ambition and vain conceit, when they run rampant in my heart, or when when they're running rampant in the heart of any congregation like the Philippians, self-interest just naturally flows. They go hand in hand. But we're to look out not only for our own interests, but also to the interests of others. And so in 3 and 4, Paul uses a few words that he just used in chapter 1, which I'll go over in a moment. But these are really big buzzwords, if you will. Selfish ambition, vain conceit, the interest of others. Let me remind us what he says in chapter one. And where really the address of dealing with unity and disunity in a church is coming from. He says in verse 15, it is true. That some preach Christ out of envy and rivalry, but others out of goodwill. The latter do so in love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel, the former preach Christ out of selfish ambition Not sincerely, supposing that they can stir up trouble for me while I'm in chains. But what does it matter? The important thing is that whether from false motives are true, Christ is preached. And because of this, I rejoice So in three and four, or excuse me, two, three, and four, in those two uh three verses there, in that stream of thought, one long run-on sentence, really. Paul addresses both groups of people in this congregation. He addresses the group of people who are in fact instigating out of false motives and selfish ambition. He's saying if you're if you are doing this, very straightforwardly, stop it. Don't do it. Think about my joy for a moment. If you have a walk with the Lord Jesus, as he said in verse 1, it's almost as if it ought to be natural to us that we wouldn't want to do these things. But we have to be called and commanded at times, and there are in this case here in the Philippian church that very command. Now I also want to tease out, because in the commentaries, interestingly enough, as I was Reading and studying the phrase better than yourselves. There was extended commentary on this that I didn't quite expect, and I think it might be good for us to analyze a little bit. Because is Paul saying that under no circumstance, under all circumstances, if people are mistreating us and abusing us Slandering us, robbing us. Are we to just sort of smile and move on like, oh, they're just better than me. I guess I'll just deal with it and move on. Or what if in those moments when we are seeking the interest of others, doing what Paul is just suggesting here in verse 4. But it turns into what we nowadays call enabling, right? Where uh the thing actually is unhelpful to them, right? Maybe even sinful. Like what what are we really to do in there? What's the answer to that? Well, it depends. That requires great wisdom, and I don't mean that to be funny. But let's use let's use the example again that I mentioned a moment ago about church hurting or just any experience where your life in the church maybe has been difficult. Okay I can't answer every scenario, but we but we can ask two very broad questions in light of what Paul is dealing with here. One, I I've mentioned it before in a previous sermon, but maybe you might remember. How we respond to suffering matters just as much as the suffering. How we respond when people abuse us, how we respond when people sin against us and hurt us. And are working out false motives, how we respond to that matters just as much as those things. Okay? So that's just a simple quick point to as we analyze all these different ways that this can be applied. But the other thing that I think would be good for us is we know selfish ambition and vain conceit in others. Like we could see it a mile away, right? And I love Pastor Bob's illustration from just a few weeks ago. You might recall, he had a big log that was brought out here. And he had a little toothpick, and he said, you know, about 70,000 toothpicks can be drawn out of this giant log. And he and he said something that still, I think, convicts my heart. Do I see my sin 70,000 times worse than my neighbor? Okay. And so I think those two things have to are part of the fleshing out when we work to apply this. Really viewing others better than ourselves, seeking their interests, not just our own, but theirs as well. Even when there are people in the congregation who are doing things they ought not to be doing. But part two of the text here this morning. Paul describes Christ as the example to follow, and that's in verses five through eight. Verse 5, your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus. This is what I call the epitome of an attitude adjustment. Okay? Paul takes what he just described in verses 2 to 4, and he commands them, yeah, somewhat you might say, on a behavioral level, on an external level, in a way that's obvious to everyone. We can see that when we're not acting selfishly with one another, like on the surface. But he takes that and he goes down one level one layer deep He says your attitude, or you could also translate that your mind, in the basic way that you're thinking about a thing. Your mind and your attitude of your heart. has to be or should be like Christ. And then in the second set of verses there um 6 uh 6, 7, and 8. Very deep mystery, but the person and the work of Jesus Christ. We won't exegete that too deeply this morning, but just for a theological side note for what it's worth, because there's still lots of uh hoopla, as you might say, uh, whether Jesus was really God. Okay, so if there's ever any question in your mind or you're kind of on a spot needing to think about a moment when somebody is saying Jesus really wasn't God, he never claimed to be God Paul personally thought he was God. Jesus is God. And we have this as a proof text for that. So let's focus a little bit more on verse 5 then for just one second. Our attitude, the basic default Workings of our mind and our thinking needs to be like Christ. But what is that attitude exactly? Well, it's this isn't um a trick question, it's just it's an attitude of humility, an attitude of of a humble and humble spirit. An attitude and the again the basic default of our thinking where we do not think that the highest thing that can be obtained is something that we're we're is even in the realm of our contemplation, of our efforts. Right? Paul says his attitude, he didn't consider equality with God a thing to be grasped. But he proactively became a servant, the nature of a servant. And what is the nature of a servant? Well, servants don't have glory. They don't have authority, they don't have prestige, they don't have wealth. Their core function is to serve. And so when our attitude has become adjusted, the way that Paul's teasing out here. And we uh it when it has become adjusted such that we are ready and willing to give up the highest thing that can be obtained, in this case equality with God. Then there is, it will flow from that, as we saw in Christ, will flow from that a willingness to be obedient even to death. We'll be willing to sacrifice for one another. Now, I don't think Paul is teaching, for what it's worth, that we die on a cross like Jesus died on a cross. That's not what's happening here. He's not doing a thing where we can uh replicate. and do just like Jesus in terms of his hi his total humiliation and the work that was accomplished there on the cross. Jesus' condescension in the flesh, his obedience unto death on the cross, there was a specific uh work that that was designed for. It's to secure true and lasting salvation. We cannot mirror that. But we can but we can mirror the attitude of that. We can mirror the the basic mindset of that, of dying. You've heard of the phrase dying to yourself. It's kind of where that idea comes from. But here's the catch. We are rounding third base here, but here's the catch. Going back to verse one. We cannot have this attitude, and we will, I think like what the Paul was addressing with some of the those in the Philippian church, we'll go against the grain. If verse 1 are not true of us, it's not true of us. Again, if you have any encouragement with being united with Christ, if any fellowship Any cover from his love, any fellowship with the Spirit, any tenderness and compassion. If those things aren't true of us, then we're gonna go against the grain. The willing spirit to sacrifice and to even die will be impossible and difficult. Now, I don't say that by way of judgment, because We're not always on proverbial cloud nine in our Christian lives. It's not, I don't even think that's what Paul is suggesting here. Okay. But I want us to think about this application from an application standpoint for a moment. Okay? How is your walk with Jesus? Do you have these things? And if you don't have these things. I don't want you to walk out of here today feeling judged or in any way. What I would want to encourage you to consider is to tell someone that you're struggling. Because we have elders and deacons and other leaders, other men and women here who are your community group leaders, friends. They want to love you. They want to serve you. They want an opportunity to embody the attitude of Christ, to walk alongside and bear our burdens and bear your burden. The other application point, if we put this also in a phrase, our attitude is everything. It's good for us to remember that. And then thirdly, fellowship with Christ. Do you love the church more than she loves you? Do you love the church simply because Christ loves her? Another reason why I chose this theme today in this topic, that's just because this has all been in my mind over the last better part of nine months, I guess, in this internship journey. But I want to say that because you have loved me, CPC has loved me way more than I have loved you in return and her in return. I I you know I I am a man who's sort of saying I have a sense of calling and you took a huge risk, a guy who's only been here for a couple of years and welcoming me and opening your arms. I've had Nothing but blessing after blessing, a sense of love and care and reception. And I and I wanted to share that with you. I think CPC models this attitude very, very well. I mean, just in the recent times of some of the deaths that we've had, we cannot walk alongside with one another. The way that we're doing, apart from embodying this attitude, this is what this is what it is to embody these attitudes. Or just recently, in a very tangible need, when Bob, Pastor Bob had to have his house refurbished. I mean many, many hours went into that. Lots of sweat and labor went into that because, well, in part perhaps you wanted to bring joy to Pastor Baum, but because you were embodying this attitude of Christ. And that is an encouraging thing in my heart. So it's a great privilege to be here, opening God's Word with you. It's a great privilege to serve and to be with you, just walking in the Christian life together. Let's pray. Gracious Father, thank you for your word again. Thank you for our Savior Jesus Christ. Who is our great example, who are great model of what sacrificial living is. Oh God, would you give us grace to walk like Christ, to put on his attitude, to think like him? And oh Lord, wherever there is discord in our own hearts, in our walk with you, or walk with one another, Father, restore us, renew us, revive our hearts with your word. Give us move in us so we can move toward one another. Father, we we confess that none of these things are possible apart from the work of your spirit. So we ask this in the name Of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Please stand.