You may have noticed in the bulletin that after the sermon there is listed their congregational response. Hopefully we'll have time that if one or two of you have a scripture or very brief application or a word of praise in response to the message, you'll have an opportunity to share it at that point. A recent issue of Christianity Today magazine surveyed fifteen new books on prayer. Their conclusion, as listed at the end of that article, He says, I quote, this sampling shows that although a lot is being written, more remains to be done on the subject of prayer, especially of a serious nature. Much is being said about basics, but not much is being said in Mars is not a praying age. Ours is much more an age of activity. It seems that the church today has not really been gripped by the central place of prayer in the kingdom age. We've not really been gripped by that expectation that the Old Testament Church had. Looking forward to the great new day of prayer to come. Somehow we haven't caught the fact that when Jesus came to inaugurate the kingdom He inaugurated it and entered it in every phase and activity of his ministry, being preceded by and bathed in prayer Somehow we've missed the fact that as we follow him in this new age of prayer in the kingdom, that we follow him in prayer. A prayer so that the nations will look with wonder at a God who hears and answers the cries of his bloodbought people. Last week we looked at this a little bit. We saw that Luke uniquely highlights the prayer ministry of Jesus Why is it that Luke is the one gospel that particularly focuses so much attention on the fact that Jesus prayed at every vital stage of his ministry? I believe it's because Luke was the one who wrote Acts. You see, Luke wrote two volumes, Luke and Acts, and they're intended to go together. Luke is the record of what Jesus began to do and teach, we read in Acts 1. 1. And then Acts is what Jesus continued to do and teach. And so Luke is seeking to show us that Jesus began to establish the kingdom in his ministry through prayer. His prayers. Acts tells us how Jesus continues to establish and advance his kingdom through prayer. Our prayers. You see, Luke wants to demonstrate to us the continuity of the principle of establishing and advancing the kingdom. That the kingdom always advances through prayer. It's the same means in Jesus ministry or in the Church of Jesus Christ in Colombia. Only prayer. It's the one essential ingredient for the establishment and the advance of the kingdom. In the light of this, what is the one great lesson that Luke teaches us and seeks for us to understand about prayer? It's the lesson of persistence. I never saw that so forcefully as I did this past week. I appreciate the comments that some of you make as you come back after the morning message. I get all kinds of comments back there, you know. Uh some people have various philosophies of what they say to the preacher after a message. And I appreciate comments Uh I'm not soliciting comments of coming back and saying every week, uh, good message preacher. I I don't mean that. I do appreciate, however, comments particularly where a person will say, How the message specifically helped them in their life. How it met some particular need, or some question that was raised in your mind that perhaps I didn't speak to, or something that needs to be clarified. I appreciate the feedback in understanding what or what did not communicate to you as I seek to open the word. And last week there were a number of comments about this one point I made concerning persistence in prayer And that struck me, and so I began to pursue that a little further. And this week I looked through Luke and Acts, and I'd never noticed before, as I've noticed this week, what a great point, what a major point Luke makes out of this fact of persistence as a necessary qualification for prayer in the kingdom age. In fact, I would say that Luke is telling us no less than the fact that without persistent prayer, we will see very little Kingdom power. Persistence is necessary to see prayer answered in general. Now I'm talking about persistence in two ways I'm talking first about, first of all, about general persistence, that is, prayer without ceasing as a way of life. The general attitude and atmosphere of living in constant dialogue, calling upon the Father, speaking our needs and concerns to Him, reading His Word, seeing what He has to say to us. Secondly, I'm talking about specific persistence. By specific persistence, I mean laying before God's throne of grace one specific request again and again and again. Until we see his response. We may see in the continuing persistence of that how we need to change the request To bring it more into conformity to his will and what he wants in his glory in it. It starts out very self-centered. Gradually it becomes more God-centered But general and specific persistence are absolutely necessary according to Luke's theology of prayer of the kingdom. In order for us to see kingdom power. Why? You see, God wants to cultivate in our hearts a deeper desire for kingdom concerns He wants to produce in us that longing for the advance of his kingdom that comes through persistence. And he wants us to treasure the answers as we do. When we see that after a long time of laying our hearts' desires before Him, God answers that prayer. Well we examined this just very briefly last week Today I want to look at this in a little more depth, taking a look at Luke and particularly Acts to see how Luke develops this thought. And then in two weeks from now, I want to take a look at The parable in Luke 18, 1-8, uh, in more detail to see the lesson of persistence taught there concerning the widow before the unrighteous judge. First of all, then this morning, let's take a look at The persistence taught in Luke. Then we'll see the persistence practiced in Acts, and then finally the persistence applied to our church today. Persistence then taught in Luke. In Luke 11, 1 we saw last week. That one day Jesus was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, just as John taught his disciples. And you remember that Jesus' response to this was the prayer of the kingdom, thy kingdom come. Kingdom is established by prayer in Jesus' life Kingdom is advanced by prayer in our lives, and the kingdom will ultimately be consummated. Come when Jesus returns by prayer, as we pray, Thy kingdom come, and in that prayer praying also for Jesus to come. And then after teaching this prayer of the kingdom, Jesus drives home his lesson by an example, a parable. Well a fellow who tries to get bread from his friend at midnight. I don't know if you've ever tried to call somebody up at twelve o'clock for something that you needed, you ran out of, but uh I would venture to say it's not the easiest thing to do. Uh you really have to be pretty motivated. And this fellow was very motivated. He was very embarrassed. He was very needy. He was embarrassed by his need to the extent that he was willing to humble himself before the friend and even aggravate him, irritate him. He said, I need that bread. And Jesus encourages through that persistence Notice he says in verse 8, because of the man's persistence, he'll get up and give him whatever he needs, just so I'll give him some peace and let him get back to bed. And then Jesus is saying here essentially, now is that implying that God doesn't want to be bugged with our needs? But if we just keep bugging him long enough, he'll finally give in and give it to us. And so he ties on to that verses nine to thirteen, in which he contrasts the evil natures that we have, by which we give good gifts, with God's giving nature. And he says that if you, being evil, can give good gifts, How much more will our Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? We're not pestering a reluctant God, but rather He's designing the persistence of the in order to strengthen our faith as an exercise. Faith, remember, is like a muscle. If you don't use it, it grows weak. But as we exercise faith, as we exercise a muscle, it grows stronger. in the exercise of it. And persistent prayer is the exercise of our faith. It's what strengthens it. We learn to desire kingdom concerns with more than a superficial attitude. We learn that we're not to be spoiled by God's being gracious in answering prayer. And we lie low before Him, longing for Him to hear us. We come close to him as we wrestle with him and learn his heart's desires in prayer. As we spend more and more time in this, we grow closer to our Father and we learn to love him more. And then as the prayer is answered, it becomes all the more treasured to us. Those times when you have prayed long for something and finally seen God answered it But much more the landmarks in your own walk with God than those times when there has not been that long wrestling, aren't they? It's those times that you and I look back and we see how we waited upon God for weeks and months. And then God gave us that desire, and that desire was different by the time God gave it. And God caused us to grow through that whole experience. Well then in Luke chapter eighteen Jesus gives us a second teaching on this matter of persistence. And let's read this as the scripture this morning, the parable in Luke chapter eighteen. Let's hear God's word from Luke eighteen, verses one to eight. Then Jesus told his disciples a parable to show them that they should always pray and not give up That's the purpose. He said in a certain town there was a judge who neither feared God nor cared about men. And there was a widow in that town who kept coming to him with the plea grant me justice against my adversary For some time he refused. But finally he said to himself, even though I don't fear of God or care about men, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I'll see that she gets justice, so that she won't eventually wear me out with her coming. The Lord said, Listen to what the unjust judge says. Will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones who cry out to him day and night? Will he keep putting them off? I tell you, he will see that they get justice and quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? Notice the purpose of that parable. In verse 1, it's to show people that they should always pray. and not give up. That's Jesus' intention. So that we learn persistence. So that we learn that more than any other danger of our losing the experience of kingdom power. is the danger of our giving up in our praying. I'm going to deal with that parable in more depth in two weeks, and so I'm not going to say anything more about that right now, but just hold that off so that you see again Jesus' explicit teaching in Luke eleven and Luke eighteen concerning persistence in prayer. They were the two things that he taught. The two times that he taught about prayer, he taught the prayer of the Lord's Prayer, and then he taught persistence, and then again, chapter 18, persistence. J He taught this also by his life. There's many examples. We looked at some of them last week. Consider him again Luke chapter 6, verse 12, where before choosing his disciples, Jesus himself spent the whole night persisting in prayer. Have you ever spent the whole night in prayer for anything? If you ever have, you're a different person when the morning comes. That kind of persistence, going without sleep Because of such a deep concern over what you agonize and present to God is the kind of persistence that makes you a different person, makes you see the world differently See your concerns differently. See God differently. Jesus taught this also in the Garden of Gethsemane. Remember, we read in Luke 22, 39 that Jesus went to the garden as was his custom. Now that's how Luke knew where to find Jesus when he brought the soldiers. Because Judas knew that Jesus' custom was so persistent, so habitual, that that's where he would be spending time in prayer. That Judas could count on the fact that Jesus would be in prayer, and where would he be? He'd be in the garden. Now this was Jesus' persistence during those difficult days. So he goes to the garden and he casts himself on the ground before God, his father, to seek strength in the coming conflict. We read even that an angel had to come and strengthen him in that prayer. Matthew tells us he persisted three times coming back and praying. For that strength that he had to have. And then he rose, strengthened for the final battle of his life. Now after Jesus has taught this, we take a look at the book of Acts And we see what in fact the church had learned. We find out as we look through Acts that the Church had learned the lesson well. Jesus, who had begun his works in the book of Luke in establishing the kingdom, continues to establish the kingdom now through the persistent prayers of his church. Turn with me and follow briefly as we consider some examples of this through the book of Acts. You remember that the book of Acts begins by Jesus Revealing himself at the end of the forty days after his resurrection to his disciples, and then ascending into heaven We read that after he ascended, that the disciples went back to Jerusalem. And in Acts 1. 14, what were they doing there? They all joined together constantly in prayer. The word constantly is a very important word to Luke. It's a word which means persistently without ceasing. It's the word that Luke uses in chapter 10, verse 7, concerning the soldiers who attended Cornelius, whose jobs were to never leave his side. But to attend upon every need. And that's the word that Luke uses here concerning the disciples praying to God. It was constant. It was persistent. It never let up. Now what were they praying for so constantly and persistently? We're not told here, but we're not left to guess. At the end of volume one of Luke, in Luke 24, verse 49, Jesus tells the disciples what to pray for. He says, pray for the power from on high by the Holy Spirit before you begin your ministry. And so, because Jesus had told them that that's what they were to do, to go and to wait in Jerusalem to pray for the Spirit, and because we know that when he taught them the lesson of persistence in prayer in Luke 11, What is it that he talks to them about calling on? Remember at the end there he says, And now won't your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him You see, the other Gospels say good gifts. Luke says the Holy Spirit. Why? Because all of the good gifts that God can give us in the kingdom age are summed up in the promise of the Spirit. And so the disciples here now, after Jesus has gone, are praying for the Spirit. And they're praying persistently. They're praying constantly. They're wrestling with God for this. They won't let up. And then in chapter 2, on the day of Pentecost, comes the dramatic answer to that persistent prayer, and the Spirit comes in power such as the Church had never known. And a whole new age is inaugurated in the power of the Spirit. Jesus had established the kingdom because he was filled with the Spirit. The church is now given the same Spirit of Jesus through the same means, prayer. And the church begins to establish the kingdom through that same power that Jesus had. even extended far beyond that which Jesus did. Greater works do they do than he ever did, and three thousand come to know the Savior on that very first day in the very first evangelistic message. Then we read in chapter two, verse forty two. Notice that they devoted themselves to four things: the apostles' teaching, fellowship, breaking of bread, or the Lord's Supper, and a prayer. That word there, devoted, is the same word as in chapter 1, verse 14. They constantly, persistently engaged in these four activities, one of which was prayer. As a result of this outpouring of the Spirit, they are constantly in prayer before God to see more of His work. Verse 46, every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. As The word there continued to meet is the same word again They persisted to meet. They constantly met in the temple courts. Now what were they doing in the temple courts? Sitting around having sacrifices? No. Sacrifice has been made, the veil's been went. Chapter 3 verse 1 tells us what they were doing. One day Peter and John were going up to the temple when? Not at the time of sacrifice, at the time of prayer, at three in the afternoon. And so the disciples are persisting, constantly devoting themselves to prayer for continued working of the Spirit. And because of that, you see, when the opportunity comes before Peter for healing and preaching of the gospel, he's ready. And he does so in the power of the Spirit. Chapter four, verse twenty-four to thirty-one records the prayer after their first persecution. And what are they praying after the disciples have been persecuted? Do they say, Now Lord, keep us safe Lord, help us to go out and protect this now, as we declare you. Nothing of the sort. They pray for boldness in the spirit. They persist with God, asking that He will give them power to declare Christ fearlessly. And the response to that we see in verse 31 is that the whole place was shaken And so we read, after they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and spoke the word of God boldly. Every one of us who are believers in Jesus Christ are baptized in the Holy Spirit. And we continue to call upon God consistently, persistently, for that filling of the Spirit that gives us both. And power and grace to live for him in this world. So what do you see in chapter six, verse four? In chapter six, verse four, when there's a problem about what the leaders are going to do because of the need to serve tables, we read that they delegate the law. people to serve because we read there in ver chapter six verse four that we will give our attention to prayer and the ministry of the word. Here it is again. Same word that we saw three times before. Persistently we will give you a word. Will consist in prayer. The word there, give our attention to is that same word in one fourteen. We will consistently, persistently devote ourselves to prayer and the ministry of the word in order to see the power of the Spirit. Chapter 9, verse 9. You come to the conversion of this rascal Saul And what happens as soon as God gets a hold of his life? In chapter nine and verse nine we read that for three days he was blind and didn't eat or drink anything. Now what's he doing while he's fasting in this blind condition? Well we read in verse eleven. That the Lord told him, Go to the house of Judas on Strait Street and ask for this man of Tarsus named Saul. What's he doing? For he's praying. As soon as Paul comes to know Jesus Christ, for three days he persists in prayer for the power of the Spirit in his life. He fasts and he casts himself on God ceaselessly because he must have God's power. And nothing is going to prevent him. And so Paul's praying for three days and three nights. And Ananias comes, and in response to that prayer, what happens? He's filled with the Spirit, we read in verse 17. Chapter 10, verse 2. We come to a Gentile, a centurion, whose name is Cornelius. And what's Cornelius characterized by? Verse two, he and all his family were devout and God fearing. He gave generously to those in need, and prayed to God regularly Prayed to God consistently, persistently. He was a man who was characterized by prayer without ceasing. And so God says in verse 4, Cornelius, your prayers have been remembered. P He repeats that again in verse 31 so that we make sure we got the point. Cornelius was a man who prayed persistently, and God heard his persistence. And so Peter is chosen as the instrument by which this man Cornelius will be filled with the Spirit And in what circumstance does Peter become used of God for this? Well, in verse 9, we read that about the follow- about noon the following day, as they're approaching the sea city, Peter went up on the roof. You guessed it, to pray. And it says Peter is in prayer that God speaks to him about this Cornelius, that he wants them to go down and be used of him in order to anoint him with the Holy Spirit It's because Peter was praying. And he makes a point of this in chapter 11, verse 5, that he's used of God in the work of anointing Cornelius and the Gentiles with the Holy Spirit. Chapter twelve, verse five. Now James has been killed, the persecution's intensifying. Peter's thrown into jail. What's the church's response? In chapter twelve, verse five, so Peter was kept in prison, but the church was earnestly praying to God for him. That word earnestly is a word which means literally strained. The church was strained in prayer. constant in prayer, without letting up in prayer. In fact, the Greek literally says there that prayer was being made, the continuous tense emphasized That there was ongoing prayer, being constantly strained before God. Prayer is work. Let nobody tell you that if you're really a victorious spiritual Christian, prayer ought to be something that comes very natural. Then I never have to labor to pray. I don't find that. David didn't find that. I'm comforted that Paul and others didn't find that Prayers work. Prayer is something we have to labor at and learn to do. Prayer is something that we have to cast ourselves upon God and confess again and again. We don't know how to pray. Lord, teach me how to pray. Lord, help me to form my concerns around the concerns of your kingdom. And to devote myself in wrestling to pray. Well, verse twelve, you see that the church has gathered late at night and they're praying It's you know you know it's late at night because Peter's already asleep, you read earlier, in his prison. He's going to be executed the next day, but that doesn't rob Peter of his sleep. And so we read then that uh when this Uh had dawned on them that he went to the house, Peter's now going to the house of Mary, the mother of John, who is also called Mark, where many of the people had gathered and were praying Well uh there they are praying in this house, Lord release Peter. Lord, protect Peter, Lord care for Peter. All of a sudden, there's a knock on the door. They say, hey Roddy, go answer the door. Continue to pray. We're not going to let up. We're not going to let a little interruption like that. Release Peter. Lord, take care of your servant. Lord, you know I need for him. Lord, have mercy on him. Rhoda goes down, she hears at the door. It's Peter. Peter says, It's me. God's delivered me. Let me in. She goes running upstairs and she says, Peter's at the door. God's answered. And they say, You're out of your mind. Come on back and pray with us for Peter. That's what he says right there. You see, verse 15. Tell you out of your mind, Rhoda. Let's pray for Peter. She says, wait a minute, I'm sure it's Peter. I heard his voice. Now they finally back off a little bit and they think, well, all right, if there's somebody there, it must be his angel. And finally, while they're dialoguing, debating how God couldn't have answered like that, there's old Peter down there, keeps knocking on the door, hey, while you guys are debating who it is down here, will somebody come down and let me in? And so they come down and they find out, really it is Peter. There he is. How very much like me that is. How very much that could be like us as we pray this afternoon. Lord, we're praying that you'll do this or that or the other thing We begin to see the answers come. We'll not even believe that they're coming. We don't believe that possibly God could really have been hearing us in that. We're more involved in the activity of prayer than the expectation of the answer to prayer. Then why is it Because you and I are more concerned with our faithlessness than God's faithfulness. Because we take our eyes off of Him, even in our praying, and look to ourselves in the amount of faith or the lack of faith. We become involved in the activity of prayers and end in itself. And we don't look for the answers. We don't expect them. And so God is showing to them his faithfulness here, that even when we in our unfaithfulness call upon him so doubtingly, he still hears and he answers. Chapter 13. You see there the prayer and fasting was a way of life for the Church of Antioch And it's while they're fasting and praying that God called to them to set apart Barnabas and Saul for the work that they call them. The Holy Spirit had called them when we pray. You have to be ready for unexpected answers sometimes. God's not always going to do the things that we think. But what's their response? They fasted and they prayed. And they placed their hands on Saul and Barnabas and sent them off. Fasting is always joy with prayer. in the scriptures. And it's always joined with prolonged and persistent prayer. You see, you don't fast just for the sake of fasting in the scriptures. It has no merit of its uh in itself whatsoever. You only fast because you're going to pray devotedly, persistently, and you need to miss a meal to do it. So it's talking about prayer probably of at least four to six hours. In order to necessitate the fasting. Chapter fourteen, verse twenty-three The elders are set aside with fasting and prayer. Paul and Barnabas appoint elders for each of the churches that they evangelize and they establish And they set those elders aside with prayer and fasting, committing them to the Lord, and He may put their trust. We've got to decide about Don Olson. In the next couple weeks you see it in the bulletin. He's being presented to you by the session as a man we see is qualified for the ministry of Elder. Will we fast and pray for Don? Fast and pray for the decision? Will we fast and pray for God's ministry in his life? That's the pattern of persistent prayer that we see consistently in the book of Acts. We take his ministry seriously. We take the fact that God, if he's going to own his ministry by the Holy Spirit, and we're not going to look at Don a few years down the road and lament the ways that God may not be using him. And we look back and we say We're going to pray that God will own his ministry by the Holy Spirit. That's the only way it's going to happen. Same way with the rest of the elders in this church. Only the Holy Spirit's going to own our ministry by the persistent praying, not just of us. But of you folks supporting us, fasting, praying, the leadership of the church. The rest of the book of Acts doesn't talk about this a whole lot more The reason for that is the rest of the book of Acts switches in its focus. And it focuses itself on the ministry of one man, particularly Paul. And so it's not now the the acts of the entire church, but it focuses on this one man, Paul, and doesn't deal so much with the question of prayer. But of course, the whole ministry of Paul was a ministry of persistent, constant prayer. Let me give you just two examples of that. Paul says in Romans chapter 1, verse 9, God whom I serve with my whole heart in preaching the gospel of his Son is my witness, how constantly I remember you in my prayers at all times. Philippians chapter one, he says to the church there, verse three and four, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, in all My prayers for all of you. I always pray with joy because of your partnership in the gospel. And what does that mean for you and for me in the church here today at Columbia? Was that the principle that worked in the New Testament? That in the twentieth century its creative planning, its church growth seminars It's carrying out all that the manuals say or the surefire techniques for us to build a church. And somehow God switched the rules there in those last nineteen hundred years And uh we're just catching up to what's really his means of growth now. Or is it that the means are still the same? Of course we know, but God hasn't changed the rules. It's the same principle for kingdom progress today as it was in Luke and Acts. It's the same principle right now. I think one of the best illustrations of this is the Church of Korea. So we see in the United States all that we read about church growth and all the rest of it, and how much do we see of our society being thoroughly affected by the Church of Jesus Christ? Carl Henry has an excellent article in the latest Christianity Today magazine, lamenting what appears to be great growth among evangelicals, with precious little effect in society as a whole. Take a look at the Church of Korea. The Church of Korea itself was born in prayer, in the great revival of 1907. When in a prayer meeting called by missionaries, there was a man there, a Korean man, who in his prayer was convicted by God and began to confess his sin in an open and forthright way, willing to make restitution. And so open was he that prompted by the Spirit of God others to make confession too. And confession was made, and sin was dealt with, restitution was made. And in a very, very short time an ocean of prayer began to sweep over Korea. Prayer began to bombard the throne of grace for God to work in a mighty way in Korea, and people were dead serious in constant, persistent prayer. The effects of that were that they set a goal that they would reach one million people for Jesus Christ in the next year. That's quite a goal. Of course they didn't attain it. It took them two years to reach one million people for Christ. By nineteen oh nine. Now Korea is a church that has learned thoroughly that the kingdom progresses through prayer. A Korean elder has on his book that which has inspired me to continue this for the last uh fourteen years. His prayer book is called The Book of the Kingdom of God And I suggest that you consider your own record of God's prayer of your prayer requests before the Lord. Record them. Put them down. Write them down specifically. What you're seeking for God to do. Persist in those things. You're bound to it because you have it in writing. Then record God's answers and see how God is progressing and establishing the kingdom of God. Korea is a church of prayer. Many Koreans won't even greet each other before they've prayed first. The 5 and 6 a. m. prayer meetings are quite common in Korea, rural Korea, where people have to walk for great distances to even attend those meetings. Every year, the Korean Church spends two solid weeks in fasting and prayer for the work of God. And we're trying to get a prayer meeting going with a regularity and consistency for the men to pray every other Saturday morning at 7. 30 Beginning this coming Saturday here at the Meeting House, one hour of persistent, intense prayer before the Lord. Let's see. Our priorities demonstrated as we come together as men to pray for the work of the church. Korea sets aside this time as a top priority for them. And what are the results of that? The Korean Church today is adding six new churches every single day. Not six people coming to Christ, six churches every day. The one denomination that our missionaries are working with in Korea Is adding three new churches every single day. They now have one million three hundred thousand members. It is reported that over 10% of the entire Korean army are professing Christians. The Yungnak Presbyterian Church in Seoul, Korea, is a church of 35,000 members. The largest Presbyterian church in the world. There's a woman there who is a a leader in evangelism. She trains people, trains women in evangelism. She has a women's class on evangelism. And people come, women come from all over Korea to that class on evangelism. You know how many people she has in her class? Be discomfort to those of you who attend my class in the back and sometimes can't find a seat There's 60,000 women in her class who have a goal of reaching 50 million Koreans for Christ in the next few years. Korea has met most of its goals that they have set before. They're penetrating not only people spiritually in their coming to Christ, but they're changing Korea. Korea has as its goal nothing less than becoming the world's center for missions. No longer the United States. Rather humbling to us. It looks as if very soon Korea will be the center sending agency for missionaries. They're sending out in the next couple years 200 missionaries all over the world. There are right now ten thousand students in seminaries and Bible schools in Korea preparing to evangelize the world, and there are three times as many people applying for admission as they can take. And the whole thing rests on prayer. Korea has never left its base by which it began, the work of God. Fasting. Praying, persistent calling on God that He will build His church. What about us? We're going to call on God today. We're going to call on him this afternoon for his work in our midst here in Columbia. And we're going to have a day of prayer so that we might practice persistence in prayer. Look just briefly at those. Those items on the bulletin, and I want to remind you of these on the back of the bulletin. The things to keep in mind as we pray, as we go to prayer this afternoon First of all, as Charles Spurgeon said, prayer is not measured by length, but by weight But that is to say, we're not going to believe that we're going to be heard of God simply because we're spending hours in prayer. We're not spending this day so that we can prove to God that we're willing to spend an afternoon and therefore he has to hear us. We're not going to seek today to imitate the Church of Korea or the Puritans or anybody else in their long praying. Long praying in itself is worth nothing. Long prayer is a very easy thing to romanticize. We begin to think, if only I could pray like this saint that I read his biography. If only I could cast myself on God like that person who used to weep and fast. But we begin to emulate people. And we forget the fact that prayer is simple, practical business of laying our knees before God from where we are. Not like somebody else, coming honestly, coming as we are, pleading the mercy of Jesus Christ and the covenant that God has established with his people. Maybe a lot of silence this afternoon. That's okay. It's better for us to be silent and to consider what God would have us to pray about honestly. And to continue to just rattle on so that we can get through the list. So that we can cover the things that we need to cover, and somehow think that if we can just mention all the things that are needs to God, the simple mentioning of them is enough for Him to hear us. That's not praying. That's just rattling through a grocery list. We want to come before God now to speak from our hearts and come into prayer that's meaningful as we wrestle with him. So let's not worry about silence. Let's not worry about keeping the thing going. Let's come before him honestly Secondly, this time is for us to be able to develop an increasing seriousness and purpose and faith in our prayer. Take a half hour of prayer in a prayer meeting. About all we can do is mention things before the Lord. That's okay. Sometimes we all we have time to do is to mention things before the Lord. He hears that. What I'm saying is that that mentioning of things before the Lord should come out of the context of other more prolonged times of persistent praying and seeking after God with greater earnestness. That's why there's so much of an emphasis on fasting and praying in the Scripture. This has to be the context of the Christian's life and walk with God. That time when you were able to examine our purposes. We're able to look and we're able to say, Lord, why am I praying this? What am I really after in this? Ever ask yourself those kind of questions while you're praying? Lord, what am I seeking for anyway in praying this? What would I look for if he answered it? What difference would it make? What do you want anyway, Lord? Do I really believe that this is going to make a difference? Do I really believe you're going to do this? Do I believe you want to do it? What do you want to do? And then begin to wrestle with God. Get his promises, apply them, and learn to pray. Therefore, number three, let's not flip from subject to subject, but let the Spirit open us up together in faith, arguing. That requires dwelling on a subject. That's just thinking about what you're going to pray next after this person's finished. How many of us do that? Person's praying saying, well, I just thought of something else I could pray. But as soon as he's finished, then I'll leap into Before somebody else gets in, I've got to pray that too, because that's really that's important. So we don't listen to each other. So many prayer meetings I've I've been involved in And it's just a a succession of people waiting their turn, sort of like waiting for Santa Claus at the mall, so you can sort of get in there next in line. But in prayer, we need to converse. We need to hear what that brother or sister is saying to the Lord. And then build on it. Maybe that reminds us of a scripture or a promise. Let's read it. You know, nothing in the Bible says you have to have your eyes closed when you're praying. Open up the scripture. Somebody's praying, read a verse. That's a verse, a promise, it pertains to this, it's something about the character of God. Let's dwell on it. Apply it to the situation. Help each other to come into a deeper and more meaningful lesson before God about these things that were taken before Him. Add on to one another's praying. And then gradually shift as the Spirit of God can lead in us to go into other areas. Number four Must persist then with God in our prayer, my beginning, to set the focus in worshiping Him And then, secondly, to remind ourselves of him and his purposes and his promises for our church and our lives. Let's get the year in perspective and lay this year before God, confessing our failure, worshiping Him for His grace, laying before Him our needs. So the number five, finally, Expect his kingdom to be advanced through prayer today and through this year. That God will teach us as a people today how to pray, how to pray persistently, because we know that there's a God in heaven. who hears and answers prayer. You can do more than pray after you've prayed. But you can't do more than pray until you've prayed. Before I pray now, is there anybody who would like to just mention any one thing from scripture or application, a word of praise, or edification as a congregation? Before we pray. Any scripture that comes to your mind or something that you're longing for God to do in this. Okay, let's email it together now, then call him on our God. For it teach us to pray. Came and lived as one who kept your covenant in perfect obedience. And suffered and died. was crucified, took our curse, the curse do to us So that we might receive the promise of the Spirit. Rather away, think of what cost. It was to you for us to be able to approach a throne of grace. Even as we look at that throne of grace whether we're reminded that it was above. The Ark of the Testimony, the Ark of the Law. That law strikes us down. It gives us no hope of coming to a God of mercy. The follower of us, the law of you so, the murder says we. You sent Jesus To live and to die and to rise again, to inaugurate that we would bury when we would be people who were hurt or God. Because the covenant has been kept on our behalf by Jesus. Because of that, the Spirit has come. Forgive us for so neglecting that great privilege, the opportunity that's ours to call upon you for the Spirit. Father, forgive us for neglect in prayer. Forgive us all for our misery. Consulence and error. How little we consider the promise of the school. With the apex in the form of kingdom prayer. Because a wealthy were the kingdoms. Well 50. All those things which are probably good and righteous consolence And further, we can trust the food that oftentimes they become central to our focus All of your witches await for the children consulence to be grass. Teach us, Sullivan, to pray. Teach us what it means, that promise which has been set before us.