In the study of God's Word together. It was great to be with family as well as to be able to see a bike race that I would never be able to see. And so I'm very grateful for that. But it is truly a delight to be back with you as we begin this brief series on worship. The Mars Company, which I have shared this illustration recently, but I want to share it again. The Mars company is responsible now for a lot more than candy bars, but for a long time that was their main business. Almond Joy and the Mounds Bar. Almond Joy they had a tagline for. The Mounds Bar they did not. And so they paid, they had a competition. If somebody could come up with a really good tagline for the Mounds Bar. So in the 1960s, they ran this contest and They paid a gentleman $12 for his idea, an idea which they still use today, to describe the Mounds bar. And it's this. Indescribably delicious. That simple But as you think about that in relationship to candy bars, it's not going to take very long for your salivary glands to begin turning. There's something very understandable. It's supposed to be indescribable. It's supposed to describe exactly what happens to our mouths if we take in chocolate and sugar. For some of us, it's a real addiction. It's wonderful. There's something in the fact that God has created these things that when brought together is just, well, indescribably good. But there's something in the givenness of creation, of God's grace, of God's goodness. Which only find their real, full fulfillment And who God is. For He's created all things and called them good. And as we see the work of creation, as we see all that is around us that is beautiful and good, indescribably so. All of them are filled with his grace because he's created all things and called them good. They're to draw us to himself. And this simple tagline, indescribably delicious, is itself an expression of humanity to something that God has created and brought together, placed in our mouths, is it not also? Perhaps what the psalmist was getting at when he says in Psalm 34:8, Taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Of all things that God could use the psalmist to proclaim his goodness, the psalmist says of the Lord, taste And see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. This is to be the description of what worship is. To taste and see that the Lord is good. The psalm that we're going to focus on this morning as we look at what it is that we were made for, which is worship. We look at Psalm 95, verses 1 through 7. Let's look at that now together. Psalm 95, verses 1 to 7. Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord. Let us shout aloud to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before Him with thanksgiving. For the Lord is the great God, the great king above all gods. In his hand are the depths of the earth, and the mountain peaks belong to him. The sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. Come, let us bow down in worship. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God. And we are the people of his pasture, the flock under his care. Let's pray to the Lord this morning. Now, Heavenly Father, we ask that you, through the promise of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, through whom you would send your Holy Spirit, that you would come and make your presence known before us. That all that we do here, prayer, song, and word, may you receive all the glory and honor. For we pray that you would enable us again to be renewed in the fact that we were made to worship. Now, Lord, help us to worship, not to be brains on a stick. But to be those who have hearts that are transformed by the amazing grace and mercy shown to us. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. So this morning really is, as we look at this psalm, a general overview of worship. Together, we will be looking together at first. What is worship? Its foundation and our practice. What is it? Its foundation and our practice. First, what is worship? As you hear the psalmist inviting, he says, Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord. Let us shout aloud to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before Him with thanksgiving. We recognize at the very beginning of this psalm that He is inviting us to worship. But what is it? So let's describe the it, worship. I'm going to draw on one of the forebearers of our tradition, John Calvin, when he wrote concerning worship, when he said, It is with true and zealous godliness to contemplate. to fear and worship his majesty, to participate in his blessings, to seek his help at all times, to recognize and by praises to celebrate the greatness of his works. Notice For Calvin, it is both a matter of head and heart together to recognize, to contemplate. And to celebrate with our hearts the greatness of his works. And then he says, as the only goal of all the activities of this life. So our worship together on Sunday mornings is to be a culmination of what is for the Christian all of life. That is to be the goal of all of our activities: to worship the Lord, to contemplate Him, to reflect on Him, to celebrate His works before us. Another great teacher, the Archbishop William Temple, said, worship is the quickening of the conscience by the holiness of God. The feeding of the mind by the truth of God, the purging of the imagination by the beauty of God, the opening of the heart to the love of God, the devotion of the will to the purpose of God. And then our own confession and catechisms say this: What is man's chief end? It is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. At its very basis, worship is enjoying the Lord. But that it's just its description. It's hard to put into words. But it is enjoyment. When you come to worship the Lord, do you come expecting to enjoy Him? Have you already enjoyed Him this morning? I want to tell you thank you for enabling me to enjoy the Lord already this morning. As you sang, praise to the Lord the Almighty. As you sang, it's like having a vast speaker behind my head, filling my heart and my ears with the songs of praise before God. Praise to the Lord the Almighty. And as you sang, it gave me a glimpse of what heaven will be like. Enjoying his presence. But that is his the description. What about its definition? From the Old English, the word worship, once used by Shakespeare and his contemporaries, the word worship is taken from Two words, really, that really capture this one idea: worship. The idea behind the word is to worship God by giving to Him what He is worth. assigning to him his supreme beauty and worth, acknowledging him to be the creator and redeemer revealed in the scriptures In the Greek New Testament, there is a word which is called doxa, which translated roughly as glory, and that means to have a weighty and right opinion, a disposition towards another person. And specifically in relationship to God and Christ and His Holy Spirit, it means worshiping and recognizing his holy sovereignty. The fact that God has glory. The fact that God has doxov means he has a weight to him. It's what C. S. Lewis was referring to in his sermon, the weight of glory. By his very presence. We are to recognize his sovereign power, his goodness, his mercy, his love, his grace. He is worth all that we can assign to him, because he is worthy of all glory and all honor because he is glory. He is beauty. He is truth. He is spirit. He is grace. God is worthy of glory. And we, when we come to worship, literally its definition is giving to God what is his worth. However, the difficult thing, and this is the rub, the difficult thing is very easy to confuse worship with a particular feeling. It is easy to confuse worship with particular things that we do in worship. It is easy to confuse worship with a particular place where we do worship. So it's very easy to take worship from its original definition of giving God his worth, giving and ascribing to God glory and honor, and confuse that with a particular emotion that you're really worshiping if you're really serious. Or you're really worshiping if you're woo-hoo. Right. And everywhere in between. So you may feel as though you're worshiping. A tear may come to your eye. A particular emotion may come to your senses as if it were so alive, like the nerves at the end of your fingertips. Or you may feel a sense of comfort as long as we do that one particular thing in worship, Pastor. Right? That's what worship means. Or worship means so long as we're doing it in a particular room at a particular time in a particular place. It's so easy to do that. But you can experience emotion. You can do particular things in worship. And you can worship in a particular place and not really worship the Lord. Incredible emotion. Particular things in particular places do not themselves summarize worship. Dr. James Boyce, the longtime pastor of Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, said this. True worship occurs when the part of a person, their spirit, which is akin to the divine nature, for God is spirit, Actually meets with God and finds itself praising Him for His love, wisdom, beauty. Truth, holiness, compassion, mercy, grace, and power, and all of his other attributes True worship is when God by His Spirit enables us in our spirits to be able to find joy and beauty. And all that God is, and all of his attributes. That may bring forth different emotions We may have different elements in worship, and it may happen in very different places, but at its heart, it is the human being meeting with their creator. Enjoying his beauty. So we've talked about description, we talked about definition Let's talk about correction when we think about what is worship. There is a correction. And here it is something particular to us as Westerners, particularly those of us in the United States. Everything that happens in worship is worship. What do I mean? Oftentimes, when we ask people what is worship, we tend to reduce worship to music or to praise. And when we reduce worship, as we often do, to worship of music, we have reduced worship to being just this. Well, it's simply my expression. We oftentimes then therefore reduce worship to music and then to our self-expression in music, whether we're playing in song or whether we are leading with our voices. And while music and worship itself and the songs of praise largely describe what happens in worship. We often do so exclusively in expressive terms. In other words, we understand worship first and foremost as being from the bottom up. But you may ask, but isn't that what it is? Let's go back to the Psalm And this is a practice that has been done throughout the history of the church, going all the way back to the nation of Israel, as they gathered together for the temple. They did one thing over and over again every time they gathered for worship. They did not begin with a song of praise. Not that we can't. I'm just telling you, they didn't. What they began with was the reading. Of God's word. Why is that? Notice what he says. Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord Let us shout aloud to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before Him with thanksgiving. What is implied in those opening verses is: who is doing the inviting? God. Who is there before we ever get there? God. Who is the one who is full of grace and mercy? Who is the one who has created all things from nothing in the space of six days and all very good? God. In other words, in the West, we often see worship as our self-expression, therefore from the bottom up, and so we often think that worship begins with us. But in reality, the scriptures tell us a completely different story. That worship begins by God being who He is. It is God who calls us to worship. It is God who meets us in worship. It is God who sustains worship. It is God who is the goal of worship. In other words, it begins with Him coming down to us. Worship is and involves expression. But the best of our expression, the best of our prayers, the best of our sermons, the best of our songs are always In response to the one who has moved first, the Lord. May we remember that what we do here has value not because of us. Not because of what we do, it is because of who he is. And everything we do is in response to the one who is worthy of our worship. That is what worship is: enjoying the one who's been here all along, the one who is full of grace and truth The one who has known you before the foundation of the world. The one who the psalmist says knows every word that leaves your tongue before it does. The one who knows every motivation of our hearts. And whose word, like a scalpel, can separate bone from marrow. The Lord As one writer says, the Lord is closer to us than we are to ourselves. He is more faithful to us than we are to ourselves He is more loving to us than we could ever imagine that we could love ourselves. Because he is. Amen. I might need to sing if I could sing. All right. God, you are good. You are so good. Come and see that the Lord is good. But he is the one who then calls us to rest, calls us to peace. Because he is the one who invites us. But now its foundation. If that is what worship is, what is its foundation? Its foundation is God's revelation, which flows from the point just before. Because it is God who is before, with, and is the goal of worship. What is how do we learn where we are to worship? Well, the psalmist says, For the Lord is the great God, the great king above all gods. In his hands are the depths of the earth. Everything belongs to him. Verse 6, come let us bow down and worship. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God. We are the people of His pasture, the flock under His care. Well, where do we learn that? We learn that from God's revelation, the scriptures. So where it is, where is it that we exactly learn how we are to worship God? Its foundation is the Word of God, because here's the key: the Word is always above us. It is never below us, meaning we do not have authority over, it has authority over us. As such, within our tradition is this idea of the regulative principle. How are we to worship God? We're to worship God in the ways in which He has revealed to us how we are to worship Him. And so we go to the Psalms, we go to the prophets, we go to the New Testament, wherein we learn that God is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. It is God who is present with his people by his spirit. It is God who calls us to worship. It is God who tells us that we are to do so with voice. with our knees, even lying prostrate before the Lord, raising our hands. Our worship is to be characterized as the psalmist Tells us over and over again, either with joy and praise, but also with lament and sorrow, with confession, and with the reminding of God's promises of grace. Where we receive and put together our worship services is not because we all gathered in a room and came up with some really good ideas. No, we learn it because Scripture teaches us that worship is to have these components to it. And yes, if you were to go today and worship at other Presbyterian churches which are our sister churches like Living Hope in Clarksville or uh in Marriott's Chapelgate or City of Hope here in Columbia or Good Hope down in Laurel. Wherever it is you go, you will see similar elements. We're not unified. In other words, we're not doing the same exact things, but there is a unity. And that unity is governed because we recognize it is the Scripture that is God's revelation of His truth and of His glory and of all His promises. And of how we are to worship is governed by this book, not by our creativity alone. Yes, we will see as we read through God's Word, we don't find one worship service that says, okay, you're to do all these things, but You know, don't sing three songs, sing only two. It's not at that granular level. But if you go back and read the Ten Commandments, the first four commandments are about how God is to govern the worship of his people. And so it matters how we worship him. And therein comes the great foundation, God's revelation. And here's what's interesting. When we go to the Bible and we see all that transpired, particularly within the Old Testament and God's people worshiping together, you may not know. If you go back and read Chronicles, you will see. That there were 4,000 full-time musicians dedicated to one purpose Writing songs for the gathering of God's people to worship. And so the psalmist, David and others, Wrote the psalms, and then the musicians took these psalms and set them to music. And they would sing them. And as Gary mentioned earlier in the service, how did they learn the Psalms? They learned them, not because they had copies of them like we do now. But because they sang them. They're now called the metric psalms. You can actually go and buy, and perhaps some of you have them at home. The psalms set to now Western meter, but they are set to music. What we begin to see that though God's word regulates how we're to worship him, there's great freedom within the scriptures. Now we don't have 4,000 musicians. That would be really cool. Be a really big building. Can you imagine? Yes, there we go. Can we imagine all the horns? the voices. Then we also understand that there were all different kinds of elements. There was the raising of hands and come and kneel before the Lord our God, our Maker. These things give us freedom within our worship, though regulated by God's Word. It ought to also never contradict his word, which is why it is important that we as the church always seek to bring our worship into Alignment with His Word. At any point in which our worship is out of alignment with the Scriptures, we ought to reform our practices. Because this is the foundation of God's revelation. But secondly, its foundation is not only the revelatory nature of God's word, it is also our Savior. With the word as foundation, it is also Christ and our desire to express our worship to Him from new hearts in accord with His Word through Christ. By his work on the cross for our sin, and by his victory over sin and death and the resurrection, our worship is to be. Founded upon the Word of God, but centered upon the work of Christ Our foundation every week, this liturgy which we walk through together. What you have before in your bulletins, whether in song or in prayer or in the reading of scriptures through his word and in responding to it, every week ought to be retelling the gospel. In our worship. And that gospel is that Christ has come as God's Son to die for us. For our sins. So, therefore, in the middle of our worship service, ought to be a time of prayer of confession. Because at the center of our faith is our Savior who was innocent of sin yet died in our place. And was raised from death to life on the third day. So at the center of our worship is the confession of sin, but also the promise of His grace, because His grace has conquered our sin. Christ is the hope of glory. And so we hear the call to confession and the promise of his grace. We hear the word instructing us, and then we respond, for Christ is our hope. For we are being made into his image Being justified by his blood, sanctified by his power, governed and guided by his spirit, fed by his word, we come and we respond to give praise and glory. To the center and goal of our hope, the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. This is the foundation of our worship But what about our practice? Our practice is a local expression of the body of Christ around the world. Now, some of you have heard me use the word liturgy. Now, some of you have had this conversation with you because when I use the word liturgy, you tend to automatically think Catholic. Now, I want to say to any of you who are here this morning who are Catholic, who come from a Catholic background, that we recognize that Christ is very much at work within the Catholic Church. But to confuse the word liturgy with any particular expression of the body of Christ worldwide is to mistake the understanding of that word. The liturgy is exactly what you find in your bulletin. And whether we had a bulletin or not doesn't matter. I've been in plenty of churches where they didn't have bulletins. So what is liturgy? Liturgy specifically, it too has a very old source, and that source was Rome. that within the the nation the city of Rome, all the public citizens had public duties as citizens of Rome that they must conduct as citizens to fulfill their operation and activity as Roman citizens. It was their liturgy. Now that word is also understood to be a habit, an order of activity and duties and obligations. That word liturgy was then used within the church to describe the gathering of God's people saved by his grace who then have a public duty. An obligation to give praise to God and worthy of praise, to give him his worth. There became what we call the liturgy of the church. So, whether you are from a Pentecostal background, or a broad evangelical background, or a Baptist church, a Methodist church. A Presbyterian church, every single church has a liturgy, whether they call it that or not. Because you go to any church and spend two or three weeks there, you will see they have a particular order of doing things. That is their liturgy. That is what they then commit themselves to publicly. We as a Presbyterian church. Have a liturgy, an order that we go to express who God is and the word as foundation and Christ as the focus. And that liturgy is what we understand that we've received over time from our forebearers from the Reformation. Now here's what is what is interesting. If we were to hire John Calvin, if he were still alive today, and we were to bring John Calvin onto a worship committee of Columbia Presbyterian Church. One thing very interesting would happen. If he were to lay out his liturgy from the church in Geneva and compare it to our liturgy here at Columbia Presbyterian Church, something very interesting would happen. First of all, they wouldn't be able to fit it on one page. Because every week, every week, they read from the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible. They read from the historical books, they read from the Psalms, they read from the prophets, they read from the New Testament every single week. They then would recite the Lord's Prayer. They would recite the Apostles' Creed or the Creeds of the Church They would celebrate the Lord's Supper every single week. They would sing psalms as a part of their songs. And he encouraged at the time, there were some who wanted to remove music from the liturgy. Calvin said, Absolutely not. Let's move liturgy right into our worship. And they also had full-time musicians who Created music for the church. Now here's what's interesting. What's interesting is he never called for a unified liturgy, meaning what Calvin did in Geneva, we must do today in Colombia. Thankfully. But there must be unity. In other words When we say we are a church of the Presbyterian and Reformed tradition, we're saying that how we understand God's word and all the covenants and all the promises, the way God works salvation, And what he has called us to do ought to be reflected in our worship. In other words, even though I have friends who are Methodists and Baptists and Pentecostals and Catholics and all the way around, each one of their worship services ought to reflect their core beliefs, as should ours. There should be a distinct difference. And so we worship in the Reformed and Presbyterian tradition, which means we will always speak of Christ and his death and resurrection. Which means in song and prayer we will always take sin and grace very seriously. Which means that we will worship the Lord in the sacraments. The Lord's Supper, and we will baptize infants because of our understanding and the teaching of Scripture. We do not do so in pride or self-righteousness, saying that we have the corner on worship. But it is to say that because of our tradition, we ought to look to our forebears and our history to ask, how can we enrich our worship as a people who understand what God has done through the Scriptures? But here's the challenge for us today. The challenge for us today is this. We live in an age of innovation. And innovation and creativity is held with high regard, and I think that's valuable, and I think it's respectable. However, when we live by innovation or we live by creativity as the first priority when it comes to worship, then we will make worship inherently unpredictable. And so we want to be very careful about what we do in worship and asking the question, why are we doing it? The reason why we do it, we hope, is because God's word has led us there. But also to remember this Neuroscience is teaching us over and over again that the way human beings learn is by way of habit and discipline. So therefore, we will put together a liturgy and an order of service that enables us to come in with the reasonable expectation that I know what is going to happen. While asking for the freedom and power of God's Spirit to fill this place with a fresh work of His grace, believing that He is the one who is working and powerful, not by our trying to change things up to keep it interesting. That's a temptation. To keep you moving, to keep you happy, to keep you hopping, to try to use what's the latest and greatest in worship. And some churches will do that. But I must tell you, we do not believe that's what God has called us to do. For over and over again, we recognize that the way we learn is by way of discipline. But recognizing what is truly innovative, what is truly creative, what is truly beautiful is not by what we can manipulate, but by what God can do by his spirit and word. So therefore, we want to seek, as elders of the church, the session of this congregation, and we ask that you would pray. For the elders of this church, as we seek to take responsibility and will give a defense for what we allow within our worship, as we consider ways in which we can enrich our worship together as a people. Ways in which we can introduce prayers and greater depth and involvement from our congregation. Because it is an expression of what God is doing and of our own tradition. But ultimately, our practice of worship should be an expression of our longing. Our longing should be taste and see that the Lord is good To long in worship, to be able to say, What does it mean for me to come and bow down in worship? To kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God, and we are the people of His pasture. the flock under his care, our worship with its foundation. With its practice, always should be an expression of our longing. That the Lord, who is the first mover, who is the sustainer Who is the goal of all of our worship would make us to be able to experience his beauty and grace as people who are called to be as sheep of his flock under his care. For the Lord has sent his son, has sent his spirit to enable and empower our worship, that we may sing to the world. Because if we do not, the rocks will cry out. And as I've said before you before, I do not want to be outsung by the rocks. But to sing, to pray, to expect, and to long, that not only are we the sheep of his pasture, But he is the Lord who loves and cares for us through Jesus Christ. And in worship, may we be able to enjoy Him. May He do that in us. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, I want to thank you for your word that calls us to worship Now help us, O Lord, as we come to the end of our service of this worship. May this worship not only be the culmination of all of our activities of this week. But may this worship overflow to all the activities and things that will come to us this coming week. For if all of life Finds its goal in you, then this worship service and all of our activities ought to be infused and recognized. As you are the Lord, the giver of life, through your Son, empowered by your Spirit And now you, may you receive all the glory, all the majesty, and all the honor. Help us to worship, help us to enjoy you forever. In Jesus' name, Amen