You back into the series on on 2 Timothy. So you work through uh Craig and I work through 2 Timothy. Alright? Just begin with God's word. But understand this, that in the last days there will there will come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to parents. Ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving, treacherous Reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power Avoid such people. For among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women, burdened with sins and led astray by various passions always learning and never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth. Just as Janus and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men also oppose the truth. Men corrupted in mind and disqualified regarding their faith, but they will not get very far, for their folly will be plain to all, as was that of those two men. God's word. Let's pray. This is a difficult passage, and I pray you'd give us ears to hear what you would say to us. Give us clarity. Compassion as we declare the good news of what you've done for us and how we live in light of that. In Jesus' name we'll pray. Amen. The last days. Every few decades, there's an intriguing interest in biblical prophecy and end of the present age, isn't there? Back in the 70s of my youth, uh Hal Lindsay and the late great planet Earth was a was a major book and it launched several sensationalist movies. In the 90s, uh uh Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins had a series called Left Behind Books that launched some movies. And even now, there's a interest among many followers of Christ, an understandable fascination with the second coming. I mean, we look we see the hectic nature of events in our world, don't we? The decline of the influence of the church in the world, it seems like. Climate change that's seen by some as the predicted signs in the skies. Just today I saw a hurricane on Southern California with the Maui fires. What's going on? These produce just this interest, just intriguing interest. And maybe we're on the verge of a major shift in our world. Maybe the end of the world, right? Well, in the upper room, Jesus gave a great analogy about the coming of the Son of Man. If you remember, uh John 16, I believe. He talked about childbirth. Childbirth is both the end and the beginning of something. The end of a nine-month weary anticipation-filled, anxious-filled process. And the beginning of a brand new existence for the baby outside of the mother's womb. The world is pregnant, waiting for the next phase. The interesting thing here is this though. Pregnancy is about nine months long, right? The pregnancy that Jesus talked about has already lasted about 2,000 years. Between his first coming and his second coming. Moses tells us that in Genesis, that the flood came without warning, and God's judgments often come like that. And Jesus said that as in the days of Noah, so shall be the days when the Son of Man returns. What is our calling as disciples of Jesus Christ? during difficult times as we watch the rapidly changing world around us. Our marching orders don't change. We're called to make disciples to make disciples, to call people to repentance and faith in Jesus, and to invite them to join us in his worldwide mission. That's our calling. Even when times get tough, we're still called by God to make disciples. And Paul is impressing that upon Timothy, his son in the faith. As Paul is in his last days, probably weeks before he went to be with the Lord, but it's for all of us to be able to have this impressed upon us. Of course, Paul formerly persecuted the church. He's now in prison. Writing to Timothy. The first couple chapters. He's talking about the charge to stay faithful to the gospel. Stay faithful in his calling, in his life. To advance the gospel, to guard the gospel, and then the importance of passing that gospel on to faithful people who can pass it on to others. It gives several analogies and metaphors that we looked at in chapter 2. And here in chapter 3, he begins to talk about the last days. And we're going to look at, here's my outline, the plan of God, the apostasy of people, and the tragedy of false prophets. Verse 1, the plan of God. But understand this, that in the last days there'll come times of difficulty. Times of difficulty, Hendrixing says, grievous season, a grievous season. The last days. Interesting phrase in the Bible. In the Old Testament, the prophets talked about something that God was going to do in the last days. The Old Testament, we can easily say, are the former days, and the New Testament era is now the last days. It's really that simple in one sense. Isaiah chapter 2 and Micah chapter 4, the exact same verse. We don't know who copied who, but it's this prophecy about the mountain of the Lord and be like this. It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established as the highest of the mountains and shall be lifted up above the hills. All the nations shall flow to it. That's going to happen in the latter days. Acts chapter 2. Peter, the great Pentecost sermon, he cites Joel chapter 2 And he he quotes Joel and he says, In the last days it shall be, God declares, that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh, all your sons and daughters shall prophesy, the young men shall see Visions, your old men shall dream dreams. And Peter is saying there, that's now fulfilled. The last days are here. The phenomena that Joel talked about are now about to begin. There are many other New Testament tests that tell us that the last days are here. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 2. James chapter 5, verse 31. 1 John 2. 18 calls it the last hour, the last day, the last hour. And also there are several verses in the New Testament that talk about this age as an evil age, an evil age. Galatians 1. 4, when Paul is beginning that book, he says, Jesus gave himself for our sins to deliver us from this present evil age. According to the will of God the Father. Even in Ephesians 5. 16, he says, Redeem the time, because the days are evil. So the evil days, this grievous season is this The last days, the this era in which we live between the first coming of Jesus and the second coming of Jesus. Now also note That the New Testament writers anticipated the return of Christ in their generation. If you read the New Testament carefully, you begin to see that. So after that generation, every generation of saints has also read the New Testament with that anticipation. The anticipation of the sudden return of Jesus Christ to the world for his church. And this is good. We're lived with that reality that Jesus could come. He may not return in history for the church in our lifetime, but guess what? He most certainly will come for each of us individually. If he doesn't come for his church. That's the reality. That's why I love to John chapter 14, where he says, don't let your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. I come to prepare, I'm going away, and I'll come back and prepare a place for you. And it's very personal there. He's coming for you in my father's house and many places to live, dwelling places. And I'll take you to be with me and the Father. That's what John 14, one one to three i is is about. And he's still coming back. And I love 2 Peter chapter 3 that talks about, okay, he's coming back. And even in that day, there were people who said, well, he's coming back? Well, where is he? Okay? And we hear that today. You know, 2,000 years ago, uh Jesus said I'll I'll I'll come back. Well where is he? 2 Peter 3 verses 9 and 10. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness. But is patient towards you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. So yeah, I mean it's been a long time. Praise God, it's been a long time because not everybody has come to know him yet. And and and when all who are to come to know him come to know him, then it will come. But he uses this analogy, this picture, he'll come like a thief. He'll come like a thief. And and um thieves, they come suddenly They come surprisingly. They come unexpectedly. They don't announce themselves. The feast doesn't say, hey, by the way, I'm coming at 4. 45 tonight, in the middle of the night, so get ready for me. They don't do that. They show up. Well in a sense, Jesus, the Bible, Paul, Peter, Jesus will return like a thief. There'll be a great element of surprise. Although we who know the scriptures and know him know that it will happen. There are some who don't even know, don't even don't even think. They think it's foolish to think that Jesus will return. But let's carefully note that he says that in these last days, which we live in now, difficult times will come. And that's future. There's a future tense there, verb. So he's saying that in this time, which is the last days, there's something that's going to come in the future, difficult times in the future. And most uh uh Bible teachers believe that there's going to be somewhat of an escalation of difficulty, an escalation of of evil that will take place in this era, in this age. As we get closer to the end. And it's it's true in any culture as a culture comes to its end. And it's true of the entire world as we draw closer to the second coming of Jesus to the world. A snowball as it goes down a hill increases In size, doesn't it? A runaway train picks up steam as it rolls down the track. A pregnant woman prepares herself mentally, physically, emotionally for the traumatic hours of of active labor with the escalation of pain, a pain that climaxes in the trauma of childbirth, the joy of childbirth. I've been thinking about this this week, of course, because we're preaching on it, and I was thinking about a hundred years ago in our country. Now much I teach church history, so I think, you know, I think about history. And uh 100 years ago, if I were a believer, I would have been feeling kind of like we feel today, many of us feel today. There was a global pandemic, the Spanish flew. Okay? There were new technologies, the radio, the automobile that were bringing the world closer together. There were incredible race issues 100 years ago in our land. Jim Crow, lynchings were at a high point, I think, in the Roaring 20s. There was a very public image of the KKK marching down the streets of Washington, D. C. in a parade. I don't know if you've ever seen that. There were lots of emigrants coming to to here here from abroad, and there was a movement of people from rural areas to urban areas in the north. There's a migration going on even in our world today. And in that decade, there was a great religious divide, the scope's trial. There was the Orthodox Believing Church and the Modernist a mentality and there was a big battle over creation and evolution that took place in 1925, I believe, in Dayton, Tennessee. But the point is simply this. I'm just thinking about that this if I were a believer 100 years ago, I would have been saying, man, Jesus is coming. Maybe that's how you feel today. Those of you who know about childbirth, there's a thing called Braxton-Hicks labor, false flavor. Well, it's a reality, right? So you wanna say, yeah, I remember that I don't remember that. But anyway. I remember why I guess. But one of these days, Braxton Hitch is gonna be the real thing. That's my point. That's my point. Maybe we're in false labor now. Maybe this is the real deal. We don't know. But the pro the per the point is we have a mandate. Make disciples among the nations. In my devotions, I'm reading and reflecting on the book of Revelation this summer, and several things are super clear to me as I go through Revelation again in my mind. Thinking about it, the deep nature of human rebellion against God. The certainty and the reality of divine justice against that rebellion. The cyclical nature of history that that book seems to give us, and finally, the dramatic victory of Jesus. As history climaxes, it's gonna end well because Jesus will win. It's his story. God has a plan. God is working out that plan. No, we are in the last days. We may be in the last days of the last days. We don't know. It's been 2,000 years. We see the cycle of cultural revival and Cultural apathy and then cultural decline. It's gone over and over again if we study history. Don't be surprised, disciples of Jesus Christ, here in 2023 if we notice the decline of faith around us. John Stott said this years ago, opposition to the gospel is not a passing situation, but a permanent characteristic of his age. So don't be surprised. Also, don't be surprised by the escalation of evil. Again, like the snowball rolling down the hill. Apart from revival, that's what happens. Apart from a major revival or reformation from God, that's what happens. And thirdly, remember that God is in control. God is in control. Yesterday we had a great time. Uh my wife, Terry, and and and Bill and Sue, we we did something we had never done. We went back to Frostburg where we We met Bill to Frostburg. And I hadn't been to Frostburg in a long time. Went to wit went to just hang out there, see see some some one of our other roommates and uh his wife. And And to walk the campus of Prosperg, where we have spent such so many good times together together a few years ago, quite a few years ago. And uh just a lot of memories came back. One memory that that came back was the fa the pla the fact that the the gym uh is no longer there. It's now Compton Gym is now Compton Science Center. I said, What happened to the gym? They got a new gym down there, which is okay of course, progress. And it made me think about our intramural teams. We had a intramural, the Innovsity Group had an intramural basketball team, intramural football team. And The Inneral team had a name. I rem I'll never forget when I first signed up to be part of the team. And I said, Well, what's the name of the team? And I didn't I said, What? The name of the team came from 1 Corinthians 16. 22 and Revelation 22. 20. It's a word of the Aramaic that I didn't know at that point. The word is Maranapha. Maranatha. And we had we had this t-shirt that had a cross and was blue and gold, and it had the simple words Maranatha. Well the words mean simply come Lord Jesus. Come come quickly, Lord Jesus. And it's the Aramaic language. It's of course it's a conversation starter. You know you're playing against the other team. What's that mean? Anyway, I saw the place where you can uh the field where we played interval football, and I didn't see the place where we played basketball because it's no longer there But the point is simply this. The early church believed that someday Jesus was coming, and he said, come quickly, Lord Jesus. And do we as believers have that same heart and that same confidence and that same hope that, yeah, the world sometimes might seem crazy? Maranapha. It's only temporary. That's the plan of God. Second, the apostasy of people. Verses 2 to 5. And we don't have a lot of time to look at all these things in these several verses. But you see the list that Paul gives here. He talks about, I call it the apostasy. The apostasy simply means the falling away. In 1 Timothy 4, he uses that word there. There'll be a falling away. Paul uses 19 descriptive words to describe humanity in this present age. Just a couple things to note here. Notice the book ends. It begins with uh uh uh they'll be lovers of self And then it which we are. And then it ends with not lovers of God. We're not lovers of God. That's the essential issue of humanity. That's the thing that ultimately damns and condemns sinners. That we love self. We don't love God And conversion is a reversal of this, turning self-lovers into God lovers. So the bookends there are quite interesting. Notice in the in the list uh the the emphasis on distorted or twisted passions, misplaced worship, the idolatry of the heart, um, again, lovers of self. Self-love, which our society promotes as something good. Social media is all about self-glory, isn't it? It's about you. Do you We hear you write your own story. Children, you could be anything you set your heart out to be. You do you. You define your own reality. Oh, really? Psychologist, I think, would call this narcissism. That that as a as a kind of a individual thing. I think others would might use think of the term humanism. Focus on the on man rather than God. It's a worldview. No, we're called to glorify God, not glorify man. Globy God, not glorify self. Distorted passions. Lovers of money. Notice that. Jesus said in Matthew 6, you cannot love God in money. In 1 Timothy 6, he's talked about being content. The love of money, the root of all kinds of evil. Lovers of money. There's a I'm not a I'm not a I'm not a country music fan, but I'm alert to what's going on. There's an incredible country song out there called Rich Men. North of Richmond by Oliver Anthony. And he points to the hypocrisy of national politicians. in DC, who seem to care more about pleasing their donors and pleasing big business rather than serving the people. And he's pointing to that love of money that's driving politics. The rich men, north of rich men. It's just a catchy phrase. I like that title. The song's pretty good too. Our capitalistic economy only works well when there's a sense of benevolence. and humankindness that's fueled by gospel ministry. That's the way capitalism works. It's no accident that the church's influence, that as the influence of the church declines, so does conflict in our economy rise. Even discussions about economic theory. Philosophically, we want to see our fellow men have food and shelter and clothing. I think the progressives want that, the conservatives want every everybody wants to see people, you don't want to see people starve. But materialism just is gotten a grip of everyone. Materialism. Lovers of money. First one, not loving good. I was thinking about that phrase, not loving good. There are certain things that promote the general good, the general welfare of society, but for some reason people no longer call those things good. I mean Isaiah in chapter 5 talked about what are those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light, light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet, sweet for bitter. What are those who are right who are wise in their own eyes, shrewd in their own sight? What are some good things? How about the freedom to worship as you want? How about care for human life, all human life, especially those who are weak and vulnerable? How about respecting marital boundaries? How about working honestly for one's income? How about protection of property? Sound familiar? Those are the Ten Commandments, the second half of the Ten Commandments. Those are good things. They're good. And yet we don't love good. We fight against those things that are good for us and good for humanity. They're good not just for believers, they're good for all of us to do those things, to live those values. Not loving good. And then the other one is lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. The word hedonism comes to mind, hedonism loving loving lover of pleasure. I saw uh uh in a commentary by Tony Murata, he told a story of of uh A pastor friend he knows named Rick Warren. You know Rick Warren from the Saddleback Church. He said, Rick Warren said that pastors must prepare for three main temptations that plunge leaders to ruin. He said the first temptation is a temptation to be, and he said narcissism. The second temptation is a temptation to feel hedonism. The third is the temptation to have materialism. He said every moral failure of pastors is due to one of these three traps. We just must fight these three temptations by pursuing the opposite of each. Humility in contrast to narcissism. Integrity in contrast to hedonism. Generosity in contrast to materialism. Indeed, we're to be lovers of God ultimately. Out of the overflow of love for God, we can live lives of humility, integrity, and generosity. Satoni Barada. Now notice notice this the list, not only distorted passions, but the emphasis on distorted relationships flowing from hearts that need to be transformed by the Spirit of God. I mean pride and arrogance and abusive relationships literally is blasphemous Disobedience to parents, ungratefulness, unholiness. Heartless is a translation without natural affection. Unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control. Self-control is not highly valued in our country, is it? Brutal! Not loving good again. Hater, literally haters of good. Treacherous, reckless, swole conceit, or puffed up. Now let's let's these people are are are lacking in such this is from Hendrickson the commentator lacking in such excellent qualities as submissiveness, thankfulness, holiness, affection for their own families, and the forgiveness attitude. It's implied that in each case they possess the very opposite attitude. That is, they're not only disobedient, but definitely definitively rebellious. Not only untamed, but fierce, not only unholy, but wicked. These people are described as being disobedient towards parents. They are unthankful, not appreciative of the many acts of kindness which parents have bestowed upon them. not appreciative towards other people either, nor towards God. It's a Hindrance in the commentator. Now, let's not be too quick to judge them though. Apart from the power of the Holy Spirit actively working in our hearts because we have by faith Trusted in Jesus Christ and are in him, that's me and you. You see? That's you and me. That's who we are. And do you really believe this? Or do are you complacent in your faith? Do you trust him? Do you pray to him? Do you say, Lord, fill me every day? that I might reflect your Holy Spirit and not me. If you believe this is true, Did it drive you to prayer? It drives you to say, Lord, help me to reflect the light of Christ, not the darkness that's in my heart. Now notice not only distorted hearts, distorted relationships, but distorted religious activity. Hypocritical religious commitments are described, having the appearance of true godliness, but denial of true spiritual power. There are false so-called Christian churches in our day that are built around these three things that I talked, these three isms that I talked about. Humanism and materialism and antinomianism is the third one. Humanism, the humanistic church. A church where there's no Jesus, there's no cross, there's no Bible. It's all about the goodness and the greatness of man. It's about going to be healthy, healthy. and um whole and to be good people and to change society to make it better. This is a humanistic church. And then there's the materialistic church. They preach a prosperity gospel, declaring the good news that God wants you to be healthy and wealthy, that God wants you to have. That's his will for you, for everyone. And they focus not on a cross and a savior, but on material things, things that are wasting away. Now, we're the PCA, right? We know we're not shamanists. We're not materialists Pause there. The danger for us is a third group. This is called what I would call the antinomian church. That's a the anti-against Milmas law. That's Greek. Anti-again. This is the theology that says That because of Jesus, we don't there's no more law for us. There's no more demands upon our lives. The antinomian church, that's the danger for us as Bible-believing. Reformed, if I can use that phrase, Christians in 2023. We're afraid of distorting the doctrines of God's grace, and we should be We're so afraid that we end up in reality distorting the doctrines of God's grace See, the gospel teaches us to repent and to believe and to desire to follow Jesus as the Lord of our lives. That's what conversion is all about. Conversion is turning from self and turning to God. But many of us, and I say us, are afraid of being called Pharisees Legalists. And so we totally ignore repentance And so we see churches where ungodliness and even immorality dominates the day. One of my favorite verses about that is, again, one of the pastorals, Titus chapter 2, verses 11 and 12. Paul says this to Titus, another son in faith For the grace of God has appeared that offers salvation for all people. It, the grace of God, teaches us to say no to ungodliness. That's the NIV translation. To say no to ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in this present age. The challenge of any preacher in any age, particularly in our age, is to have a gospel of grace that has a grace that says no to ungodliness. And not a not a gospel of grace that says, well, it doesn't matter what your life looks like. That's the challenge of our day. The application for us is to stay part of a community that believes the true gospel and is committed to living out that gospel in a missionally attractive but countercultural way. I'm going to say that again. We need to live out the gospel in a way that's missionally attractive. That says that people can say, I want to, I want, I like that. I like what I hear and see there. But it's countercultural. It's not so worldly that that it that it that it that that God says no don't do that. It has that that that that that that those two things together The New Testament challenges us to make our calling and election sure. Wonderful verse in the Prophet Amos. Where he challenges the church, the church that that that that has the right doctrine and is longing for the day of the Lord to come because when Jesus comes, everything will be fixed up alright. of many uh because they have a mental understanding of what the gospel is. And and but Amos says this, listen to this. Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord. Why would you have the day of the Lord? It's darkness and not light. He's saying that when Jesus comes, it's going to be all right, but not for everybody. He goes on. Is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light a gloom with no brightness in it? He says, I hate, I despise your feasts, I take no delight in your solemn assemblies. Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them, and the peace offerings of your fat animals, I will not look upon them Take away from me the noise of your songs to milk to the melody of your harms. I will not listen. God is saying your worship, all the worship things you do in worship, and this is Old Testament worship that's described as they gather together. He's saying, I hate it. He said, don't do that. He says, but, Amos 5, 24, let justice roll down like waters, righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. Jesus put it like this. Why do you call me Lord, Lord, but you don't do the things I ask you to do? That's what Jesus says it. John Sodd. Only the gospel offers a radical solution to the problem, for only the gospel promises a new birth or new creation, which involves being turned inside out. From self to unself, a real reorientation of mind and conduct, mind and conduct, and which makes us fundamentally God-centered instead of self-centered. Then When God is first and self is last, we love the world God loves and seek to give and serve like Him. Powerless religion is a real thing in our day. We're prone to all of us to idolatry and hypocrisy and to a self-centeredness and only stay in God's word. Praying will keep us from drifting into a perilous faith. We've seen the plan of God, we've seen the apostasy of people, and lastly, verses 6 to 9, the tragedy of false prophets. Verses 69, he's talking about false leaders who manipulate weak, vulnerable people in the church. And again, this is pointing to false religion. Satan loves to use false religion. He loves to imitate the genuine work of God, the genuine work of the Holy Spirit. Paul uses the example in verse 8, Janus and Jambrace. They were counterfeit miracle workers in the day of Moses. The Exodus. They're not mentioned in the Old Testament, but Jewish oral tradition passed their names down through the ages. Just I'll read part of Exodus chapter 7. The Lord said to Moses and Aaron, When the Pharaoh says to you, prove yourself by working a miracle, you shall say to Aaron, Take your staff and cast it down before Pharaoh, that it may become a serpent. So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and did just as the Lord commanded. Aaron cast down his staff before Pharaoh and his servant, and it became a serpent. Then Pharaoh summoned the wise men and sorcerers, and they said, and and they, the magicians of Egypt, also did the same by their secret arts. Each man cast down his staff, and they became servants. The good part. But Aaron's staff swallowed up their staff. And still Pharaoh's heart was hardened. So these false magicians, these false uh prophets. Which again Jewish tradition gives us their names, Janice and Jambrace, and so Paul cites them. The promise in verse 9 is that they will be exposed, isn't it? They will get far. Their folly will be plain to all. As was that of those two men, the false prophets that that Paul is warning Timothy about. We all know in our day the sad story of of of uh in Hollywood of Harvey Weinstein the and his casting couch and the the Me Too movement of the last few years um has given hope to many women. who felt they would never have their stories of trauma believed. But abuse is not only a problem out there in the world, is it? The there's a movement among peop young people mostly called the deconstruction of faith. And and part of that movement is the reality that that many um have have been physically, mentally, emotionally, relationally abused by church leaders. By church leaders, Catholic church, Protestant church. Here a couple things about about this whole tech this whole section here as Paul talks to Timothy giving this warning. Paul is not saying that all women are weak-willed and gullible. He's not saying that. Some people don't like, some people don't like Paul. They think he doesn't like women. Paul likes women. Come on. He's not saying all women are weak-willed. Paul is not hinting that men are less weak or vulnerable or gullible than women either. He's not saying anything like that. He's saying that false prophets, phony, abusive, narcissistic pastors will look for weak women and build up a pseudo-ministry around them And believe me, there are many, many so-called Christian leaders in our day who have done just that. This week I uh again I saw uh uh a podcast, I watched a podcast, uh uh about by a man who has who exposed what he calls designer pastors. He even exposing several megachurch pastors who were a thousand to fifteen hundred dollar Nikes. Or $3,600 Gucci jackets and drive expensive cars and live in lavish homes. These are pastors of successful churches. And the idea is that if the pastor is prospering like that, then the Christian faith must work. So we want to be joyful about that. We follow them and it may just work in the same way for us. Now a major aspect that I didn't know about of this designer pastor movement is what what I what is known as sneaker culture. Sneaker s you know tennis shoes and basketball shoes and running shoes. Sneaker culture, which I didn't know was a big thing. I knew it was a thing. I didn't know how big a thing it is in our world. It's a big thing if you follow uh the rabbit trail that I followed this week. There are folks who call themselves sneakerheads. They just they're just into it. They've got hundreds some have hundreds of shoes You only get two feet, folks. They're obsessed with having the latest and the greatest, and there's even a uh an industry of of of we of selling them for profit. reselling the sneakers. Urban shoe culture emerged in the 90s and there's there's a now a new breed of pastors who embrace that culture and present themselves Now with these expensive shoes. I I wore my sneakers today. Trust me, they're I don't remember if it was Payless or Walmart, but they're not I'm not a sneakerhead. What can I say? I talked to a young pastor about this and he sees the danger of this too, but he explained to me that this is no different than i than in our generation maybe when pastors spend much money on expensive clothing there was appropriate are appropriate form of dress Um expensive suits that you know five that were you know over a thousand dollar suits, you know, quality suits, uh robes that were quite expensive, intricate. Those things were not usual. Again, I it's another world to me, but it reminded me of of a funeral that I saw a few months ago of a very famous pastor. Well, one of his disciples was telling the story in their funeral of how he was trained by this man to shop for nectes that were, you had to have a necktie that cost about $150. And when I heard that I said, $150 for a necktie? It's just a necktie. Come on. I I got lots of neckties. Maybe they add up to $150 altogether. I don't know. But So, but but I said to my friend, okay, I get it. Maybe there's something in my generation where there's this extravagance and this having to look like you belong in your own culture. But I still can't get the $5,000 sneakers. I don't get it. But look, that that's this truth isn't just for pastors, for all of us. What does it mean to walk with God? What does it mean to know God? What does it mean to know Jesus, the one who said, foxes have holes, the birds are there have a place to lay their hand, but the Son of Man doesn't have a place to live. He had to take the the um the gifts of rich women to support his ministry. Doesn't mean to walk with Jesus, to know that Jesus. What does it mean for Pat to be a pastor? It means that that you must decrease and he must increase. That's what it means. The application for us. Leaders need to be men who are humble. Leaders need to be men who are not concerned about being flashy, but concerned about pointing others to Christ, not to themselves. Leaders need to be men who are accountable to others. Leaders need to be men who are primarily focused on leading other men. Another insight into that passage. Today we've looked at some of the bad news, and again, next we will look at Paul as he gets into the remedy. What is God's will for us in light of these last days? And he will go into detail about in verses 10 to 17, and we'll hopefully do that faithfully. But there's no magic secret. The ancient remedy remains the same. Continue to make disciples. Continue in our generation, in our day, to make disciples from every tongue and nation and people group. We would have proclaimed that Christ has come. And we demand that all people repent and believe in Jesus Christ. And when we're to encourage a renewed commitment to follow him and his mission as the Spirit of God empowers us to do that. Jesus is building his church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against her. That's the confidence of the Christian church. The message is simple. We simply focus on the simple but ugly reality of a perfect holy messiah. whose body was beaten and bloodied for sinners like me and like you. It's a simple remedy. It's a certain remedy. It's the only remedy. Andre Crouch, the late Andre Crouch, had a song where he focused on the blood of Christ as we as we move towards the Lord's Supper. The blood that Jesus shed for me way back on Calvary. The blood that gives me strength from day to day, it shall never lose its power. It reaches to the highest mountain, it flows to the lowest valley. The blood that gives me strength from day to day, it shall never, it shall never, it shall never lose its power. That's our only hope. That's the only hope for the world. The blood that was shed for us. And we remember that Through the sacraments. Do you see the elements here before us? The sacrament is not for perfect people. It's for people who know that it's only the blood that gives us strength to live in this world. Who know that Jesus died that we might be forgiven and transformed, that we might live in this world This is not the Presbyterian table. This is called the Lord's table. The Lord's the one who invites us to partake of these elements It's not for people who say, well, I don't have it together yet. I want I I kind of believe in Jesus, but I don't have it together yet. No, it's this is one of those who who who who really understand who Jesus is. Not perfect, maybe even struggling. But you want Christ. You want the grace of Christ to be to work strong more effectively in your life. You're invited to come, even with your weakness and in your in your Your your maybe your lack of your weakness of faith. This is not for those who don't believe in Jesus, though. If you're trusting himself. If you think you can do it yourself, you're not trusting Jesus as your sin bearer. You're not trusting Jesus to flow through you as you live in this cool world. But you're self-sufficient. You're the captain of your own destiny. If that's you, pray. Then we're glad you're here. But ask God to t to help you understand the the simplicity and humility of what it means to know Jesus for real. Because it's all about him, not about us. And we encourage you to talk to an elder, a leader, and maybe eventually join the others as we as to joyfully come as sinners to a table. Where they know they find perfect full forgiveness. The Apostle Paul invites us to examine our hearts. We'll give you a few moments to pray, to talk to God as you prepare your hearts for the supper. Let's pray for