I was not hiding. Oh, I was here. Good morning, good morning. We've been in 2 Timothy as we make our way through that. letter, Pastor Craig Garrett and I. And it's always a joy to be here to deliver God's word And this is what I call part two of chapter three, making disciples in the last days. Let's read this text from the ESV translation of the scriptures. Starting at verse 10, verses we're going to read from verse 10 to 17. You, however, have followed my teaching. My conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness, my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra. Which persecutions I endured. Yet, from them all the Lord rescued me. Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted, while evil people and impostors will go from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. But as with you Continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it, and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writings. which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. All scripture is breathed out by God. And profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. It's the word of the Lord. Let's pray. But we need you during this time to to work in our lives, as in our hearts, as we hear. And as we commune with you in your spirit, teach us, be the teacher, Lord, that we might follow you with what we hear, that it might that might find a place in our lives. And we'll give you thanks for for what you do during this time. In Jesus' name. Amen. Making disciples in the last days, part two. Last week I talked about the last days. I began this this the evil days of this current era. Satan desires to destroy the Church of Jesus Christ. Matthew 16 says, however, that he will not prevail. Against the church, we're in a battle against Satan who desires to destroy Jesus and his people. In every battle there are moves and counter moves. We think of warfare, spiritual warfare. Many many of us don't know a lot about warfare, but I bet we know a lot about football, don't we? In fact, this is not fo this is not just a time where we start thinking about um school. Sounds like you are a lot of you are This is also a time where we're thankful that preseason football is over and now we can get to the real stuff, right? I know here we are we're we're a reconciled body. Some of you uh probably uh uh lo love the purple. As long as you love the burgundy, I'm on the burgundy side, but that's okay. There's a big tent in in the body of Christ, amen. One of the things I love about football is is the is the interplay of the offense and defense. The quarterback comes to the line. And he has a play called, but the defense has a play called as well, and he has to look and see, will my play work against what they've planned? And if he sees that what he calls is not going to work, he has to call an audible. He has to have a counter move against their move. Sometimes that orbital is he just says a a couple words like Rhino or Omaha if you're a Peyton Manning fan And that and that simple word, that simple phrase, the whole his whole offense knows, don't do what we just talked about. Do that basic play that we planned all week It's seldom something very fancy, it's something very basic. It's the counter move that the offense does against the defense that's been pre-designed. The good news is that Satan has all kinds of moves and schemes against the people of God. And God calls us to initiate some counter moves. But those counter moves are very basic. That's what I want us to think about. They're very basic countermodes. Jesus calls back to the found the foundation of the playbook. There are no mysteries. There's no secrets about how to win against this battle against Satan. We're called to make disciples. To go back to the biblical basics, to keep our focus, and not let Satan's schemes move us off God's will. In these last days, God has provided his people with three foundational disciple-making entities. You see the outline in the bulletin. An anointed man, a loving family. And a perfect revelation. Now the anointed man we're going to see is not a perfect man, but he's an anointed man. The loving family we're going to see is not a perfect family, but it's a loving family. But the revelation, the scripture, is perfect. Let's talk first about Verses 10 to 11, Paul says, you, however, in contrast to what we talked about last week, however, you contrast Timothy is to imitate Paul. Imitate the godly man, Paul. 1 Corinthians 11. 1. Be imitators of me as I imitate Christ. 1 Thessalonians 1, 6. You become imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction. with joy of the Holy Spirit. Imitation, an example of following a godly person. Tony Murata, the commentator, says, avoid ungodly examples. Follow God's examples as they follow the Savior and do it all by Christ's mighty power. Paul then lists nine things in this verse and the next verse. Nine qualities in himself that Timothy should recognize. And seven are here in verse 10, and the other two are in the next verse. He talks about teaching. He says, you know my teaching, you know my conduct, my aim in life. Interesting, Acts chapter 20, verse 24. He talks about his aim in life. A summary verse. Acts 20, verse 24. Paul says, but I do not account my life of any value, nor as precious to myself. If only I may finish my course and the ministry that I receive from the Lord Jesus. To testify to the gospel of the grace of God. That was his aim in life. He said, Timothy, you know my aim in life. He also lists his faith. Timothy had seen his faith that had been tested, his patience. His love, his steadfastness, these are fruit of the Holy Spirit. This is not natural Paul. This is the Spirit working through Paul, modifying his character. So then in verse 11, he he gives the last two qualities, sufferings and persecutions. And in this three cities that that that that are seeing, we can see the stories of what he's talking about in Acts chapter 13 and 14. And these cities trigger for for Timothy memories. Because he was from one of them. He was from Lystra, one of the cities of that region of uh Linaconia, I think it's what it's called. Linaconia. The first one is Antioch Posidia. This is where we see in Acts 13 one of Paul's, I think it's the longest sermon of Paul, other than the his when he gives his testimony. Antioch Pisidia. Paul and Barnabas are there and they're chased out of town when after the sermon the many didn't like what he had to say. And then the second one is the city of Iconium in chapter 14, verse 1 to 5. Again, the Jews and Gentiles combined to seek to kill Paul and Barnabas, and they escaped to other town. And then Lysra, Lysra, the city where of Timothy's birth, in Acts 14, 6-19. There there's a healing of the man who's crippled. Paul and Barbaras, they said, this is the Zeus and Hermes, the Greek gods. And then men from Antioch and Aconium, these other cities that had chased him out, they come to Lystra. And dragged the uh Paul and Barnabas out the city. An angry mob is there and they they get lynched and they s they they stone him and they think he's dead. Maybe he was dead. I don't know. But he rose up and walked back into town. Incredible miracle in the town of Timothy's birth An unforgettable thing for Timothy. But Paul says, you remember what happened to me in your region and in your city. You remember those things? An angry mob. This week, Terry and I, we watched um An angry mind. We watched the story of this movie Till. I don't know if you've seen that movie. The brutal lynching of a 14-year-old black youth in 1955 as he vacationed in Mississippi. He reminded me that human beings are capable of unspeakable evil towards one another. And that still goes on today. Incredible evil. Mobs full of adrenaline can do crazy things, horrendous things. Paul experienced mob violence in Angry Mouth. They thought they had them, but God raised him. If he was dead, God raised him. Maybe he was almost dead. We don't know. But Paul says to Timothy, you remember that? You remember that? Just the naming of those cities brings back those memories. Next we see though his confidence in the Lord's protection. You see that? The Lord's protection is there. He's confident of it. He's maybe quoting Psalm 34, where David said, Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. He goes on to continue, talk about the suffering, that suffering is normal for the godly person in verses 12 and 13. Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus Will be persecuted. Well evil people and apostles will go on from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. He says Timothy Don't think ministry will be smooth. Don't think it'll be easy. Remember this. God rescued me in those situations. But don't take that rescue for granted. Sometimes you're not going to be rescued. Sometimes you're going to experience some suffering, some affliction. In fact, Paul seems to be resigned to the fact that in his current situation in a prison There will be no incredible rescue for him this time. Soon he would lose his life, beheaded for the cause of Jesus Christ. Preaching to the Gentiles. It's pointed in verses 12 and 13 in this, in this age there will be suffering, even persecution for all who desire to live a godly life. So God's counter move is to pour his spirit upon individuals who will live countercultural lives, who will live as an example of what it means to follow God in a pagan world. Specifically in this passage, Paul reminds Timothy that they both, he and Timothy, have a special, particular calling as leaders in God's church. And that calling implies a calling to suffer, ridicule, pain, persecution, maybe even death. See, there's always opposition to God's kingdom-building program in this age. Now, we certainly may experience some level of ridicule in our day. I mean, Christian commitments such as believing that Jesus is the only Savior, they're not popular. Believing that there's punishment for those who don't know Jesus ultimately, eternal punishment. Not very popular. The Christian commitment that waiting until marriage to have sexual relationships is God's will. Not very popular. The Christian commitment to discipline your children rather than let them do what they want. Not very popular. Yes. Ridicule for our faith is quite normal. Being mocked, losing friends is the price we often pay as followers of Jesus in our generation. Some not just ridicule, some some are uh uh uh fear suffering. I I noticed that yesterday was the um the 60th celebration or anniversary of the the the the march on Washington in n in nineteen sixty three. And um you may know that Workers for the government were warned that they would lose their jobs if they attended. Now I didn't know this until many years later. My dad was one of those who Who decided to define the government? He had a government job. He worked for the government for 36 years. And uh he counted the cost and he took that day off In fact I'll never forget that day as a little ten-year-old kid. Where's my dad? You know, on black and white TV, you know, looking for my dad, you know, among the throng of people. What's funny is every time I see a picture of the march, I still do that. It's really easy. What can I say? But they didn't follow you on that threat. But it takes courage to follow your convictions. It takes courage. The curse to maybe lose your job, to make you lose income, maybe to lose your home. And Christians in our day, in some parts of the world, that's their reality. And maybe in our day, in our land, it might be the reality at some point. You may not know the sad story of uh of two women in the early church, in the about two the third, early third century. One was a perpetua. She was about 22 years old. She had a young child. The other was her slave, Felicity, who was younger, and she was expecting They both became believers. They both were in catechism class for baptism. And when the when the Romans came and arrested those, they were part of though the small group that were arrested. Put into prison with with others. And their courage and martyrdom became very famous. Again, Perpetua had a daughter who was taken, and the church raised her daughter. Felicity's baby was born two days before her martyrdom, and the church took care of that baby. But her martyr, you can you can you can Google or whatever, you can look and find just the details of her mart of their martyrdom. It's a very sad, brutal story. of of of of two w young women who were who who who were who the beasts came and the beasts couldn't finish the job, so the sword came and finished the job and they courageously faced martyrdom for Jesus Christ in their young with the young faith. Paul says that those who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Imagine playing a game of soccer and there's no defense. There's no goalie. You just kick the ball and it goes right to the goal every time. You score. It's easy, right? Paul of St. Timothy, in ministry, there's a goalie. There's opposition There's someone who doesn't want you to score. And it will not be easy. Expect the devil to use evil men to push back against you as you represent Jesus Christ in this world. Question. You're going through a tough time. Are you questioning whether your faith is real? Or whether God is still with you? It could be that you're feeling the consequences of sin or of bad choices. But it just might be that you are even in the midst of your suffering right in the center. of God's will for your life. Because all who live godly in Christ Jesus, he says, will suffer Timothy, as the leader, be ready. Realize that you'll take the lead and experiencing the suffering for this gospel. The second thing is not following an imperfect man like Paul, but far but a loving family. God has established a family. This basic foundational thing is another counter move Against what Satan wants to do to destroy the things of God. First word, where I get that, verse 14. Look at verse 14 carefully. But ask for you continue in what you've learned, firmly believed. How from childhood you've been acquainted with the sacred writings. From childhood, he says. Henderson says, note that learning is not enough. What has been learned must be applied to the heart by the Holy Spirit. So no one, so that one also becomes convinced and with a conviction that transforms life. And the convictions were nurtured in childhood in Timothy's life. We know from Acts chapter 16. That Timothy's, first of all, that Paul was, we don't think that Paul was his spiritual father. In fact, he calls him son in the first part of this book. Paul was Timothy's spiritual father. Again, he was then in the first missionary journey. He was part of the church, it lists the Lystra. The second missionary journey begins, and Paul begins right there, and at that point we hear we learn the story of Timothy. We learned that Timothy had a physical father who was not a Jewish, but was not a believer. He was not a believer. But we learn from 2 Timothy 1, verse 5, that Timothy had a mother named Eunice and a grandmother named Lois, and they were believers. And he was nurtured in a home by his mother and grandmother, who nurtured him in the things of God and in the scriptures, the Old Testament scriptures. We also note he was nurtured in the congregation at Les at Lystra, where his gifts were probably tested, and they endorsed his character and confirmed his calling to ministry. And when Paul came and said, I want Timothy. to come with me, to bring that offering t for for the Jerusalem Church, to be one of those delegates from the different cities to take that offering back and to be discipled and trained in ministry because he had a call in ministry. And so the church said yes. You can go. Go with Paul. We see that list in Acts chapter 20, where seven men from the various cities are listed who at the end of the third journey were with Paul. So Timothy had learned as a child the sacred writings and had been nurtured and discipled in his faith. And the sacred writings, the Bible, particularly the Old Testament for him, but the full Bible for us. Look, the Bible Is a book of history, but it's more than that. It has accurate history. The Bible is a book that gives great wisdom, but it's more than that. The Bible is a book that has scientific truth, but it's more than that. The Bible is a book that gives great positive motivation for how to live successfully in life and in business and whatever. But it's more than that. What did it say here? The sacred writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. All those other things are helpful, but the focus of the Bible is to move us, challenge us towards faith. And Jesus Christ is the Son of God come down from heaven to save sinners. The purpose of the Bible is that we might understand that salvation and believe in Him for eternal life. This eternal life begins when we believe and continues on and on into eternity. Paul uses the phrase To make you wise for salvation. No, 1 Corinthians 1, verse 30, Paul says, You are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God. Interesting phrase. Righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. Jesus is wisdom from God. I love Psalm 2. Which where where the the writer talks about the the the rebellion rebellion of mankind and and God lasts because he has put his son And and and and that so the nations w will not prevail against him. And then it but it is as the Psalm shifts The psalmist says, therefore, wise up. Be ye wise, wise up. Kiss the sun, lest he be angry. There's an interesting phrase. Jesus is the wisdom of God. And we are wise. See the plan of rediction in the Old Testament adds is is that there was going to be one who would do what Adam didn't do, who would be the seed of this the seed that was promised, who could who could succeed where Adam had failed. Adam's sons, they had a little problem. They weren't the ones. Noah was a pretty good man. Used by God, but no, he got drunk after the flood. He wasn't the one Abraham, father of many nations, he was a pretty good God, but he wasn't the one. He was flawed. And on and on, Jacob and Moses and Joshua and Gideon and Samson and David and all these great heroes of the faith. Look at Hebrews chapter 11. All these heroes of the faith were used by God, but they were weak and sinful. The Old Testament ends with no solution to mankind's need for Savior. But in the fullness of time. Jesus comes onto the scene. The seed of the woman. The ark that protected Noah represented Jesus. The ramp caught in the bush that Abraham saw, that was Jesus, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. The tabernacle Moses built in the wilderness, pushed to the one who said, I am that temple. Destroy me in the three days I will Rise again. The Old Testament points to Jesus. In fact Resurrection evening. Jesus talking to the two disciples on the mayor's road. He says this. It says, Luke said, Luke 24, 27, beginning with the Moses and all the prophets. He, Jesus, interpreted to them all the scriptures, all to them in all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. Jesus did Bible study with those two guys and said, or those two people, it may have been a man and a woman, we don't know, those two people disciples, and said, that's about me. He took them through the Old Testament. Could you what wouldn't it have been wouldn't you have loved to have been a fly in the wall in that conversation? And and John chapter 5, he's talking to the religious leaders who didn't like him You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. And it's they that bear witness about me Yet, you refuse to count me. Come to me that you may have life. For if you believe Moses, you believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you did not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? So Jesus says, Moses talking about me. So, Timmy learned as a child the Messiah was coming. And he learned when Paul came to town, Messiah come. And it was Jesus. In the family. You know, last night I I was finished my preparation and just happened to turn TV on and I saw an interview of a Baltimore pastor named P. M. Smith at Hubert Memorial Church. Um he they were there was a discussion about uh the sh the the the the um shooting in Jacksonville that took place yesterday. Very sad situation, of course. uh racially motivated it seems like. And they w they were they were talking about just, you know, what are we wh wh here we are again, what are we gonna do? And P. M. Smith, African American pastor, long term pastor, um I I've met him before. He he he said The question was about what are the root what's the root cause of this? How can we get beyond this? Politicians are trying to figure that out. Is the F word? And I knew where he was going. He said, we've got to get back to the family. To the family nurturing young people at a young age so they don't have these attitudes where they want to lash out. He was right. And again, what are we saying? God's counter move. There's no big secrets. It's back to the basics. Of a godly person and a loving, godly family that nurtures young people. As I said, the man of God, flawed. The loving family? Flawed, aren't we? None of us have none of us parents are perfect. None of us have perfect kids. But the third thing that Paul lifts up as God counter move is the perfect, the perfect revelation of God. David said in Psalm 19, the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. James 1, it's called, he calls it the perfect law of liberty. It brings freedom, brings liberty. Let's talk about what scripture is, what scripture does, what it is, and what it does The authorized King James Version uses uses the term that it's inspired by inspiration of God, which is unhelpful. Because when we think about inspiration, we think about poems, a poet being inspired, a book being inspired, a song being inspired, being inspired to write a song. And that that that word inspired is it it's a weak word when it comes to what's going on in this in this uh original text. And I'm glad that the modern translations kind of don't use that word inspired, uh ESV And in Isaac used to say give the idea that it's breathed by God. It's God breathed. Because it's literally a compound word in the Greek language. It's a compound word. Scripture. Though there's several incorrect views of what scripture is. One view is that we look at the book to try and discern the parts that have a divine tone, that can give us something about what God is like. We look at the stories about people's uh uh interactions with God and with life. This view is quite inadequate. This view puts human reason above God's revelation. This is the view that eventually developed what is known as the Jeffersonian Bible. Terry and I were on our vacation a few weeks ago, early this month. We visited Monticello and we heard about this Bible that Jefferson Jefferson had where, you know, he was a religious person, but not very religious. He didn't believe what didn't believe all the Bible. But I thought the Bible had some good things for the nation. And so he had a body, he actually cut out, cut and paste, literally cut and paste, a Bible where he just cut the things out he didn't like A lot of people say still do that. A lot of people, that's what they do. They have kind of a Jeffersonian view of the Bible. Oh, there's good stuff here, but uh the things I don't like, well, if I don't like it, it must not be good. That's wrong. Another extreme view that's wrong is what Cole would call the dictation theory. The dictation theory. You remember how the Ten Commandments came? Moses went up to the mountain and God with his finger wrote Ten Commandments. Literally, God with his finger, Paul, and many people they wrongly think that that's the way all of Scripture is, that it's kind of written literally by the hand of God, the finger of God. That's not what scripture is either It says that the Bible was written just like that, and this is also a very weak and adequate view of God, of the Bible. How should we view this the Word of God? Harold Berry says this. The holy writings were given by God through human authors who penned the precise words that God desired them to select. God did not override the personalities or wills of the human authors. Rather, God worked through them in such a way that their personalities were preserved, and yet A record was produced that was without error. So yes, we can see the personality of Paul, the personality of Peter, the personality of Moses and David. You can see, you can discern that as you look at the scriptures. But what we have is the perfect revelation from heaven. John Sott said, the way we understand scripture will affect the way we read it. In particular, its double authorship demands a double approach. Double authorship demands a double approach. Because Scripture is the Word of God, we should read it as we read no other book. On our knees, humbly, reverently, prayerfully, looking to the Holy Spirit for illumination. But because scripture is also the words of human beings, we should read it as we read every other book, using our minds, thinking, pondering, reflecting. Paying close attention to its literary, cultural, and linguistic characteristics. This combination of humble reverence and critical reflection. It's not impossible. It's indispensable. That's the way we're to approach Scripture. Scripture is The word of God, the perfect word of God. A couple, a couple, just there's lots of verses we can look at in the scriptures. A couple that that came to my mind this week. One is in in 2 Samuel chapter 23 verse 2. David said, the Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His word is on my tongue. David had a sense, this is towards the end of his life, he had a sense that God was using him and speaking Through him as he wrote, even as he wrote, as he spoke. Another very interesting verse is in is in actually 1 Timothy chapter 5. Let me read this verses 17 and 18. Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching. So Paul's talking to Timothy about about the office of of the preaching altar, teaching altar. Verse 18. He says, For the scripture says, and then he quotes an Old Testament verse from Deuteronomy, you shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain. Okay, that's an Old Testament verse that he's applying to this situation. And then he quotes a verse from Luke chapter 10. The laborer deserves his wages. Paul quotes an Old Testament verse. He quotes a verse from Luke, the New Testament, which is the New Testament was still in the process of being formed. And he said, this New Testament verse is equal to the Old, the book Scripture, as the Scripture says. Quite interesting. Another one I found very intriguing is in the book of Hebrews. The book of Hebrews. See in Psalm 95 David said, today if you hear his voice, don't harden your hearts, as in the rebellion. In Hebrews 3 and 4, there's a long exposition of that of this idea of don't harden your hearts. Today is hear his voice. And it's quoted three times. The first time, the writer of Hebrews says, the Holy Spirit says. The second time, the writer of Hebrew says, it says. And the third time, the writer of Hebrew says, David says. So, the Holy Spirit and David are both seen as saying the same thing in this verse. Because what are we saying? Scripture is the word is not just it's the word it's the word of man, but it's the word of God. Which is why in 2 Peter chapter 1 In verses 20 and 21, knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation, for no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man. But men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. Again, this double authorship, this double understanding. Holy Spirit and holy men. Look, here's our confidence. Though the writers of Scripture are flawed like you and me, God oversaw the process. So the bottom line, what we have is the perfect word of God. The law of the Lord is perfect. And that's our confidence. That's what scripture is. Now, what does it do? Paul talks about what it does. He says it's profitable, beneficial or useful, profitable. I love the Luzon Covenant, a very wonderful missional statement that Christians use. Let me read from the Luzon Covenant. It talks about what it is and what it does. We affirm the divine inspiration, truthfulness, and authority of both Old and New Testament scriptures in their entirety as the only written word of God without error in all that it affirms. and the only infallible rule of faith and practice. We also affirm the power of God's word to accomplish his purpose of salvation. The message of the Bible is addressed to all men and women. For God's revelation in Christ in Scripture is unchangeable. Through which the Holy Spirit still speaks today. He illumin illumines the minds of God's people in every culture to perceive its truth freshly through their own eyes, and thus discloses to the whole church evermore. of the mini-colored wisdom of God. The Luzon coven, great, great document from uh decades ago. So, what else could you do? I see six things. In the text. The scripture does. The first we've already talked about. It makes you wise for salvation. And I trust that you have come to that wisdom. Did you have trusted in Jesus Christ and found in him your Savior? Verse 15. If you didn't happen as a child, maybe in this church, you've come to know him. You've come to believe in the cross. For your s as the only solution for your sin problem. But the second thing is in verse 16. Actually, the second, third, fourth, and fifth thing are in verse 16. Teaching. The scriptures are good for teaching, profitable for teaching. This is doctrine. This is the truth about God, the truth about salvation, the truth about man and death and sin and life. The things that are revealed from God's heart and mind to our heart and mind. Teaching. We need to be taught. That's why we have Bible studies, why we have sermons, why we have helps to help us understand the faith. The next thing, number three, is reproof. This is um exposing the things that are wrong Warnings based on the things that God's word demands us to do in belief. When you read scripture, sometimes you read it, you say, uh-oh. I don't live up to that. Scripture does that. It reproves us. The word has convicting power. Things in our lives are not always what they ought to be. And sometimes when we read scripture, we come to that realization. Fourth, correction. Putting things right. Right back to where they need to be. Their idea in the original language is straightening things up. Getting things straight back up straight, upright. This points to the restorative power of God's word. For some preaching is is is like a medicine. It doesn't always taste good, but it's good for you because it has healing power. The word of God has a healing power to correct you where you're wrong. And then the fifth one is training in righteousness. This is the ongoing pursuit of a lifestyle of holiness and godly patterns of living that the scripture encourages us to do. Just as a child needs to be trained in the tasks, responsibilities, and routines of adulthood, we need to be trained in living righteous lives in an unrighteous world. We're encouraged by Jesus in Matthew 6 to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Training and righteousness in Scripture is key. We're sanctified by his truth, he says in John 17, 17. And number six, equipping the man of God for good works. This is what we see in verse 17 Equipping the man of God of good works. Ephesians 4 says that the pastors and teachers and elders and evangelists and apostles and prophets. um uh are are given by God to the church. And their task is to equip the saints For the works of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain unity and mature manhood in Christ. Now this verse is an interesting verse. Verse 17 is interesting It says that the man of God may be completely equipped for every good work. And it is very true that all of us, whether we're leaders or or not, Scripture does these things for us. But this verse is particularly Paul saying to Timothy, as one who has a calling on his life, that this book is your manual. It's your manual. And he uses the phrase, and why do we get that? He uses the phrase man of God. Man of God. Which is an interesting phrase in the Old Testament just a few Old Testament uh citations. In the Old Testament, when the people of God were burdened in Egypt, God appointed and anointed the man of God, Deuteronomy 33. 1, Moses. He's the man of God. When Saul was leading the people in his own carnal, egotistical way, God raised up a man of God who was after his own heart, David, 2 Chronicles. 814. The term man of God is used. When Israel was at its height of idolatry. In immorality, God raised up the prophet Elijah, who was called the man of God. 1 Kings 17, 18. Man of God seems to be a technical phrase. For a prophet, an anointed man. So what does God raise up in these last days again? A man of God. Oh man of God. In First Timothy six, verse eleven, Paul says to Timothy But as for you, O man of God, flee these things, pursue righteousness, good godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness. He calls him a man of God. And and and we believe that's not just because he's a uh a male. Because he's God's apostle, God's prophet. He's the key leader in that church, in that movement. It's a special phrase. And Paul is reminding Timothy of his calling to be a leader. That as a godly man, he's a mighty weapon in God's hand against Satan and what Satan would do to destroy the church. So though verse 16 points all of us to scripture, the primary meaning is for those who lead the church. We leaders must be equipped with scripture so we can then equip others to live consistent Christian lives. Pastors, evangelists, seminary teachers, parent church leaders. What is our foundation? Where do we go for a right understanding of life? For right understanding of truth, right understanding of the gospel? For how to live the Christian life in an ungodly world. Do we go to experts in the universities? Do we go to the media? Do we go to our friends? No. We go to Scripture, the Scriptures that transform us. And they equip us to be transformers as the Spirit enables us. Apostle Paul, Lois, Eunice. Leaders of the churches that impacted Timothy. All they have is the word on the page. And the word in their life. That's all they have. The word on the page and the word that comes through their life. As we seek to help others, that's all we have. The life-changing word of God in Scripture. to reflect in our lives as we love and as we serve and as we challenge. Decades ago, it was the middle 80s when I was with university. I was uh university one of the the the staff leaders here in Baltimore and uh I don't remember what year it was, but I think it was my birthday. And one one on that Wednesday we had our meetings at UMBC on Wednesdays, and one of them surprised me with a birthday card was signed by some of the leaders. And I was surprised, you know, you know, you just mean surprise, you don't know what to know, you don't know what to do or say. But I'll I'll never forget this. I don't remember what the card said, but the card had just written in it, Ezra 7. 10. Which is the verse, frankly, I did not know that verse. So I you know I quickly read the verse. It's a it's a powerful verse, it's a simple verse, it's a it's a it's an overarching verse that every leader needs to To memorize and reflect on. And I'm going to read it as we as we come to a close, because I believe we need to hear this. In Ezra 7:10, for Ezra had set his heart to study the law of God. And to do it, and to teach his statutes and rules in Israel. Study, do teach CPC, as you evaluate your candidate, what do you look for? What do you look for? The Ezra 70 is a simple verse to keep in mind. It's kind of like a three-legged stool. You want a man with the desire and discipline to study. You want a man with a heart and integrity to do. And you want a man of God With skill and anointing to teach. You want a man of God? We're praying for you. Let's pray now. Well, thank you for this passage. It reminds us that we're to make disciples, and there's no fancy secrets. You've given us what we need. You've told us what we need, what to do. I pray for this church lord as to continue to follow you in the next season of its life. Well, I pray for each individual, even as I think about school beginning and other things as they transition into the fall. Help us to be disciples of Jesus, to love you with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, to love our neighbors ourselves. And to reach out with a word of grace and hope, it will give you thanks in Jesus' name. Amen.