We are in the the midst of a three-week uh sermon series on male and female. We're looking for the last two weeks, and again next week at the topic of sexual sin. And God's strict prohibition against all forms, all manner of illicit activity. Adultery and fornication, debauchery, impurity God gives us this strict prohibition because in every sin that we commit sexually We reject God and His design. Remember last week we we saw the wonder of His design. He created all that is. And then the very special part of his creation Was a man and a woman created in his image to reflect his glory He gave them bodies. He made them male and female. And he said that for this reason a man will leave his mother and father, a woman leave her home, and the two shall be joined together as one flesh. And there's a picture there of Christ and his church, a picture of God and his people, a picture wonderful, representative. And so there is a strict prohibition against anything that is outside that Design one man, one woman, joined together for life, other centered Built for pleasure, enjoying one another in the way that God intended his creation to be enjoyed. Remember last week we we looked at Genesis chapter two and we we saw the the wonder of his design. But it didn't stay that way. Didn't stay that way for very long. Because recorded for us in the very next chapter in Genesis 3, is the fall of man, the corruption that came our way as a result of man's rebellion against sin. I was reminded this week in a seminar that I attended. The um The common features of man's sinful heart, pride, shame, fear, they're found right here. Right here, as man declared independence from God, remember God said there was trees and fruit all in the garden. And there was one tree in the center of the garden, the tree of the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil. And God told to his creatures, You can eat of any fruit that you desire. It's yours for the taking. But you must not, you shall not eat of this tree, giving them a command, one command. Whereby Adam could show forth his obedience, his love to God through obedience, his submission, his creature status to the Creator. One tree. And man declared his independence, and we in Adam When Adam sinned, we sinned. When Adam fell, we fell. When Adam died, we died. When Adam acted, we acted in Adam, declaring his independence See that the serpent, the crafty serpent, comes to the woman, and Adam is there with her. Rejecting his role as head, as protector, Adam with her, and Eve rejecting her role as that helpmate suitable for Adam. The tempter comes to Eve, and she's deceived, and she takes the fruit and she eats. And Adam with her, he also takes the fruit and eats. And you see this shame enter in. In chapter 3 and verse 7, then the eyes of both were opened. And they knew that they were naked. And they searched for a temporary fix. They searched for anything They sowed fig leaves together, and they made for themselves loincloths. The Hebrew translated there is a covering over the maleness and the femaleness. Right there in the fall, our sexuality was corrupted, such that the first response was shame. And a covering. An attempt to cover. We see with it the accompanying fear that comes with our sin, our corrupted state As God comes to them in the cool of the evening to walk with them in fellowship and to have face-to-face fellowship with his creatures. God raises a question. He knows where Adam is, but he calls out. And we see in verse 10, Adam said, I heard the sound of you in the garden. And I was afraid because I was naked. And I hid myself To run, to to run from, to protect, to hide, to go into hiding. That's the fall. That's the result of us in Adam rebelling against God. In Paul's letter to the Romans, the text that we're going to look at today in Romans chapter 1, Paul picks up this Fall, this corruption. The context of this letter is Paul's magnum opus. on justification. How is it possible that a holy God is reconciled to unholy man? How could it be, how can it be, that we who are sinful could ever relate again to He who is holy? And Paul lays that out through the course of the chapters of the letter that he wrote to the Christians in Rome. But what he wants to establish, first off, is that we are corrupt in every sense of the word. In the fall, we radically were affected, our minds, our will, our bodies. And so Paul paints a very bleak picture Devastating. Stark. There's a picture of humanity in need of redemption. In chapter 1 and chapter 2, he establishes the fact that we are hopeless and helpless, left to ourselves. All the while building to the the verse there in chapter three that we've probably all memorized, verse three, uh verse twenty-three, chapter three. Chapter 3 and verse 22 he says, For there is no difference, for all have sinned, and all have fallen short of the glory of God. We were created to reflect his glory, and the fall has shattered the glory of God in us. And so Paul wants to Paint this bleak picture and drive home the weight of our sin and our desperate need for Jesus Christ. To be Savior. That's the pattern of redemption. That's the pattern of evangelism. We don't Believe grace is amazing until we see the devastation of our sin and we see how corrupt we really are. And the bondage that we sang about. John MacArthur comments on this point. The biblical order in any gospel presentation is always first the warning of danger and then the way of escape. First the judgment on sin, and then the means of pardon. First the message of condemnation and then the offer of forgiveness. First the bad news of our guilt, and then the good news of his grace. And so this first chapter, the second chapter of Romans, as Paul paints this bleak picture, he wants to establish the very um fallen nature of humanity. There is no glimmer of light within that we can fan into flame We are dead in our transgressions and sins, and it manifests itself through our bodies. So let me read from Romans chapter 1, verse 18 to 32, this bleak picture of you and of me. Thus begins the reading of God's Word. Give your attention to it. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them for his invisible attributes, namely His eternal power and divine nature have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God, nor give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. Therefore, God gave them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. Because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie, and they worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions, for their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. And the men likewise gave up natural relations with women, and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men, and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips Slanders, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but they give approval to those who practice them. Thus in the reading of God's Word, let me pray for us. Father, help us to see Our desperate need for Jesus Christ to be our redemption and hope. Father, I pray that you would use this word. to speak to our hearts this preaching event, Lord, to uh cause us to understand That we are fallen, that we are creatures, and that there is no time that we can be without you. Lord, help us. Draw us close. We pray that we would see the redemption in Christ and we would find our rest in you. In Jesus' name we ask. Amen. Paul begins this little passage right where we need to hear it. He says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. The wrath of God revealed. I can't lighten this up for you. I can't make this less for myself as much as I want to wriggle free. The wrath of God remains on those disobedient ones who reject God and willfully run from Him. We've already seen Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount use these same strong words. If you hate your brother in your heart, you are in danger of hellfire. If you continue in sexual sin, you will be thrown with your body and soul into hell. The wrath of God should cause us to shudder, to tremble. We should not take it lightly. Remember the Apostle John in chapter three. For whoever believes in the Son has eternal life, but whoever does not obey the Son. shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. There is no neutral ground for those of us who breathe air, for those of us children of Adam. We are born under the death sentence of our sin. There's no point at which we say, okay, now I'll choose evil or choose good. We are inherently evil and in need of rescue. And so Paul begins that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against us. Ungodliness and unrighteousness, suppressing the truth. For God has made Himself clearly known, and man by Wickedness keeps that down. The great exchange. See, Paul's bleak picture continues. With the great exchange of though we can wonder at God's design and his created world and see a creator behind that created world, we shut that down. We exchange the truth about God for lies about God, caricatures of God. We come up with our own picture And we'll worship and serve that because we can control that. We exchange our true meaning. We were created to glorify God. To glorify God and enjoy Him forever. At His right hand are pleasures forevermore. In your presence, Lord, there is fullness of joy We have exchanged our true meaning for hopelessness. There is no meaning. Vanity of vanities. It's all meaningless if I pursue you for life and you pursue me for life. We've exchanged true satisfaction finding our life in the life giver. For an emptiness, a life that always seeks to be filled up, but never, ever attains. That feeling. Paul goes on to say this manifests itself, see in verse 21, in a dishonoring of God and a thanklessness. Here we see the pattern of sin playing itself out, four ways that man exhibits his rejection of God by dishonoring him By being thankless to him, by futile speculations concerning him, and by being darkened in our hearts concerning him and his ways. The Greek word here in verse 21, for although they knew God, they did not honor God, is Dokseo, and it can be actually translated glory or honor. The purpose for which we were created, to glorify God. Paul says, we do not do. I will not give you glory. I will rob you of glory and take it to myself. That's the corruption of sinful man. I will not honor you. I will receive the honor. Remember the death of Herod in Acts 12? As he regaled himself in royal robes and came out and gave a kingly speech to the people, and they praised him With the voice of a God he speaks, not with the voice of a man. And Herod received that. Remember that uh Near the end of chapter twelve there. And the people were shouting, the voice of a God, not a man, and immediately An angel of the Lord struck him down because he did not give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms, and he breathed his last. And the word of God increased and multiplied. God will not yield his glory to another. And Paul says in this passage that it is our propensity as sinners to rob him of glory and to be thankless. We will not recognize our dependence on him. We will not acknowledge that It's quite the opposite of the picture we we see in Revelation 4 of the redeemed. As those who have been redeemed by the Lamb gather in that place. And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to Him who is seated on the throne. who lives forever and ever. The twenty-four elders fall down before him, the one who is seated on the throne, and they worship him who lives forever and ever. And they cast their crowns before the throne, saying, You are worthy, O Lord. Our Lord and our God to receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and by your will they existed, and they were created. That's a picture of redemption. Paul says, in our sin, we will not do that I ask my uh kids all the time. I ask myself all the time when we're grumbling and complaining and discontent. What are you thankful for? You need to thank God for something right now. Find something. I use two legs to walk from there to here. Praise God. I have legs that work. Thank you, God, that we have a family that can relate to one another. With human language, we can understand. Think of something and thank God. Then we come across these uh probably four of the scariest words in Scripture. As man rejects God, God gave them over. God gave them up You see it three times in this passage. He gave them up in verse 24, gave them up in verse 26, and gave them up in verse 28. In this passage, these passages we see the Paul presents to us the source of man's sinfulness in verse 24 and following, the symptom of man's sinfulness, and the scope of man's sinfulness. The source of man's sinfulness is the heart of impurity. Verse 24 says Therefore God gave them up in the lust of their heart to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies, that which God had created for good to reflect him One man, one woman, joined together for life, other centered, intended for pleasure, enjoying God They dishonored him and their bodies among themselves, and they exchanged the truth about God for a lie. And they worshipped and served and they looked for life from the creature rather than the creator. I've been in ministry for Well full time for a while, I guess. Full time for real, nineteen ninety-eight. Bivocational since nineteen ninety-three. And then uh before that as a lay person in the church since about nineteen eighty-six or thereabouts working with youth ministry. I've had a lot of people confess sin in my presence. I've had a lot of stories of fallen humanity presented in in um gory detail. I've seen the devastating effect of that in the lives of people I love and and want uh to see redeemed. But nothing compares To the production of evil that I've seen in here. What I know I'm capable of I would suggest to you what you are capable of as well Paul says the source of our sinfulness is our heart. We remember Jesus' words in Matthew 15, that out of the heart springs forth. Evil thoughts, murder, adultery, fornication, theft, lies, false witness, and slanders. These are the things that defile a man, that which comes from his heart. And so Paul wants to present this bleak, stark, devastating picture of lost man, you and me. You cannot blame another As much as we want to alleviate ourselves of the responsibility, God says your sin deserves eternal Damnation and mine. We cannot know this heart. It's deceitful. Jeremiah says it's desperately wicked who can know such things. The next verse in Jeremiah 17, God says, I alone search the heart. I Discern its ways. So the source of our sinfulness is that heart And then the symptom. Verse 26 and following, the symptom of man's sinfulness Paul says in 1 Corinthians 6 that every other sin man commits outside his body, but sexual sin is a sin against his own body. And this is a picture here. Paul chooses the most blatant example of man rejecting God's design. One man, one woman, committed together for life, enjoying one another the way God intended, and Paul says, for this reason Because of this lust of their heart, God gave them up to dishonorable passions, and they pursued dishonorable passions. You'd expect it last in the woman, in the female. And Paul presents the woman first, for their women exchange natural relations. Just to shock the reader to see again the devastation of sin The symptom, the dishonoring, and men likewise gave up natural relations with women, consumed with passion for one another. Things despicable to speak of, and all manner of associated sin. It's as if Paul needs that reminder of God and redemption. As he as he gets probably even overwhelmed by the nature of man and what we're capable of. You see there in verse twenty-five, he slips into a common Jewish doxology. For man may serve the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forevermore. Amen. It's as if in the midst of that darkness and the pit Paul had to remind himself, even as he's laying out the bleak picture, that there is hope found in Christ. The Creator who is blessed forevermore. Amen. Oftentimes when I've encountered um conversations that are hard and difficult and the counseling appointment is finished, I'll lean back in my chair and grab the guitar. I just need something, Lord, of a reminder of who you are, of what you've accomplished in Christ. and renew and restore my hope in you. I cannot help them. I cannot help myself I need you to do it. God gave them up, we see in verse twenty-eight, the scope of man's sinfulness, the extent to which we'll go. To the extent to which we're capable of. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up then to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. To do what ought not to be done. It's that picture of the the younger son, the parable that Jesus gives. You remember the story? Man had two sons, and the younger one wanted his inheritance. He wanted the blessing. He wanted the uh stuff The gifts that come from the relationship with the Father, but he did not want the relationship. And Jesus gives that parable to show humanity what their picture is, what their story is. And the younger son took his share of the inheritance and he went off to a far land, a distant country, and he wasted the gifts. Of his father. He squandered them until nothing was left. And he was lonely Downcast, desperate in The mud and the muck with the swine, longing to fill his stomach even with the pods of food that they fed the pigs. What we're capable of. The scope of our sinfulness. I'll never forget the vivid image. I used to roof houses when we were in Georgia. I was working on my master's degree and I I pulled a trailer behind my truck and we loaded it up with shingles and take it down to Lythonia at the landfill And he'd back in and he'd get the bulldozer to pull the chain and he'd drop all the stuff off and he'd back in next to all these other trucks and work related uh vehicles, dump trucks and and um trailers and all manner of stuff as guys were unloading debris. In the middle of a huge landfill, the stench of which you can imagine, fill with human garbage and waste and refuse and mud, baking in the Georgia sun in the middle of summer. That stench in your nostrils yet? And a truck pulled in that brought uh some household garbage. And as the guy lifted the uh Dump and uh it all flowed out. There was a big stack of magazines containing pornographic images And I sat there and watched three or four guys from each of the vehicles around me flock to those magazines. Standing in the muck and the mire and the waste, looking at images Of people's daughters, and people's sisters, and nieces Some of those girls maybe at one point in their time had had donned an Easter dress And now they were naked. And Forcing down their shame so that they could earn money to do that. And these men leering at those images And I thought to myself, two things I want to go look to And there for the grace of God, I didn't. But for the grace of God Not for me, not for what I'm about, but for God's restraining grace. To protect me in that. Image won't leave my mind very soon, I'm sure I hope it doesn't leave yours either. But God gives us this picture of what we're capable of. And gives us the utter hopelessness of life searching for life in the creature rather than the creator. We were built with a capacity in marriage to be committed for life. We were built with the facility to be single and abstinent. We are given a body of Christ to protect both those stations in life, each designed in a unique way to point us to God in Christ. That younger son didn't stay in the pig sty He came to his senses. He came to himself, Jesus says. And preachers throughout the years have said, He came to himself, but he did not come to himself by himself. The Spirit of God at work in the heart of one who is this corrupt to draw you to see redemption. Draw you to see redemption Very simply put, Paul in this passage is describing lust. Simply put, Paul is laying out for us what lust looks like. A craving. An attempt to get life, to get satisfaction, to get fulfillment, to get an identity, to get security, to get safety from the creature rather than the creator. To twist the pleasure that God intended so that it never satisfies fully. It's pleasurable. Sin is pleasurable for a time. But the end result of which is death. God never overvalues, nor does He degrade the good gift that He has given to us. He redeems his good gifts so they can be enjoyed in him the way he intended to the praise of his glory. In that um in that book uh C. S. Lewis, the screw tape letters There's a senior demon, screw tape, who is instructing a younger junior associate, demon, on how to thwart God's plan. And he writes to uh Wormwood and he says, Of this thing called pleasure, all we can do is encourage the humans to take the pleasures which God has produced At times or in ways or in degrees which He has forbidden them to take those pleasures. Hence, we always try to work away from the natural condition of any pleasure to that in which it is least natural, least representative of its maker, and therefore least pleasurable. This is the formula he gives to Wormwood: an ever-increasing craving for an ever-diminishing pleasure. That's what lust is. When you seek satisfaction in the creature, it will not satisfy. And there are hearty amens going up silently all throughout this congregation. Young people, hear those. And protect what God has given to you to be enjoyed in His way. So the young son didn't stay in the pig sty. He came to himself, but not by himself, and he remembers the father, and he remembers the goodness of the father. And he prepares his speech of repentance, and as he approaches, the father who's been waiting tucks his robe and runs to meet him. Runs to meet him And as he's uh describing, Father, I'm not worthy to be in your household. I recognize that my running from you is wrong and sinful. The father embraces him and kisses him, showers him with welcome, and brings a ring and places it on his finger. You're my son. Brings a robe and clothes his nakedness, brings sandals and shods his bare feet in order to display his status. As a precious beloved son, kills a fatted calf, celebrates, and the statement made is this one who was dead is now alive. Rejoice. Jesus Christ took the wrath do you and me upon himself. Paul goes on in this treatise of justification. We'll end with this in chapter five. He says, for while we were still weak, at just the right time, Christ died for us, the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare maybe to even die. But God shows his love, he demonstrates his love for us that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have been justified by his blood, much more shall we now be saved. By him from the wrath of God to come. The wrath of God has been revealed against ungodliness and unrighteousness. And Christ has taken that wrath do you and do me on on himself Jesus is merciful to those who have done wrong He changes your heart and he offers forgiveness. Jesus is merciful to those to whom wrong has been done. He changes your heart, and he offers you comfort and peace. But you come to him by acknowledging that his way is truth and his rule is righteous. And you surrender yourself to him. Will you come to Jesus? Let me pray for us. Lord, help us to come to you, to run to you, to cling to you, to fly to Jesus, and to be made whole. Lord, I pray that you would protect us from the enemy without and within, the corruption of our sinfulness, the devastation of that sin. That you would guide our thoughts and our minds to give you glory, to give you thanksgiving, to recognize our dependence. And acknowledge your reign, Supreme. Father, please meet us each individually, particularly where the point of our greatest need is. And bring glory to your name. We offer these requests to you in the name of Jesus our Lord. Amen.