Good morning. I um want to add just a brief word to that which has already been said and Wish you moms a happy Mother's Day. It is uh I think probably Uh one of the most important callings on the planet. We've heard the old adage, the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world. And um it's often thankless and yet um we appreciate you The um the grace and the mercy that you display points us to our God who uh gathers his people. like a mother hen and shelters us in his wing. So we appreciate you, Mom. Happy Mother's Day. And um I hope you have a good one. We begin uh uh a three part sermon series today Uh picking up where Alan left us, pointed us to last week as we were in Matthew 5, Sermon on the Mount. Mm A section where Jesus, with all seriousness gave us the uh intensity with which we are to fight sexual sin Remember those words, they're so chilly. If your right eye causes you to sin, then gouge it out, pluck it out, and throw it away If your right hand causes you to sin, then lop it off and throw it from you. Because it's it's better for you to enter heaven With your body maimed, than to have body intact and to suffer the wrath of God, For all eternity. The sexual immoral, an adulterer Will incur the wrath of God. You cannot get away from the serious, somber call of Jesus Christ. Alan was quick and good to remind us we were well served when he pointed us to the fact that Jesus was not giving to his people an external means to deal with an internal problem For he didn't say there is enough body parts to cut off to deal with the heart. He was describing the intensity with which you and I need to take up arms against the enemy without and the enemy within our own heart. And its uh deceitful desires. So many confusing messages out there about our maleness, our femaleness, our our sexuality. The world is saturated with images and and uh and descriptions of a picture of sex that is so far removed from what God's original design and intent was That same God who spoke that intense battle cry from Matthew five is the God who through his word Described for you and me that this is a gift, our sexuality, to be enjoyed. We were built for pleasure And God wants us to enjoy that gift within the parameters Of his design, the way he has called for you and me to be male, to be female, and to express that To his glory. I must admit that this is an awkward topic We we bump up against the topic here in this series. That causes us uh a bit of uh nervousness. And concern, maybe As I was uh given this uh privilege of a three-week sermon series, I uh took an occasion we uh pastors take Tuesday afternoons and uh go out and pray for an extended period of time. And uh Steve's down south, so I'm not sure where he ends up going. There's parks and stuff down there. But Alan and I, and now I think Robbie and John, we we frequent sections of the Potapsco River up here. McKeldon, Hollyfield, Avalon, on and on And um I had taken a book with me to read as a part of my afternoon and pray through some things. The book is entitled Sex and the Supremacy of Christ Edited by John Piper and Justin Taylor. And as I'm heading off, I decide I think that afternoon I'm going to go to the Hollifield area, Route 40. And to get there, I have to drive past what we've referred to as the Pack Shack, this uh shop that uh deals in uh illicit sexual things And so you're always I'm always feeling just a little bit odd, you know, up there and in Route 40 and all the CD motels and and here the park and nobody knows me from Adam, you know, pastor and stuff. And so I'm feeling weird anyway, a little bit, and I got my book, and I'm hiking down the hill, going to sit by the water, pray, get with God And sure enough, I see this old salt coming up from the water's edge and he's got his fishing pole and his tackle box and his cane and he's coming up the stairs there and I'm thinking he's gonna wanna talk. Sure enough. Hey there young fella. What you reading? I thought I'd get it out of the way. It's a book called Uh Sex and the Supremacy of Christ. It's about how in our uh fallen state, as uh people who have rebelled against their Creator, our maleness, our femaleness, our sexuality has been corrupt in every part. And only if we are to be redeemed, we are to redeemed only through Jesus Christ, his cross and the blood that was shed to cover our sin, to cleanse us. And on and on I went for just a little bit longer The silence was even longer than this. How's that uh are there trout in this river? This topic Is one that we must look at, but we want to run from Because at the core of our being we are male, we are female. Why is this so awkward for us? I don't have a whole bunch of theories. Could it be that we've never heard a positive treatment of the subject matter? Could it be that God's gift of sexuality has been so twisted by this sin-sick world that we don't want to be associated with the topic? Could it be that the imagery of sex has been so distorted that we want to distance ourselves from a discussion? Could it be that something dark and sinister lurks inside each of us? And if we get too close to this topic, it's too close to home. It could be that um someone has used sex as a weapon against us. And they've hurt and uh maliciously abused us. And uh The pain of going here to this topic is too great. It could be a combination of all those One big hurdle that we have to get past is the shame associated with this topic. There is a good shame. There is a good and godly shame. When we break God's commandments, we should be ashamed of the result. And we should allow that shame to do its good work to drive us to our need for Jesus Christ, to see Him as the one who is holy and blameless and without spot. And to cry out for mercy, and to rest in his finished work for cleansing from the pollution within. Paul describes those enemies of the cross of Christ in Philippians 3, and he says, their God is their stomach. Those sensual things, those things that bring pleasure to the person, their God is their stomach, their end is destruction, and they glory in what they should be ashamed of. Setting their minds on earthly things. So we have to work through, push through Any shame that might try to associate itself here. The church, I'm afraid, oftentimes has pendulums swung in the opposite direction. And in some kind of an uh attempt to not violate Paul's commands of Ephesians 5. 12, to not even speak Of the shameful things that the sons of disobedience do in secret. We don't want to violate that, so we won't even talk about the topic. Beloved, we must talk about this topic because our God, in his word, talks about this. I don't believe the problem is the way we talk. It's merely talking. I believe the problem is the way we talk. about our sexuality. Young people, and I know growing up I had the same thing. You we we kinda Suffer under the seemingly cruel no to sex outside marriage without the resounding, God-ordained, exalting yes to sex within marriage. And therein lies the assistance of the corruption to this topic God speaks greatly about this gift. See a quote there in your bruleton. Al Moller is the president of Southern Seminary. Friends with John Piper and R. C. Sprohl and Mark Dever and Legan Duncan and part of this reformed movement to bring the church together. Together for the gospel, and he says this. Christians have no right to be embarrassed when it comes to talking about sex. And sexuality. An unhealthy reticence or embarrassment in dealing with these issues is a form of disrespect to God's creation. Whatever God made is good. And every good thing that God made has an intended purpose that ultimately reveals his own glory. When conservative Christians respond to sex with ambivalence or embarrassment, we slander the goodness of God and we hide God's glory, which is intended to to be revealed in the right use of creation's gifts. When the writer of the book of Hebrews wanted to admonish his readers against sexual sin. He used str strong and clear language. He said that God will judge the adulterer and the sexually immoral Strong words. But that's not the entire verse. Because when God Wants to instruct us concerning sex, he highlights marriage. Listen to Hebrews thirteen verse four. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed undefiled. Let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and the adulterous. We need to see sex rightly as God has intended it to be seen. That's part of a large part of the battle cry. To have his truth renew our minds with regard to our maleness and our femaleness. The Bible, after all, is a book about marriage and sex At the very beginning, the passage we're going to look at today in just a moment, there is a marriage presented. At the very end of the Bible, there is a marriage presented. The wedding feast of the Lamb. where the New Jerusalem is pictured as a bride beautifully adorned for her husband. Without any spot or blemish, no wrinkle, perfectly fit for that dwelling All throughout the Bible, God uses strong images of marriage to describe his relationship to his people. We see in the prophet Hosea's writings, in the prophet Ezekiel's writings, this. And uh it's A part of our creation, part of maleness, femaleness, part of our sexuality that God uses to point us to Himself. We know the pain of betrayal when two have been joined together and one strays. And God uses those images to point us to our sin against Him. The Bible uses our sexual fallen, broken state in many places to describe our sinfulness. As it's made manifest in the way we interact with one another. We're going to expand on some of that next week. The Bible also Unashamedly promotes this gift. The eight chapters of the 22nd book of the Old Testament, they are in the Song of Songs. God highlights for us the intent of this maleness and femaleness. You know, there's a I I I in in some of this reading discovered That pregnancy and procreation are not mentioned in the Song of Songs He simply laid that word down to show us that we were built for pleasure And in his presence there are pleasures forevermore. This is a God who wants us to have a right view of sex. A right view to aid and assist in the battle against sexual sin. And so today I want us to look at male and female, the wonder of God's design Male and female next week, the corruption from man's fall. And then the third week, Lord willing, male and female, our redemption complete in Christ alone. So we look at Genesis chapter 1 and Genesis chapter 2, selected verses. Hear God's word And God said in verse twenty six of chapter one, Let us make man in our image, and after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens. And over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God He created him. Male and female He created them And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens. And over every living thing that moves on the earth. And verse 31. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold It was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning the sixth day. Continue the reading in chapter 2 and verse 18. Then the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him. And so out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him And so the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept he took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh, and the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman. And he brought her to the man. And then the man said, This, this at last is the bone of my bones, then the flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman. Because she was taken out of man. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and uh and he will hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked, and they were not ashamed. See the wonder of God's design. See sex rightly Don't you know, haven't you heard, that every time God says no to something, he says yes to something even better. Every time God says no to something, he says yes to something even better. Young man, young woman, listen to that. Single brother, single sister, hear God. Married husband, married wife. Hear God and wonder at His design. First, we see that we are designed to glorify God. In the image of God, we were built In the image of God, we were made to reflect his glory, to represent him in bodily form. To picture for the world God. That's an awesome task. And we know that in only one was the fullness of deity held in our Lord Jesus Christ. But in our bodies, in our maleness, in our femaleness, God says, I designed you to reflect my image, to reflect my glory. We were built for his glory in all that we do. Paul told the Romans, for from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. He told the Corinthian church, so whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all for the glory of God, including, I would add, your sexuality. Your maleness, your femaleness, to the glory of God Contained in this creation mandate, we see this command to populate the planet, to subdue the earth. And we see that God gave us a drive to do that God designs appetites in us. He gave us an appetite for food so that we wouldn't forget to eat and become malnourished and die. He gave us a sex drive. In order to fulfill his creation mandate to populate the planet with people who would ultimately bring him glory And so that's designed as a part of our maleness, our femaleness. Wonder at that We also find in this, even this being created in his image, that we were made with bodies. This profound concept that we were created with bodies. Rather unique among world religions is this idea that the body is good. Very good was the pronouncement. So we have to reject the Greek thought, the notion that that had the androgyny, the the the sexless uh figure that was split in the fall and became male and female. God designed male and female prior to the fall and pronounced it good But we must also safeguard against the equally destructive notion That because he created bodies and everything he created is good It does not follow that everything then our bodies do is good We have to fight against now the corruption in our members, the corruption in our bodies. We cannot hold to the maxim If it feels good, do it. The body and our flesh is not the final arbiter of truth God's word is. And so we see this profound wonder of God's design. We were created To reflect his glory, created in his image. We were designed to be different. Male and female. He created them. Have you ever wondered about that design? And Jesus instructs in Matthew 19 an admonition against sexual sin. He says Haven't you read that at the beginning the Creator made them, male and female? He, our Lord, points us back to creation and the maleness and the femaleness. Ben Patterson, a theologian and scholar, says this: to say that we are sexual creatures is to say that we cannot be understood except as male and female. And accept as male or female. As male and female, we make up one humanity. And as male or female We make up the two poles for that humanity, with our bodies as concrete expressions of those two poles. There is something intrinsic At the core of being male and female, that points us to God. We see this first negative pronouncement as well. We were designed to reflect God's glory, designed to be different, and designed for otherness. Designed for otherness. There's a purpose in God's design. The first negative pronouncement made prior to sin entering in the world. It is not good for man to be alone. And so every animal, every beast was paraded before Adam. There was found no suitable helper fit for him. And so God in this mysterious way put one to sleep, and from one came two To foreshadow even greater mystery of two becoming one. From one comes two From two to one, pointing us again to our God Pointing us again to the picture of the one who would join himself to humanity to save them, to bring us to himself. That's why Adam's pronouncement here in chapter two is so wonderful. He stands and gives praise. At last, bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh, she shall be called woman, for she was taken out of man. This is one whom I sit with. And certainly That pronouncement is metaphor. They would be joined together in all their activity on the earth as they subdue, as they have dominion They would be joined together emotionally. They would be joined together spiritually. They would be joined together in those ways of working the garden But it is also, and do not miss this, that they would be joined together physically, and two would become one. It's a wonder. It's the gift of sexuality is such a wonder. It's to be protected and to be provided for, to be safeguarded. To be highlighted the way God highlights it, but to be safeguarded by the covenant community, protecting one another, speaking against it. Providing for our young people and those who are single among us. We were designed also for a lifetime of loyalty. That's what this picture is. For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two will become one flesh. This idea of leaving and cleaving and weaving to another is a part of A pronouncement before the fall, and then three times after the fall, we see this same text come up. Matthew 19, Mark 10, when Jesus is teaching about Why divorce? Sullies the image of God Why sexual immorality is not that which reflects the faithful God of Israel Who chose for himself one people and has never once wavered in his commitment to bring her to himself whole and blameless. Paul uses it in Ephesians 5, and he points the readers back to the creation intent. And he says, this mystery I speak to you is Christ and his church You see how our sexuality is designed by God to point us to our God They were designed, we were designed for intimacy. It's interesting that the last verse of chapter two, Moses records And the man and his wife were both naked, and they were not ashamed. I don't know if you can picture a point in human history where you could be fully known by someone else, fully known by someone else. And have absolutely no shame, no reticence, no shrinking back, no drawing away from, no hiding. No pretending, no pretense, no facade. That's the design And that's what God is pointing us to. In that day when we will know Him, even as we are fully known. And we will be exposed completely and embraced completely. Our God, who designed our sexuality, took on flesh. Took on a body like you and I, was tempted in every way like you and I are tempted, and yet never once knew since Never once did Jesus Christ succumb to temptation, to take that which wasn't his Never once falling. And he offered his perfect record of righteousness to God as he sacrificed himself. Don't miss the point. God took on flesh And allowed himself to be stripped naked, suffering the shame and the guilt of your sin and mine. His hands fixed to a cross with no possible way to cover His maleness before a mocking crowd. And he suffered and he bled and he died to pay the price for your sin and for mine. Through his nakedness, we are clothed. Through his shame, we are made whole. Through his sacrifice, we are brought close. We're designed for intimacy with one another, but we are designed ultimately to know this one who's done this for us. For you and for me, who would run after These things that cannot ultimately satisfy, he suffered to pay the price. So we're designed to know God. The original intent. I read uh passage from 1 Thessalonians last week. Remind us of this as we close Paul in his words to that church and To us in turn today, says this, for this is the will of God. This is the will of God, your sanctification. That you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor. Not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God, that no one transgress, let no one wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger. In all these things. As we told you beforehand, and we have solemnly warned you, for God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man, but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you. God has designed us as male and female to reflect Him We're built for intimacy, built for otherness, built for a lifelong commitment, to enjoy the pleasure that God has created our bodies to enjoy. And he wants us to enjoy it in him Let me pray for us. Father We ask that you would uh work in us your Life. That you would bring to us, Lord, an awareness of our deep need for you. For you to be Redeemer, for you to be Savior, for you to be Lord in our hearts. The issue, Lord, of sexual sin is never going to be tackled by simply doing better. We pray, God, that you would interrupt our hearts and cause us to see the beauty. Of your sacrifice on our behalf. Father, I pray that you would continue in the good work to bring us to completion. We ask for good conversations around this topic in homes and families and lunches All around this congregation, this afternoon, Lord, and through this week, that you would be glorified in our maleness and our femaleness. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.