Chapter one, verses five through ten. Had all these fun remarks prepared. It's a great opportunity to take take joy in the fact that you're supposed to not do very well. And you stole it, Andy. Now we've got to go to the Word. Let's pray. Father, we do agree, we all agree, that you are the soon-coming King. And it is to you this morning that we look. We need to hear from you. We need to meet with you. We need your grace. We need your power. And Lord, we ask that you would fill us. That you would give us intimacy with you. That we would know you deeply. Father, apart from that, there's no point in being here. So we pray. Boldly because you bid us to do that, that you would fill us this morning with a deeper understanding and a greater love. By the blood of Jesus we pray. Amen. Going to look at chapter one verses five through ten this morning And so I'll read that to us. There's a structure that runs through this segment that I'm going to try and emphasize by how I read it. So it's not that I'm losing my place. It's that I want you to grasp what John's saying. This is the message we have heard from him. And declare to you: God is light. In him there is no darkness at all. If we claim to have fellowship with him yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live by the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, purifies us from all sin. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins. and purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar, and his word has no place in our lives. I want you to take a moment so we can set the context of this letter because John's writing this With a very, very specific purpose in mind. John is writing to a church. Now he doesn't address which particular church Most of the apostles like Paul that write will say, Okay, to the church at Colossae or to the church at Ephesus. John doesn't do that. John Gets into the meat. He begins this by saying that which we have seen, which we have touched, which we have held, which we have heard concerning the word of life, that we relate to you. He doesn't give any introductions. He doesn't give you he come into John running And so we don't know if there's a particular church that he wrote this to, but it sure seems to me that through the way he wrote it, there is a particular group of people that he's addressing. Because he says in the beginning of chapter two, my little children. And six other times throughout this letter, which is only five chapters long, he says, Little children. There's a relationship that John's got with the people that he expects to read this letter that really says to me, he knows these people well and he cares for them. But in spite of that, this letter goes to all of us. Because this letter is dealing with a very particular problem with false teachers. The churches have been established. Now there are people coming into these churches that are teaching things that are just completely against the gospel. And John's saying, wait a minute, guys, hold fast. Hang on to that which you've already known. And he begins in the first four verses by addressing the person of Jesus, that that which he's talking about is nothing less than the word of life. And the word of life is nothing less than Jesus. The confession that we just sang is a great introduction to where we are in the verses 5 through 10 because it's a confession of Jesus. And that's who John is beginning with. You see, the false teachers were coming into the churches and they were teaching a whole different view of the world. And you find this view even today in many people, and even some of you here are going to find yourselves very attracted to this viewpoint because it creates a dualism. And that dualism is between the spiritual realm, for those of you who are in the first John class, this is going to be real familiar. It's a dualism between the spiritual world, which is sinless. It's great, it's wonderful, it's perfect, it's everything, and a material world, which is inherently evil and corrupt We hear Paul speaking about what his flesh desires and what his spirit desires, and we think, well, that makes sense. Of course, there's this dualism that's going on, and my spirit is good, and my flesh is wicked. Well, no, that's not what the Bible teaches. God created in Genesis 1 and he said it was good. He didn't speak of a spiritual creation. At that point, he spoke of the material. He created on the first day the division between the waters above and the waters below, and his comment was it was good. He created on the second day the dry ground in the air and said it was good. He created the third day all the dry ground, separated them out, and created created the bushes and everything and said it was good. He created the world and said it was good. On the sixth day he completed his creation, including man, and he said it was very good. There cannot be an inherent evil in the material realm outside of the entrance of sin. And that sin doesn't affect just your material body, it affects your spirit. So there's no dichotomy in terms of good and evil. Between the spiritual and the material. Now, if you want to understand even more why that's so critical, if you look at the person of Jesus, Jesus is God and man in one person. And he has to be God and man in one person. That's what John establishes in the first four verses. Because if Jesus isn't God, he cannot be perfect. And if he's not perfect, there's no payment for sin. If he's not man, there can't be real temptation and identification with us. And so there's no payment for sin. If you accept that dualism between spiritually good and inherently evil, wicked, material, you have accepted the loss of salvation. There can be no redemption. And so as you come into this passage in chapter 1, verses 5 through 10, he's building on that idea. He's saying Jesus is the Messiah. And now he's telling the message that he's learned from Jesus. He says, verse 3, we proclaim to you what we have seen and heard. Verse 5. This is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you. You see, John's doing what Jesus told him to do in act. As Jesus was preparing to ascend to his father, he said, You shall be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the world. John is following what Jesus commanded. What I have seen from Jesus, what I have witnessed, what I have beheld with my eyes, what I have touched, what I have heard. I'm giving it to you. Now he's not having to be an expert, he's having to be a witness. John was the apostle who stayed with Jesus the entire ministry on earth. What he spoke of he knew not because he was a theologian, but because he knew Jesus. What we have here in this passage is the testimony that goes back one person removed from Jesus Himself. The first thing he says is that Jesus is the Messiah. That's the message. The second part is, and if you notice the structure here, he says, this is the message. And then I go on for five verses dealing with what he's saying, but there's one phrase, actually two phrases, in one sentence, it's the message. If you want to understand the message, it is God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. That's the message. Structurally, that all that John's saying is a message. Then he builds six if statements that are contingent upon that message He alternates them. The first is negative, the second is positive. The third is negative, the fourth is positive. The fifth is negative, and the sixth is positive. I didn't read the sixth this morning, but it's found in the beginning of chapter two. Where he says, I write these things that no that you might not sin. But if anyone sins, we have an advocate with the Father. So there are six if statements that are built upon his message that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. But you can't begin without that foundational bedrock of Jesus. Is the God man, the Messiah, the Redeemer who has come to save us from our sins. If there is no Jesus, there are no points to the message. There's no point to the conditional statements that he's making. Everything else is meaningless. Jesus is the cornerstone. But having accepted that Jesus is the cornerstone, we have to move on into what John is saying beyond that. You see, there's a problem that we have as we look at this I used to think that there wasn't a problem because I always put this as a statement that's made for the unbeliever who needs to come. That that I can choose light or dark, I can choose Jesus or not Jesus, but what John's saying here very, very clearly. excruciatingly clearly, is to the believer, to the professed believer, to the one who's in the church. So this message has particular application to you here this morning. And he's saying that in God there is no darkness. Therefore you cannot bring darkness to God. Let that sink in for a moment. You cannot, in your fellowship with God, bring darkness to Him John says in his first if statement that if we claim to have fellowship with God, but we walk in the darkness, we lie. And we do not live in the truth. He's saying to you this morning that if you find that you want to claim a relationship with God, But you're content to continue in a habitual sin. You're content to accept a fire insurance policy that allows you to do whatever you want here in this life because Jesus' blood has covered it all. That you are deceived. When he says you're deceived, that means you don't have Jesus And let that sink in for a minute. If you claim a relationship with Jesus, that doesn't mean you've got it. Now I know that a lot of you guys are going into a panic here about this whole issue of assurance of salvation, and the Apostle John wrote this book to deal with assurance of salvation. There was a guy who who has been visiting churches around the area because he's moved, and he called back and said that the first sermon he heard at this one church was Don't Inspect Fruit. I said, has the pastor read first John? Because 1 John is all about being fruit inspectors, primarily your own fruit. But also out of love for the brothers and sisters, helping them to inspect their own fruit. But John begins his epistle by saying, if you claim a relationship with Jesus, but you walk in the darkness, you don't have Jesus. Plain and simple. So if you've got this area of your life that you're saying, Lord, you can't touch this. This is mine I don't want to deal with this bitterness. I don't want to deal with this anger. I don't want to deal with this pride. I don't want to deal with this issue of pornography or lust or substance abuse. You can have the rest of me, but this is mine. You can't introduce that to God Now you probably understand firsthand real well why I'm not really excited about this interpretation of the passage. I have my own areas that I have to deal with. By the grace of Jesus. But you can't devote yourself to the darkness. You see, God is light, and in Him there is no darkness at all. The difficulty for us here is that that we all acknowledge that we're sinners. John goes on in his continuing statements to make that point. If you're sitting here this morning saying, well, how do I not walk in the darkness? How do I overcome my sin? John's got the answer. He wants to give it to you. The first thing you have to do is you have to make sure that you're in Jesus. In chapter two, he talks about the fact that we have an advocate if we sin. And part of the problem in understanding 1 John is that if you if you think that this is written to the unchurched, you've left out a major foundation. Because John's writing to people who he understands know Jesus. They are the church. They've understood the gospel. They've accepted that payment which Jesus has made for sin. And so in this passage this morning, he's not dealing with, okay, how do I come from being completely outside of Christ to being righteous? Because there are those of you here who may not know that, I'm going to fill that in because the whole issue is Jesus. Jesus has come as the God man. He has lived a perfect life. That is his act of obedience. He has defeated sin And he had offered himself on the cross as the sacrifice necessary to pay for the debt of sin. That is his passive obedience. When you combine his active obedience of a righteous life and his passive obedience of a death on the cross and his resurrection from the dead, you have that foundation you need to come to God in the first place. That's what we've been praising God for this morning. The focus of Robert's message was going to be the boundless love of God from Ephesians 3. And Alan will cover that later on, so I don't feel like we've missed anything. But don't lose sight of the fact that that's the foundation. That's what we praise God for. That's what brings us into this profession of relationship with Him. That's the open door that allows us to even hope for intimacy with God. But as a believer, we struggle still with sin. Now I'm not going to ask anybody to raise their hands if their last sin was prior to coming to services this morning or after you got here. Because I'm going to have to raise my hand for the second. But the issue is we sin. In chapter 7 of the book of Romans, the Apostle Paul presents a dilemma. Because here he is speaking of his love for the law of God, his deep and abiding love for God and his truth, and yet his continual sin. And he says in chapter 7, verse 21, So I find this law at work. When I want to do good, evil is right there with me That whole chapter is him speaking of the dilemma that he, as a professing believer, who has a relationship with Jesus, it's unquestioned. Jesus himself has noted it He's struggling with sin. We struggle with sin. When Paul's talk when when John's talking about living in the darkness, he's not talking about having some battle with sin that continues to to try and defeat you. That's not what I mean when I say that if you introduce that darkness into your relationship with God, that you don't have him. What I mean by that is this: you can't thumb your nose at God. You can't expect that because you've accepted Jesus and you've given this verbal testimony of coming to Christ, that you're okay in heaven, and now it's your turn to play how you want to play. Because God simply doesn't love you so little that He will save you for heaven and allow you to live in sin now. Sin is not the fund. You're not created to be a sinner Sin was introduced in the garden by Adam and Eve. And God loves you so much that He will redeem you to heaven and save you here and now. He will deliver you from the darkness and bring you into the light. He will free you to be the person that you were created to be. And so it's not only that you have an isolation from God, but you're not who you want to be if you're focusing on living in the darkness. If you rebel against God in that way, it's it's not your best. We may go to the other extreme and say, right. Amen. We're not doing what we We're not doing the darkness that we would have liked to have done prior to Christ. As a matter of fact, we are we are so devoted to God that we don't sin. God has freed me from sin. God has freed me from sickness. God has brought me to holiness in this life. John answers that too. In verse eight, he says, If we say we have no sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. Now that's the present tense. He's saying now as believers You still sin. You will sin. You're going to continue to sin until you die. But Don't live in the darkness. Don't devote yourself to that darkness. Don't accept that lesser option. Because it isn't an option. It's death. He goes on to say in verse 10: if we claim we have not sinned, We make him out to be a lighter and his word has no place in our lives. There's two sides of the extreme here I want you to look at. The first is that we say, okay, God can save me, but I'm going to do what I want to do. I'm going to live as I want to live and that's in sin. John says you don't have Jesus. You just don't have him. His truth, you don't live in the truth. You're separate. On the other hand, God has so redeemed me that I am no longer a sinner. Well look at what John says in verse 8 and verse 10. The end of verse 8 he says, and the truth is not in us. The end of verse 10, and his word has no place in our lives. Okay, let's take a moment and look at that because those two words are really significant. How does John begin his gospel? In the beginning was the word. For the word was God. He's saying here, more than simply, you don't have the Bible. He's saying again, you don't have Jesus. If you're on either end of that extreme, if you believe you can do whatever you want and it doesn't matter to God here and now, and if you believe that you can Think that you that you are perfect now and there is no more sin for you to have to deal with, then your pride has so gotten a hold of you that you do not have Jesus. Those are a couple of very unpleasant places to be But John, who has gotten this message from Jesus firsthand, is the one who's saying it to us. There's lots of ways not to be with Jesus. There's one way to be with Jesus. And this is what John is trying to say to us this morning. And that's what we began with, the gospel. The solution to our problem of the reality of sin is the reality of forgiveness. Sin has been a plague on creation since Adam and Eve in the garden It has corrupted the world. It has corrupted us. It has corrupted everything. Paul speaks of creation groaning for redemption. We need to groan for redemption as well, not just for that initial conversion experience, not just that we might come and be at peace with God. And then and then everything is great because we're still living here. We're still living tainted by sin. And this morning, as you come, the one thing, the one thing I want you to recognize. Is that the battle rages on. I'm assuming that you understand that foundation of grace and that you understand the reality of the sin that's facing you, but I want you to realize that even in you, we delight in the grace of God. We delight in his goodness, and I don't want to shake your belief that justification is a one-time act. God redeems you and you're safe. But we're in the trenches. We know the end score. We know who's going to win. We know the battle's over in heaven. But we're still living here now, and we still fight sin daily, moment by moment. And the whole point of this passage is in verse nine. And the point of verse nine is not for those who are outside of Christ to confess their sins once and for all and come to him. It is a once and for all sacrifice that pays for the debt of our sin, but it is a ongoing Continuing, drawing closer to him with confession that frees us to be in that relationship with him where we understand him and we know us. God does not want us to live in an illusionary world That was a problem with the false teachers. They were saying your problem is you don't know that you're God. All you've got to do is live in a spiritual world and everything's great. The problem is we don't live that way. That isn't true. Truth is that we are a material, physical, spiritual being. That we have been redeemed by Jesus Christ by his sacrifice, which is clearly once and for all. He doesn't have to offer it again. It is not something that has to happen over and over again in order for us to be right with God. But we have to consistently cling to Him. I want you to think in your mind of the picture that you have as you look at Jacob at Bethel in Genesis. Jacob is just coming back into his his His land. He's been away living with his uncle Laban. He's coming back with his family, and he's facing his brother Esau. And the night before he crosses over into his brother's territory, back into his own land He has a vision in which he battles with an angel of the Lord. And Jacob grabs this angel so hard that the angel has to dislocate his hip. He's trying to get free of Jacob, and Jacob clings even harder because he knows if he lets go, he's going to fall, and that's the end of it. And so the angel Which is a messenger directly of the Lord. He's called the angel of the Lord. He may even be a theophany, a manifestation of God Himself. He says to Jacob, Let go. Jacob says, No, not until you bless me. I bet it wasn't nearly that calm. I bet this angel's really struggling in writing and saying, Let go of me. And Jacob is saying, No way. But see, I think Jacob had it wrong. He shouldn't have said, not until you bless me. He should say, Why would I let go? Why? You are the sum of what I want. You, the Lord, are all I desire. And see, one of the things that we look at in 1 John in the class that I taught was it it really focuses upon the assurance that I can have of a relationship with God. But that's only second fast. Because the point of 1 John isn't the confidence that I can have that I'll be with Jesus. It's just being with Jesus. It is the intimacy with God that it tells me I will experience forever in heaven and can taste now And what John's saying here is, guys, you've got a choice to make. Are you all out for Jesus or are you all out for you? If Jesus is an addition to your life and is something that you add on in hopes that you can have security and comfort and assurance, you've missed it. The goal isn't to be blessed. That's great, but it's just not enough. The goal is intimacy with God. The goal is experiencing heaven. And the only joy of heaven is God. It is not golden streets, it's not pearly gates, it's not material possessions, it is not anything that I can delight in. Apart from God, we will see Him face to face. We will be with Him forever In Revelation it talks about the city as it descends, and he says, John says, the same person who wrote this book, there's no temple in the heavenly Jerusalem, because God is there. And he is our temple. The goal of this book and the focus that John is giving us is nothing less than intimacy with Jesus. So he says, if we claim to have fellowship with him, intimacy, and we walk in the darkness, we lie. We're pulled in two directions. We may legitimately really desire Jesus, but we're committed to sin and selfishness in myself. But he says, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his son, purifies us from all sin. That's written again to the believer. Now it may sound like this is a works-based religion. And as you read through 1 John, and I'd encourage you to do that, it's a wonderful letter. But as you read through 1 John over and over again, he talks about works. In intimacy. And it may seem to you that what he's saying is, okay, guys, if you do this, God will give you this That's not what he's saying. Because he's writing to the people who understand the gospel. He's writing to people who are struggling with their relationship with God now that they have professed him. He's writing to us And what he's saying is, if you live in the darkness, you're in trouble. If you live in the light, then you have that That whole relationship with him, which includes intimacy, it includes forgiveness, it includes purification, it includes Jesus So don't read this to say that you have to do something before God will love you. But God demonstrates his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Romans 5:8. That's what Sandy read this morning. The question for you is: take a moment, examine yourself. Is God convicting you that there are areas of your life where you just simply don't care how God feels? Are there areas of your life where you simply don't want to bring it into submission to Jesus? Are there areas of your life where you're saying, I don't want to even think about it because I may have to change? The truth of the matter is, Jesus says, yes, you'll have to change. Because sin is a separation from me. But you don't change in your own power. Verse 9 says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That means it doesn't remain a barrier. It is not something you have to deal with in your own power, and it's not something that you have to say There's no hope. I just simply can't change. I guess if this is the issue with God, I'm lost. Jesus is saying no. John is saying no. What they're saying is this. Bring it to Jesus. If you're struggling with guilt this morning, if there's an area of your life that God has been touching as I've been preaching, and he's saying to you, this is it. And you're saying, no, it won't be. I can't deal with this. I don't want to have to face this. Lord, I don't have the power. You got it. You don't have the power. I don't have the power. In myself. Jesus is the one who can. Jesus is the one who will cleanse you from your sin. It is the blood of Jesus that purifies you from your sin. That's what John says in two places in this passage. It is Jesus who will heal you. The good news Is that God loves you? Those of you who have come to Him, who have professed your faith in Him, who trust Him for your salvation, finish the job He doesn't want to leave you half done. No, you won't experience perfection until you come to glory. And that's what verses 8 and 10 are saying. But you can bring your sin that He has pointed out to you. And I'm not talking necessarily about things that other people have decided to sin for you. I'm speaking about the things that God is pointing to you in your own heart and saying, this is the area, deal with it. If people have said something and the Spirit can encourage them and say, Yep, that's what I've been trying to tell you, then listen. But the person to listen to, before you make any judgments about what to do, is the Holy Spirit. He wants you to be whole. And he will not let you rest until you want you to be whole. So what does this mean for us this morning? First and foremost, it means who's Jesus? Is he the foundation that you have upon which you were built? Is Jesus the Messiah, the God man who has come to redeem your sin? Because apart from him, there is no hope. There is nothing that God will offer you apart from Jesus. Do you know him? Have you trusted him to pay your debt? Is he the one who defines your problem? Do you go to the Bible to see what he says about why you're not who you want to be? Why you're still struggling with sin. what sin is and how to deal with it. Is he the one that tells you what you need to know Are you the one defining your problems and creating your solutions? Secondly, am I looking for an insurance policy, something that will give me heaven in the future but allow me to be me here and now? If that's what you're looking for, then you have no hope of heaven. There is no easy believism. There is no God is going to sanctify me, but for right now I can be me, and that's okay. God wants you whole. God doesn't want you whole just in heaven. He wants you whole now. And he's going to work in you to bring you to wholeness. Am I doing what I want to do? Or am I doing what Jesus wants me to do? Jesus says the night that he's betrayed, three times in the space of eight verses in John chapter 14. He who has my commandments and keeps them, he it is who loves me. Salvation is contingent upon loving Jesus. Loving Jesus means that you will please him. He is the one you want. The goal is intimacy, not security. And that's what John is saying Are you committed to living in the light? Is God calling you to root areas out of your life now in his strength? There's great comfort you can take in this passage because he is telling you that the battle with sin is going to go on. And so if you're feeling guilty, realize you're going to feel guilty. But are you looking to God to deal with that guilt, or are you looking to ignore it? Or are you looking to deal with it in your own way? Are you looking simply to redefine it and state that it's some psychological disorder that you have to come clear of? That's not a slam, it's psychology. Psychology gives us tremendous help. Psychology helps us to recognize real issues. But there is a problem if we simply define my guilt as a psychological issue, and it's not that issue of sin. That's the point of this passage. Sin is real. Guilt is going to happen. There may be things that are counterfeit guilt that you have to deal with, but don't, please don't fail to bring those issues to Jesus. And don't fail to ask whether or not it's real guilt for real sin. One test I want to encourage you to take is if you're feeling just vaguely guilty. Ask God to show you what you're guilty of, what you can confess, what you can repent of. Because Satan will set you aside on the shelf by focusing you on guilt that has no sin to address. John says, if we confess our sin, God is faithful and just. If there's a guilt you're dealing with, God's going to give you a clear understanding of the sin that you're guilty of. And he's going to bring you to confession. And he's going to bring you to change, to sanctification, and to wholeness. Am I a Christian and am I willing to admit that I still battle my sin? Will I turn to Jesus to deal with other sins? That's the message John's bringing us. Sin is real. Sin is real in the life of a believer. But forgiveness is just as real. And it's more powerful. What's fine? Lord Jesus, we are sinners. Earlier in the service we took time to confess that sin. But perhaps you're showing us more deeply through the sermon what that sin is. And I pray that you would convict us of our sin so that it would be dealt with. Lord, we know that you have paid for all of our sins, past, present, and future on the cross. But we have to work those out in real time. And Father, I pray that you would not allow us To hide those sins, to ignore them, to refuse to acknowledge them, and to allow them to continue to be a barrier between you and us Father, I pray that you would convict us of sin. Whatever it is we need to deal with, Lord, deal with it with us. Point it out to us in your spirit. Convict us of it so that we can bring it to you. Show us how it really looks. In its ugliestness, and its hideousness. Lord, help us to recognize with discerning eyes how ugly it is and how offensive it is to you. And Lord, bring us to confess that we might be healed. We long for your blood, Jesus, to cover our sin and to purify it. To purify us We long, Jesus, for you to cleanse us as well as to forgive us. Because, Lord, we long to present to you offerings that are acceptable in your sight. Make us new creatures. Speed that process of glorification, Lord. Help us to address our own selves with humanity. Help us to know ourselves that we might know you better. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.