At the end of last year, my wife Kathy was asked to speak to the Women's Heart-to-Heart Fellowship Discipleship Group in February. She chose to do a study of the contrast between Mary and Martha. We tend to have stereotypes about these two women. Mary, the one who listened, Martha, who was distracted, the stereotypical compulsive, perfectionist server. But Kathy wanted to go deeper in understanding what was going on between these two women. In fact, the two women are contrasted in three passages of Scripture, not just the one that we're most familiar with in Luke chapter 10. And they're contrasted in each case. The more Kathy studied this, and the more we discussed it and interacted on it, The more intrigued she was and I became about how these women related to Jesus and how he responded to them. She spoke in February to the women, and the sense I had was that a number were deeply affected by what she said. Then in March we had a pastor's half day of prayer, number of pastors in this area. And during uh the hours that we spent there, one of the instructions we were given for a few moments was to meditate on some portion of Scripture. Just whatever was brought to our minds. And my mind went to Mary and Martha. We had been talking about so much. And so as I began to think about that, in a strange way, God powerfully spoke to me that day about things I needed to learn about the contrast of these two women. And so I'm offering to you some of these thoughts. Um I asked Kathy to preach this, and she said, uh, well, I don't think the Presbytery would too be too big on that. Just kidding, guys. But uh If the Scripture allowed women to preach, Kathy be preaching this message. But we are in submission to Scripture and to God's wisdom. And so after months of interacting, talking, praying, working through in our own lives, I bring to you what are largely her insights on these passages. So if you are blessed by this, please speak to me about that. And if you take issue with it, then talk to Kathy. Well actually I would prefer the other way around. Take issue of it with it than talk to me, but uh the insights are things that God has given to her and I'm thankful for that. Let's read from the familiar portion of this story, from Luke chapter 10, and then um I want to go on to John 11, but let's just read from Luke chapter 10, from verses 38 to 42, some of the background of what you just saw presented to you. in the readings up here a few moments ago. Here is God's word. As Jesus and his disciples were on their way, he came to a village where a woman named Martha opened her home to him. She had a sister called Mary who sat at the Lord's feet listening to what he said. But Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made She came to him and asked, Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to do all the work by myself? Tell her to help me. Martha, Martha, the Lord answered, You are worried and upset about many things, but only one thing is needed. Mary has chosen what is better, and it will not be taken away from her. Mary has chosen what is better. That's the essence of what I'm going to seek to present. It's a great uh message for after vacation Bible school, right? Vacation Bible school with everybody running around and uh all the activities for July. When you're feeling like you need a break from all that's been going on in the year, and maybe you're not going to get the break that you hoped, a time to reflect. But let me be very, very clear about a couple of things. First of all, the contrasts that I wish to make in this are not contrasts between good and bad. It's rather a contrast between good and better. I am not saying that Martha is a paradigm of what is wrong and Mary of what is right, but rather it's a matter of good and better. Secondly, I am not saying, and please don't misunderstand me to say in what I'm going to be contrasting, that it's somehow inferior to be a server. To be someone who serves people is somehow to be compulsive or to have some problem. That's not at all what this passage is saying. I am extremely grateful. for the people in our congregation that serve. Where would we be if people didn't serve? Where would Vacation Bible school have been this past week? If people had said, well, you know, I'm going to go sit at the feet of Jesus and have a, you know, six-hour quiet time, and you guys can go minister to these kids. I'm very grateful for Gene Lyons taking the time she did of the past weeks, and Lori and Charlie Lease taking time off for the whole week and John Baker taking a big part of his vacation. And many, many others, too numerous to mention, who all poured themselves into ministering to these kids. I am not saying that serving is inferior. What is it that I'm saying then? Well, there are two kinds of contrasts. We're going to spend two weeks on them. This morning and next week. The first that we'll deal with this morning is the contrast between the head and the heart. It's a dangerous one to mention, but I'll try to be clear on what I mean by that. Secondly, the contrast we'll look at next week is the orientation of being man-centered versus God-centered and what that means. We're also going to switch orientation next week, as you heard from Steve, we'll be facing the sidewall. So I figure after these two messages and switching the way we worship, it'll probably be a good time to take off a couple weeks and come back and pick up the pieces afterwards. This week I want to contrast then the difference between the head and the heart in these two women. And as I said, it's a kind of a dangerous contrast, so please try to follow me closely and understand what it is I'm trying to say. I want to this morning look at John 11. And then next week we'll look more at Luke 10 and John 12. These are the three passages in which these women are dealt with. Luke chapter 10, John 11, and John 12. So turn if you haven't, please, in your Bibles to John chapter 11. What I want to do is to go through this passage And I want for you to notice the four points and pick them up on your own as we go through it. This morning I'm not going to go through normally as I do the outline. Because I think that would disturb the flow. I want to go through the passage as it goes expositionally, verse by verse, picking up the insights that we gain, and then you fit them into those points to see. so that you can distill that and get those points clearly. So you're not wondering, well, what was it he was really trying to say? The points distill it, but let's see it as it's opened up in the passage. First of all, then, what was the situation in John chapter 11? Well, you have this family, two sisters and a brother, Martha, Mary, and Lazarus, who lived in Bethany, which is a suburb south of Jerusalem. These were among Jesus' very best friends. Seems that most of the time he stayed in Jerusalem, he stayed in the home of Mary and Martha and Lazarus in Bethany. It's very interesting and significant that the home is described as the home of Mortha in Luke chapter 10. She is apparently a very strong and prominent woman. That's an unusual thing to do in that day to describe the home where a man lives as the home of the woman. Perhaps Martha was the oldest of the three, but she's a very prominent, very capable person. In fact, the first thing that you notice of the obvious contrasts between these two women Is that in each of the three passages that they appear in Luke and the two chapters in John, in each case, Martha is pictured at Jesus' side. And Mary has pictured at Jesus' feet. Now that's the one blank you have to fill in, so you may notice that Martha is always pictured at Jesus' side. Mary is always pictured at his feet. Martha is pictured at his side. She is capable. She is in charge. In fact, I would describe her as somewhat controlling. It's interesting that in two of the three passages, Martha tells Jesus what to do. Tell my sister she ought to get to work with me, Lord. And then we'll see what she says in the passage in John 11 in a few minutes. In contrast to that, Mary is always pictured at Jesus' feet. In Luke 10, she's at his feet listening and learning. In John 11, she's at his feet weeping. And in John 12, she's at his feet again, worshiping and serving him. Now I'm getting a little ahead of myself. Let's go back to orienting ourselves in the story. These three people, as I said, were Jesus among Jesus' best friends. And Jesus is at this point at the east of Jordan, a day or so journey from Bethany, and he's ministering up there with his disciples. And the message comes to him that Lazarus is sick. Now, again, remember this is a good friend of his. And what does Jesus do? We read in verse 6 and 7 of John chapter 11. That when he heard that Lazarus was sick, he stayed where he was two more days. And then he said to his disciples, let's go back to Judea. Have you ever experienced that in your own life? Lord, I have an urgent need. Come quickly. And it seems like Jesus is saying, I'm going to stay where I am. It seems like he doesn't heed our need. I'm in trouble. Lord, don't you know I need you right now? Silence. No answer. Jesus stays where he is. Two more days. What a struggle. Interesting that the only thing that's recorded that both the women say when Jesus finally comes is, Lord, if you had been here Our brother wouldn't have died. Both Mary and Martha say that. And so this is a tremendous struggle for them. Lord, you could have come. We sent the message in time for you to come before he died, and you stayed away. How could you do that? What's significant as we look at the story is how differently that question is asked. Same words, but very different attitude from the two women. But maybe in your own life now you need to stop and think in a situation where it seems that God doesn't care That he hasn't responded to your prayers, he hasn't shown an involvement to relieve you, to do what you believe he could do. And for some reason he's choosing to seem to ignore you in your pain, in your plight. Let me at least encourage you at this point that that's not something that is outside of Scripture Here you have right in Scripture a situation precisely like the one you may be feeling you're experiencing now. Where someone close to Jesus, look at verse 5. Jesus loved Martha and her sister Lazarus. Yet, when he heard that Lazarus was sick, he stayed where he was two more days. Something's going on here that Jesus wants to do that's entirely consistent with his love and his concern for these two women. And so it is in your case and in mine. Let's try to understand what happens. Well, eventually then he goes. He comes to them four days after Lazarus has died. Pick up the story at verse 17. On his arrival, Jesus found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days. Bethany was less than two miles from Jerusalem, and many Jews had come to Martha and to Mary to comfort them with the loss of their brother. When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went out to meet him. But Mary stayed at home. Interesting. The rabbis in town. Got to go out and greet him. Have to do what is respectful. Maybe Martha was more anxious to see Jesus. But maybe she just simply felt more it was her duty to go out and greet the rabbi, no matter how she felt. Maybe Mary didn't care as much that Jesus was in town. But maybe she was simply paralyzed by her grief, and she couldn't pick herself up to go. Whatever it is, Martha's the one who goes out to greet him. Now look what happens when she goes out. She goes out and verse 21 says, Martha says to Jesus, Lord. If you had been here, my brother would not have died. But I know that even now, God will give you whatever you ask. You see that? There's the cry, Lord, Lord, if you had only been here, my brother wouldn't have died. But I know that you can still ask for whatever you want, and God will give it to you. I still believe the Greek has the sense of I still believe that you can get whatever you want from God. And so there's there's this bit of a cry, but it's immediately covered with a correct faith statement that says, but I know God's sovereign, he's able to do whatever he wants. I believe that. So there's this ambivalence. A cry of a heart plus a quick affirmation of faith. And yet that affirmation of faith was not really genuine. Why do I say that? I'll show you later, in a few minutes, why what she said was not honest. Jesus comes right to the point, verse 23, he simply says to her, Your brother will rise again. Hey, he could have said, Boy, I I I feel so bad that Lazarus has died and I've come here to comfort you. He could have said all kinds of things. It would have been the normal things for people to say. But Jesus doesn't say that. He says, your brother's going to rise again. Now notice the way Martha interprets that. She takes that as a kind of a commonplace comfort, you know, a uh you know, he's better where he is and one day we'll all be together kind of thing. And so she responds in verse 24 Yes, I know that he will rise again at the resurrection at the last day. I know he's going to rise. Yes, Lord, I know. And you know, you almost sense that she's saying, Yeah, I you're gonna say the right stuff and I'm gonna say the right stuff. Yes, he's gonna rise again. Yes, I believe that. But Jesus tries to press her. He wants to show her, no, no, no. Resurrection isn't simply a day we're going to come to. Resurrection is a person. It is me. I don't simply give life, I am life. And so he says in verse 25, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even though he dies, and whoever lives and believes in me will never die. And then, do you believe this? Jesus is reaching for her heart. Martha, Martha, I'm not coming here to just tell you something that's going to happen in the future. I am coming here. Because I care and I am able to do something in your situation. Even if it's a matter of death, I am life. Even if you die, you can live in me because I am life. Do you believe this, Martha? Now notice how she responds. Commentators will often say this is one of the great faith statements of the New Testament. It's one of the few times in the gospel that you have someone making a clear affirmation. Of Jesus as Messiah. Verse 27: Yes, Lord, she told him. I believe that you are the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God, who is to come into the world. What does that mean? The good news is that what she is saying here is that I believe you are the Messiah. Yes, Lord. That's her response to his question But do you notice the subtle shift in what she does with that question? She doesn't say, Yes, I believe you are the resurrection. I believe that Lazarus could live at any point when you declare it. I believe you are all that you say you are. She distances herself and turns it a bit and says, Yes, I believe you're the Messiah. Kind of like reciting the Apostles' Creed or something, you know. Yes, I believe God is sovereign. I believe that all these things. And there's a kind of a litany. Yes, I believe this, but she distances herself from the issue at hand, which is death and life. She doesn't speak to that. She's removing herself. I sense just living in this passage, as Kathy and I did, as we would talk about it in the mornings and pray through it and all this. We had the sense as we were going through it that at this point, perhaps, there may be a couple of awkward moments of silence Jesus has reached for her heart, and she's distancing herself. And so what does he do? He calls for Mary. What happens? There's no more discussion. After that, after she had said this, she went back and she called her sister Mary aside. The teacher is here, she said. And is asking for you. That's why she went back. Jesus asked for Mary. And so she goes back and she calls Mary. Now She probably at this point whispered because the others don't know what's going on. But now Mary, who has stayed at home, who couldn't go out to see Jesus, hears that Jesus is calling for her personally. Do you ever have the sense that Jesus is calling for you personally? That he wants to meet with you, that he's calling you, that he's saying, you. I want to meet with you. Do you ever sense that? Where scripture is always impersonal? It's for Christians in general, but somehow It doesn't come across to you as this is God to me. This is Jesus addressing me. This is Jesus today, this morning, calling me. Let me boldly declare to you that through this message this morning, Jesus is calling you. Just as he called Mary, he wants to meet with you right now through this passage. How does Mary respond? Mary who couldn't pick herself up to go, look what happens. When Mary heard this, verse 29 She got up quickly and she went to him. Now Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was still at the place where Martha had met him. And when the Jews had been with Mary in the house, they were there comforting her. weeping with her, doing the things that were traditionally done at that time. They noticed how quickly she got up and went out. They followed her, supposing she was going to the tomb to mourn there. They didn't hear what Martha said And Mary just all of a sudden bolts up out of her chair and she takes off. And they go, well, where's she going? I guess she's gonna go to the tomb. So they just all take off after her, come scrambling down the path, and they can't even keep up with her Mary is now so obsessed with getting to Jesus, she wants to run to Jesus. He's calling me. I must go to him. She doesn't care what her friends think. She doesn't care if they say, You're going to go to Jesus now, what's he going to do? He could have been here, he could have helped, and he didn't do anything. She doesn't care what they think about Jesus. She must get to Jesus. Are your friends keeping you from Jesus? Are the way people that would the way people would look at you if they saw that your heart was fixed on Jesus? Is that keeping you? From being passionate about him. You want to look good. You want to keep your image with your friends. Mary said to herself, I don't care what they think. I must get to him She runs to Jesus. And notice how she gets to Jesus. Verse 20, verse 32. Notice the difference of the encounters now. When Mary reached the place where Jesus was and she saw him, she fell at his feet. And she said, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. That's the exact same thing that Morton just said. They must have been saying that to each other over the last couple of days. She says the same thing, but where is she? She's grasping at his ankles. She's not standing there saying, Lord, if you had been here, my brother wouldn't have died. And then they had this interaction of theological discussion. She grasps at his ankles, and I picture what you see here is that as soon as she says this, she just bursts into tears. Look what happens. Lord, if you had been here, my brother wouldn't have died. And when Jesus saw her weeping, And the Jews who came along with her also weeping. Now, that word there, weeping, is a word in the Greek which means a loud wailing. It's not saying that she's there just quietly weeping at her feet. She's shrieking. She's sobbing her heart out. Lord, how could you have done this? You, Lord, could have been here, you could have raised him up. Lord, why didn't you do something? And so in her heart, her heart is breaking. Here is the one whom she trusted. And he hasn't been there. And she's just sobbing and sobbing at his feet. Now the people begin to sob too. They're so moved. And then what happens with Jesus? Look at this. When Jesus saw her weeping and wailing, and the Jews who came along with her also weeping, He was deeply moved in his spirit, and he was troubled. Do you picture Jesus like that? Jesus was deeply moved by Mary's weeping and sobbing her heart out. Jesus is a man of passion and deep compassion. I think often we view our Savior as because he is so in control, he's sort of placid and implacable. You come to him and in his scrutable sovereignty he says, I will consider that request and I'll get back to you But you see here that Jesus is a person of deep compassion. He's deeply moved in his spirit. What Mary does moves his heart. He's deeply moved and troubled, and there is no discussion. You notice that? When he hears her and he sees how she is, deeply moved, he simply says, Where have you laid him? Mary's gotten to his heart. Mary's gotten to his heart beyond anything that a discussion could accomplish. She's hanging on to his feet and she's saying, Lord. Lord, and she's just weeping and she can't even say back to that one sentence I said is the only thing Mary says in this whole chapter. She can't say anything else. All she does is weep. She's crying out in her heart to Jesus. Where have you laid him? Come and see, Lord, they replied. And then you had the shortest verse in all the Bible. Jesus wept. We often look at that verse and sometimes it's globally quoted quoted as an answer to the trivia question: what's the shortest verse in the Bible and all the rest of that? Do you see how powerful that is? Who could know the depths of the heart of Jesus in that one verse? The Greek that's used there is not the same as Jesus weeping. It's a different word. It means to quietly shed tears. Jesus simply wept. He didn't talk. He didn't teach. He didn't interact. He simply wept. He wept at the horror of death, of the grief of those that he loved. Of their inability to see his power and his love for them, who knows the other things that were going through his mind? I don't pretend to guess to know of all of what was in the heart of the Lord Jesus. And as always he was misunderstood, some of them said, Ah, see how he loved him. Then some others said, Yeah, well, could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man have kept this man from dying here is weeping now? Why wasn't he here earlier to do something? And Jesus said Simply wept. His heart is deeply moved by the brokenness of his child. Do you believe that an honest coming to Jesus, throwing yourself at his feet, saying, Lord, Lord, I don't understand? That's what the scripture says. Again, verse 38. Once more you have reference to how Jesus is deeply moved in this. Jesus once more, deeply moved, same word as in verse 33, comes to the tomb. All this is triggered. Not by something that Mary did for him But simply by his her crying out, by the fact that she did not ignore, she did not try to cover, she didn't try to deny her emotions. She didn't try to pretend that a couple of faith statements would cure it. She cried out in her confusion. She came to him honestly. She said, here I am, Lord, I'm not going to pretend it's okay. Lord, I'm hurting. I believe you could have done something. You could have answered this prayer. You could have changed this in my life. You could have changed this about my job, this relationship, this thing in my health, whatever it is. You could have changed that and you didn't. And Lord I don't understand. And I'm not going to cover it with a couple of glib statements, using in a wrong way Romans 8. 28 or something else. Lord, I come and I throw myself at your feet now, and I say, You alone are my hope. But I'm not going to pretend it doesn't hurt. She moved the heart of Jesus. Now, why do I make such a strong contrast between these two women? Because I believe their hearts are revealed in what happens next. Verse 38, Jesus once more deeply moved, came to the tomb, and it was a cave with a stone laid across the entrance. Take away the stone, he said. But Lord, said Martha, the sister of the dead man, by this time there's a bad odor there. He's been there for four days. He stinks. Once more, Martha's telling Jesus what to do. Lord, don't do that. Lord, you don't know. I mean, Lord, this no, don't, please. Proper Martha. She is not somebody to have a sinking to. Do you see the unbelief And the arrogance that was hidden under those statements, Lord, I believe that even now you can do whatever you want. Lord I believe that you're the Messiah, the Son of the Living God. Oh, I believe you're the resurrection. Oh, I believe you can do all those things. Okay, open the tomb. Oh no, don't do that. Uh-huh. We're not going to have a mess around here. You see? And I picture that at this point Mary is just through her tears with her eyes popping out looking to see what's he going to do. She says nothing. You see, at some point, when we pretend that we believe beyond what our hearts are believing, our unbelief is going to catch up to us. And it's going to expose us. At some point when we're going around quoting and saying, yes, I believe, and yes, oh yes, it hurts, and sure I've been through this grief, but that's okay. I believe that God's in charge and oh yes, and we quote each other's scriptures. If at some point we're not in touch with the fact that Lord I am confused, I am hurt, I don't understand, and I'm going to cover it because it's uncomfortable. It produces tension in me to say, I don't understand what you're doing. It doesn't make sense. I have big, major questions about my faith, who you are, and even whether you're there, whether the scripture is true, anything making sense. And if I'm not willing to get in touch with that uncomfortableness and that tension and that agony and that hurt and that pain, at some point Satan's going to get me. At some point, your unbelief is going to catch up to you and expose you at an unguarded moment. But look what Jesus does. Then Jesus said, Martha, did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? Martha, I'm still here for you. So they took away the stone, and then Jesus looked up and he said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me. But I said this for the benefit of the people standing here, that they may believe that you sent me. And when he said this, Jesus called in a loud voice, Lazarus, come out And the dead man came out, his hands and his feet wrapped with strips of linen and a cloth around his face, and Jesus said to them, Take off the grave clothes and let him go. Jesus showed his power and his glory in his way, in order to accomplish just what he intended in their lives and to bring glory to himself through the life and the death and the resurrection of Lazarus. Jesus changed their morning into dancing. And Jesus can meet you at whatever point in this morning is the point of your deepest need if you come to him honestly. Not glibly with religious talk. See, my concern is that we generally say that Mary was the better example in the Scripture. But in fact, Presbyterians prefer Martha. In fact, most of us prefer Martha. She's more reliable. She's more steady. She's more efficient. She's neater. There's everything about Martha that we like. We can count on her. Mary's embarrassing. All three situations she's in, she's embarrassing. But unless we're in touch with our hearts, we will miss the childlike faith and the passion of a person like Mary. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that we need to just be more emotional in our congregation. We're all wired differently. I know that. You don't see me weak? I'm wired differently from a lot of other people. That's not the point. What I'm simply saying is that we need to learn to listen to our emotions. In fact, I don't think of anyone who said it better than Alender and Longman in their book, The Cry of the Soul. Let me finish by quoting from them. What are we to listen for in our emotions? The answer is in part we are to listen for the direction of our heart. The question, what do I feel, is in fact another way of asking, who am I? What direction am I moving? We most often think of emotions in horizontal terms, how we're doing in relationship to people in our lives. But in a deeper sense, emotions reveal what is happening on a vertical level. They provide a window on the question What am I doing with God? The heart's movement can be calibrated and assessed in the light of many different criteria. But all evaluations eventually boil down to this. Am I moving toward God or away from Him? My emotions are the clue to the answer to that question. Emotions are the language of the soul. And when we neglect and distort and hide that language, we miss the opportunity to come honestly before God and to see Him work in our lives. Let's pray. Oh Lord, for some of us here we're uncomfortable because the only way we have felt we have coped with the pain in our lives. is to cover it with faith statements that sometimes almost seem to have us convinced, but when we're honest deep in our hearts We are still keenly disappointed with you and confused and wondering how in the world you could have done that in our lives. And so, Lord Lord forbid that we would now come to a cynicism that gets in touch with that unbelief and simply nurtures it. Rather, Lord, make us like Mary. We would run to you, Lord Jesus, now and fall at your feet and grasp your ankles and cry out to you, Lord Jesus, you alone are my hope. Help me to understand, Lord. Show me your ways. What are you doing? That we might come to a deeper, more passionate understanding of who you are in our lives. Lord, help each of us. Whatever the pain, whatever that Satan would want to use to make us cynical and distance us from yourself. Lord, give us once again that passion that we knew as new believers. We might come to you openly. We might see Leadus, as you did with Mary. And we might see that you are the resurrection who could raise even Lazarus from the dead. Because you yourself died in our place and rose from the dead yourself, and therefore can handle anything, anything in our lives.