Turn to Matthew twenty-six, Matthew chapter twenty-six. Hey, you say, I thought we were supposed to be in the Song of Solomon. Sprise on that, didn't I? Don't we do it in Matthew? The Song of Songs. Well, you remember we saw last week that in the Song of Songs chapter five, that love cools where there is an ungrateful heart. And when love is rekindled, then that Once again sees the husband or the wife or the Lord at his true value. Now it's getting near Easter. And there's a classic example of that in an incident that occurred just before. before the crucifixion. Mary's anointing Jesus. And so I would like to offer to you three meditations on that incident. An incident which may in itself seem trivial, but an incident Which was so significant that the Lord Jesus Himself said wherever the gospel is preached, what this woman has done will be told as a memorial of us. Wherever we say what Jesus has done for us, we're also To speak as part of that message what Mary has done for Jesus. The reason for that is because her response is an only an expression of the response to the gospel. And so we want to take a look at. We want to see that as it amplifies and illustrates some of the principles that we've been talking about in the Song of Psalms. And then we'll pick up again on chapter 6, just after Easter. But I want for us to look at this not as a distraction. But it's an illustration of what we're talking about in the Song of Psalms I remember when that first struck me as I was meditating on this myself, back at around Easter time, nineteen And it had such a profound effect on my own thinking. The questions that come from this passage were so searching to my own life that I have made it a point to meditate on this passage every Easter time since then. And so having spent a lot of time in this passage, it's with a sense of somehow approaching holy ground personally that I offer to you the thoughts that I bring in this and the next couple of weeks. And I pray that the Lord will somehow. Enable me to make this come alive for each of you as we look at it. Let's look at God's word then. So Matthew chapter 26, the first 13 verses. When Jesus had finished Saying all these things, he said to his disciples, As you know, the Passover is two days away, and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified. Then the chief priests and the elders of the people of assembled in the palace of the high priest whose name is Caiaphas, and they plotted to arrest Jesus in some sly way and kill him. But not during the feast, they said, there may be a riot among the people. While Jesus was in Bethany, in the home of a man known as Simon the Lecker, a woman came to him with an alabaster jar, a very expensive perfume, which she poured on his head as he was reclining at the table. When the disciples saw this, they were indignant. Why this waste? They asked. This perfume could have been sold at a high price and the money given to the poorer. Aware of this, Jesus said to them, Why are you bothering this woman? She has done a beautiful thing to me. The poor you will always have with me, but you will not always have me. When she prayed this poor perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. I tell you the truth. Wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be said, will also be told in memory of her. It is sometime within the week before the crucifixion. Jesus has been ministering in Jerusalem and commuting to and from Bethany. Same probably at the home of Lazarus, Mary, and Martha, his friends who lived there. And this particular evening, they decided to have a special dinner. A kind of celebration dinner. John tells us that it was in honor of Jesus. We can speculate The reason for it. Possibly it was because of the raising of Lazarus from the dead some time ago. And also it's, I think, instructive that the dinner is held at the home of a fellow called Simon the Leopard. Now you better believe that if he was Still a leper, there wouldn't be anybody at that dinner party. So he must have incided who was formerly a leper, who probably had been healed by Jesus. We're not told about that incident. And so there's probably this celebration of these friends who are risking a great deal because they know what the Pharisees are saying and plotting and what the feeling is of the Jewish leaders toward Jesus. But they want to be identified with him. They want to give a dinner and of honor. And so this is a celebration feast. a few days before the cross. Lazarus and Mary and Martha are there at the feast. Martha, as usual, his serving. You know that Lazarus, Mary, and Martha were not desperately poor, they probably weren't extremely wealthy either. They don't seem to have service. There's other indications that they probably weren't in any great need, nor did they have much to spare. Probably like a lot of us feel. Every dollar counts, but we're in no great law. But there's one very special treasure that Mary has had, probably for years, perhaps a family It is a little bottle, a jar, an alabaster jar of very precious perfume. How it looked about like this. Little white jar. Jar tells us it is 12 ounces. Of pure mord. Now what is mard? Nord was a very, very precious perfume. It came from an aromatic herb. It was not grown in Mary's bathroom. backyard, not in some hill around Jerusalem, there was only one place this this large grew. Guess where? It grew in the high pastures of the Himalaya Mountains, between Tibet and India. The only place he could get. And so caravans would have to go up there and they would have to cut this. They would have to process it and extract this essence of pure nard from this little herb. And then it would have to be taken. on carelback hundreds of miles through mountain passes at great risk to go all the way from the Himalayas down to Jerusalem or that area around there. And she had twelve ounces of this Stuff. And Mark tells us that it was uncut. It was unabulterated. It had not been mixed with anything else to water it down. Twelve ounces of pure essence of mar. And so Jesus is recovered. at the table. And Mary comes up behind me. And she comes up with this pure alabaster jaw. And the Bible says that she broke it. She broke it so that it could never be used again. And she poured the whole thing on Jesus' head, on his body, and on his feet. And then she wiped his feet, John tells us, with her hair. Can you imagine? Seeing some something like that. The sheer extravagance of it was shocking. Do you know how much twelve ounces of lard cost in those days? Judas tells us in John chapter 12, He says that cost an entire year's wages, 300 denarii. That means that translated into our own culture, it was worth about $20,000. Mary broke $20,000 and poured it on Jesus' head, on his body, and on his feet. $20,000, and you're looking at that and you say, down the drain, $20,000. It's a wonder that somebody didn't grab the thing out of their hand and say, Hey, that's too much. And you read their response right there in Matthew 26 and verses 89. They were indignant. Here's where it's important, you know, I don't know how much you've done this, Eric, in your own Bible study. One of the important ways to study the Bible is to learn to read it dramatically. You know, we read this and we say the disciples were indignant. Why this waste they asked? The dream could have been sold at a high price, money given to the poor. That's not how they said it. They're sitting there watching twenty thousand dollars get burned out of his body and they say, What is waste? That could have been sold for a high price than the money given to the poor now, you know, I'm not so sure that the concern was just for the poor. And they view themselves as fairly poor. You know, it's sort of like give to a poor citizen's plan, but you know, here it is, it's my account. Judas, in fact, we're told, probably had precisely that in mind. Because in John 12, we That it was Judas who first said it. It was Judas's idea to be so indignant that this was poured on Jesus rather than be given to the poor. And the question that they ask in verse 8, why this week? is a very profound and searching question. Is it a waste to pour twenty thousand dollars or is it pure nard on Jesus? What is waste? The Greek word That's used here is a word which means to squander by misuse. It can mean either giving more than is necessary for something, giving too much for it. For instance, going into a store and you see an article that's for $30 and you buy it and then you know this happens all the time the next day there it is on sale in the paper 1999 and what do you think I just wasted ten bucks I was ripped off I wasted I gave more than was necessary. But the word can also have the idea of an impractical investment, something that's not useful. Watch a soap opera on TV for an hour, we'll pick on none again, you know. this down here a little bit. Those are why soap operas are really going to be nailing my hide after these couple weeks. You can watch a soap opera for an hour and what do you say? Get up and you say, boy that was a waste of an hour. And it was so intriguing I just couldn't stand to keep a boil at my What a waste. There's an unprofitable use of time. And that's the idea of waste. When the Statue of Liberty was carved last century There were no such things as airplanes or helicopters. And an interesting thing is that the artist who sculpted that spent as much time on the very top of her head that no one would see as far as he could tell except seagulls. And he did on all the rest of her body, the gown, the torch, and everything else that would be scrutinized. Surely, if someone were watching him work on that, on this matter at the very top there, they would have said, what a waste. Nobody's going to see that. It's a waste of time. And yet who could have known someday there would be helicopters. And some day some people would fly over the Statue of Liberty and they would gasp as they would realize that he spent All the same time on the detail of her hair, as he did on the rest of her body, and photographed that. For while it seemed awaits from the perspective of those at that time, they couldn't have seen who else would see it. appreciated. And the question of waste needs to be examined from two perspectives here. First of all, to contrast that idea of waste from Judas's perspective, and then also to see in contrast From the disciples' perspective. As I said in John chapter 12, we're told precisely what Judas thought of it. We read there in John 12, verse 4, one of the disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was later to betray him, objected. Why wasn't this perfume sold and the money given to the poor? It was worth a year's wages. Now he didn't say this because he came. cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. As a keeper of the mother bag he used to help himself to what was put into it. And so you see his movement. And Judas I I believe here represents to us the world's view of what is given to Jesus. It's a waste. It's an utter waste when I could use it for myself. There's an utter contrast here between Judas and Mary. Have you ever noticed it? Mary is totally giving to Jesus. Significant, I believe, that immediately after this story in Matthew 26, we read in the very next verse, 14, then one of the twelve, the one called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priest and asked, What are you willing to give me? If I hand him over to you. Mary gave all of her most precious possession to Jesus. Judas was only interested in what he could get for Jesus. Give me was his motto. And he sold the Lord of glory for a far less price, a mere thirty pieces of silver, in contrast to the value of that Lord that had been poured out on you. Jesus by Mary. Mary gives all the attention to Jesus. Judas in his carping complaint takes the attention from Jesus. Mary breaks her jar for Jesus. Judas dips into the bag for himself from Jesus. His act of love was a symbol of the pouring out of our lives to Jesus. It is the most precious thing that she had. And she gave it without holding back anything, breaking the jar so that there would not be any left that she could keep, so that all would be given extravagantly to Jesus. Because in Mary's estimation, he was entirely worthy of it. It was not a waste to her. He was so very worthy of the very best that she had. But the world says through Judas, it's too bad that you had to give that up. It's too bad that that fellow became a Christian. He had so much potential. What a waste of a life to get fanatical and religious. Too bad. What a waste. Watchman Mee, in his book, The Normal Christian Life, reflects on just this passage in his last chapter called The Goal of the Gospel. And he gives a personal illustration. Of this principle. He says, in 1929, I returned from Shanghai to my hometown of Fu Chau. This is after he has endured many years of persecution and torture. And one day I was walking along the street with a stick very weak and in broken health, and I met one of my old college professors. He took me into a tea shop where we sat down. He looked at me from head to foot and from foot to head and then he said, hello here. During your college days we thought a good deal of you. And we had hopes that you would achieve something great. Do you mean to tell me that this is what you are? Looking at me with penetrating eyes, he asked that very pointed question. You imagine being in that situation, looking at an old college professor, who you've been voted most likely to succeed by your class, and it's all come to nothing because you've given it up for the Lord. Rather than compromise on some principle, you refused, and you followed him, and you're broken. And as everyone can see, you're not a success according to anything of the world's standards. He says that I must confess that on hearing it, my first desire was to break down and weep. My career, my health, everything had gone. And here was my old professor who taught me law in the school asking me. Are you still in this condition with no success, no progress, nothing to show? At the very next moment, and I have to admit that in all my life it was the first time I I really knew what it meant to have the Spirit of Glory resting upon him. The thought of being able to pour out my life for my Lord flooded my soul with glory. Nothing short of the Spirit of Glory was on me then, and I could look at the Lord. up and without reservation say, Lord, I praise thee. This is the best thing possible. It is right, the right course that I have chosen. To my professor, it seemed A total waste to serve the Lord. But that is what the gospel is for. To bring us to a true estimate of his work. The work of Jesus. Jesus. He is worth it. How much is he worth? When is it too much for you and I to give something for him? How much is enough so that beyond that? It becomes a waste. For Mary, there was nothing. It was too great for him. For Mary, probably better than all the rest of the disciples, had a conscious sense of both his work and In his sacrifice. Remember, we looked last week at the Song of Songs. With a picture of her husband as it reflected that dim portrait of the Lord of Glory. He's the fairest of ten thousand. His head is pure gold. From his lips flow myrrh. His speech is loving. He is altogether loving. And the Lord of glory put aside that majesty. He laid it all aside because he saw you and me in our rebellion and in our misery. And he shared that misery. And he came and took on poverty. He took on a finite body. And he suffered with us. And in just a few days, he's going to go to the cross because he is going to suffer, willingly to die, to lay down his life as a sacrifice for your sin and for my sin. Because he refuses to allow. us to be lost. And you look at Jesus, creator of all of glory in the heavens and the earth, and you look at him reigning, and you say, what a waste for him to give his life for the likes of you. Me. Lord, what a waste for you to give yourself and to give all that up so that for all eternity you will bear the nail prints in your hands. For me, for someone so worthless. As me. But a poor bargain. And the Lord himself says now. It is not a poor bargain. Because you were precious to me. I valued you individually in my sight, and you were worth the sacrifice. How much is Jesus worth to you? How much is Jesus worth to To me, as I consider what I'm willing to give for him. Perhaps this morning, if you hear this, you realize that you've never given anything for him. You've never even received that. That sacrifice that He's made for you. You're still hoping somehow God's going to grow it on a curve and you're going to get in by the skin of your teeth on your own efforts. And Jesus offers to you only one hope: the fact that he sacrificed everything. everything because that's what it took to reconcile you to a holy and righteous God. And I plead with you in Jesus' name, if you have not taken of that sacrifice into your life, in giving yourself to Jesus Christ, that you do not hold back from that. One day longer. Jesus came as a sacrifice that you might have life. What a waste to refuse it. But even for those of us who have accepted it, what What does it mean for us to value the sacrifice of Christ? Even the disciples joined in with Judas in criticizing Mary. Even the disciples thought that this was Too much. And the disciples, I believe, here represent to us the church as a picture of the average Christian's attitude of how much we should serve Jesus. There's no question in the average Christian's minds that you subs Serve the Lord. A person can't be a Christian and believe that our lives shouldn't be spent in serving the Lord. But that's precisely the point where so often we go wrong. Our emphasis is on service. Our emphasis is on use. And so we look at the act of pure worship and we say, that's a waste. To spend a half hour simply in prayer, to spend a half hour even more. so in simply worship and adoration of the Lord. Or even to think, an hour. Or maybe two hours. What a waste. There's so much I could be doing. There's so much activity I could be involved in. What a waste to spend all that time in simply contemplating and worshiping in quietude without any activity. And so we need to address ourselves. to that question because it's one that we have to deal with ourselves. You see, the first question is never were the poor helped, but simply was Jesus satisfied. You can't totally isolate those questions. Who showed more of a concern for the poor than Jesus? When the disciples say, Move on, it's Jesus who stops to blind Bartimaeus, a beggar, to meet his needs. There's no one who showed more than the poor. concern for the poor than Jesus. But the first question, brothers and sisters, is never in our eyes were the poor served. Was our movement active and successful? But was Jesus satisfied with our worship? I think of this question in terms of the investment of our time. You see the questions on the back that are searching questions. We don't have time to penetrate. them very much. Just to draw your attention to them now, maybe we'll get to pursue them a little bit more in future weeks. But consider the question, the first question of recognition. Must I get recognition from others? for my Christian service? Or do I consider it a waste if that activity is only for Jesus? Or so results for me of my people. I think of the best illustration I know of this was a fellow that I ministered to who had a very, very difficult and rare disease. And this fellow had been trained to be useful in ministry. But his disease kept him bedridden for a good part of the time. And there was no ministry that he could have to show for all of his training. And he was so frustrated. And he kept asking the question, what is God trying to teach me from this so that I can learn it? And then I can have a testimony. that will be effective for other people. And what is it that God's trying to do so he can restore me to minister, to ministry and to be useful for him? All the times we met, I kept trying to get through to him. God may never bring you out of this to a place where you'll be on television with some glowing testimony that will affect the lives of hundreds and thousands of others. Could it just be? Your worship here in this room is enough. Are you and I ready and willing to say that I may be a failure as far as others see me? But if Jesus is pleased, with my worship. If Jesus is pleased in my giving the very best that I am and have to him, that is enough. That's enough. Or must we be useful? Must we be the most successful church in Colombia? Must I be able to hold my head up with other pastors and say, my church has grown from such to such in so many years? What about yours? Where am I willing? Say, God and my Eyes of the world, there may be always a mediocre pastor. But it's what you think that counts. And some of us are so concerned in our usefulness that all of our attention is focused on investing in strategic people, useful people. And to invest in someone's life who isn't going anywhere, and someone's life who has no potential is a waste. of time. It was a fellow who taught a Sunday school class. It was a very popular class. And people would drop into that class from time to time and one fellow walked off the street inside of this guy's class. The next week this fellow called him on the phone and he says, I I I really enjoyed your class. It it helped me a lot. Could we meet together? I've been sort of uneasy since the war. As this fellow went on, the Sunday school teacher was aware that his thoughts were disjointed. He seemed to have deep emotional disturbances. He couldn't even connect his thoughts very reasonably. And he thought, it's a waste of time to meet with this guy. He thought I should be spending my time with more strict strategic people. In reflecting on that experience, this is what he wrote. Shouldn't I be spending my time with people who had the potential to go somewhere and accomplish something rather than on those headed down a dead end street? But he met with this fellow one time. The final fellow kept persuading him and so he said, Okay, and I'll meet and met with him for coffee and he talked and he said, It was just as I thought. This guy's got real problems. This guy's a bastard case. He's a real loser. And so he said after that meeting, this whole thing could become very time-consuming. Try and waste time on a person when there is so little potential for productive results. You're going to solve this problem. You've probably given them a hundred. Doctors and psychiatrists who haven't succeeded, don't get involved. When God led into a study of Jesus' ministry, how Jesus invested himself in unstrategic beggars and lepers, in little children, the disciples wanted to keep. And gradually he came to the conviction that it's never a waste of time to love and care for another human being. That doesn't mean we don't set a strategy. That doesn't mean that we don't seek To invest our time wisely, we must be careful of the rationalization. In my own life, I know this is true myself. I'm simply saying I will only invest in useful people which build me up by their testimonies to my ministry and their lives. Because the rest is a waste. $20,000 of perfume poured out on Jesus a few days before his death was an utter extravagance, a waste in the eyes of the world, a waste even in the eyes of his disciples. But then again, Love is so unreasonable, isn't it? Love is simply extravagant. Let's pray. Oh Lord, our God. We come to you this morning wanting to see the true work of Jesus, wanting to see what it meant for him to waste himself on us. Lord Jesus, But we consider what you did for what seems to us to be so little results, so little for the preciousness of your blood to be shed. Lord, we cry out. Why did you waste yourself for us? And Lord, even as we hear you speak to us, because we were precious in your sight, and you refused to lose us, so Lord, may you become precious in our sight. May you become precious to us as you did to Mary. And may we lavish ourselves upon you. May we be extravagant with our love. So that you might be satisfied. Oh Lord God, above all, might you be satisfied with the offering of our lives. Lord, if there's someone here who's never given themselves to you, take them, lay hold of them, slavery. Finally, take a hold of them, Lord, we pray and bring them to yourself. May they not be able to hold out against such love and grace. Lord, take us all. Take us as we give ourselves to you. In more extravagant dog, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.