Remember last week that I mentioned how Kathy's being invited to speak at a particular conference led her to examine the difference between Mary and Martha and how they related to Jesus. And um the point was that they they both knew Jesus, they both loved Jesus, but Mary chose what is better. Luke chapter 10 verse 42 says simply that. Jesus says, Mary has chosen what is better, and it will not be taken from her. In all three passages where these two women appear, they are contrasted. And Kathy's very perceptive observation on this, from a neutral observer, of course, was that While we admire Mary, and we hear what John and Dolly read, and we admire that In fact, we encourage each other to be like Martha. Well, I am preaching this last week and this week for her. To impart to you some of these thoughts that we might learn from what the Lord Jesus has for each of us. Do you remember last week I contrasted, I've placed the contrast between these two women under two main headings? First of all, last week we looked at the contrast between the head and the heart. Kind of a dangerous way of saying it. The focus there was in John 11. Where we looked at how Mary tends to be more cognitive in her relationship with Jesus. Martha is more cognitive. Mary is more Functioning to Jesus not apart from her head, but with her heart also. And we looked at three points last week under that first heading of Head versus Heart in John 11. First of all, that In all three passages you see Martha at Jesus' side, sort of a controlling person. She's telling Jesus what to do. Get my sister to help. Don't open the tomb. He stinks. These kinds of things. We see on the other hand that Jesus is always at Mary's feet in Luke chapter 10. She is listening. In John chapter 11, she's worshiping. In John 12, excuse me, in John 11, she is weeping, and then in John chapter 12, she's worshiping and serving him. We see that Mary, uh excuse me, secondly, and Martha in the second place. This is disorienting me too, you hear, yeah. Look at you know, one of the things that was kind of interesting was coming in. Nobody knows where they're supposed to sit. You know. So I'm I'm, you know, trying to guide all these spouses. Well, you know, where's my wife? Where's my husband? You know, they're not in their usual spot, you know. They kind of try to reorient and say, now where would they be if they you know, so I realize that we're all having, you know, like cows, we've got to find our place in the pasture now and kind of get settled again. And I, you know, I've got to get used to where you all are so I know how to see you, but we'll work that out. I was saying that secondly, Martha is seen as the person who's more reliable. She's the responsible one. She's efficient. She's in charge in all three passages. Mary, on the other hand, is messy. Mary is openly emotional to the point where she is embarrassing in all three passages. Uh she seems uh sometimes a bit out of control. She's unable even to speak to the Lord in Luke and John chapter eleven. Uh the only thing she's able to say is, If you had been here, my brother wouldn't have died. And then the rest of it she just sobs her heart out. Let's face it, we reinforce the Martha tendencies. It's much easier to deal with one another if we're responsible and efficient, suck it up and move on. Mary, on the other hand, can be disconcerting. She's distracting. You don't quite know what to do with Mary when she's just falling down and sobbing. It's kind of harder to deal with. And that leads then to the third contrast. It produces someone like Martha, who tends to be orthodox. No question in my mind that she's a believer, but she denies her doubts and her disappointments with Jesus. Mary, on the other hand, honestly expresses them. She doesn't try to pretend, and it's Mary who moves Jesus' heart. We, I believe, sometimes hide unbelief. That will catch up to us and will expose us at some very inopportune moment when we hide behind faith statements. Hide behind correct language and actions. And remember again, don't get me wrong, the actions, the responsibility, the faith statements, those are all good unless they are hiding. a heart that is dishonest in those things. It is simply saying, I don't believe, but I'm going to pretend that I do. Where is it that this leads? Well, I think the what I'm looking at this morning, that second main contrast, maybe helps us to see the root cause of it and the root expression of it even better. And that's the contrast between being man-centered and God-centered in our concerns and in our focus. That's the second main contrast that I want to look at this morning. And here we particularly see this shown to us in Luke chapter 10 and John chapter 12. So those are the passages we'll look at more this morning. First of all, then notice that Mary's choices excuse me, I don't know why I keep starting with Mary. Martha, get this in mind. You're guys translating here for me. Martha's choices tend to be too influenced by man's priorities. Let's read again from Luke chapter 10, verses 38 to 42. Luke 10, 38-42. Hear God's word. As Jesus and his disciples were on their way, he came to a village where a woman named Martha opened her home to him. She had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet, listening to what he said. But Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made. She came to him and asked, Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to do all the work by myself? Tell her to help me. Martha, Martha, the Lord answered You are worried and upset about many things, but only one thing is needed. Mary has chosen what is better, and will not be taken away from her Good old Martha. Martha wants to look good. She wants to do it all. Notice a couple things about her. Look at verse 40 again. Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made. All the preparations that had to be made. Martha thinks that she can do it all. Very important rabbi is in town Very special person. So we've got to have a perfect dinner. And I've got to be the perfect hostess. And so Martha goes to all this work to have the perfect meal. And she thinks that she can do that, and she can also listen to Jesus. I believe that many of us Our high achievers who refuse to realize that we must make choices We think we can do it all. We think, like Martha, I can put on the greatest meal, and somehow I'll get that all done, and then I'll be able to squeeze in some time to listen to Jesus. But she refuses to face the fact that I've got to choose. Either I will have the meal at the standard I would like to to reflect my image so that I can be the perfect hostess. And people will say, boy, that Martha can really put on a meal. Or I will have to set that aside because Jesus is here and it's more important to listen to him. Many of us refuse to make choices, don't we? We've become addicted to our adrenaline that just sort of says that if you just press down a little harder and move a little quicker, you can do it all. You don't have to choose And one of the most difficult things in life sometimes is to say, I can't do it all. I'm either going to do this or I'm going to do that. But I can't do both. We think, well, before I choose, I'll just kind of try to do both and see if it'll work out. And then we kind of get sucked down into that frenzied activity. Jesus says in verse 42, Mary chose what is better. Mary realized that she couldn't do both, and so she made a choice. She refused to do something which was good in order to do something which was better. Martha is busy, Martha's distracted, and look what she gets for it. She's rebuked by Jesus. Can you imagine how that must have stung? I mean, you know, here's Mary listening to you and you two, yeah, you're having a fine little time, and I just said, Well, go ahead, that's all right, I'll I'll go get dinner started. And I'm doing this to try and help out, to try and do what I thought would be honoring to you, and you rebuke me for it? Now, what's Jesus saying here? Is Jesus saying that it's more spiritual not to have a meal prepared in a beautiful manner? Is it more spiritual just to throw the food out on the table raw? Or maybe even it's more spiritual If you don't even take it out of the package, let just let the guest rip it open with their teeth. I mean, that's really spiritual, right? I mean, is it wrong to have candles and go to the extra trouble? Is that what Jesus is saying? Kind of look and say, well, Jesus, I mean, that was wrong what you did? What about every time I go to some extra trouble for somebody? Is that worldly? Is that fleshly? That is not what Jesus is saying. Don't miss it. You see, you need to understand something here. Very, very important. Please follow me very closely. Jesus was not a special guest. Martha was saying, the rabbis in town, he's really special, so I want to put on a really great meal for him. Jesus wasn't a special guest, he was God. When God comes into your home, you don't say, Well, I'm going to just put on the best meal I can because He's special. Jesus, again and again in his ministry, made the point, I am only with you for a short time. Make the most of it And Mary probably thought in her heart with her perception, it would be great to give Jesus a really special meal. But I want to learn from him. I don't want to miss any moment of any word that he has for me. He's only here such a short time. And the most important thing is that there's things that he wants to teach me. I don't want to miss them. And so we'll get that meal on. We'll do that. But for this time, because he is God and I want to hear those words, every single word, I'm going to choose to set aside the good. In order that I might have the better. And that's what Jesus is saying. Mary's chosen the better. And he's saying, back off, Martha. It's not going to be taken from her. Because a lot of times you and I don't want to choose, do we? We say, I can do all these things, and I can still listen to Jesus from time to time. Let me put it very plainly. If you are so busy serving that you don't have time to stop and listen to Jesus, you're too busy. If you're too busy serving and doing all the things that are good things, they may be kingdom activities. They may be duties for your family, but if you are too busy in doing those things to spend time at the feet of Jesus, you're too busy. The difficult thing is there's going to be choices. Choices that you and I resist. I am going to need to say no to this good thing because it will distract me. And I'm going to choose what is better. It doesn't mean you give up all those things. But for most of us, the problem is not that we're going to spend too much time in the word, prayer, and worship. The problem is that we We fit that around the fringes of our life and never quite get to it. We're overachievers who refuse to make choices. The result of Martha's perfectionism is that she's rebuked by Jesus. That's the first blank there. The result of Mary's choice which is sensitive to Jesus' priorities, that was a very wise choice. I wonder how many of us, I wonder if I would have made that choice myself. Mary is a very unusual person. Was that she was defended by Jesus? Martha, Martha, you're worried and upset about many things But only one thing is needed. Mary has chosen what is better, and it will not be taken from her. What's the Lord saying to you this morning from that? What is the good thing in your life that needs to be set aside? In order that you might choose the better. And that the Spirit of God would be doing in your life through that time with Jesus A deeper work so that what you do is weightier. It's of more eternal value. Because it came out of being at the feet of Jesus See, the problem isn't simply that Martha missed some good time with Jesus. Besides being stressed and overly busy, the second thing to notice here, very closely connected, is that Martha is self-protective. Martha is self-protective. Again, let me say it very clearly so we don't miss it. Serving is not wrong. It was not the fact that Martha was serving that was wrong. But her heart reveals is revealed in what she says in this. She is bitter and she's resentful. She's full of self-pity in her serving. Look at verse 40. But Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made. She came to him, Jesus, and asked, Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to do all the work by myself? Tell her to help me. If Martha had been serving from a heart of love to Jesus, if this was her offering of worship to him, she wouldn't have been resentful that Mary hadn't helped. Mary's going to miss out on that? Okay, I'll do the best I can. I won't do what I can't do. But what I'm doing in serving this meal is an offering to Jesus. And so I'll do that with a heart of joy. She didn't, you see. And therein you see the man-centered orientation. She was looking for it to be done by her standard, in her way. And she was going to demand that it be done right. I wonder sometimes when I hear somebody complain that people aren't helping me in the ministry that I've gotten into. And I wonder if you're complaining and resentful that others aren't helping in you in this, what is your motive in doing it? If you believe that Jesus has called you to do it. Pray that Jesus will raise up others to work with you in it. But if they don't, what's the use of resenting them? If God doesn't raise them up, either He hasn't called that ministry to take place or He's called you to do it the best you can without the help. But when we are resentful, That shows that our orientation is toward man and not toward God. We don't have to resent the fact that he's not appreciating what we're doing. Let me give you an example. When we moved into our home, the chief interior decorator of our house decided that three rooms needed to be redone. Wallpaper molding the works. And so we discussed how this was going to get done, and she said, well, this could be a real hassle. So I'll tell you what I'm going to do. You do the work around and prep and I'll take from my money that I earn and I and I will pay for somebody to come in and do the wallpapering And besides the fact that that was kind of a blow to my ego, you know, that somebody could ever possibly do the wallpapering as good as I could do it, I kind of swallowed that, but nevertheless rode in on my white steed and said I will do it. As an offering to you, save the money. You can use it for other things. I will do the wallpapering. I was pretty proud of myself. I was doing a good job until after one week of vacation. I won't say shot, but one week used. Going on into the second month with two rooms down, one room, I had to do over again half the room because and and she also did a lot of that because the wallpaper was defective I was beginning to get to the point of being resentful that I was doing so much work. Why wasn't I getting more help? And so, you know, it's like Martha. I pray this prayer. Lord, don't you care that I'm doing all the work by myself? Tell her to help me. And then all of a sudden the Lord speaks to you and says, Well, wait a minute. Is this love or is this a demand? You see, don't we often do something that we say, this is a loving thing, but suddenly there is an expectation and a demand attached to it. And that's the hook that reveals to us. It wasn't love. It was control. How often do we pray, Lord, don't you care that I've got to do all this work? Lord, tell somebody to help me. It's gotta be done. She's distracted. Jesus says, you're worried and you're upset about many things. But only one thing is needed. Trust me. Come to me. Learn from me. Martha was self-protective. Mary, on the other hand, was self-sacrificing. In Luke 10, we see her listening, soaking in Jesus' words. In John 11, she comes to a crisis in her faith. Why did Jesus not come and heal her brother? And then Jesus raises her brother from the dead. And in an outpouring of love and passion for Jesus, there's a meal of celebration in John 12. Now turn to John 12, and I want us to pick up the story there. In John chapter 12, This is right after John 11, and so this is probably just shortly after now Lazarus has been raised from the dead. And in this situation It's possible, we don't know, but it's possible that this is a celebration meal for Lazarus' rather remarkable recovery. Well Lazarus was fairly significantly more. He came out after four days in the tomb. We read in John chapter 12, six days before the Passover, Jesus arrived at Bethany, where Lazarus lived, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. And here a dinner was given in Jesus' honor. And what do you see again? Martha served, while Lazarus was among those reclining at the table with him. And then Mary took about a pint of pure nard, an expensive perfume, and she poured it. On Jesus' feet and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. Perhaps Mary was given that lowly job of washing the guests' feet. Somebody had to do it. When she comes to Jesus, instead of washing his feet, she takes what was undoubtedly one of her most treasured possessions, if not the most precious thing that she owned. A pint of an alabaster jar of pure nard. That stuff was more precious than anything you'd find at Woody's. It went for something like fifteen hundred dollars an ounce. And Mary pours 16 ounces of this stuff on Jesus' feet. She absolutely lavishes herself on Jesus. It it's a breathtaking kind of scene. Here is this this stuff and and it's so rich. I mean can you imagine with something at $1,500 an ounce, how potent that stuff is? And here's a pint of it. Poured. And John said the whole house was filled with the fragrance. It was overwhelming. And then you see her do something which was absolutely unheard of. Here, this proper woman at Jesus' feet unbinds her hair. No proper Jewish woman would unbind her hair in public. She unbinds her hair, lets down the tresses, and then she uses her hair to wipe his feet and wipe in the perfume. By that, of course, Mary herself takes on the fragrance. But what's more significant is to see that this woman, in this utterly embarrassing, kind of a distasteful Shocking. I mean, on the one hand, it you're you're sort of overwhelmed with the beauty of of the perfume, but you know, you're you're disoriented by the action. Have you ever known somebody who sacrificed or did something for Jesus that you thought was just out of bounds? He said, that was too much. You know, that that was beyond what was necessary. You didn't need to do that. As a Christian, yes, you could do this and that much is appropriate, but why did you do that? Why did you give that up? Why did you go to that length? It was too much. But you see, in Mary's heart, the gift is simply what's appropriate to the worth of the recipient And Jesus is of infinite worth in Mary's eyes. And so she lavishes herself upon him. There's no protection, there's no resentment that no one else is doing something. All she does is say, This is what I give to him. What you do, that's your business. I'm not gonna think about it, I'm not gonna bother me. Give or not give. But I'm doing what I believe the Lord has put in my heart to do for him. And you see what ge what Mary was doing again was showing an amazing insight, perhaps the most insightful disciple that Jesus ever had on earth. Mary is alone the disciple who realizes that Jesus is going to his death. And so what she's doing is not some arbitrary action, just you know, out of this lavish, impetuous, impulsive, giving just I've just gotta break this jar and give it all to him. No, she's very purposeful. She's anointing him for his burial. And here you see, brothers and sisters, the root of the matter. The root of what separates Martha from Mary. Martha operates out of the law. Martha says, what do I need to do to demonstrate that I'm worthwhile? Be a perfect hostess, put on a good enough meal. What is it that I need to do in order to demonstrate that I am worthy of Jesus' love? Mary operates simply out of grace. Sitting at his feet, she learns what kind of a person she is. She learns about her sinful, selfish heart. She learns how she has deserved God's wrath upon her. She learns that Jesus is going to his death to take her sin upon himself. And she understands when he comes to that meal that he is coming now to, in just a very few days, give his life. And that life will be for her. And so Mary now comes to say, he loves me enough to die for me. Jesus loves me. I don't deserve it. I'm not worthy of it. But He loves me. Let me ask you, has that fact ever gripped your heart? I am loved as I am by Jesus enough to die for me. And that so grips Mary's heart. That there's no external compulsion Simply the internal desire to lavish yourself on him. See the root of all this leads to the final observation Martha, in the end, is appreciated by man. Martha was the perfect hostess of Bethany, but she missed intimacy with Jesus. She knew him, but somewhat at arm's length, because she never could quite become vulnerable enough And open enough, and make the difficult choices to get that close. Mary, on the other hand, was misunderstood by people. In all three cases. She's misunderstood by her sister as being lazy. She's misunderstood by her friends and why she's running out in such a frenzy to meet this man on the road. She's misunderstood even by an elder of the church in John chapter 12. Look what it says after Jesus Is anointed. In John 12, verse 3, Mary took about a pint of pure nard, expensive perfume. She poured it on Jesus' feet. She wiped her feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But One of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was later to betray him. Now notice, Judas at this point, we all look at Judas and say, the scoundrel, the betraitor. Who would listen to anything Judas said? But you've got to understand at this point, Judas was in good standing. He was an elder, he was one of the disciples, one of the closest followers of Jesus. So he was one of the esteemed religious leaders in the body. And this one, comparable, say, to an elder in our body, objects. And he says, Why wasn't this perfume sold and the money given to the poor? It was worth a year's wages. They didn't say this because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief as a keeper of the money bag, he used to keep help himself to what was put into it. But nobody knew that. That's inside information. What they know is Mary does something that looks foolish, and then some elder in the church says, that was really stupid. That was really impractical. You know, y you could have put that in the deacon's fund, and look at all the people we could have helped if you had done that. Imagine how stupid and foolish you would have felt. How utterly misunderstood. How broken. I mean, just break your heart. Here, I've done it. You don't even understand what I'm doing. Rebuked publicly Misunderstood. Because her intimacy with Jesus is of such a nature That only he can really understand why she's doing what she's doing. Look what he says. Verse 7. Again, Jesus defends Mary. It's Jesus in each case who alone comes to her rescue. Leave her alone, Jesus replied. It was intended that she should save this perfume for the day of my burial. You will always have the poor among you, but you will not always have me. There again, you see, nothing wrong with giving to the poor, nothing wrong with serving good meals, nothing wrong with any of this. The point is you need to see the uniqueness of my person in your life. And never displace me from the very center, even when you're misunderstood. What an intimacy Mary had with Jesus. In that day last March in the pastor's day of prayer, when we were exhorted to just take a few minutes to think, just think on some passage, my mind went to Mary and to Martha. And I thought about them and I thought about myself and how I identified with Martha. Orthodox Busy, distracted, always wishing I could have more time with Jesus, resentful, full of self-pity, and therefore self-protective. Like an orphan, and most of all, utterly afraid to become like Mary. If I were to become like Mary, I'd lose control. Who knows what God would take from me if I were to be that open? And the Lord convicted me by that very thought. Take from me I view my Heavenly Father as someone who simply wants to take from me. He who sent his own Son to give Himself for me, to give me eternal life. to lay down his life and die for me and I'm viewing that he just wants to take from me? I'll tell you, it really broke my heart that day. I I can't express it now to you the way I felt it then. But I was I was deeply stirred by that sinful self-protective nature. I'm afraid, afraid to become like Mary. And then after that, I read these words from Philip Yancey. He says, I've been to Calcutta, India, a place of poverty, death, and irremedial human problems. Their mother Teresa and her nuns serve perhaps the poorest, most miserable people on the planet. The nuns find them lying half-dead, emaciated bodies on the streets of Calcutta. The world stands in awe at their dedication, at the results of their ministry. But something about the nuns impresses me even more. Their serenity. If I tackled such a mammoth hopeless project, I would likely be scurrying about, sending press releases, begging for more resources, gulping tranquilizers, searching for ways to cope with my mounting despair. Not these women. Their serenity traces back to what takes place before their day's work begins. At 4 a. m. , long before the sun, these sisters rise. They dress in spotless white habits and go to the chapel where they pray and sing together. Before they ever meet their first client, they have immersed themselves in worship and in the love of God. I sense no panic in them. I see concern and compassion, yes, but no obsession over what did not get done. These sisters are not working to complete a caseload sheet for a social service agency. They are conscious that they are working for God. They begin their day with him, they end their day with him, and everything in between they present as an offering to God. He and he alone determines their worth and their success. Are you Orthodox this morning? distracted, busy, resentful, full of self-pity, and like me afraid to become like Mary. Then get your eyes off of Mary and look at her Savior. Let's pray. Lord our God. We are people who are so afraid And we see in Mary a woman of such freedom, as though so very attractive to us, and yet we're afraid to become like her. Lord Jesus, speak to our hearts. That we would see what you have done for us, that you have given your life for us, that we might sense your worth to us, that infinite worth, and our hearts would be drawn to you so much, Lord Jesus. that we are ready to make those choices to simplify our lives. To be with you more this next month. To spend more time at your feet, that what we would do would be out of a more devotional heart as an offering of worship to you rather than simply compulsive behavior to please people. Free us. Free us, Lord, and hear us as we offer ourselves to you now. In Jesus' name. Amen.