Well good morning, church. This morning we are coming to a passage of scripture that is Very often neglected by Protestants. It's known as the Magnificat, the song that Mary sings in response to Elizabeth's blessing. And it's a song that, of all people, Martin Luther wrote on at length. Well remember Martin Luther, that great Protestant reformer that some people think must have surely had very little good to say about Mary. I challenge you sometime read his comments on this precious, precious psalm that Mary sings. You're going to hear some of the benefits of my study of that in a moment. But first let's hear from Mary herself. If you have your Bibles, Turn with me to Luke chapter 1. I'll begin reading in verse 48 and read through verse 56. Let us pray. Almighty God, we thank you for this day. And Lord, we pray that you would bless this reading of your word to us. Father, we come before your word mindful that Scripture is a holy scripture. It is you speaking through men and women, like the prophet Isaiah or the young lady Mary. And Lord, while these are truly their words, Lord, they are inspired by you in a way that is utterly unique and distinctive in the entire catalog of human literature. These words truly are the inspired and errant word of our Creator and our Redeemer, coming to us through people like us, touched by grace. led by your Spirit. And Father, we pray that we would hear the reading of your scripture humbly and thankfully and bless it to us. And Father, the preaching that follows the reading, Lord, in as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you have said, Lord, we pray that you bless that to us as well. We ask these two blessings in Christ's name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 1, beginning with verse 46, the Word of God. And Mary said. My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant, for behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home. The word of the Lord. One of the great things that I get to do as the pastor of Columbia Presbyterian Church is every other week I get to teach the middle school Sunday school class. Which is em is comprised of six young ladies and one young man. And I have a special challenge for you young ladies that I did not share with you this morning. And if you're not a middle school girl, you can take this challenge to heart yourself, whether you're a young man or an old man or a young lady or an old lady. However identify. Now we often forget that Mary would have been a teenager. She could have been as young as fourteen, she could have been as old as twenty, although probably closer to the younger end of that spectrum Given the marriage practices of those days and the fact that she was betrothed in the ancient Israelite three-step marriage process, she was kind of in that middle spot. It would have required a divorce for Joseph to leave her, but they weren't married yet, in a way that our Western modern mind has trouble grasping. But Mary wasn't just a young woman. Mary is a woman, a young woman with an incredible grasp of Scripture. And my challenge to those of you who are my Sunday school pupils, go home and you can use the Google if you're tech savvy, or you can get an old-fashioned concordance that Lets you look up a word and gives you every place in the Bible where that word shows up. Take a look at the words of Mary's psalm, this hymn, this musical prayer that she lifts up spontaneously and with great joy. And count how many quotations and allusions to Old Testament scripture are found in this short song. Her knowledge of scripture as a teenage girl is stunning. But so is what she says. When we look at this song, which is her response to the fact that her older aunt Elizabeth has blessed her and noted the privilege that Mary has in carrying in her womb the incarnate Son of God. The first thing that we see in Mary's response to this difficult providence, which will no doubt earn Mary the reproach the scorn, the mockery of an entire generation. Everybody who knows her and realizes she's pregnant before she's married will think poorly of her. She has been given a very difficult task. So I'd invite you to consider a time you've been given a difficult task. How many of you were given a very difficult task that might involve nine months of enduring sideways glances from people? How many times have you been given a painful charge to engage in some activity that is going to earn you the scorn of your neighbors? And in receiving such a difficult assignment or a hard task, how many of you had the first word that came to your mind be, yippee? Probably not many of us. I know I'm a good old-fashioned Norwegian American. My great-grandparents immigrated, and I know when I get a difficult task. I can do a pretty good Eeyore imitation. Oh boy, here we go again. Lord, we can do this. All right. Gotta set the alarm. Mary's first response, my soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. And I want to invite you to consider the enormity of that short two-part statement. My soul and my spirit is poetic parallelism in the finest Hebrew tradition. And the Lord and God my Savior, again, synonyms. But the soul magnifying and the spirit rejoicing, Mary magnifying and Mary rejoicing, that's where the difference lies. When we magnify something today, we make it larger. And the word for magnify that Mary is using here literally means, remain seated for this, make it larger. In a sense, when you magnify something, you're accentuating it, you're emphasizing it, you're dwelling upon it, you are increasing its influence or impact in your worldview. You're bragging on it to your neighbors. You're broadening the scope of the knowledge of this great thing. And so Mary, when she finds out that God has blessed her with this incredible privilege of being the mother to the Son of God. as far as his human incarnation, her first response, despite all the complications that has for her marriage, for her family going in the future, for her social standing, all of these things, which are clearly significant to her. Because we read that she remained with her aunt for about three months at the very end of this passage. Why do you think it says that? Well, we know that she arrived to visit Elizabeth in Elizabeth's sixth month of pregnancy. Kids of all ages, what happens after a woman has been pregnant for nine months? The baby comes. And so we read that she stays with her for three months, about three months, and then goes home. And the very next thing we read is that the time came for Elizabeth to give birth. So Mary stays right up until the water breaks, as it were, for her aunt, and then she gets out of town. Think about how awkward that would be for you, gals, if you were an unwed mother, and a family reunion was about to begin. And all the kinfolk from the entire hill country of Judah were about to show up and say, wait a minute, Mary, you're not married yet. See, there can be very little doubt that Mary is not painfully aware of the social difficulties that she now has to operate under. But the very first thing she does is say she magnifies the Lord in her inner being. She makes much of him. She lets him take up more and more real estate in her conscience and subconscious alike. She makes a big deal out of God. And on our best days, we sometimes struggle with that. We live in a day and age when it's all about boundaries, isn't it? And in a healthy way, in many cases. Except to put boundaries on God is always a mistake. Every square inch of this universe falls under his authority and purview. And every moment of every day of my life and yours falls under his sovereign sway and ought to be brought to him. Consecrated to him, lived in light of his presence and purpose. And Mary, her immediate response to a difficult assignment is: I magnify you, O Lord. And I rejoice. You see, for her, it's not just an intellectual exercise, this thing called faith. It's not just an awareness that God is sovereign, so I'm going to accept that. God is in heaven and does whatever pleases him, so I better just get along like Eeyore, build my little stick hut, and eat my porridge. No, for her, this fact of who God is in all of his sublime majesty Is something that increasingly grows on her worldview and taints and touches and flavors all of her life, and it's something that she glories in. She rejoices. And I have met many Christians who only get half of that equation right. You see, some of us Look at God and his sovereign orchestrating of our life, and we theoretically know that he's God and that what he does is good and he is holy and he is just. But we don't have to be happy about it, do we? I can remember once as a young pastor in Vermont meeting with a couple in their home in downtown St. Albans And I can remember saying to them, Are you happy in Jesus? And I'll never forget the look on one of this one of the two. I won't say whether it was the husband or wife. Doesn't matter. One of them looked at me and they said, Yes, Pastor, we are incredibly happy. Just like that. With a look on their face as if they had just had four kidney stones at once. And dear Christian, did I just describe you? Do you theoretically have a grasp on the goodness of God and on his sovereign power and his control over the universe? Do you believe that not a sparrow falls without his knowledge, that he knows the number of hairs on your head? But fail to rejoice at such a thought? What about the other side of that equation? I also know Christians, and these are Christians. Make no mistake, they are godlier people than me. They're much nicer people than me, and if you had to pick me or them for a dinner guest, you'd be wise to pick them. But they are rejoicing all the time for reasons they know not. And the minute things go sideways, or the minute their joy dries up. They're utterly lost and don't have a clue as to what God is doing. It's as if their spiritual life is fueled by one joy-engendering experience after another. But the meat and potatoes of understanding that there's a God in heaven who has a plan and it is good and detailed completely escapes their their their thought patterns. You see, Mary shows us this incredible maturity, not just her absolute mastery of the Old Testament forms of theology and the language of it, but in her response to a difficult event in her life. She makes much of God, and she is happy. Well, how can that be? As your new pastor, I long for each of you to know God, to magnify him. To let the Lordship and the holiness of God more and more affect the events of your life and mine. And I also long for you to be in that holy mindset increasingly happy. In that order, I will never strive for your happiness short of directing you and myself to happiness along that great road of holiness. And perhaps you're here this morning because you were invited. I don't know you, maybe I've not met you. I also want you to experience this kind of holy, consecrated happiness. I want you to leave here rejoicing because there's a God in heaven who is in and under and above even the most complicated, difficult circumstances of your life. And this text of Scripture shows us, through the experience of this teenage girl's words, something amazing. And it begins with her personal testimony. In the book of Revelation, we read that the church is in a state of warfare and that there is a Satan, and as Hal Lindsay warned us, he is alive and well on planet Earth. I'm not so sure how well he is, but he certainly is active. We are told in Revelation that we overcome him. By the blood of the Lamb and the word of our testimony. And I want you to think about how important your testimony is. Your testimony is your account, subjective though it be, of what God has done in your life. God has done things in your life that are not precisely identical in detail to what he has done in any other person's life. You are a unique child of God in whom God has uniquely worked. I have four children. I love each of them dearly and desperately. I have worked differently in each one of their lives according to opportunity and need as those things coincided. And it is no different with your Heavenly Father. And he has given you a testimony. And your testimony is what God has done in your life. Mary begins this song. By talking about her testimony. Look at verse 48 and 49. For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed, for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. He has been mindful of the humble estate of his servant. Pop quiz, and you don't have to pretend you're Presbyterians for this. Is humility a good thing? Yeah, y that was like your bad Presbyterians. I would have preferred something like good Baptists. Let's try again. Is humility a good thing? There we go, that's better. Was humility a good thing in the first century AD? Ah, the answer is no, and somebody knew it, it's probably my wife. Humility, if you read Plato, was something that was suitable for slaves but not for free men. The word in your New Testament that we translate humility was a word that had scorn and derision attached to it. And we don't get that. We don't get the notion that what we ought to be reading here is he has looked on my humiliation. There was no good connotation to the word humble in the first century world. If you were humble, that would be worse than being called stupid or ugly. And to be humble meant that you had nothing to offer and no real use or role in the economy of the world in which you lived. And there's something powerful and painful about that, isn't it? When we think about our lives and we think that, well, our first testimony must begin with this notion that we are humiliated. Before the Lord, that we're humble, that we have nothing to offer, that we are in the state of Adam and Eve, naked before him, incapable of covering, or literally atoning for our own fallenness. That's the beginning of a powerful testimony that he has looked on or been mindful of or taken into consideration. He has noticed that I had nothing to offer. But all generations from here on out will call me blessed. And I want you to think about a testimony that goes like this. I Bob Bjerkes, that's my name, if you haven't met me. Or I, Mary, betrothed to Joseph. Nothing to offer the living God. Nothing at all. Despite a good knowledge of Scripture, despite a deep familiarity with the forms of Old Testament literature. Nothing to offer the living God, but yet I will be called blessed For all of eternity, by every single soul that knows the living God. Why? For he who is mighty, he who is not humble, he who is not humiliated, he who is not powerless, he who has everything Has done great things for me, and holy is his name. You see, Mary's personal testimony runs counter to the Facebook theology of Western Christianity. in which every game our kids play in ends up as a win and they score. Mary's theology is one that says, my life was a train wreck. when viewed through the lens of a holy God who will by no means clear the guilty, the book of Exodus. A holy God who is too pure to look upon sin. A holy God who will not for a minute Pretend that sin is not a big deal. And my testimony is that I, though I had nothing, was given everything That I, though I had nothing, was blessed with everything. That I, who am humble Was met by one who is Almighty. That the Holy One has done great things for me. Now I want you to think, dear friend. If there were such a thing as a God who could take people who had nothing to offer him. And let's be honest for a minute. There is not one of us in this room who is the best at anything in the world. Whatever you're good at, there's somebody better than you. Probably in the state of Maryland. I hate to break it to you. Probably in Columbia. Probably in Wild Lake. Now, it is not anything we have to offer God. It is going to get his attention and say, you know, I can do something with that dude. I think I'm going to save him. It's because God delights in showing mercy. God delights in forgiving sins. God delights in finding ways to redeem or deliver people like you and me from whatever mess we got into, whether it was afflicted upon us by the world and life, or whether it's something we actively chose and wandered into. Whatever cardinal direction on the spiritual compass of life you went chasing after, God delights in finding you there and bringing you back to true center, Himself. And this is something that Mary moves on to immediately. She doesn't just begin with this outburst of joy and sharing this Personal testimony that she had nothing and God has decided to do everything for her, she could not possibly be given a higher honor in her understanding, which is accurate, than being one who bears within her Christ. Remember that, it's going to come up at the end of the sermon, an hour from now. But she goes on to say, not only this is my personal testimony, but this is a merciful promise not just for me. Look at what she says. And his mercy Verse 50 is for those who fear him from generation to generation. And that weird word fear, we're afraid of that word, no pun intended. Think reverence. A feeling of uh Deep appreciation mixed with awe and even a little bit of dread. Think about the love that a sailor has for the ocean. That has a tinge of fear and reverence. That's this biblical notion of fear. It's not like a phobia where you're in panic mode every time the name God shows up, but whenever God shows up, you are mindful. All who are mindful of God and aware of his greatness and his supremacy in all things, all who are reverent before him and mindful enough to bend their knee and say, God is God, and I am not. For every generation of such as them, his mercy is shown. And he has shown strength with his arm. He scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. For those who do not reverence God and refuse to reject God, for those who think they got everything, well, they're not going to do too well. But for those who come to him knowing they have nothing, knowing that they are humble, we read, He has exalted those. in a humble estate, exalted those in their humiliation spiritually when they recognize that we are by nature objects of wrath, as the Bible teaches. That there is no unrighteous, no not one. All are alike corrupt. What a horrible word, corrupt. But apart from the grace of God, it is precisely what I am. You couldn't pick a better word. And he fills those who are hungry, those who have nothing but have that longing for something. They find that God is a great feeder, a great filler. He's helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, As he spoke to our fathers, to Abram looking back and to his offspring forever. You see, this mercy that Mary has experienced, she makes clear in this rejoicing song. That not only has he done this for me, but he does this for all who look to him with reverence and turn to him in humility. And there's two things needful. There's two things needful. Now, if you think about what it takes to receive this blessedness that will last for eternity that Mary has experienced. God offers Himself to all who are two things, first humble and second hungry. Very different words. I've been on a cross coach for a long, long time. And uh One of the things I love about lacrosse and sports in diff in in general, I was at the uh uh Elevate Basketball Friday night and man, I tell you what, watching those uh elevate basketball players it reminded me of me and my youth. Except they were actually athletic and could play basketball. But the thing about sports, if you stay humble, And say hungry, you grow. You're humble. You know you have a need to be better. You know you're not all that. You know that you can't bottle your bath water up and sell it on eBay. You know that there's something not quite right about your game, about your life. That's humility. You know that you are not Kobe Bryant or Michael Jordan. You're humble. But you're also hungry. You want to get better. You see, you recognize not only it's easy to be humble but not hungry. It's easy to be, yeah, I'm terrible, and I'm okay with that. That you can do that. That's that's how I operate when I have to get dressed up to go out in public. I don't match my clothes, I'm good with that. Fortunately I have a wife who has she's a little hungrier on my behalf than I am and makes me I tried to leave the house wearing a Hawaiian shirt and plaid shorts, and I didn't get even close to the front door But to be humble and hungry, to recognize that I am the humble, I am the bottom of the ocean And then to recognize that, oh God Almighty, I want to be different. That's the picture. Of the one who's hungry and is filled, the one who's humble is exalted. I would invite you to consider this, friends Being a Christian is about having a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ that gives you peace with God and a present active experience of the Spirit in your life And in order for that to happen in your life, whether this is your first Sunday here or whether you've been coming here for as long as my father-in-law who was here when the church was was first planted. Or whether you've been attending other churches for 70 years, 80 years. It matters not. What is necessary to have a relationship with God and peace with your Maker and the joy of the Holy Spirit's presence in your soul is humility. You have to come to God with nothing in your hand. Naked to thy cross I cling, is the way the old hymns put it. You have to recognize that is if you would come to Christ, you can't come to Christ saying, hey, hey, Jesus Christ, uh name's Bob Bierkes. Glad to meet you. Listen, here's my resume. I've done some pretty cool things. I think you'll find that I'll add value to your organization. That's not humility. The humility of the child of Adam, the babe of Eve. Is to come to God this way. Lord Jesus, I am humiliated before you. I'm a sinner. And I have nothing to offer you except this broken heart. But I've heard through the preaching of your gospel, through the reading of your word, through the testimonies of your people, That you are a God who forgives sins because you came. You came in the person of Jesus Christ. And were born just like us, with the same flesh as us. You bore our took up our infirmities. You you had pain when you were teething. You had a heartbreak, no doubt, at some point in your adolescence. You you had acne. You had Everything you you were tempted even as we are, but yet we're without sin. You were made like us in every way. These are Bible verses I'm sharing with you, except for the acne part. Now, this Jesus, who by rights could have lived forever because the wages of sin is death. And Jesus never sinned. You and I, we've sinned all the time. We do that as naturally as we breathe. Whether it's mean thoughts, harsh thoughts, faithless actions. We sin all the time. Jesus never had to die. And yet he chose to swap places with you. Jesus chose to die in your place if you would believe on him. He said, here, Bob Burkus is the great sinner, but God Almighty. I'm going to pay the penalty for his crimes and give him the credit for my obedience so that he can stand before you and be beloved as a child, so that he can be exalted, so that he can be filled, so that you by your mighty arm might do great things for him. Here, let me take his sentence. Let me die in his place. Let me drink that cup, that bitter cup. of your fury mixed full strength to use the language of the Old Testament prophets. And I will drink it down to its bitter bitter dregs. So great is my love for that guy, Bob Bjorkus And because he is the Son of God, God in flesh, infinite in being, that offer stands for every one of you here today. That if you would come to Christ with repentance and faith, humbly knowing that you are bringing nothing to the negotiating table, but you are just reaching out an empty hand. Receiving the grace of God at his cost Oh, the exaltation that you will experience. The clarity of thought as you increasingly magnify the Lord. In your own thinking about your career, your family, your friends, your interior life, your mental health, your spiritual being. Know the joy that will begin to be unlocked. As you cast yourself more upon the Lord. If you're humble and hungry, come. Following the service, there are going to be men and women in that back corner. They would love to pray with you. And some of you who are here today need to receive Christ. You need to approach your God and say, here I am, I'm humble and I'm hungry. Forgive me my sins, and I will follow you. And that's the question that I have for you in application. First Christian, do you magnify and rejoice in the Lord? You might think, well, that's easy for Mary to say because, well, she carried the Lord Jesus in her womb. But aren't you also called to carry the Lord Jesus in your heart wherever you go? Aren't you called, dear Christian, to be a Christopher, a Christ-bearer as you move throughout the world in vocation, in hobby, and rest? Aren't you and I called to let Christ live in and through us? And in some respects, we are exactly like Mary. We carry Christ within us that he might be shown to the world. And I would invite you, dear saints of Columbia Presbyterian Church, Magnify the Lord and rejoice. He has done great things for you. What are you allowing to restrain your joy? There's so many things that restrain our joy. So many things that distract us from the beauty and the glory of having Christ within us. It might be for me the house hunt. It might be the fact that one of my dogs wants to go out of the house every 10 minutes and all I'm trying to do is a jigsaw puzzle on the internet. Something utterly ridiculous and mundane that can irritate me. I'm thinking to myself, Björkis, why are you upset about this? You're going to heaven, dude. What in the world? Just get up and open the slider glass door. It's not going to kill you. But you and I forfeit and sacrifice our joy for so many things that are so eternally trifling. It's just it's embarrassing. Is it not? Can I get an amen? I got an amen. And my very last question for you, dear friend, and I hope I get to meet every one of you. I always post up, as the cool kids say, back by that door after the service. Are you humble and hungry? And will you revere God? Because if those three things are true of you, God will exalt you and lift you up. And he will make you his own. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your work in us Lord, we ask your forgiveness for all the ways in which we don't magnify you. We magnify our problems. We magnify our own personalities. We magnify our needs. Lord, we We long to magnify you and to let the knowledge of who you are and what your plan is for us to more and more fill the horizon of our thoughts and form. The schedules that we live by, and the priorities and principles we plan by. Father, forgive us, and we we long to be a more joyful people Lord, help us to be a people for whom every day is, Lord, even in the midst of a terrific storm of celebration, that we can Like Paul says, rejoice. Always. I say again, rejoice. Lord, help us to consider even our trials to be pure joy, as James teaches us. Father, help us to be happy Christians in the household of faith because you have done great things for us. We have been lifted up Lord, forgive us for thinking we are at the bottom. Lord, we have been safeguarded for all generations forever. Forgive us for thinking you've forgotten about us. And Lord, give us great zeal in doing your work, which is above and before all other things. to preach you through whatever vocabulary you've given us, by lifestyle, by word, by deed, by kindness. Father, we just pray that the knowledge of Jesus our Savior would cover this world as the waters do the sea. And we pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.