This is the third of three Lenten Meditations on Mary's love for Jesus as she expressed it. in anointing him just an evening or two before his triumphal entry into Jerusalem to die, anointed him with a flask of precious perfume that she had. $30,000 worth of pure narrow. We've seen that it's uh recorded in three of the Gospels. The first was Matthew that we looked at and focused on chapter 26, verse 8. Why this waste? To look at how much she gave. How much she gave because Jesus was worth that much to her. And we reflected on the question, how much is Jesus worth to you? Do you waste yourself on him? Because he's worth it. Secondly, we looked at Mark's account Mark chapter 14 and we saw again in verse 8 that Mark points out that she did this beforehand. That is, she did what she could. Her priorities were to do it when she had the chance. And we talked about how we need to Get out of the box, as Richard Sharp would put it, do whatever God's calling us to do without delay while we have the chance to do it beforehand And that that is a matter of our priorities. The third account is from John chapter 12. It's a little different. And I want to focus on verse 3 of this account, you see on the screen. Then Mary took about a pint of pure nard, an expensive perfume, she poured it on Jesus' feet, and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. fragrance. John alone points that out. And of course it's it's kind of obvious twelve ounces of exquisite perfume is going to fill the house with the fragrance. But I'm so glad that he pointed out what might seem obvious I imagine that John could never again smell Nard without thinking back on that banquet of Mary's act of love. of their failure as disciples and of Jesus continuing to love them anyway. Fragrance is a powerful thing, isn't it? I think of a time some years ago when I was down at the National Arboretum, and suddenly I smelled this smell that I hadn't smelled for years. And I was immediately engulfed in overwhelming waves of nostalgia because it took me back to my childhood in Pennsylvania and uh the middle of June, getting out of school. Because it was the smell of a privet bush in bloom. And they bloom in the middle of June. And whenever the privet bush bloomed outside my window, I knew school was out And that was more powerful than if you had had a picture or you had described it in words or anything else. The smell Produced all these memories. Smells can make us hungry. You may not think you're hungry until you smell your neighbor's steaks. cooking on the grill, you know, and all of a sudden you have this intense desire to have a steak. You know, or sometimes I'll walk out of my office and I'll smell popcorn. And I just gotta have some popcorn, you know. Just the smell, you know, or Onions frying in a pan, you know. In Genesis 25, it tells us about a time when Jacob and Esau Jacob uh was a guy kind of hung around the house. He was a cook, and uh Esau was out hunting, and uh so one day Jacob made this great stew, and Esau came back famished. And uh he said, I've gotta have some of that stew. Gotta have it or I'll die. Probably a little bit of an overstatement. And Jacob says, uh, well uh what do you give me for it? Well, anything. Well who cares? Well, you know, if I'm gonna die I gotta well he says, Give me your birthright. Sign it over right here. And he did because he couldn't resist the smell of that stew. Fragrance is immediate. It's not like something you analyze. It's either Delectable, it's desirable, or it's repulsive. And so the Bible uses smell, fragrance, odors as a vivid image. Of something which is desirable or something which is repugnant. And that's a vivid image that is very pertinent to this passage this morning. Sometimes the Bible uses smell to describe disgust. In Genesis 34, you see here, Jacob's sons on one occasion tricked the Canaanites in their area. so that they could wreak revenge on them for violating their sister Dinah, and they massacred them. And uh Jacob said, uh You brought trouble on me by making me a stench. I stink to the Canaanites and the Perizzites because of what you've done. He describes the fact that this is disgusting by saying I'm a stench. On the other hand, Song of Songs uses fragrance to again and again picture the intense pleasure And enhance the delights of romance. You see in Song of Songs, uh chapter one, verse twelve there Again, again, a number of scriptures to give you these pictures, and so they're on the screen so you don't have to rifle through your Bible to find them, but they're listed there so you can look them up at home, meditate on them. In Song of Songs 112, while the king was at his table, my perfume spread its fragrance. And the word perfume there is the same word that you have in the Gospel accounts. It's the nard that Mary anointed Jesus with. It's that expensive perfume. In Song of Songs 4, you have uh three times Uh she says, uh, how much more pleasing is your love than wine and the fragrance of your perfume than any spice. Your lips drop sweetness as the honeycomb. My bride, milk and honey are under your tongue. The fragrance of your garments is like that of Lebanon. And she says, Awake, north wind, and come, south wind, blow on my garden that its fragrance may spread abroad. And let my lover come into his garden and taste its choice fruits. That's why, guys, that when you look for a kiss in the morning, you sometimes don't get it, because we don't tend to wake up fragrant, do we? So it's very important. So when God describes the effect of the animal sacrifices for sin or commitment or thanksgiving, he does it in terms of smell. Leviticus describes this again and again. If you look at Leviticus chapter 1, verse 9, for instance, the description of the sacrifice. Talks what the priest is to do, and then says it's a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. And that's a refrain that if you go through those first three chapters of Leviticus, you see every few verses after it describes a sacrifice. It was an aroma pleasing to the Lord, an aroma pleasing to the Lord. Now of course this isn't saying that God has a nose and he enjoys the smell of burnt fat and burnt meat. It's saying that God spiritually is delighted in the offering of these sacrifices that turn away his wrath. to forgive and to have pleasure in his people. So it's talking about his favor Israel, of course, like us, became superstitious. They thought somehow these offerings worked a little magic, you know, you give the offering and that makes God happy. And so in Isaiah chapter 1, God describes that it isn't just the physical offering. Stop bringing your meaningless offerings, he says. Your incense is detestable to me. It stinks. It's not a matter of what it is physically, it's what it is spiritually. And Ezekiel describes a day when Israel had been cast out of God's land because of his displeasure, because they had turned religion into superstitious self-righteousness. Something which we are still prone to do, even Evangelical America. Not that CPC is immune from that. It's rooted in our self-righteous hearts, isn't it? And Ezekiel describes a time when God is going to show his people their need for his sacrifice, for his provision for them. And he describes that day as a day when he will bring them back to themselves in Ezekiel chapter 20. And you see there that he says in verse 41, I will accept you as a father. fragrant incense when I bring you out from the nations and gather you from the countries where you've been scattered, you're going to be fragrant. Now, all of that's a background for John chapter 12. So when you come to John chapter 12, you have this rich imagery throughout the Old Testament about fragrance and odor and what is fragrant and what stinks. When Mary offers this this fragrant perfume to Jesus, we see that he received it as a delightful fragrance from her. Now the disciples didn't. They didn't say, man, does that smell good? They just start criticizing her. They just think of all the money it cost. Well, you know, what a waste. Jesus defends her, says, leave her alone This was a beautiful thing. I delight in what she's done. He receives it as fragrant to him But I believe that there's more here than that. I believe that the odor, the fragrance which was fragrant to Jesus was secondly in your outline an odor that made Jesus fragrant. There's a picture here, I believe, for us of the gospel. It was just a short time before this that you remember Mary's brother Lazarus had died. And Jesus didn't come quick enough to rescue him when he was dying, and so he died, and when Jesus got there, he had been dead four days. He got to the tomb and and he said, Open up the tomb. And it's oh Lord, I don't think you want us to do that. He's been dead four days. He stinks. It's the smell of death And Jesus, remember, illustrated the resurrection and his power, and he raised Lazarus up to life. Now they're celebrating that at this banquet, and Mary understands that Jesus is going to die. He will have the smell of death upon him. She's heard him say he's going to rise again. But there's going to be that period of death. So she is anointing him for his burial But of course you can't know the implications of all of what is involved in that. But I believe in God's providence. Mary is anointing Jesus as a fragrant offering for sin. Now why do I say that? Because if you look back at the good old book of Ephesians, do you see Paul describing how you and I are to behave putting away are anger and maliciousness and to love one another. He says in Ephesians chapter 5 and verses 1 and 2, be imitators of God, therefore His dearly loved children and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as what? A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Jesus was a fragrant offering to God. And Mary is picturing that by bringing upon him a fragrance as he goes to his death. He is the picture. This is the picture now of his being the final fragrant offering for sin. You see, your self-centeredness, my self-centeredness are a stench to God. It drives him from you. I remember seeing uh after the tsunami had swept in the Pacific uh back you know a little over a year ago. They said that rescue workers couldn't go into certain areas because the stench of death was so overpowering they simply couldn't get into the area. Stench, the stench of death drives you away. We have upon us the stench of death in God's nostrils. And it drives him from us. I remember many years ago reading about an ad uh for a Corvette. It was a Corvette that was just a few months old and it was on sale for $400. Had not been in an accident. Why would somebody sell a nearly new Corvette for $400? And nobody was leaping to it. Because the original owner was out for a drive in it one day, had a massive heart attack, and he died in his Corvette. And nobody found him for a couple of weeks. They said you could not get the smell out of that car. They would unload it for 400 bucks if you'd take it. We can't stand the smell of death. God can't stand the smell of sin, which is death. So he puts that upon his son We think we can come to God, you know, our our st our stench is like bad breath. Everybody knows you have it except you And we come and we say, God, here I am. Aren't you lucky? I want to serve you. I want to worship you. And we don't realize That we bring the stench of death in our sin and our self-centeredness. I saw a bumper sticker just last week that said, it really is all about me Now there is one honest dude. It really is all about me. You know, and that's what we think. Jesus was the one man who ever lived that said it's all about the Father. And he lived his life as a living sacrifice. And then it comes to this final week, and Mary anoints him to make him a pleasing offering now. Now to offer himself up, the sin offering to God in your place and in my place. Christ loved us. He loved you enough to die for you, gave himself up for you as a fragrant offering, pleasing, satisfying to God. He was delighted to bruise him, to curse him, for your sake and for my sake. And Jesus died as that offering for sin. And the father was delighted in that offering, so that Ezekiel says, you could be a fragrant offering to him. You see, that fragrance, the fragrance of Jesus, a fragrance that you and I need to explore more. You know, as I said before, fragrance is immediate. It's not something you analyze. And I think so often we we sort of analyze Jesus, we think about this part of him and that what he did. And there's times when you just need to come before Jesus and it's as if you you kind of need to just smell him. You need to smell his gentleness, his wisdom, his ability to handle every situation, his undying, unchanging love for you, and just bask in that. And say, Jesus, you are so fragrant to me. And then you know what happens? The more you do that. The more you begin to take on his fragrance. Now, why do I say that? Because if you look at 2 Corinthians chapter 2, In verse 15, Paul says, amazing statement, for we are to God the aroma of Christ. I was thinking about that this week when I was preparing this, and I was thinking of again, I think of my shortcomings, I think of my half-hearted prayers, I think of how cold my heart is in lavish worship of him. And I think of all these things and I think how displeased he must be with that. And he reminded me from this verse. Alan, you're a fragrant aroma to me. I'm not a fragrant aroma. Look at my look at my life. Look at the shabbiness. No, no, no, no. I didn't say that somehow from within you there emanates this fragrance. You are the aroma of my son. The aroma of Christ comes upon you, brothers and sisters, as you come to Christ And you become to God a delightful fragrance. Can you believe that? Can you believe that you are to him a delightful fragrance this morning? In all your half-heartedness, in your disobedience, in your succumbing to temptations, it's not about you. It's the aroma of Christ upon you. You see, this aroma that Mary. Poured on Jesus, thirdly, made her fragrant She takes her hair and she wipes that fragrance of his feet, wipes it into his feet. And as she does that, John says. The whole house was filled with a fragrance. Mary's hair was filled with that fragrance. Wherever Mary went for the next few days, She carried the fragrance of Christ. That's what that kind of perfume does. You know, I wish that I could perfume you to get the idea. Now see, this is um this is Burberry. This is a mere $60, $65 a bottles. Christmas gift from my wife. You know, and I just wish I could, you know, go up and down, maybe get the the ushers go up and down the aisles and give you all a little shot, you know, there. So that you get that sense that the the aroma of Christ comes upon you. And what Paul says here is it's not simply that it comes upon you to God. But it's an aroma that is in what we do. So the things that you do in obedience to him are things that are fragrant to him. For instance, when you pray, you know, I mean we think about our prayers and we think, Lord, you know My mind wanders and you know think about Iran, you know, they're gonna get nuclear weapons and you know I've got to pray that they don't. Oh come on, you know, isn't that presumptuous? My my prayer is gonna affect world events, you know. But you know he says it does. In Revelation chapter 5 and chapter 8, our prayers are described as a fragrant incense to him. Revelation chapter 5, for instance. He had a picture of the four living creatures, four twenty-four elders that fall before the Lamb, and each one has a harp, and they're holding golden bowls of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. Chapter 8, verses 1 to 3 tells you that this fragrant incense ascends to the altar of God. And then the response comes back to the earth in power. Now, when you pray, do you view that as incense? This is ascending to the Heavenly Father. He smells it and he says, even as half-hearted as your prayer and mine, it's the aroma of Christ. And it's pleasant to him. He says that when we take up the offering and you give, you give your money, and that money goes to missions, it goes to the spread of the gospel God says that that's a fragrant offering to him. Paul describes it that way, you know, in Philippians chapter 4. He describes what the Philippians did in sustaining him, providing And in verse 18 he says there, I have received full payment, even more. I'm amply supplied. Now I have received from Epaphroditus the gifts that you sent. Those gifts are a fragrant offering, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God. Think of that when we take up the offering. It's not a matter of, you know, write out like a bill, write out Columbia Presbyterian. This is an offering, a fragrant offering. That God receives, and He's delighted in it, because of your heart. He says that your evangelism This is a fragrant offering. Talk about weakness. Gee. Yeah, I mean I stumble and then when I share my faith I always think of all the things I should have said and I didn't, the stuff that I did say and I was dumb and why'd I put it that way? And it's all so weak and But Paul says that when you and I in our weakness share Christ, and God works through that. The results are a fragrant offering. Romans chapter 15, verse 16, Paul talks about as being a minister of Christ. That's not a professional clergy. It's being a minister of Christ to the Gentiles, that is to the nations. He's ministering the gospel. With the priestly duty of proclaiming the gospel of God so that the Gentiles, that is, the nations, the unbelievers, might become an offering acceptable to God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Do you ever look at your evangelism as an offering to God for Him to take and to use? But you know, the interesting thing is that the Bible describes our evangelism. as having a dual effect in terms of odor. Because if you go back to 2 Corinthians chapter 2, you see that passage again, and it talks about the twofold effect. Of the odor. Thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumphal procession in Christ and through us spreads everywhere the fragrance of the knowledge of Him. For we, back what we talked about before, for we are to God the aroma of Christ. But see, it's not just to him, but it's also among those who are being saved and those who are perishing. To one weird of the smell of death, it's a stench, rejection. To Judas, that offering of Mary was stinking. Could have had a lot of money out of that. I remember one time sharing the gospel with a friend, and he had never heard the gospel. I described to him the good news, and as we were talking, it was uh We were doing some research together and we had a little break. And I remember talking to them about this and you know inevitably comes up about well what about those that have never heard the gospel? You know, what about them? What's God going to do with that? Yeah. So I talked about the justice of God and I talked about how their judgment was not based on what they had done with the Christ who had they had not heard of, but it was based on their lives and God would be perfectly just and they'd acknowledge that. But the fact is for you That's not the issue because you've heard the gospel. What are you going to do with Christ? I said, you're now more responsible because you've heard it. He said, you mean to tell me that I'm in worse shape now because I've heard this than if you hadn't told me. I said, absolutely. He said, I wish you had never told me this. That's the stench of death. Some of you kids have grown up in Christian homes and you're still holding Christ at arm's length And you say, I don't know that I want this Jesus in my life. I want to live life on my own. This gospel is to me a stench. That's what you're saying But praise God, he also goes on to say that that gospel is to the other the fragrance of life. And for most of you here, the gospel has been a fragrance of life. Amen? It's something that has changed you. It is something that has attracted you to Christ. And so your lives are a demonstration of its fragrance. Now it's important that we hold the balance in this. Some of us view that the gospel is always going to produce a stench. You know, unbelievers are always going to hate us and reject us for the gospel. But he doesn't say that. He says there's some that's going to be a fragrance of life. There's other people, other Christians say, well, you know, if we just do it right and we're just kind enough and everybody's going to love us and it'll come to Christ. He doesn't say that. Sometimes it's going to be a stench of death. Be careful we don't kind of fulfill our expectations. They tend to be if fulfilled. If I think it's always going to be a stench, it probably will be. If I think that God is going to save some people, then he probably will. And so you and I need to hold in balance. The gospel has a dual effect under the sovereignty of God. The sun, it's a smell of death. To others, by his grace, it's the fragrance of life. So we hold it out. We trust him in what he will do, because when we spend time with Jesus, And we take on his fragrance. The world looks and they see in a world of economic uncertainty, a world of a possible pandemic of avian flu. We'll talk about that this Thursday. Bring your friends, come on and hear about what we can do to prepare to think about this, to be praying about it. What about the stress at work? The you know, some people even get phone calls in the worship, you know, you never can shut out the world. And and you know, and and then there's the suffering, and people look at your life, and if they see in you a life of peace, there's a fragrance about that. I think of Christiana Tsai, the Chinese lady who was born in the early part of last century She was born to a very rich Chinese ruler, had 24 children. And with 24 children, she still had two personal servants. This guy was rich. She was seventh sister nicknamed Too Much. Too many girls out of this tribe wanted more sons. But still, she was overprotected and doted on and she wanted to get a good education. She wanted to learn English and she wanted to learn music again, early part of last century. So they sent her to a mission school because that's where she'd get the best education. What they didn't count on was that she heard the gospel, she became a Christian. Foreign religion was repugnant. To the Chinese, and so she was persecuted by her family, didn't sit very well with them. In fact, her brother ripped up her Bible and persecuted her relentlessly During that time she fell in love with a fellow who was at the school. He was a very um Committed Christian fellow. He wanted to bring the gospel to China, and so he decided to go to seminary, went to America to go to seminary. Unfortunately, he picked the wrong seminary, picked a seminary that didn't believe in biblical gospel, and she saw through the years of their correspondence his zeal for the Lord cooling until he began to mock supernaturalism. gospel things. And she realized she had come to a great decision in her life. My hero or my lord? She says she struggled with that for weeks. Lord, what what do you want me to do? I'm engaged to this guy. I've been going with him for five years. It'd be disgrace to cut this off. My hero or my Lord. And finally she had no rest and she finally brought it to him as a sacrifice. Said, Lord, I can't turn against you. And she broke the engagement. The fragrance of the sustaining of Christ in her life brought a number of people to Christ in seeing her, just watching. what she had paid for that and how she continued with deepening joy and peace in her own life. But then she contracted malignant malaria Which produced parasites that got into her bone marrow and into her brain cells. As a result of that, she was unable to move for 17 days. She was unable to speak for eight months. She was unable to open her eyes for a year and a half. And then she spent the next twenty-two years in bed in a darkened room. Thanks a lot, Lord. But she cleaved to Christ. She went to him for sufficiency. She went to him for the fragrance that she couldn't get anywhere else, and the fragrance of Jesus rubbed off on her. As people came to see her and got to know her one after another, they became Christians through the fragrance of her life. Let me read to you what she writes in a book that she wrote back in the 50s, Queen of the Dark Chamber. That's what they called her. And she writes this toward the end of the book. During my illness, sixth brother came to see me frequently. All these years he and his family had persistently refused to accept the Lord, but now he was moved at my suffering. One day, unknown to me, and on his own initiative, he called the members of our family together. They gathered, wondering what he had to say, but he soon told them. I have an announcement to make to you, he said. I have been to see Seventh Sister many times and wondered how she can endure all this suffering. Now I can see that she has been given some sustaining power and can only explain it as coming from God. So I have decided there must be a God after all. I have read the Bible and realized that I'm a sinner. So here and now I want to tell you that I have accepted Christ as my Savior, asked Him to forgive my sins. And promised to follow him. And so the brother who tore up my Bible and persecuted me in the early days at last confessed, my Lord. In all, fifty-five of my relatives, adults, and children, have become God's children and expressed their faith in Jesus I've never been to college or theological seminary, and I'm not a Bible teacher. I have only been God's hunting dog. I simply followed at the heels of my master and brought to his feet the quarry that he sent me after. Not only in the words you say Not only in your deeds confessed, but in the most unconscious way is Christ the Lord through you expressed. Is it a beatific smile? A holy light upon your brow? Oh no. I felt his presence when you laughed just now. For me, 'twas not the truth you taught to you so clear, to me so dim. But when you came in love to me, you brought in you a sense of him. And from your eyes he beckons me, and from your lips his love is shed, till I lose sight of merely you, and see Jesus Christ instead. Brothers and sisters, fragrance is not a skill. It's not a knowledge that you acquire. It simply comes from spending time with Jesus. It is your life. Do you want that kind of fragrance? You can have it as much as you want Jesus. For it's from him that you get it. Let's pray. So, Lord our God, we confess before you that we have upon us the stench of death without Christ. Our self-centeredness stinks to you. But you, Lord Jesus, have become that fragrant offering that has taken our sin and And you have removed its stench so that we come before God as the aroma of Christ delighting you. The weakest Christian of us here is an aroma to you. Because we bear the aroma of Christ. Lord, give us the desire to rub ourselves against you, to inhale your fragrance, to spend time. delighting in you so that your peace and your love come upon us in the fragrance of your being. Wasps from us to our family, to people at work, to friends and neighbors, that you would be pleased to draw through that fragrance others. To see Christ. Lord, give us that longing, that desire for your fragrance. In Jesus' name. Amen.