I hate waste. Ask my wife. She'll tell you how I follow her around the house, turning the lights out that she leaves on in the various rooms. How um if the kids leave um half a glass of juice left And they don't have green stuff coming out their nose, I'll drink the rest of the juice because I'm not going to throw it away. She'll tell you about the time that she once left food. in our refrigerator and forgot to clean it out and was there for a couple of weeks and she was out one night and I made the kids eat it. And I ate it too. And I still hear about it every Father's day. It's my my philosophy if if meat isn't green and smelly, there's nothing wrong with it You sort of get the idea, right? So when I come each Easter to this passage in Matthew 26, Of Mary's pouring a full twelve ounces of extremely expensive perfume to anoint Jesus, there's a part of me that resonates with a concern about waste. You see the Greek there, why this waste in verse 8? The Greek word waste means To squander something by misuse. It has two ideas to it. The first is giving more that's the necessary, giving too much for something. Uh you know, never pay more than you need to, always buy it on sale, always shop the giant specials and use your special project CPC cards so that We get four percent back to build stuff, you know, and uh you know, that's that kind of thing. You know, don't pay interest, always pay cash, save up. Don't squander The other idea that's involved in that word is an impractical investment, something that's not useful, spending unwisely, like using an evening's leisure to watch TV sitcoms or American Idol. And that judgment, by the way, is not shared by my wife nor by the pastoral staff of this church. But each of us has our own judgment about what is a good use or ill use of discretionary time, what's a waste, and what is a good investment. It's even harder to judge what is waste when it comes to the matter of a lavish act of love. I still remember many years ago. I was home, it was a Monday. And my wife was up at the school that was just a few blocks from us, and I knew she was going to be walking home And uh about the time she was coming home, all of a sudden the sky darkened, and we had a terrific dump of a thunderstorm And I thought, uh, maybe I should jump in the car and go up and pick her up. And then I thought, well She's already on her way home. She's probably already soaking wet. It'd be kind of a waste to get in the car and go out and get her when she's already soaking wet anyway. When she got home, I found out that was Not good judgment. That was a selfish protection of myself. And I learned that day in a new way that what may seem like waste If it's done to show somebody concern, if you just put yourself out, that's not waste. Even to pick her up soaking wet would not have been a waste. It would say, I care for you. Frederick Bartholdi, who was the sculptor of the Statue of Liberty last century, when he sculpted that knew that when he was doing her head, the top of her head was over 300 feet above ground. But he decided to invest as much effort into sculpting her hair above her crown before airplanes, thinking that no one would see it. As he did the rest of the statue, because it was an act of devotion. This past week has been St. Patty's Day, we think of Irish Celtic culture. And the pre-Christian Celts worshipped the swamp god. They would carve uh intricately bowls, some were golden. And what's interesting as archaeologists have discovered these bowls is that some of the most intricate, detailed work is on the bottom of the bowl. See you sit the bowl on the table and the some of the best work is on the bottom where you can't see it. And then they realized that when the devotee would take that bowl and lift it in adoration to the swamp god The idea was the swamp god got the best picture of the bottom of the bowl. It was an act of devotion, and to them, no waste. So, when we come to this intriguing story of Mary's devotion, which is told in three of the four gospels. Jesus says that wherever the gospel's preached, this story will be told in memory of her. You see, Jesus did not think that this was a waste. And this spring, as we approach Easter, I would like to spend three messages on this incident of Mary pouring this perfume on Jesus and the disciples' reaction that it was a criminal waste. It's found in Matthew, Mark, and John. And we'll spend one week on each. Apparently, as I said, Jesus did not think that this was a waste. So what was going on here? Well, you remember, it's just days before the Passover. A dinner is being given in honor of Jesus. Apparently gratitude for his having raised Lazarus from the dead and having healed Simon from leprosy. And he's still called, even after his healing, Simon the Leper. The feast is held in Simon's house, possibly because his house was larger and could accommodate more people. The idea that you get about Mary and Martha and Lazarus is that they were not poor, but they were not rich. There are no servants serving here. As usual, you see Martha serving for the meal. And Mary, though as I said, they're probably not rich, has one very special treasure. It's an alabaster jar, a very expensive perfume, pure, undiluted, uncut gard. This is an aromatic herb that's from the Himalaya Mountains between Tibet and India. It had to be carried by camels for hundreds of miles, then processed. and placed sealed in an alabaster jar. Now, here is what it looked like. See the next slide. It would have been that stone, alabaster, is a white stone, sometimes translucent when it's carved, and then the top is totally sealed. it uh would look something like this. This was a a a jar that I or that I got um many years ago at a particular shop that I like in Cape Cod. I treasured it. It would have looked something like that. Now, I took that to St. Mary's County last week when I preached this message. down there and afterwards I put it on the table and uh it fell off the table and it broke and I thought what a waste There it is. But you see, the disciples are reclining around the table, and Mary comes in. With this jar, and she purposely breaks off the neck. It's not that have a screw top. It's not like she can say, okay, I'm going to take a couple dabs here and then seal it back up again. She breaks it. And she proceeds to pour this ointment, this nard, on Jesus' head, on his body, and on his feet Because get the three Gospels together and all three are mentioned. So he she pours it over his whole body from head to toe. And then she undoes her hair And she uses her hair to rub in the nard in that fragrance into his body and on his feet. Now, uh this pretty shocking act for a number of reasons that we'll look at, but um in a few seconds the fragrance of that nard must have filled the whole house. And there's a stunned silence. People kind of taking in, is she really doing what we're thinking she's doing? And they watch But the interesting thing is that that stunned silence isn't broken by words of awe and admiration for what she's done. Rather, the silence is broken by Judas Iscariot saying, Why this waste? This is criminal. Do you know how much that was worth? Twelve ounces of that uncut nard in that alabaster vase was worth on contemporary market about $30,000. Now that beats anything I have found at Woody's or uh I mean at uh you don't even have Woody's any here anymore. I mean uh you know, Lord and Taylor or Nordstrom's or any of those. Um thirty thousand dollars. And so He says this could have been sold for $30,000 and the money could have been given to the poor. This is criminal What's worse is that all the disciples agree with her. It's the same, you know, the other just gospel saying that they they kind of piped in and Yeah, can't believe she did that. Now can you imagine taking the thing as your most precious treasure, sacrificing it in an act of lavish display of love? And then being totally misunderstood and criticized for doing it How that must have hurt Mary's heart. But not by Jesus. Look what Jesus says. Next slide, verse 10. Aware of this, Jesus says to them, Why are you bothering this woman? She's done a beautiful thing to me. The poor you will always have with you, but you will not always have me. When she poured this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. I tell you the truth. Wherever the gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done also will also be told in memory of her. Jesus deeply appreciates what she did and he defends her. In fact, through this act, she has shown herself to not only be his most devoted disciple, but also his most insightful disciple. And we'll get back to that in a minute. But first I want to contrast Mary's view of Jesus with that of Judas and the disciples. Because I think you could make a case that Judas represents here the world's view. The unbeliever's view. Mary has just spent $30,000 on Jesus because to her he is worth it. In the next few verses, you see Judas going out, and he sells Jesus for about $400. What a contrast in their estimation of his worth. You see, the world thinks that if you want to get into Jesus, you know, spirituality is a good thing. If you find religious satisfaction in Jesus, that's fine. Just don't get carried away. Let's just take this too far. Keep it in bounds. Be practical. Make sure that what you have you're able to use for yourself. You know, and indulging yourself is really important because you're worth it. Uh one of you gave to me a an article. It's probably about the the quintessential extreme of the kind of self-indulgence we can get into. This is an article. that talks about how you can for one million dollars be totally made over. Now uh you can see me for this article if you want afterwards um but for a million dollars what do you get? Well you know you get Total full-body liposuction, tummy tucks, thigh lifts, skin care, cosmetic dentistry, earlobe repair. Don't like your earlobes? Hey, no problem. You know, everything, nose, hair, the whole the whole works, everything. You'll be totally made over and you get to recover in the Waldorf Astoria with a new wardrobe. Because, as L'Oreal has been telling you for years, you are worth it, right? You're worth it. He's not worth it. You're worth it That's the world's view, isn't it? We are worth everything. But what's Jesus worth We're worth a million-dollar makeover if we can afford it. Watch Mini in his book, The Normal Christian Life. Watch Mini is rather controversial as a writer, but there are a number of things that he says that I think are very insightful and also in this book. Talks about an experience he had as he grew older. He had come to Christ and he had served Christ. He had been a law student and he had um through a number of um persecutions and difficulties. had uh found his health and his career had been sacrificed. Came back from Shanghai to his hometown of Fuchiao One day he said I was walking along the street with a stick, very weak and in broken health, and I met one of my old college professors. He took me into a tea shop where we sat down. He looked at me from head to foot, from foot to head, and then he said, Now look here. During your college days we thought a great deal of you. And we had hopes that you would achieve something great. Do you mean to tell me that this is what you are? Looking at me with penetrating eyes, he asked that very pointed question. I must confess that on hearing it, my first desire was to break down and wheat. My career, my health, everything had gone. And here was my old professor who taught me law at schools asking me, are you still in this condition with no success, no progress, nothing to show? But the very next moment, and I have to admit that in all my life it was for the first time I really knew what it meant to have the spirit of glory resting upon me. The thought of being able to pour out my life for my Lord flooded my soul with glory. Nothing short of the spirit of glory was on me then. I could look up and I could, without reservation, say, Lord, I praise you, this is the best thing possible. It is the right course that I have chosen. To my professor, it seemed like a total waste to serve the Lord. But that's what the gospel is for, to bring us to a true estimate of his worth. Or I think of another Mary, a Mary and Julius, who served the Lord in The Makuru Slum of Nairobi, Kenya. They live in a 10x10 building made of corrugated steel. The neighborhood is overcrowded and has open sewers. Malnutrition and diseases like tuberculosis, AIDS, malaria, typhoid, and others are rampant. Alcoholism, prostitution, child abuse, and violence of all kinds are prevalent. Why do they live there? Julius has a Bible school degree. He has a number of options in that culture. But that's where they're from. And they wanted to bring the gospel back to those people, and they knew to do that, they'd have to live there. Someone asked her, How is it that you can live in this place? And she said, when I think about what is hard about living here, I just stop and I think about Jesus, who left heaven to come down to earth to live with us. Compared to his sacrifice, this is nothing. The world says it's ridiculous. It's irrational. You can't explain it. Only a heart that has been changed by Jesus Christ could understand why someone would do that. Now I'm not saying this morning that God is calling you and me to live in slums like that or to have our health broken as with Watchman Knee. After all, Mary was still living in her home. We don't know what happened to her after. But the point is that whatever your devotion to Jesus leads you to do, it won't make sense to the world. And you will look different. And you will be criticized. The question is, is he worth it? The second thing is to see that this is not just to the world, but Mary's value of Jesus is actually in contrast to the other disciples. Those that knew him and love him. In contrast to what I call the average Christian's view, it's not just Judas, but the others also criticize her. Christians so often think of Jesus in terms of what we get from him rather than what we give to him. We look to his hand rather than to his face. We judge in terms of usefulness or success, where the poor helped. Jesus says there's something more important to ask. Was I satisfied? And he says he was satisfied. And that's more important than at that point in history for the poor to have been ministered to. Last month, in the wake of all the furor about the Danish cartoons depicting Muhammad This one two-page picture was in Time magazine. It's a Muslim in a protest rally holding up this large placard saying I sacrifice everything for my prophet Muhammad. Could you and I hold up such a placard and say, I sacrifice everything for my Savior, Jesus You notice the contrast. I sacrifice everything for my prophet Muhammad. A prophet is someone who tells you how you need to live. But you and I would hold up a placard. I sacrifice everything for my Savior. Jesus isn't simply a prophet. Jesus doesn't simply tell you how you need to live. Jesus lived the life that you couldn't live. Jesus wasted himself coming from glory and eternity to take on a body So that he could die as a sacrifice for your sin and my sin. So that we would be able to behold his glory forever. I sacrifice everything for my Savior. Jesus? How does your heart respond? Would that be dishonest? Would that be mockery You see, Mary isn't simply displaying devotion to Jesus in this anointing. This is actually an act of faith. Mary is preparing him, according to verse 12, for burial. Jesus says, when she poured this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. You see, of all his disciples, Mary was his best listener. Mary is the one who heard him with her heart. Four times, you see them listed there in your bulletin outline, four times, at least, that are recorded in Matthew's gospel, he had told them that he was going to die. Each is a little different. They proceed with increasing detail. The last one is just kind of a summary, and it's right here just before this feast. So they've just heard it in verse 2. As you know, the Passover is two days away, the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified. Luke tells us in his account that the disciples were absolutely clueless. Luke says they didn't know what he was talking about. In fact, what they proceed to do after that announcement is to argue about who's going to get the best seat in the kingdom. Now, can you imagine that? How alone Jesus must have felt coming to this dinner. But Mary heard him with her heart. And so Mary understood what he was saying. Now, why is it that Mary understood him? Mary appears three times in the Gospels. In every case, you see her at the feet of Jesus. The first is in Luke 10, where you see that account of Martha serving and Mary sitting at Jesus' feet. And you remember Martha criticizes her and says, you know, a lot to be done around here, yeah, get the floor. Food on the table and get things straightened up. And why don't you have my sister help? And Jesus says, Mary, you're distracted, you're upset, you're fretful. There's only one thing needed at this point. I'm here. Take advantage of that. Mary has chosen the better priority. So he defends her. Second time is after Lazarus' death And again, Martha is upset. Mary's also upset. You see her at Jesus' feet. She's weeping, slobbering over his feet. She's crying out, Lord, if you had been here, my brother wouldn't have died. And nevertheless, and it talks about resurrection. He says, I'm the resurrection. And then what does he do? He comes through for it. He illustrates the resurrection. He raises Lazarus from the dead. So the third time you see Mary, it's at Jesus' feet again, and now she's anointing him. And again he has to defend her. But what she's saying in that, I believe that what Mary's saying in that is, Lord, I've heard you. You have said you're going to come to this Passover to die. To waste yourself for us. And you must feel so alone. And I want you to know that there is somebody here Who appreciates what you're going to do? I don't want you to feel alone, Lord. I want to show you that I love you. But it's not only a statement of love, it's a statement of faith. Because he says, She anointed me for my burial. What does that mean? I can't be absolutely clear what she knew, but I believe That what could have been going through her mind was she knew you don't anoint criminals for burial When a person in that culture was executed as a criminal, there was no opportunity for anointing. They simply threw their body into a tomb. And so, not knowing what's going to happen, what she hears is, you said you're going to die. You're going to be condemned, you're going to be flogged, you're going to die as a criminal. Lord Jesus, you deserve to be anointed. And this is my chance. And you've also said on a couple of those occasions, in three days, you're going to rise from the dead. I'm going to do it now. What a profound statement of love and faith in this anointing. It staggers me to think of the insight and the devotion that this woman had. And so if you are going to express devotion to Jesus You're not going to do it because you take from this message, well boy, you know, you talked about Mary, she gave $30,000 worth of perfume. Boy I guess I had to sell my car, I had to get my body like watch me knee to be broken or go move into a slum. No, that's not the point. That's not the point at all The point is that Mary spent time at the feet of Jesus to learn his worth. I can't tell you what your act of devotion should be to Jesus. You can't tell me. But what I can tell you is if you spend more time at the feet of Jesus and learn his worth He will speak to you about what an appropriate act of devotion and love expressed to him Would be unique to you. You can't do it to impress other Christians. Other Christians may criticize you. They did marry. You do it only for Jesus. You do it only for him. Maybe nobody else will ever know. But that's okay. And so this raises two profound questions. Number of questions it raises, a number of penetrating questions. I only have time for two. The first is, what is Jesus worth to you? What is he worth to you? Now, worth is subjective, isn't it? I mean it's it's what we place on something. And and worth in one instance may be Totally changed in another. You may prize rubies and diamonds, but if you're dying of thirst in the desert, they're not very worthwhile to you. A glass of water would be worth more. If there's any sense of absolute worth, it comes from God the Father. He determines worth. When you look at Jesus, what is he worth? When he was baptized, the Father said, This is my beloved Son. In him I'm delighted. I'm well pleased with him. He said the same basic thing at his transfiguration. When Jesus prayed in his high priestly prayer just before his death, on two occasions in that prayer he said, Father, you have given me glory. The glory that you gave me from before the world, the glory that I want to display to my disciples, that's the glory you gave me. The Father shares his own glory with the Son because they are one in eternity. In Matthew chapter 11, Jesus said All things have been committed to me by my Father. He's given me authority over everything. And he says that again in Matthew 28. So Jesus is of infinite worth. The point of this message is not to act. Simply as if he's of infinite worth when you don't feel it. This is not a guilt thing. It's a call for you and for me to enter into the heart of Mary by sitting at the feet of Jesus. so that he can speak quietly to your heart about his worth, about how he wasted himself on you. Because you are his treasure. And it's as you waste time with him You come to treasure them. 2001, Klaus Isler wrote a book called Wasting Time with God. In last this month's Christianity Today, Philip Yancey talked about spending a number of hours in prayer, going on a retreat. And he says, you know, the idea of meditative prayer where you're not interceding, asking for something, he says, that seems like a waste to us. But he said, I found that as I wasted time with God, just spending time before his presence, doing nothing but opening myself to him, thinking about him. It changed the way I prayed. It was less about me and more about him. So it's a call to waste some time with God. Let me ask you the most searching question that comes to me. How would your life be different? If you understood the true worth of Jesus Christ, how would your life be different How would your priorities be different? How would your notion of waste and expenditure and investment be different? I know it'd be different in my life if I really understood the worth of Jesus Christ. The second question is one that flows from it, and it's a it's kind of a measure of whether you and I are growing in what God does in our lives. And it's this question, see it in your bulletin outline. Do you need to get recognition from others for ministry? Because it's a waste if only Jesus knows? Set up and you take down chairs. And you do it. Because you love Jesus. Maybe somebody twisted your arm. Maybe you said, somebody gonna do it. I'll pull my fair share. But what if nobody else knew you did it? What if there's somebody that has a need in the congregation and you feel like, you know, there's this need, need to lend something, need to give something, need to serve in this way. And not only is nobody else going to know, but this person's probably not even going to appreciate what it costs me to do that. The only person will probably know is Jesus. To make it worth it? Is it worth it simply to please him Some of my greatest pleasures, this is really honest, my greatest pleasures being a pastor at Columbia Presbyterian through the years has been from time to time to discover some ministry that some of you have done. And I often don't tell you that I found out. You never thought anybody'd find out. But I found out somehow, sometimes through crazy little ways, that you did something to serve Jesus And nobody else was to know. Only Jesus. And I think, Lord, what an example to me. Am I willing to serve you with that kind of love? Am I willing to lavish myself on you? Because that's what you're worth to me. And I don't need for other people to give me credit to recognize it. You only get to that kind of place when you spend time at his feet. And so the final question is, is he worth it to you to do that more this week? Through this three-week series to determine to spend each day some time at the feet of Jesus, simply learning more about his worth. About how he wasted himself on you, and how you could express your thanks to him. Let's pray. And so our Father, we want, we we long to discover more of the worth of Jesus. Because we confess that we have such a low estimate of what you are really worth. We see what Mary does, we say, Well, that's nice, and thirty thousand dollars? Boy, that is a little extreme. And then we feel guilty. Oh boy, she did that. What am I doing? Lord, we pray. Come and speak to our hearts to get our eyes that are always so pathetically on ourselves. To look to Jesus. To want to spend time at your feet, Lord Jesus, and discover more of your worth. To discover your heart and to discover why in the world would you waste yourself on us. And out of our love to I want to anoint you with a gift of our hearts. And let you speak to us on what that is. Lord, would you do that for each of us? For me and for the rest of us here, I pray. This week, begin to speak to us about that Maybe discover the love, the kind of love that Mary had, that led her to do startling things, and yet things that gave you great pleasure. You were pleased. She's done a beautiful thing to you, you said. You didn't despise it. You didn't ignore it. You treasured it. Teach us what that means, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen.