Thank you, Jim. You notice there it says, Quiet my restless heart in you. Quiet my restless heart to see you Do you know if you were to uh Google the words anxiety and worry You would be directed to six hundred and forty thousand websites. It's a big issue. Big issue. And Jesus in the second half of this chapter six in the Sermon on the Mount addresses this matter of anxiety and worry. A matter that all of us struggle with. Every one of us. But let me ask you: do you see yourself particularly as a warrior Do you find that you're distracted by anxiety? Are you distracted by thinking of all the things that could go wrong? Later on today, this week, next month, next year, the elections, the economy. Things in your family or your lack of a family. And so much in our culture, the news, advertising Feed fears. Just yesterday I got this card in the mail, and it says, Fires damage 381,000 homes a year. But There's a bigger threat to your home. What is it? Termites. You get them every April, right? Termites they're going to eat your home. They're going to destroy all that you've invested and live in. See, constant anxiety, fears What's interesting to me is that in the first part of chapter six, Jesus had dealt with the problem of accumulating and acquiring. You get more stuff and more stuff, and he directs us to to invest in heaven rather than building it all up here. Now in the second part of the chapter, he doesn't deal with uh how to enlarge your 401k or get a bigger house or the rest of that. He deals with the most basic things in life. Food and clothing. I mean he doesn't even deal with shelter here. And he says the most basic things in life are things that you do not have to worry about. Now, in a crowd like this, there's probably not many of you that are worried about your next meal. You're probably not really worried that you're going to have enough to eat this week or that you're going to have enough clothes. But what's interesting is that poor people have no corner on anxiety. In fact, one of the characteristics of overachievers is that we're always looking for the future and what could go wrong And how to worry about it and fret and deal with it. In fact, some of you are professional warriors You have jobs that involve anticipating problems, whether it's national security or other things, and your job is to solve the problems. But there's a sharp distinction between anticipating a problem to solve it and fretting and worrying, finding your muscles tense. Unable to relax, unable to believe that you have a Heavenly Father who knows your need and will take care of you. That's exactly what Jesus addresses here. And as I meditated on this passage, verses 25 to 34. I came up with ten reasons that Jesus gives you not to worry. Now, if I gave you ten reasons not to worry, You would consider those and say, what makes sense? Yeah, I think he's maybe got something here. Kind of off base there But I remind you as we look at these reasons, they are from Jesus Christ, God in the flesh. They are from His infinite wisdom and power, and therefore every reason Jesus gives you is absolutely true and trustworthy. One would be enough, but he gives you ten. So, unless you are afflicted with a condition known as GAD, generalized anxiety disorder, where you need medical attention. Christians can have generalized anxiety disorder. It is something that needs treatment and needs medication. Some people need to get that. But let me just mention and caution us that in our society, there may be the tendency to too quickly say, I'm feeling anxious, I'll get medicated. There must be the discerning of what might be physical and what is spiritual. But all of us here Need the words of Jesus to hear them and to apply them. So let me give you ten reasons. I'm giving you five this week. But don't worry, I'll give you the other five next week. Alright, so first five reasons. Number one Because he commands you to not worry three times. He commands you to not worry. Verse 25. Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink, or about your body. Verse 31, so do not worry, saying, verse 34, therefore do not worry. About tomorrow. You notice he does not say try not to worry. You notice he does not say worrying will give you ulcers, so watch out. He doesn't say, here are some biofeedback techniques to help you not worry. He doesn't say, take pills or have a drink. He commands you, do not worry. And some of you are thinking at this point, fine. So now when I worry, I'll also feel guilty about my worrying. Thanks, Al. Big help. But no, really, it's good news. The fact that Jesus commands you to worry means that you have a choice. It means that you can obey by the Holy Spirit that command. That's good news. So that when you're in a situation, take for instance last Sunday afternoon, we had the Discoverers Dinner, had a great dinner downstairs, played some games. We're just leaving, the Penningtons are taking off, and we notice little Braden, just a few months old, little Braden, his eyes start rolling back in his head, and he looks like he's going into a seizure. So I rush over to Howard County General. And in those moments as a parent, when you see your child going into a seizure, you think of all the possibilities and you realize you have no guarantee of the outcomes. The confidence, the reason that they cannot be consumed with worry and anxiety, as in fact was the case, that they that God met them, was the character of God. That was their only confidence at that point. God, you are our Father. You command us to not worry because we can trust you. Now let me give you a trivial example. In my own life, that just this week was something that I experienced in this. And I didn't experience it because I was preaching on it. But Wednesday I had um colonoscopy. Get them every five years, whether I want them or not. And uh I had to have this down in Laurel. Needed to be there at nine o'clock for the prep. Procedure was right at nine thirty. It's very important you be here right on time. My ride was Kathy, my wife. She needed to get to work at 6. 30, so she had to come back. He said, please be back at 8. 30 so we can get there on time. 8. 30 comes, no Kathy, 8. 35. She's not here, 8. 40. She pulls up. She was held up. She had no was no option. But I get in the car and I'm anxious. Because what happens in your flesh is you begin to conjure up all the possibilities, right? I'm going to get the minimum is going to get there late. They're going to be irritated. And I'm going to be embarrassed. And I'm going to be a field defensive. Worst case scenario, they'll say you're here too late We're gonna have to reschedule, so you've got to go through the whole procedure of prepping for this thing again in a couple of weeks. You build all this stuff. See, anxiety exaggerates But I remembered that Jesus gave this command. So as I got in the car, I decided, Lord, I need to obey this. I am not going to be anxious. I'm going to just I'm not late yet. You know, so I'm I'm gonna just sit here, Kathy's doing me a favor. Why should I get on her case? Which is not always the way I would think. But, you know, I just chilled out, relaxed, went for the ride Then we get to 198 and there's a backup. And I think, surely now we're going to be late. We got through, she pulled up to the columnoscopy center, one minute after nine, and her parting words were I got you here on time by the hair of my chinny chin chin. Now the chinny chin chin's significant because you see what that means is there wasn't any tension between us. Because the other thing that anxiety does is that it blames. When I feel anxious and I'm worried about something I want to look for somebody else to blame about that. So the fact that I got there and there was no problem Pulled in, no problem, nobody said anything, was fine, but I could have made a major problem If I had indicted her and complained and why can I just say, hey, why can you be here? And all that kind of stuff, you know, that might have destroyed the next week I want to tell you, we had a really good discussion in the middle hour, you know, where we had sermon discussion. And one brother said, I have never seen that in my life I now realize anxiety is sin and all the people I have hurt Because I have lashed out in my sinful anxiety, this brother was broken. There was a woman in the class who was so convicted by what God spoke to her last service in this, she had written a nasty note to some people who had behaved irresponsibly. And she got on her cell phone right after the phone after the service to call and to repent to them on the phone. It's sin. So there was no problem, but there could have been a major problem. Jesus commands you And you need to, by his spirit, choose to not be anxious or worried or fret. Twice in this chapter, Jesus says, you have a heavenly Father who knows what you need. Trust him. Second reason to not worry, Jesus says that life is more than material needs and pleasures. Life is more of the material needs and pleasures. Verse 25. Therefore I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink, or about your body, what you will wear. Is not life more important than food and the body more important than clothes? Well, not if you believe all the ads that you see and hear. Do you realize that the average American, by the time they reach the age of 20, has seen one million ads? And every one of those ads is directed toward the physical, the material. So, what does that do about your perception of reality? Life is basically made up of meeting my material, physical, temporal needs. And I'm anxious if I feel deprived, or if I'm not going to get something, or I might lose something, I don't have something. And Jesus says that one of the major antidotes to anxiety and worry is to recognize That life is more important. It's made up of more than simply the material. Literally, what the Greek says in verse 25 is, is not life more than food and the body than clothes? I need three meals a day. But on Tuesday, I had zero meals And it reminded me that my life is more than satisfying my immediate appetites. It lifted me beyond living simply here in the physical. So each of us needs to recognize your life, my life, is more, more important than simply your next meal or your next new pair of shoes. Now I can't resist this, and I hope it doesn't start domestic strife. I heard recently of a survey on women's shoes. How many pairs of shoes does the average American woman own? I'll let you guess to yourself. The average American woman owns thirty pairs of shoes. And she needs every single one of them. Sometimes a Christian will decide in order to recognize that I don't have to have something by going shopping. is to go on what is called a shopping fast, clothes shopping fast, where you decide that for a period of time, for one month, I am not going into any store looking at any ads about clothes. Just to realize life is more important than food and clothes. Or maybe you'll decide that it better take two months. I don't know, it's for each person. But There are ways that you and I need to back off the things that we're anxious about that generally have to do with getting stuff satisfying this appetite and that thing to say, Lord, life is more important. You've addressed in my heart and my life the big issues, and I need to get that perspective. Third reason: worrying accomplishes nothing. Worrying accomplishes absolutely nothing. In fact, it's counterproductive. Jesus says In verse 27, who of you by worrying can add a single hour to his life? You can't add one hour to your life simply by worrying. And you certainly won't improve its quality How many worriers do you know that you envy because they're so creative in solving the problems they worry about? Worrying gets you so focused in your energy going to the fretting that you are not able creatively to solve the problem. And how many joyful worriers do you know? Worrying just really enhances my life and joy. A joyful warrior is an oxymoron. It's a self-contradiction. Now, I could have worried all the way to Laurel. It would not have gotten me there ten seconds sooner. It could have made it a bad trip. It could have harmed my relationship with my wife for the next few days. It could have hurt her. Could have crushed her and things that I would say, out of my anger and my need to justify myself. Worrying accomplishes nothing Now going from the trivial to something more significant, a few years ago, a couple years ago, I had one of my most serious attacks of anxiety. My son and I, Dean and I were in the wilderness of Nova Scotia And when I say wilderness, I'm saying it was many miles to the nearest town or any kind of civilization. And uh one of the things that we would do on that trip uh frequently is we would get to an area along the sea and we would pick out a spot And uh Dean would set up his oils, his paint, and all, and he'd paint a seascape, and I'd go for a hike for a couple of hours. And so we picked the cove and he was gonna be there in that cove and I said, I'll see you back in a couple of hours and I went off and I did not see a single human being the whole Height. I'm not saying just on the path, I'm saying anywhere in anything. The only thing I saw was the biggest porcupine I've ever seen in my life. I thought it was a bear cub reared up in front of me on the path. Nothing. So after two, two and a half hours, I get back to the cove to find Dean. And there's no Dean. And there's a couple of hours through maybe three hours left of daylight. And so I go from one end of the cove where you can't get beyond it because of rocks. Well, from that end all the way around to the other end where you can't get beyond it because of rocks. And there's no dean. It's about a mile. The whole way. You talk about anxiety Here we are in an absolute wilderness, a place that we are totally unfamiliar with, and my son is gone. Now there was a little beach there and there were a few people there and I asked them nobody had seen them, nobody had seen anybody with oils or anything. So I start praying. And you know what happens when you start praying at that point? You're trying to not be anxious. You're trying to think about all the possibilities. What could have happened? He couldn't have gone for a swim. Then you think about this really friendly couple we saw at lunch and they asked where we were going and we told them Why would they want to kidnap my son? You know, or what else could have happened? He's not here And then you begin to think about the goodness of God. God, can I trust you? God, why would you do this? Where is my son? And you realize all of a sudden how precious he is to you. And you're and you know and you're fighting panic. But I realize if I start to give way to panic and anxiety, I will not be able to think about what needs to be done. Worry accomplishes nothing. So I continue to pray and look around and I go up to the parking lot and there I see a fellow with his family. And I ask, you know, have you seen a a kid with some oils? And I'm going to know we haven't seen But it turns out that this guy is search and rescue that God had provided. He said, Let me take my family home. I know the whole area And I'll come back and we'll find him. So I wait, and twenty minutes, thirty minutes later, he's not back, and I think that's it What am I going to do? And a little while later he came back. We looked for another 30-40 minutes. This guy knew the whole area. And at one point I thought I saw for a tenth of a second fleeting glimpse of Dean. So he headed over to this area that he had never been before. Down through this area, back in this morale, and there's another cove, and there is Dean happily painting He's not worried at all. Doesn't matter, Dad's three hours late. Hey, hey, you know, having fun. Looked at me and he said I think I'm in trouble. How you feel in a moment like that God was good. He enabled. You know, the fellow who was a search and rescue said, I have lived here for years. I didn't know you could get back here. That's what you get by raising your son to hike in the wilderness. Thanks. But you know, the worrying accomplishes nothing Worrying only short circuits your ability to address the difficulty. Jesus says you're not going to add one hour to your life by worrying. Trust me. Fourth reason that he gives. Worry is the pastime of unbelievers. It's what distinguishes the believer. Verse 32, for the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly father knows that you need them. Whatever it is, food, the clothing The basics, the things that He has promised in your life, the things that uh a loving father cares for, his children. But you see, unbelievers don't have a heavenly father to pray to. They don't have someone to go to whose character they know and trust. Besides that, they don't have goals that are beyond this life. So all they run after are the things that they can grab, stuff, relationships, people that are in this life. And if they don't get them, they gotta grasp and run after them. The idea here is this desperate running after to try to possess something So the mark of the believer makes all the difference is that I have a heavenly father who knows what I need, and that life is more than important. Than simply the material things that I can acquire. Finally, fifth reason: the therefore in verse twenty-five Connects verses twenty-five to thirty-four to all that is in the first twenty-four verses. In verse 25, Jesus says, Therefore, I tell you, do not worry about your life. You know the old principle we've talked about for years around here. Wherever you see a therefore, find out what it's there for. When Jesus says, therefore, he is connecting what he says in the following verses to all that he has said previously. Now what has he said? You see in your bulletin outline, again and again he has said, you have a heavenly father. The Sermon on the Mount is divided into three chapters in the English. Each chapter is about some character of God. Chapter 5, he is righteous. Chapter 6, he is a heavenly father. Chapter 7, he is a judge. So this whole chapter is about what it means to live in the presence of a heavenly father. You see it there, verses 1. Four, six, eight, nine, fifteen, eighteen. And then in the verse after this, verse twenty-six, you have a heavenly father who knows what you need. He is the one who not only has a claim on your life, on your heart, your treasure, your values. Everything is centered on him. So what Jesus is doing here is he is connecting these words to the prayer that he had just taught you to pray. And what do you pray in that prayer? Our Father, who is in heaven. And then you remember how we looked at directing all of our thoughts toward. Him. So verse thirty-three in chapter six says, Seek first his kingdom His righteousness. Yes, connecting back to the Lord's Prayer. And all these things will be given to you as well. They're kind of like the afterthoughts. If you fix your mind on what's really important in life, His kingdom, His righteousness. God says, don't worry about this other stuff. You think that's hard for me to provide? Think I can't take care of that? So now look back what he says about the Lord's Prayer. When you pray, our Father in heaven, you're directing your attention to his name, to his kingdom, to his will. That's your focus. That's your emotional. Focus of your concern. Having done that, you then are able to say, give us today our daily bread. Lord, give me healthy relationships where I forgive. And I'm not holding things against people Deliver me from the evil one and all the things that He would want to bring into my life to harm me and destroy me. Lord, take care of me. You see, the Lord's prayer is the prayer That is addressed to anxiety. Now it's more than that, but it applies to that right here. You see, you and I tend to look at worry and anxiety as a problem, and we are the victims. What Jesus wants you to see this morning is that worry and anxiety are sin that you need to repent of. That's what the brother saw in the middle hour. I never saw it was sin But the fact that it's sin is good news for you. Jesus died for sin and sinners. Now think about that for a moment. The Jesus who tells you here, don't worry, don't be anxious. He was not speaking theoretically What was his life like? He didn't say, My life is cushy and I got everything taken care of, but don't you guys worry, don't you be anxious Jesus had no home. Jesus had no income. When Jesus left the carpentry business and gave up that income, He began a ministry, and in that ministry he made powerful enemies. The enemies Jesus made by preaching kingdom and repentance. were people who became convinced that they needed to destroy him. That did not take him off guard. He told his disciples, the Son of Man will be betrayed. Will be tortured, will be crucified. Every day that Jesus moved toward Passover in Jerusalem, he knew was one last day To live before betrayal, torture, crucifixion. How did he live without anxiety and worry? How could he live that? Can you imagine if you knew that in a year or two years you were going to be betrayed, you were going to be tortured, you were going to be crucified And you'd say, and I can live and relax and enjoy life? Jesus lived In a way that astounds you and me in his peace, in his equanimity, because for the joy set before him, he knew the Father had a good and perfect plan. And that he was able to commit himself to that and go in peace to the cross in order to forgive your anxiety. In order to forgive your worry, you're dishonoring him by your distrust of his sufficiency in taking care of you. That's the extent of his love. When Jesus says, do not worry, he is not shouting at you, do not worry. Rather, he is saying to his disciples, Do not worry, my beloved. I have removed the barrier from the all-sufficient God. That he has adopted you as your as his children to take care of you. I have supplied every need. So let me close by asking you to apply that in your own life. What are three things that you worry about? See in there in a bullet and outline. Right now, while we pray, this afternoon, write down three things As you think about these are things that keep coming back and I keep thinking about what could go wrong and I I get anxious and I get distracted. What are three things? Put them down And then secondly, ask yourself, what has Jesus said to me through this message? To this part of the two-part series, what has he said to me right now, this morning, that makes me think differently about those matters? And brings peace to my heart. Let's pray Lord Jesus, we are sorry that we dishonor you with our anxiety. We are filled with shame when we think of people that we have hurt, our husband, our wife, our kids, friends, by our blame, our lashing out. Or self-righteous, it's not my fault that this is all falling apart. All our dreads, all the things that we exaggerate We rob you of the honor of a father who is trusted in caring for his children. That's terrible. Forgive us. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you have provided forgiveness for warriors. For children who don't trust a perfect Heavenly Father. We pray, Lord, that you would enable us to identify those things that Satan uses to rob us of our peace. We would see your words and hear them directed to us and see that you, the one who went through such tension and turmoil. Such an insecure, circumstantially insecure life with enemies all about Lived in peace in relation to your Heavenly Father, and then provided peace for us. And so, Lord, we want to get to know you better. Because if we get to know you better, we will be able to trust you and choose to trust you in those moments of anxiety. Whether it's about being late or about being killed, you are sufficient.