Back in 1992, I received a phone call from Westminster Seminary where I had gone to school back in the 60s. A professor there said we've decided to do a series on total depravity in our chapel. And we would like you to address one of those topics. I thought that was nice. And he said, based on what we know of you, we would like you to speak on total depravity. Not so nice. Well, the passage that I spoke on when I came to give that address was the one that you have before you here, Matthew chapter 15, verses 1 to 20. And I addressed the topic which is becoming increasingly an unpopular topic even within the evangelical church. I was talking to a fellow just recently who said he heard his pastor, an evangelical pastor, declare from the pulpit, I do not believe in total depravity. Now I understand that many people can misunderstand total depravity to mean that you are as rotten as you possibly could be and there is nothing that anybody does that's any good. Particularly unbelievers cannot do anything that's any good. And of course, that is not what total depravity teaches. By God's grace, unbelievers can do many good and loving things, at least from our perspective. I read a book just uh recently, it's an evangelical book, that describes human nature as, quote, fallen but redeemed, flawed, but in essence good. There is a growing, it seems, antipathy toward the biblical teaching that we are not simply flawed but that we are evil to the core. And yet this is exactly what Jesus taught, and it is what marked him as so different from the Pharisees. It's at the core of the difference. in Jesus' teaching and what the Pharisees were teaching. We saw that last week in that the Pharisees thought that the law of God was doable. It's doable when you restrict it to simply the actions that it condemns or commands. In contrast to the Canaanite woman whose life was probably on the surface far less righteous looking than the Pharisees, and yet She came pleading absolutely nothing that she had done or could do in order to seek Jesus' favor. And yet we saw Jesus condemns the Pharisees, but he commends the woman's faith, and he grants to her her request. An accurate diagnosis of an illness is absolutely vital to be able to bring the proper cure. And Jesus' diagnosis of human nature is absolutely unique. It is different from any other religious leader. In the words of Tom Ascott For Jesus, the heart of the heart of the human problem is the The heart of the human problem is the problem of the human heart. And that's what I want to look at in these verses, because what Jesus does is he interacts with three groups of people. And in these interactions we will see the lessons as Jesus unfolds his teaching. And I want you to ask yourself, as I ask myself, do I really believe what Jesus is saying, or do I somehow mute that down to say, I'm not perfect, and I'm not that bad. What does Jesus say about your heart and my heart? Let's look at that this morning. Three points. The first one has to do, it's the three groups of people, the Pharisees, the crowds, and the disciples. And in the first we see that religious rulemaking is always the result of a shallow view of evil and almost always results in hypocrisy. So notice the first point, the hypocrisy, the Jesus and the Pharisees. Jesus and the Pharisees. Remember, they accuse him of ceremonial uncleanness. See that back in verse 1 and 2. Then some Pharisees and teachers of the law came to Jesus from Jerusalem and asked Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? They don't wash their hands before they eat. This was a tradition that they followed scrupulously. Remember, it is nothing to do with dirt. It has to do with defilement. It's not about germs. It's about contact with Gentiles. It's not about hygiene. As you read this, it might strike you as a little Surprising, even off-putting, how sharply Jesus reacts. He reacts in what sounds like almost like a retort. Jesus replied, verse 3, and why do you break the command of God for the sake of your tradition? For God said, Honor your father and mother, and anyone who curses his father or mother must be put to death. But you say that if a man says to his father or mother, Whatever help you might otherwise have received from me is a gift devoted to God. He is not to honor his father with it. Thus you nullify the Word of God for the sake of your tradition. Jesus is referring here to a practice that was called Corban. And the way it went was basically, remember, they didn't have social security or pensions back then. And so when parents got old they would depend on their children, usually, often particularly if they were not well off to help them, support them when they couldn't work. But the way this went in the Pharisees' traditions were was that you would say, well now, God is a higher priority than parents. So therefore, if I declare that what I would have given for your old age support, I am devoting to God. Corban means it's a gift that's devoted to God. Which would have meant that I'm going to give it to the Temple Treasury at some point, that if I have declared that, that exempts me from taking care of you. And you see it, I'm doing it because of my love for God. So you can take care of yourself, you know, fend for yourself some way. This is what I'm doing out of my love for God Now Jesus says that is sheer hypocrisy. And the reason that it's particularly hypocritical was that they further had loopholes that said you actually didn't have to give the gift to God, so long as you intended when you were young and you're Your parents were in need to say that you would someday give the gift to God. Then there were loopholes to get out of it so you could keep it yourself. Now, Jesus was kind to prostitutes. Your Jesus hung around tax collectors. But he hated hypocrites. His response here is much sharper than it was to those whose lives were polluted and in shambles and falling apart. Jesus responds here very strongly because it is a greed that is cloaked in piety. Let me give you a contemporary example. Let's suppose that you're having lunch with a well-known professor, distinguished professor from a well-known seminary. As you sit down, you start eating, and you're enjoying the food, and the professor looks at you aghast and says, excuse me. Did you say grace before you ate? No. I'm thankful to God. The Bible doesn't command anywhere that you have to bow your head and say grace. I'm enjoying the food. But you You're there teaching in seminary and I happen to know that you say that the reason you don't support your parents is because you're giving your money to missions and you've let your parents spend down all their resources so that they would qualify for a state home. And you have let them be there in substandard living, and you'd hardly ever even visit them. And you're talking to me about saying grace. Gives you sort of the idea, you know Jesus loves that kind of hypocrisy. He loves all kinds of hypocrisy. But I mean that that greed that's cloaked in piety is what he's addressing here. He calls it hypocrisy and he uses Isaiah as an example, as his quote to apply it to them. Jesus says, you hypocrites Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you. These people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. They worship me in vain. Their teachings are but rules taught by men. There is nothing in the scripture that commands saying grace before meals. Now don't go around saying Harris is preaching against grace. I'm not preaching that don't say grace. I give thanks before meals. It's a good thing to do. But let me ask you something. Do you bow your head and give thanks for meals when you're alone or just when you're with friends? Is it so that people see that you give thanks? Or is it just something you do because you want to give thanks to God? Hey, no problem. But there are other things like your attitude toward your parents, caring for them, toward your spouse, your family, that are commanded. And Jesus is saying when you start trying to reduce Scripture to something that's doable, manageable, into the externals, your rulemaking will always move toward hypocrisy. Because you are trying to establish your self-righteousness. Now at that point, Jesus then turns to the crowds. Now I picture, you see, that what's going on here is that the crowd, the Pharisees, is an official delegation from They've come up to confront Jesus. And people are always kind of hanging around Jesus and the disciples when they're in any kind of public place. So I imagine the crowds are kind of listening in. Oh boy, look at this. We got, you know, Jesus the big rabbi and we got the biggies from Jerusalem and they're kind of going out, oh hey, who wouldn't love to listen to that kind of uh interchange, you know? And so when Jesus confronts them and calls them hypocrites, I can imagine the people, oh, would you hear that? So now Jesus calls them over. Hey Come on, don't just listen in. I want to address you. So Jesus called the crowd to him and he said, Listen and understand. What goes into a man's mouth does not make him unclean. But what comes out of his mouth, that's what makes him unclean. He probably has in mind there Psalm 24 Which you see it up there is very pertinent to this because the psalmist says there who may ascend to the hill of the Lord, who may stand in his holy place? And you say this is the whole idea of cleanness. Because unclean means you can't stand in God's presence. So who is it that can stand in God's presence? Well he says he who has clean hands. And the Pharisees say, yeah, yeah, see, that's what I said But of course it goes right on with a parallel and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to an idol or swear by what is false. That's the idea. The clean hands are simply a metaphor for a pure heart. That's what is needed to come before God. Now the last nine verses are then directed toward the disciples. Jesus has established the principle. It's not what goes into you. It's what comes out of you. That's what makes you unclean. And so in verse 12, I love verse 12 because Sometimes you need a little levity to you know kind of make the point, lighten things up and and and y what amazes me is most people read verse twelve and they don't think it's humorous I think it's a side splitter. You gotta look at verse 12 for what it's saying. Jesus has just said to this pompous, austere, superior group of officials from Jerusalem You guys are a bunch of greedy hypocrites. And the disciples say, Do you know that they were offended when you said that? Offended. They were outraged. And what it says, this is real insight in that little verse, you see. Because it is saying, A Surely, Jesus, you would not have wanted to offend powerful people like that. So you must not have known. You're a little oblivious. You're really good on this wisdom stuff, but you got a few things to learn about social graces and what offends people. So surely you didn't intend to do that. And then secondly, because of his response, you didn't seem like you realized that they were offended And Jesus says, you're absolutely right. Jesus is so unintimidated by people that they don't even notice that he is not backing off. So how does he respond? Look at this verse thirteen. You know, at least I got more of a chuckle out of this group than the first group. Maybe they set their clocks back and they were still kind of in other mood or something. But I mean really, you gotta read scripture and see what's going on in the air. There's often a lot more than we look at at face value. But look what Jesus responds. He replies, Every plant that my heavenly Father has not planted will be pulled up by the roots. Leave them. They are blind guides, spiritually blind. If a man, blind man, leads a blind man, both will fall into the pit. What's he calling them? He's saying they are weeds. And what did he say about weeds in the parable of the weeds? They're going to be pulled up in that last day. What does that mean? They're going to hell. So he has said you guys are hypocrites. Now he's saying they're going to hell And they are spiritually blind guides who not only themselves are going to hell, they are leading other people to hell by their hellish teaching. So if they were outraged before, now they're the ones listening in. And they hear, you guys are going to hell, and you are blind guys leading other people into the pit. So if they were ticked off before, imagine what they're feeling like now. And so Matthew moves the camera to focus on the disciples. These guys are probably grinding their teeth and they're over there and they've just, you know, what they said couldn't be printed. But Peter now steps forward. Good old Peter. And Peter comes forward and he says, Lord, this this business about the clean, the in, the out, you know, could you help us out here? What's that talking about? At that point, all the other disciples say, ah boy, thank God for Peter. I was wondering that too. I wasn't going to open my mouth because Jesus says, Are you still so dull? Thank you, Peter. You're always taking the rocks for us. And you say, you know, was Jesus having a bad day? I mean, you know, he he retorts to the Pharisees, he puts down Peter. What's going on here? Well what's going on is this is what Jesus has been teaching since the beginning of his ministry. This is what he was teaching in the Sermon on the Mount. It's what he's taught in every opportunity again and again and again. It's about the heart. It's not about the actions. It's about the heart. It's about the heart. So he says it's not what goes in, it's what comes out, it's about the heart, and Peter says, Whoa, what's that about? Come on. How many times do I need to say it? It And at this point, Jesus then begins to unpack for them. Look what he says, verse 17. Don't you see that whatever enters the mouth goes into the stomach and then out of the body? It's not a big deal. It's not a spiritual matter. The things that come out of the mouth come from the heart. Those are spiritual. And these make a man unclean. What Jesus now does is he takes, gives seven examples of things that come out of my heart and out of your heart. Those seven examples involve five in the middle that cover four of the ten commandments, commandments six, seven, given twice, eight, and nine. Jesus displays how what comes out of your heart and my heart every hour of every day displays how we break those commandments. Look what he says. Very brief word pictures. You see it there on the screen in the different colors, for out of the heart come, first of all, evil thoughts. The word that's used there is the word is used in Romans 1. 21 to talk about our futile thinking that refuses to acknowledge God. That lives as if we are the center of the universe. Complaining, bitter, I'm not getting what I ought to get. Life ought to be better for me. Self-centered ungratefulness. That's the kind of evil thoughts he's talking about. He then goes on to murder. You remember in chapter 5 in the Sermon on the Mount, he said that hatred is murder. It is seeing someone who is in your way, blocking your pleasure, thwarting your goals, as simply something that should be removed from your life. You either want revenge, you want to get rid of them, but this is something that you wish evil on, you want to destroy them, and what might you do if nobody else would ever find out? I remember I was just talking about this in the middle hour at the Discover's class, when I was standing in a room with fifteen pastors, and I was the only one that believed that you needed Jesus to go to heaven. And a rabbi stood to me two inches from my nose and he said, I despise what you teach. It's gutter theology. And then a liberal pastor after that meeting said, if they could have, they would have torn you to pieces. He didn't even agree with me You see, what do we what would we do if we could get away with it? Jesus says hatred, murderous hatred. Adultery, just as hatred is to murder, so lust is to adultery. It is the carrying out in the heart. I remember a friend in seminary who subscribed to pornography. Sadie had a right. He has had freedom as a Christian to have this. And we watched some of us who talked to him about that over the months. How it dulled his love for Scripture, how it distanced him from Jesus till he dropped out of school, went away from Christ. And his life was in shambles, and it was a pathetic thing because in his heart he was nurturing that which was destructive. Jesus broadens it in the next he says, sexual immorality. That is a broadening of that statement. Sexual immorality is anything which defiles the pure picture of a man and a woman that is a picture of Christ and his bride, the picture in the song of Solomon, that which defiles that is sexual immorality, the things that attract you to watch things on TV, on the internet, in magazines, that will defile that picture. It's all about cleanness, you see, and that's what's unclean. It is what pollutes Then he goes on to the theft that's a rationalization that I deserve more than I have and if I have an opportunity To take what isn't mine, I will consider it a good deal and a provision of God. This whole thing was about saying that you were going to rob from your parents by saying that you were going to give it to God and then find a way to get out of that so you could provide for yourself. And Jesus saying, yeah, that's what comes from your heart. That's what comes from my heart. I look at opportunities to get what something that I can cut a corner on and then dull my conscience in rationalizing it. That's what's in your heart, what's in my heart It goes on to false testimony. False testimony. Marks parallel uses the word deceit. It's giving a false impression. Because of some impression I want you to have of my image. I want to mute my ineptness. I want to pump up my prowess and my abilities. I don't want you to see that when I messed up, I really messed up and there was no excuse, so I try to make excuses. I blame shift. I give false testimony. seeking to create a false impression because of what I want to produce for myself. It's what my heart is like Then he goes on to slander. Slander is the talking negatively, gossiping, about somebody that's not there. speculating on their motives as well as their actions, which in themselves may not be too clear, but you know why they did it and you're gonna ask prayer of your friend for this person who is a scoundrel and a scum and didn't treat you very well and on and on. On and on it goes in order to establish your self-righteousness. I am superior to this person. Let me tell you how. You see your heart that way? What prompted responses from you just this morning in getting ready to come to church? You know Paul Tripp has the example where he uses a bottle of water and he says you shake the bottle of water and what comes out it's water. That's what splashes over why because that's what's in the bottle. What comes out of your mouth, my mouth, the slightest provocation. Reveals our hearts. You had enough? Mark gives thirteen examples. Matthew is merciful You see, Jesus is giving the diagnosis, and without the accurate diagnosis, he will not give an accurate remedy. It's because Jesus sees your heart and understands it, he is able to address your problem in its root and deepest core of your being. And this is not something that's unique to Jesus. He didn't make this up. It comes right through Scripture. As early as Genesis chapter six, you remember when God talks about why he is going to condemn the world in Noah's day. You see in Genesis 6, 5, the Lord saw how great man's wickedness on the earth had become. and that every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil all the time. Boy, you talk about drive home the point Three universals, every inclination, only evil, all the time We live in a day when people are saying we're flawed, but we're not depraved. Let's not be negative. And if you don't give Jesus diagnosis to the problem, you will always have a superficial solution that won't really address it. You see your heart, every inclination, only evil all the time, apart from the grace of God. That's what I'm like. Chuck Coulson in his book The Body refers to an example that perhaps helps to illustrate this point. He says in 1960, Israeli undercover agents orchestrated the daring kidnapping of one of the worst of the Holocaust masterminds, Adolf Eichmann. After capturing him in his South American hideout, they transported him to Israel to stand trial. Their prosecutors called a string of former concentration camp prisoners as witnesses. One was a small haggard man named Yhail Dingar, who had miraculously escaped death in Auschwitz. On his day to testify, Dinar entered the courtroom and stared at the man in the bulletproof glass booth. The man who had murdered Dinar's friends personally executed a number of Jews and presided over the slaughter of millions more. As the eyes of the two men met, victim and murderous tyrant, the courtroom fell silent, filled with the tension of the confrontation. But no one was prepared for what happened next. Ahil Dainar began to shout and sob, collapsing to the floor. Was he overcome by hatred, by the horrifying memories, by the evil incarnate in Eichmann's face? No. As he later explained in a riveting 60 minutes interview, it was because Eichmann was not the demonic personification of evil. Dinar had expected, rather he was an ordinary man just like anyone else. And in that one instant, Dinar came to the stunning realization that sin and evil are the human condition. I was afraid about myself, Dainar said. I saw that I am capable to do this exactly like he Dinar's remarkable statements caused Mike Wallace to turn to the camera and ask the audience the most painful of all questions. How was it possible for a man to act as Eichmann acted? Was he a monster? A madman? Or was he perhaps something even more terrifying? Was he normal? Yhail Dinar's shocking conclusion. Eichmann is in all of us. There is nothing that you and I are not capable of committing, left to ourselves and anonymity. That is Jesus' diagnosis. And it is why when Ezekiel talks about Israel's problem And he gives the promise of God's solution. He states it in exactly these terms. In Ezekiel chapter 36. In verse 26 and 27, God says through Ezekiel, I will give you a new heart. And put a new spirit in you. I will remove from you your heart of stone, and give you a heart of flesh And I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. I will give you a new heart. I will put my spirit in you. And so Jesus comes. And having made the diagnosis, he comes willingly and freely to bear the record of your heart. He comes to on the cross Be judged by God for slander, false testimony, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, murder, evil thoughts. Yours and mine, if we confess that our only hope is his sacrifice on our behalf. Because Jesus was cursed, you and I can be forgiven. But it's not only the forgiveness. That is the first half of the gospel. It's not even just the record of his righteousness, the double imputation, but it's also that he gives to us a new heart. He gives you a new heart. He takes your heart of stone, and by his spirit he places a new nature, new heart, new nature. These are rather synonymous terms in the scripture. The flesh is the old heart, the old nature. He gives you a new heart. And I diagram it in your bulletin there to give you an understanding of What I see is the progress of this in the Christian life. If you recognize your heart as not simply flawed But that your heart is, as Jesus says, capable only of choosing various kinds of evil unless subdued by his spirit, the working out of this cesspool of evil thoughts and the rest of it. And you come to Jesus, he gives you a new heart. So the first part of that is regeneration. That's what theologians call it. It's the new birth. And in that new birth, a new heart is given. That's the blank. New heart is given It's a gift to you. You don't earn it. You can't work it up. You can't manufacture it. You come helpless and hopeless as the Canaanite woman begging for mercy. And he gives to you a new heart. The second term that is used in the Christian life that follows regeneration is sanctification. That's the progress in having that heart transformed so the heart is not only given, the heart grows. That new heart grows as the Spirit energizes it, as you subdue the old nature and you give it dying daily to sin the new nature for the spirit to come and cause that to grow by the means of grace And then the hope is that one day the old heart will be gone In glorification, that old heart will be gone, and the new heart in its fullness will be controlled by the Spirit perfectly throughout eternity, and there will be nothing of that evil nature or heart left. And sisters, that is something for you and for me to rejoice in. You have in Jesus Christ this morning a new heart. Amen? And you don't go from here saying, Yes, I look at the slander and the and the theft and all the things that are in my heart and I those things are terrible. Yes, that's all true. But I want you to go forth saying, but Jesus, but Jesus has Given me a new heart. The Spirit has come to enable me as I focus on Him, as I look at Him, as I come to the Lord's Supper this afternoon and look at Jesus Christ. He changes my heart so that the new heart is growing, the whole heart is being subdued. In Galatians chapter 3 you see, Paul says, You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? Before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. That's what happens in the Lord's Supper. You come 2 o'clock this afternoon, Jesus Christ is portrayed to you through the elements as crucified. And as you see him, you look at him by faith, your heart is warmed and is transformed to love him, to serve him. To trust him more and more. But Paul says, I'd like to learn just one thing from you. Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? And you say, Of course, it's by believing the gospel. That's how we received it. And Paul says, Are you then so foolish? After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort? Are you reverting to hand washing and the rules of religion to gain access to God this week? Or do you acknowledge my heart is hopeless, but you've given me a new heart. And when I look to access to God, I don't look to my heart, I look to Jesus Christ. And in him I find certain access. The access that that Canaanite woman found. The access that every sinner that comes saying I am not going to blame others, I am not going to say, if only my spouse, if only this person, if only that, it's my heart, it's what's in my heart, but you're changing my heart, not because I am trying harder, but because I am looking more intensely. to Jesus. Let's pray. And so, our God, thank you. Thank you, Jesus, for your insight into our hearts. You did not misdiagnose our problem. You are not like so many of our contemporaries who see us as flawed but not as evil. You are not one who comes to inspire us to do good. You're totally realistic. And in your infinite compassion, you died to take away our guilt and give to us a new heart. We celebrate this morning. We will celebrate in this sacrament the gift of that new heart because of the cross. And now, Lord, show us Jesus more fully, more intently, so that we go from this worship service with our hearts full of joy Because of what you have given and what you are doing with our minds outside of ourselves on to Jesus Christ. Being transformed from one degree of glory to another as our eyes are fixed on you. Do that, we pray, for Jesus' sake.