Thanks again, Simon Tins, to share the struggle that we feel not at home in this life and sometimes wondering if we're at home. in our own bodies and the the conflicts we feel. This world is not friendly. We identify the belongings that you expressed. You know, you think back on Matthew ten that we've been looking at, it's it's been a hard chapter, hasn't it? It's a hard chapter because um It's in the context of a lot of success. Jesus has been healing, he has been teaching, and people have been applauding and standing in awe of his works and his words, and they have been following him. And it seems like very little opposition. He has come as king and he's going to bring in the kingdom. And then he gives this commencement address on the eve of their first short-term mission. First part of it says, gonna go out. It's gonna be mostly a good experience, come back, but then there's gonna be part two after I'm gone, before I come back the second time. And in that time, it's going to be mostly opposition, it seems, persecution. I mean he says things like, verse 16, I'm sending you out like sheep among wolves. This is not just about the disciples. This is about you and me. Verse 17, be on your guard. Then against men, and they will hand you over to local councils and flog you in their synagogues. Verse 22 All men will hate you because of me. Verse 28. Do not be afraid of those who merely can kill the body. But cannot kill your soul. That's the good news. Verse 34. Do not suppose I've come to bring peace to the earth. I didn't come to bring peace, but a sword It's a pretty grim call to arms there. It kind of reminds you of Winston Churchill, you remember His first address as Prime Minister to the House of Commons, May 13, 1940, grim, dark days in England Do you remember those famous words still quoted today? I say to the House as I said to ministers who have joined this government. I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears, and sweat. We have before us an ordeal of the most grievous kind. We have before us many, many months. of struggle and suffering. In those memorable words, Churchill called England to mobilize for A long and bloody struggle against Nazism, against that kingdom. Jesus is mobilizing his disciples Down to the ages, through the ages, to you and to me, against the kingdom of Satan. But the difference is that Churchill Called people to sacrifice for the cause, for England, for freedom. Jesus calls you and me to sacrifice our lives for him. Verse 38. Anyone who does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life insists on preserving it and And m finding it in this life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake, for my sake, We'll find it. So it's been grim. This world is full of struggles and pain, rejection. But in the end of that, Jesus totally changes. The last three verses are in utter contrast. And in verses 40 to 42, what Jesus says is, but there's another side to it. A lot of times you think that because you remind people of Jesus, they don't like you. There's going to be people who because you remind them of Jesus, they don't love you. Three points to sum up what Jesus is saying here. First of all, he says, there will be people who will receive and welcome you and your message. Because it points to me. Because you are identified with me. Second point, you are so closely identified with me that when they do, they are receiving me. Not just as if, I'd kick that out. It's they are receiving me, and thus my Father as well You are so closely identified with Jesus. Just by being his disciple And then thirdly, their kindness to you will result in their sharing in your kingdom treasures. These are difficult verses. These are so difficult to try to grasp and focus and understand the relationship that this morning I totally rewrote the second half of the message. That's always a very dangerous thing to do. So I hope um it will stay focused So read again these verses with that idea in mind, these connections, your identification with Jesus. The fact that the contrast between this and the rejection of the first verses and the treasure that comes to those who in fact Show kindness to one who is identified with Jesus. He who receives you receives me. And he who receives me receives the one who sent me. Anyone who receives a prophet, because he is a prophet, will receive a prophet's reward. Anyone who receives a righteous man because he is a righteous man will receive a righteous man's reward. And if anyone gives even a cup of cold water to one of these little ones, because he is my disciple, I tell you the truth, he will certainly not lose his reward. Now again, these comments refer primarily to the twelve that Jesus is sending out, but because verses 16 to 42 refer to the time between his first and second coming, these words also refer to you and to me in our understanding and in their application. It refers to you in two ways. Number one, as a messenger who identified with Jesus, goes out, takes the risk to, as we talked about last week, stand up for Jesus and not be ashamed of him. No matter how people will respond, whether they accept or reject. And then the other side is that it's a challenge to you in terms of the kindness to be shown to those Who are Jesus' disciples? That you show that kindness. When I first read this passage, I was struggling with, is this talking about non-believers? as well as believers that even anyone who shows kindness to a believer, a prophet, or righteous person, or a little one, will receive some reward But I've become convinced that no, it does not refer to unbelievers. It is to you only distinctively as believers in Jesus Christ. No unbeliever is going to welcome a prophet because he is a prophet bringing God's word unless he accepts that word. Or righteousness, unless he's righteous, or one of the little ones, because he is my disciple, the distinctiveness is the association with Jesus So it's for you, both in receiving kindness and in showing kindness. Let's unpack it just a little bit. Jesus gives three examples And the three examples are not three distinct categories. It talks about prophets, righteous, and little ones, but rather they are in the order of significant to insignificant. So he is making his point, building it more and more from from someone who is prominent and someone who obviously deserves honor and kindness to someone who is insignificant and who you would not even notice to show kindness. First of all, there's the prophet. The general principle, verse 40, he who receives you receives me. He who receives me receives the one who sent me. Again, don't miss that that's an astounding assertion. Jesus is saying, if you receive me, you receive God. That is a unique assertion that he is in unique relationship to the Father as the Son of God. So, then he unpacks more specifically, anyone who receives a prophet, because he is a prophet will receive a prophet's reward. The disciples, as I say, were prophets. They were speaking Christ's words of the gospel, declaring those, and later on would do it in an infallible way as they wrote scripture. But Jesus in Matthew 23 in verse um Verse 34 says to the Pharisees, I am going to send to you prophets, wise men, teachers. Some of those you will kill. Some of those you will crucify. So there are others I'm going to send to bring my word to you. And down to today there are those who bear the prophetic office of declaring the word of God. When I bring God's word to you, uh that is Bringing God's word not as new revelation prophet, but simply as one who brings that word as a spokesperson representing God And your response to me in that indicates your response to the word, to the truth, to Jesus. Paul gives an illustration of this. You remember he talks to the Thessalonians and he says to them, thanks be to God that we gave you the word. It was not you didn't receive it simply as my word, but you received it as it is the word of God. And then in chapter 3, verse 6 he says, So now we're apart. We have good memories. You have good memories of our time together. You miss me, you long for me, we long to get back together. They received him as a prophet And so there was that connection. It's even clearer in Philippians chapter 4, where Paul talks about how you Philippians were the first to support me in my ministry. When nobody else gave a rip. You were supporting me, you were concerned for me, you were partners in the gospel in my ministry with me, as he says in chapter one. And as you did this, he said, that was put down to your account. This was something that you receive a reward for because you are receiving me as in my prophetic office You see, I think the idea of of receiving that Jesus talks about here, you look at in earlier chapter 10, those who received the disciples gave them hospitality, place to stay, food, meals. uh were receiving them and aiding in their ministry. And Paul says, when you support me in my ministry as a missionary You are receiving me and you're participating in my ministry and you get the reward, my reward as a missionary. So that when we support, the Iversons, the Colburns, Linda Carner, Tito and Kim Padilla, and others of our missionaries They we look at them and we say, you know, praise God for them. They've verse 39, they lost their life here so that they would find it and serve Jesus Christ and sacrifice in a number of ways to do that. But you know, Jesus is saying here, when you sacrifice in giving to that ministry, when you sacrifice in praying for them In investing yourself in them, you receive their reward. That's what verse 41 says You participate in the treasure of what they receive as missionaries to bring the gospel But it's not just the prominent ones. You know, I I participate in this ministry and and I receive some reward from that God notices that, even though I may not be able to give much or or pray long as long as I would like to, or our small groups support them as much as we'd like. God notices that And there's a reward that counts for eternity in that. But he says, even just a righteous person, you know, just a person, who not only is righteous, chapter 5, verse 20, the new kind of righteousness that supersedes the Pharisees. But the person who in the Beatitudes, chapter 5, verse 6, hungers and thirst for righteousness, if you receive a righteous person, because he is a righteous person. you will receive a righteous man's reward. Somebody hungers and thirsts for righteousness. You get together with that person. You find that you share common emotional investment in the things that you love and that you hate. You love justice, you love peace, you love goodness. And you hate the things that are destroying people's lives and breaking down our community and our society. You join together with that person. You pray for them and the things that they're trying to do. And you receive The righteous person's reward. You join in with them. There's a unity, a joining because of the bond that you have in Jesus Christ. But then he takes it to the extreme. He says in verse 42, if anyone gives even a cup of cold water to one of these little ones, because he is my disciple. I tell you the truth, he will certainly not lose his reward. The extreme of an insignificant person and an insignificant act. You see, I I want you to think about this as you live through this week. Jesus is saying here, every person and every act, every choice you make in how you treat people counts for eternity. Sar C. Sprohl's ministries, right now counts forever. It's true. Every person and every act toward every person matters for eternity. The little ones mean referred to those who are unnoticed. They'll never be in the paper. Nobody's ever going to write them up. When they die, only a few people will come to the funeral. They will not be long remembered. Insignificant person viewed by the world as unimportant. And the act that he describes, not a big sacrifice, a cup of cold water, noticing the person's need. Saying, here's something that I can do. Stop my agenda where I'm going to try and help this person, relieve them a little bit. Some small act of kindness. It's not just Peter that gets all the attention. Jesus is saying, give a cup of cold water to quiet Thaddeus back there. He never says a word. But that's okay. He's my disciple. We're that homeless Christian Who nobody pays attention to. But you've gotten involved in the homeless ministry and you see someone whose life has been broken and they're trying to follow Jesus and you say, I'm going to try and help that person. That's what Jesus is talking about. Now, what I want you to do is throw out the bulletin outline for the rest of this because I had to re- totally redo this. So I want to boil down the application to three points. And I want to focus them better. Because it's hard to really focus. There's a mysterious interweaving of interactions that are going on here. So three points that I want to make for application. First is That I do really long for you to be encouraged as I believe Jesus intended you to be encouraged by this conclusion to a difficult chapter, to a difficult address. You see, while there are some people who will hate you because you remind them of Jesus, he is saying, I repeat it, there are some people who will love you. Because you remind them of Jesus. People that you have talked to and shared Jesus with, and they have come to know Jesus. And there is a unique bond. And some of you say, well, I haven't had that experience. You know, I remember I've I've shared the gospel with two people And they didn't become Christians, so I'm not an evangelist. I might as well give up. See, I'm just a failure. Let me tell you, you hear me talk about people coming to Christ. Um, you gotta share the gospel with dozens, scores of people There's a fellow who I've shared the gospel with for probably 15 years, tried to get into a conversation, never really got into a conversation about Christ because he wasn't interested. Just broached it and something happened recently. Gave him a call and I said, how about we meet over at Casey's coffee and just get together and talk about where your life's going. For the first time in 15 years, he said, Yeah, I'd like to do that. There are some, Jesus says, who will respond. There are some in all the people that you move through. And seem like nobody cares, he says, there will be some that I'm working in, that I'm calling to myself. And they will respond to your message. And as they respond to you, they will receive me. And when that happens, you have a very unique and precious relationship. The relationship I have with people who I've had the opportunity to lead to Christ is a unique and precious kind of friendship. There are some people who have said to me about my ministry, I guess particularly as they hear that I'm moving on, that anything that they have appreciated, what they've appreciated in my ministry is simply that I've shown them Jesus. It's not my personality. It's not, you know, like the way you dress or you like this or that. You know, you showed me more of Jesus And you can do that. When people are with you, they can say, you know, spending time with you, I saw a little more of Jesus. We didn't just talk about events. We didn't just talk about people. We talked about Jesus, as we talked about last week. And in talking about him, I gained a bit more of the aroma of his presence. And there's a bond that is formed. Be encouraged. God will do that in your life. Secondly, Every person and every act of kindness counts for eternity, so therefore live In that moment. Live in the current moment, realizing that the things that you choose to do are counting for eternity. Even in the difficult situation. John Newman was writing a letter to somebody, I mean John Newton was writing a letter to somebody, and he said, The person, the Christian that you find hard to bear right now. Will in heaven be dearer to you than the dearer person in your life right now. There are those Eternal consequences of how you treat the people, whether you like them or find them difficult to deal with. Seek to be kind to people simply because they are my disciples, Jesus says. See, that's gospel living. It is not that I just try to be nice to people because that's the golden rule or the Sermon on the Mount. No. The way it works is that you and I see that we are the little ones. I am that person who when I came to Jesus, all I brought was my baggage. of needs and shame. And Jesus didn't ignore me. Jesus stopped and noticed me. He came for me. He took up his cross and he died for me. He bore my sin and my shame. He has forgiven me. He has Given to me heaven. He has given to me sonship. He loves me. He shows compassion on me. Lord Jesus, I love you. How can I show my love to you? And he says, simply reflect that gospel attitude toward the person who you do not see benefiting you in any way. They don't have anything to offer to you. But they're a little ones who belongs to me. And because you love me, you love them. And in loving them you show my kindness to them. Whether it is deciding after the service To say, before I get my coffee and before I see all my friends and do all my errands and you know return books and get this and all the I'm gonna see there's somebody that was sitting behind me and I don't I you know with this brief chit chat and seems like they're new. God's brought them here. Maybe they're a little one that belongs to him or a seeker and How can I show some kindness? How can I not just point them downstairs to the bathrooms, but take them downstairs and as you walk with them, ask them a couple questions about themselves. Or a phone call to somebody who's been through a difficult time or taken a meal or Some particular kind of kindness. I believe also that what he has in mind here is Those that are hurting because of persecution. That's the whole context of the chapter. Those who are suffering for his sake. And um you have that idea in Matthew chapter twenty-five Where Jesus is talking about those who are in prison, those who are suffering And I don't think he's talking about those who are imprisoned because they shot somebody or robbed a bank. He's talking about those who are suffering for him You notice he says in verse thirty-five um verse thirty-five of chapter twenty-five. For I was hungry, and you gave me something to eat, I was thirsty, and you gave me something to drink. A cup of cold water, a simple kindness to a person who appeared insignificant that had a need. But how does that reflect on Jesus? He says in verse 40, Stim Red. He will reply, I tell you the truth, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers of mine. You did it for me. Perhaps you've heard the story of the prisoner of war who was in the notorious Hanoi Hilton. prison camp in North Vietnam said that um one of the things that they would do is to h tie their wrists together and their feet with cords And they would pull 'em as tight as they could so that they chafed the skin, cut into the skin, it bled and kept rubbing and rubbing, and it was terrible torture and the heat and the flies and the rest of that And this one American POW said that um then one night, just as dusk had settled, they were settling in, a North Vietnamese guard came to them. That was never good news. But this guard came to him and gently loosened the thongs on his wrists and on his ankles. He was able to sleep with a little more comfort that night. The next morning he came and he tightened them up again before anybody noticed. Did it again the next night. This happened a number of times. Soon after that they were standing in review all the prisoners of war. That guard came over, stood in front of him. And with the toe of his sandal he drew the cross on the dirt in front of him. This man had risked severe punishment, torture, perhaps his life. To show kindness to one that he perceived belonged to Jesus, an American prisoner of war, because he loved Jesus. Not knowing that that man was John McCain who would someday become a candidate for the presidency of the United States, McCain still talks about that incident as probably the most significant point of contact with the gospel of Jesus Christ in his life A kindness. What reward will that North Vietnamese guard receive? Because of his kindness. What rewards might you or I receive or not when we overlook the kindnesses that we could offer Or take the time to display them. That's what Jesus is talking about. So finally, the third point. The rewards, even for the smallest kindnesses, are forever. He will not lose his reward. Jesus finishes that Matthew 25 statement of the judgment by saying in verse 40 Of those who ignored, who showed that they did not belong to Him, by the fact that they did not give a rip for His disciples, they will go away to eternal punishment. But the righteous, those who displayed by their kindness to his disciples, that they belonged to him, that they loved him. They will go to eternal life. And eternal life, as we have talked about before, is not just one static heaven or hell. There are enhancements to heaven. There are severities of hell. And somehow, in a way I can't understand, in a mystery that is full of wonder to you and to me, there is an enhancement. Of the delights of heaven for those who Jesus says display these kinds of kindness talks about that reward. And so my challenge to you as it is to myself, and whatever you're doing in your life this week, where's God calling you to notice his little ones? To display some little kindness, not what you wish you could do, or all the things that someday you might do, but simply in the momentary decisions to say, I'm going to do this. And one of the things going on right now is that there is intensifying in Muslim countries of the apostasy laws that demand death for anyone who leaves Islam. I am beginning to read more and more in the news and papers of Christians who are being shot, killed, beaten. simply because they have left Islam or are seeking to convert Muslims. There is a petition that's being circulated by Barnabas Aid, other organizations to ask The Obama administration, the UN, to step in and to encourage Muslims who are seeking to stop these laws. A simple act of kindness to find out. I have a petition back there if anybody's interested in seeing it. What can we do to alleviate suffering of those who belong to Jesus? It could be a cup of cold water in your daily routine, or it could be an act of kindness. In a petition, or who else knows what? God will lead you and God will reward you. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we don't have it in us to be kind and compassionate. That only comes because of you, your spirit in us. Because of your compassion for us and for your delight in us, your little ones. So that we delight in the opportunity to show you our love for you. By our kindness to those that you put in our path. So, Lord, we ask you to open our eyes, to see you, Lord Jesus, more clearly. To see those who belong to you and know that the momentary choices that we make count forever. Show us that even this week. Show us, Jesus. Show us what you are calling us to do in kindness because we love you.