Thank you, Julie. And for you guys with her, that's a song that comes totally as an offering from her heart, the words, the music, the performance. And we thank you. Let me assure you that the message, lessons from the losers, is not about Mother's Day. As a matter of fact, it's about twelve men. But before I begin that, I want to tell you that I decided to continue the flow through Matthew, had so many interruptions, getting back into it. But I do want to wish all of you who are moms a very happy Mother's Day and hope that the Lord will give you a very special sense of your unique calling. And of his grace to you in all the triumphs, the disappointments, the longings, the hopes, and the celebration that makes today special and unique for you. Don't forget to get your rose. We're in Matthew chapter ten now. And you see in verse 1, Jesus calls his twelve disciples. Verse 2, he calls them The Twelve Apostles, Disciples and Apostles refers to exactly the same group, one of the most famous and influential group of men in the history of the world. And yet isn't it amazing how little we know about most of them? Very little. In fact, we just gave to Mary Colburn $100 for memorizing the kid's catechism. And I thought, I wondered if I offered $100 for anybody who could name the 12 disciples. if I would lose any money. Now after the first service, somebody asked me if I would do that in the second service. I'm not stupid. But how many of us could could name the twelve disciples. Oh yeah, there's Peter, James, and John, and then there's Andrew and Matthew and doubting Thomas, and of course there's Judas Iscariot, but what about the other five? Who are they? Some of them all we know is their names. So It provokes the question, why did Jesus choose these guys They weren't the brightest guys around. He didn't choose them because of some giftedness or qualifications. I mean In a couple of chapters after this, you have them crossing the Lake of Galilee, and Jesus says, Beware the yeast of the Pharisees. Matthew says they start discussing among themselves and one of them comes up with the idea and says, see, I knew we should have brought brought the bread. He's mad we didn't bring bread. Uh you know, not the brightest light bulbs in Judea. A lot of things about them that might not qualify them, which is a help to you and me because we can identify with them. And as we look at this list, the first list in Matthew of who the twelve were. That kind of introduces what I'm calling Jesus' commencement address, season of commencement addresses. Jesus is about to give his commencement address to these twelve disciples As they launch off into their first short-term missions trip. So, are there any lessons that we can learn from the simple statements about his calling them and Matthew's naming them. And I want to suggest eleven lessons that we can learn. And I'm sure that there are at least a couple of you who are thinking, why couldn't you come up with one more so that you'd have 12 for 12? And um maybe I could have, but look at it this way, the sermon's eight percent shorter, with only sticking to the eleven that I came up with. Eleven lessons. Verse 1, Jesus calls them four lessons. Verse 2, Matthew names them seven lessons. And I think that these lessons are perhaps more instructive and helpful practically to you and me than you might think. in a first reading. So the first group, Jesus calls them, verse 1, he called his twelve disciples to them, to him and gave them authority to drive out evil spirits and to heal every disease and sickness. Four lessons from that. Number one, you notice that there are twelve. Twelve disciples, verse two, twelve apostles, same group. Ever wonder why twelve? It's a significant number, and of course in the Old Testament there were twelve tribes. Those were the people of God. So Jesus is now calling twelve disciples to be, as Ephesians 2 tells us, the foundation of the church. These are the foundation of the new Israel, the new people of God that He is inaugurating. So it is significant that there are twelve to show the continuity. with the old Israel and the new Israel. Secondly, notice that Jesus delegates his own amazing authority to them If you look back in chapter 9 in verse 32, it says, while they were going out, a man who was demon-possessed and could not talk was brought to Jesus. And when the demon was driven out, Jesus drove out the demon. The man who had been mute spoke. And the crowd was amazed and said, Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel. And then in verse 35, Jesus went through all the towns and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness. Every malady, every disease. And you look at verse 1 and it says Jesus gave them authority. To drive out evil spirits and heal every disease and sickness, just like he did. So Jesus has given them his full authority, a unique authority to do that. Now I suspect that it never occurred to them When they were watching Jesus heal lepers, cause blind people to see, casting out demons like those guys across the lake Raising up a dead girl. They see him doing these miracles. I don't think it occurred to any of them. Someday we'll be doing that. I think they were just dumbfounded and watched and thought, man, how does he do that? That is amazing what Jesus does. That is so unique. Now, last Sunday we ordained four ruling elders and one deacon And we conferred upon them an authority, an authority to rule Columbia Presbyterian and to shepherd you as his people. I thought after I went home that I regretted that I hadn't told you how delighted I was personally with these guys and how much I've enjoyed working with them and in the training and getting to know them and just the simple delight of working with them as brothers But suppose I had said to them as they stood up here last Sunday, I am going to confer upon you the authority to heal any disease in Howard County. And to cast out any dise any demons of people who are demonized in our community. Pete Floyd John Vanden Hoel, Eric Litokinen, Jim Wilmot, guys you know, what are guys? Casting out demons, healing sick people You see how amazing this verse is? Jesus takes these guys who have just been spectators watching, and he gives them his own authority. But it's a unique authority. Notice that. It's unique to this time because when he confers authority on his disciples at the end of his ministry in Matthew chapter 28. He does not confer on them at that point the authority to heal diseases or to cast out demons. In Matthew 28, the authority is to make disciples, to baptize them, and to teach them. So this is a unique authority in the demonstration of the kingdom that Jesus is bringing in. Unique and astounding. Notice he delegates this to weak sinners. Ordinary guys. We'll see that as we look at the list. But notice that the two designations are that they are disciples, verse 1. That means they are learners. They are lifelong learners. They continue to learn even as they Exercise this authority. And second, in verse 2, they are apostles. They are sent. Both those words focus on the fact that Jesus is the origin of the ministry. It is Jesus who gives them this authority and teaches them and sends them. Now notice fourthly what they had in common. It's a very diverse group. All they really have in common are these two things. First of all, they're all Jews and they're all men. They're all Jews. Pentecost comes and that radically changes. Now the disciples that Jesus commissions and calls to himself are from every tribe and tongue and nation. And Columbia Presbyterian should reflect the diversity of all the disciples of the nations that are in our community called to follow him. Secondly, notice that they were all men, and that doesn't change after Pentecost. What changes is that the Spirit comes upon men and women. To exercise ministry equally and fully, had a long discussion about that in the middle hour. But what doesn't change Is that even when Judas is replaced, he's still replaced with a man. And that's Not necessarily what you'd expect because Jesus treatment of women was so unique His interaction with the Samaritan woman, for instance, is without parallel in many ways in that culture. When Jesus rose from the dead, the first person he revealed himself to was a woman. When Jesus taught probably his most insightful disciple, Was Mary a woman? So it is not necessarily to be expected, and yet Scripture is quite clear that those who the authority was conferred upon and passed to were to be men as elders within the body. Some things change, some things don't change. We discussed that in the middle hour. If you want to get into those kind of discussions, come to the middle hour, even if it's before you come to hear the message. But it's instructive to us, and we need to respect and learn from why God does things the way he does and to follow them. So the conclusion of all of this is simply the focus that the ministry originates in Jesus. He's the teacher, he's the sender. And that's a great comfort to you and to me, because it means that when you hear of an impossible situation of some hurting person, as I heard about this week And I begin to think, what am I going to do to fix this? That you remind yourself, I don't fix it. Your and my job is to point each other to Jesus. The original authority and ministry reside only and ever in him to change hearts and people. So you can rest in that, and I can rest in that. And it is implied in how Jesus calls them and confers upon them the authority and sends them out. Secondly, second set of lessons, seven lessons from Matthew's naming of these twelve characters. First of all, you notice there is Peter, verse 2. These are the names of the 12 apostles. First, Simon who is called Peter. Peter is the first in every list. There are four lists of the twelve disciples in the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and Acts. Peter is the first in all four lists, even though the list vary quite a bit in other ways, but in every list, Matthew is the first. Clearly, he stood out as a leader And yet, ironically, most people identify with Peter perhaps more than any of the other disciples. Why? Because he was constantly drawing his foot out of his mouth. Do you remember just after this when Jesus asked who people say he is and who do you say I am? And Matthew says you're the Messiah, Son of the Living God, and Jesus goes to talk about his mission of dying. will be delivered to suffer and die, and Peter says, No, no, no, Lord, never. That won't happen to you. And and it's as if Jesus is saying, Y you were doing good there for a minute. Um get behind me, Satan. And Peter blows it. And then just the next chapter after that, they go up onto the Mount of Transfiguration. Jesus is talking to Moses and Elijah. And Peter just can't keep his mouth shut. And so he says, oh wow, this is really good. You know, we ought to build three tents here. One for you, Jesus, one for Moses, and one for Elijah, and a voice comes from heaven that essentially says, shut up. Hear my son. Oh, sorry At the Lord's Supper, Jesus washes the disciples' feet, comes to Peter, and Peter says, Oh no, no, no, you're not going to wash my feet, Lord. Oh, that's not appropriate. Well then you don't have anything to do with me. Oh, gee. No, sorry, I didn't mean that. All of you are going to deny me tonight and scatter. Oh no, Lord, not me. Hey, these losers might, but not me. I'll follow you to death. I'll do whatever it takes, Peter. I need to tell you, before the cock crews, you're gonna deny me three times. Oh no, never, never And he denies him. He's foolish. He's impetuous. He's weak. And he's forgiven. And he's loved. No wonder. We love to read about Peter, don't we? No wonder we see so much of ourselves. We think that when Jesus rose from the dead, before he met with the twelve disciples, he had a special private meeting with Peter. Shortly after that, he takes Peter on a walk on the beach and he restores him three times to be a shepherd to his sheep. He's immensely foolish. He's the first in the list. Not the foremost. In fact, one of the great errors One of the great tragedies of the church in 2,000 years is those who seek to gain Peter's status. As if he was first and foremost over the others, as if he was a pope or some sort of unique leader and individual with authority. And they miss Peter's humility. Peter was so humbled by the love of Christ that a very early church tradition states And at the end of his life, when Peter was condemned to die by crucifixion, he said, no, it would be too great an honor to die like my Lord. And asked to be crucified upside down. I can't imagine that Peter was a man who was a great sinner, but who understood the greatness of the grace of Jesus Christ. Secondly, you see his brother. Peter was prominent. Andrew, his brother was kind of an auxiliary. These are the names of the twelve apostles. First, Simon, who's called Peter, and his brother, Andrew. While Andrew's not nearly as prominent as Peter, it was Andrew who brought Peter to Jesus. Humanly speaking, without Andrew, Peter would have never been a disciple of Jesus. In fact, you remember the story, Jesus, Andrew was actually one of the disciples of John the Baptist. And John was teaching one day, and he said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, pointing to Jesus Follow him. And so Andrew and John's other disciples listened to Jesus and Jesus says, Come home with me. So they went home and they listened. And after a while Andrew said, Excuse me, Lord, I I need to go. I've got to get my brother. So he goes and he gets his brother Peter and he says to Peter, Peter, I think we have found the Messiah. Come on and see. Peter comes to Jesus and there's an immediate connection that changes Peter's life forever. Andrew appears three times in the Gospels, and in every case he's bringing somebody to Jesus. In John chapter 6, you've got 5,000 hungry people. It's Andrew who goes and gets the little boy with the five loaves and the two fishes and brings them to Jesus. In John chapter 12, you have a group of Greeks that are outside of the disciples. They want to see Jesus. It's Andrew who goes and gets them and brings them to Jesus. And so in the old Billy Graham crusades, they had a thing called Project Andrew. It was so that they wouldn't pack the stadium with just Christians who wanted to hear Billy Graham, but the idea was that everybody bring some friends, some body in your family. All you do is bring them to hear the gospel. Didn't take any particular skill, wasn't a leader like Peter, wasn't particularly articulate, but he was faithful Is God calling you to be an Andrew? You say, what can I do? I'm not really eloquent as a speaker. I don't know a whole lot. I get nervous in front of groups, but you know what? You can talk to your friends and you can bring them to Christian activities. Encourage them to sign up for Upward Camp. Bring them to church or to your home fellowship group. Just invite the sheep without a shepherd in your world. Being Andrew doesn't take a lot of training or skill. It's a heart that wants to bring people to Jesus. Fourthly, you notice that um yeah, I mean thirdly you have James and John The other two brothers, there might have been three sets of brothers, won't get into that, but you have James and John, who definitely were brothers, who had very different destinies determined by God. James, son of Zebedee and his brother John. James was probably the older, it's always mentioned first. They were part of a very successful fishing business that their father had on Lake Galilee. They left that lucrative business to follow Jesus. Not only did they leave, but their mother left. The Bible tells us that their mother was one of those who attended to the disciples and left and probably contributed financially, perhaps considerably. Unfortunately, she apparently got a little mixed up on the privileges of contributing to a ministry. One day she says to Jesus, Jesus, um You know my brother, my sons James and John, good boys they are, aren't they? Yes, yes, yes. Can I ask you just a little favor? Just y could you have one of them on your right hand and the other one on your left hand in the kingdom? Man, you know, I mean I've been following you around. I make the meals, I give the little money, you know, it's not too much to ask. Little pressure. Jesus doesn't budge for a moment. He says, you don't know what you're asking. Can they drink the cup that I'm gonna drink? Had a log discussion about that in a middle hour too. Interesting, God determines their destinies. They didn't know it at this time, but in a couple of years James would be dead. He's the first martyr of the twelve. John goes on to live till he's after 90, the last of the disciples to die on the island of Patnus. Have you ever committed your life to Jesus to say, Lord, whether it is to be a James or it is to be a John? I'm available to what you call me to do, not to put any kind of pressure, to make my way, to get into prominence, but simply to say, here I am, Lord. You determine how I am to serve you. And if I get recognition or I don't get recognition, it's up to you. Here I am. Let me suggest, if you've never done that, to go out this afternoon, beautiful spring day, and simply get alone with the Lord and offer yourself as a living sacrifice consciously to say, I want you to to direct my life and make myself available, to not try to push or to manipulate myself into any position, but simply to say I'm available for however you want to use me. And ever however long, it's worth doing. Fourthly, you notice Matthew, the tax collector. Four lists. This is the only list that mentions he's a tax collector. It's Matthew's list. There are two lessons in that, of humility and hope. Matthew says, I want you to know I am the cheat who sold out to the Romans and got included in Jesus' group of disciples. There is nobody who deserved less in the twelve to be a disciple than me. How I am a trophy of his grace. But there's also hope in that lesson because what Matthew is saying is even tax collectors can be disciples of Jesus. Even a tax collector can be in the inner core of those who he uses and confers authority for ministry upon. Even a tax collector. I thought about that this week and I thought back on my history and Realized that as I look at my ancestry, don't know a whole lot. I haven't done a lot of tracing of my family tree, but from what I have heard, I don't know of a single believer in my whole family before me. I'm sure there probably was somebody. Some of them were vaguely religious that I know of, but I don't know Of anybody in my ancestry who was a disciple of Jesus. By God's grace, I have two or three cousins who are now believers, and a daughter of one of my cousins who's a believer. God plucked me out. Non-Christian home, started going to Sunday school, heard the gospel, and trusted Jesus. And I thought, why me? Of all the people in my family, why me? Have you ever thought about that? Why you? Of your family, of your associates. Why did Jesus call you? It's worth thinking about. Matthew, the tax collector. You, you can think of the titles you would give me The gossip, manipulator, demander, self-centered, on and on. He called me. I'm in the list. And then after that, you have Simon the Zealot Simon Zelotis means he was an insurrectionist who was a terrorist that wanted to overthrow the Roman government. He was a group of people who hated the Romans with a passion. And here he is with Matthew, the tax collector. Now you talk about diversity within the body Simon thought that anybody who had anything to do with the Roman government didn't deserve to live. Matthew had sold out to the Roman government to collect taxes for them. And yet they ate together? Slept together, traveled together, walked together, learned about grace and forgiveness together. Which prompts the thought, all one body, we, Democrats and Republicans Liberals and conservatives, recognizing that conservative doesn't equal Christian and Christian doesn't equal conservative, and to ask yourself the question. Would Simon Zelotis be welcome at Columbia Presbyterian? Now understand when he came to Jesus he didn't continue to be an insurrectionist who wanted to burn the government to the ground. But I'm sure that he and Matthew didn't line up politically. But they served and preached the gospel together. It's very important that we as a body respect that kind of diversity, particularly in our home fellowship groups. So that we can respect the differences that are not mandated in Scripture. Sixthly, you have Judas Iscariot. Every list mentions his betrayal. What can we learn from Judas? One very important lesson. No one, no one can rely on their membership and recognition in any human organization For their confidence that they are going to heaven. You can be a member of Columbia Presbyterian Church and go to hell. You could be an elder at Columbia Presbyterian Church and go to hell. You could be a pastor on staff at Columbia Presbyterian Church and go to hell. Judas was one of the twelve disciples and went to hell. Your hope and my hope is only ever in the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross. It is never in the fact that I must be a Christian because these people think I am. Only you know your heart. Only you know whether you're trusting Jesus and love him. Finally, the last lesson. You notice he sent them out two by two. If you read in Matthew's list, you notice there is an and between each pair. Simon and Andrew, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew, James and the son of James the son of Alphaeus and Thaddeus Simon the Zealot and Judas the Scariot. Jesus called them together as a wildly diverse group In order to show that only the gospel is the glue that holds his people together, these guys would have never associated under any other circumstances. But Jesus also respects affinities. You notice that he pairs the brothers together. Most commentators believe that Mark, by the way, Mark 6. 7, tells us that in this mission he sent them out two by two. And he did that because we need one another. He did that because he understood that even if they had his authority, they would still be tempted, they would still be tempted to doubt. I'm sure there were times on that trip when one of them was thinking, what in the world are we doing here? What have we gotten ourselves into? See that raging guy over there? That guy's got demons. And We're supposed to go over and cast them out. I want to run home. And then the other one would say, Well, remember what Jesus said and we've seen him and he has the po and they would remind each other and they would encourage each other. And you need that, and I need that. We need each other. But with the diversity, he respects the affinities. He sends the brothers out together. You notice he doesn't send Matthew out with Simon. You notice he sends Simon out with Judas Iscariot. So Jesus respects the fact that there are people in this body that you would choose to have dinner with more than others. And you will probably more encourage certain people and you will stimulate and help each other more than other pairs, where they'd just be constantly trying to work things out. And I think there's a balance in that. Enjoy the people that you incline to, and don't feel guilty about that. But also get to know the people who are different from you so that you're stretched in that experience So this is a gospel, bloodbought community of grace to sinners like you and me. That's who turned the world upside down. Because when Jesus brings such a group together, Jesus works through them to change the world. And some of them we don't hear a peep out of. Nothing from Bartholomew, or James the son of Alpheus, or old Thaddeus, who was probably always sitting back there in the rear looking on. And maybe you look at yourself as a Thaddeus. I'm never quoted. Don't speak up much in groups. Don't contribute verbally in discussions. But I love Jesus. Because Jesus saved me. And Jesus has called me. And I want to be faithful to him. And I want to give myself fully to serve him in whatever way he can use. That's the message of the twelve disciples. Let's pray. So, Lord. Help us as we see these guys who look a lot like us. Some are outspoken and some are quiet. Some are buttoned-up businessmen and some are cheats and some are terrorists by nature and you've saved them and called them together. Lord, help us that we would glory in your grace, that we would see, Lord Jesus, that you call a body together And that we would not stand outside that community as a visitor, a spectator, but we would become part of that community. Because you call your people into community. So make us available to serve you and to think about the lessons you're calling us to consider from this. And this day to get alone with you, to learn, and to give ourselves to you anew. For Jesus' sake. Amen.