Well, here we come back to this hillside, sitting there on the grass, along the lake of Galilee. And Jesus is down below, speaking in ways that we can hear clearly this greatest sermon that has ever been preached, the Sermon on the Mount. And we're not going to just pick into it in a couple weeks and outside of you if you've been frustrated, you know, you get into it for a week or two and begin to think about and then we're off into something else Well, relax. We're going to be camping out here, looking at the Sermon on the Mount, with just a couple of interruptions from now until next Christmas holidays. Just a couple of interruptions. We will be looking at a lot. In fact, by that time we'll have gone all the way through chapter 5 and about halfway through chapter 6, including the major importance of the Lord's Prayer section. Uh hope you can get ready for this teaching that the Lord's going to give us. It's it's this is a very uh It's a very arresting passage. You remember Jesus started by describing eight descriptions of his disciples in ways that they're blessed. We call them Beatitudes. And then he talked about these disciples engaging the culture. And he's saying basically if you are described by these eight characteristics And you engage the culture around you, you will necessarily be salt, you will be a preservative, and you will be light, you will bring truth. in a way that people see and gets their attention. And having said this, it's kinda like people are thinking, boy, is this some whole new religion And so verse 17 kind of pauses and, you know, no, I'm not bringing a new religion. In fact, everything I'm telling you is entirely 100% consistent with the Old Testament. But it's also a hundred percent dissonant in contrast to what you hear when you turn on the radio, when you turn on the TV, when you hear the Pharisees, you hear your Preachers, contemporary preachers tell you about the Old Testament. And so what Jesus then does is he shows the contrast between his understanding of the Bible and the contemporary religion. They would take the law and they would say there's a basic assumption when God commands us to do something, we must be able to do it. So they would restrict it and pare it down and reduce it so that it was something you'd have a shot at doing. And Jesus reverses that at every point. He puts the law in a way that you see, this has come into my heart, it convicts me, I can't do it, it's impossible, and Jesus seems harsher than the Pharisees. So you say, what happened to this Jesus we looked at uh you know a few weeks ago where he was loving and patient and kind and encouraging, and now he's stripping us bare, showing us how rotten we are What he is doing is he is simply trying to show you reality, saying, this is what your heart is like, so that you and I are able to see it because we don't. We're, you know, it's a classic example of what we're like this week in the news. You know, you've all seen this business about Don Inus and the Rutgers women's basketball team. Michael Olesker. had a column on it and I quote to you one sentence that I think is a classic illustration of what we do. When IMIS's nationally syndicated radio program, he reiterates how sorry he is and how he regards himself as, quote, a good man who said a bad thing. Hey, think about that. Who was it? It wasn't really me. I don't do that. I'm a good man. I just every once in a while I slip up and I do things that aren't good But don't you, I mean we're all good people, but we just occasionally do things that are a little out of character. See, and Jesus is saying, no, you're doing things that are perfectly in character. That's what you're like You're not a good person that occasionally does bad things. The things that you do, the words that you speak, are out of what your heart is like. That's what Jesus is showing us, but mercifully that's not all he shows us. Because what he intends to show us here is not only what you are like, but how you can change. You see, what Jesus is doing in these six examples in Matthew chapter 5 is that he is holding up six mirrors. I got six mirrors here. One for each example. And so the first mirror he's going to hold up to you this morning is the mirror of anger. Now we could go through these over the next couple of years easily. I mean, you know. I mean, you know But I am going to discipline myself. Life is short. And uh so we're going to do one a week. However, you knew there'd be a however. However, there are two of these examples that are so important, so weighty, so pointed, and we have such problems with them. When I say we, I mean we here at Columbia Presbyterian have such problems with two of these that after I give the one example from Matthew, Tim and Steve are gonna cake take a couple weeks, uh Tim's gonna do a series on one and Tim and Steve gonna share a series on the other. And you said, no, no, no, they just you know, you just snuck. I mean there it is. That was the fine print. You know, we're we're gonna do all this till you know, gonna cover all this material. Of course, you know, we're gonna get down into the weeds with all no, no. But anger is a big issue Big issue. And Jesus is going to show us anger, lust, divorce, matter of keeping our word, revenge, loving our enemies. I mean, talk about search your heart. But he's not just going to leave you there. He's going to show you your need of him so that you see he is a Savior. He is merciful. But the second thing he's going to do is he's also going to show you how you can change in those areas. So that by the end of the series, when we finish this going through in the spring In the summer, you're not just going to say, Okay, well I know more how wretched I am, but I know more about how to deal with anger, about how to deal with lust, about how to deal with integrity Some of these things. So let's start off. This is the first mirror this morning, anger. Jesus starts right on in after he has stated in verse 20. Look at verse 20, that amazing statement. I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and teachers of the law, you will certainly not even get into heaven. And you look and you say, how could that be? What hope would there be if the people that study the Bible and preach it and declare it they seem like they're really godly men and women, well how how can I have a chance Jesus begins to open up what he means by that. The first example is anger. The first point about it is the seriousness of anger. Verse 21, you've heard that it was said to the people long ago, do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment Now again, remember, he's not contrasting himself with the Old Testament. He's contrasting himself with the teaching that was going around about the Old Testament. You've heard that it was said That this is what that command means. It simply means anybody who murders will be subject to judgment. Simple as that, talking about the act taking somebody's life. Jesus says, no The commandment is about much more than that. It's about the intentions of your heart. Verse 22. But, contrast, I, authority, tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother Will be subject to judgment. Again, anyone who says to his brother, Rakham, is answerable to the Sanhedrin or the Council The next should not be a but but an and. He's giving three examples. He's not contrasting this He's saying, and also anyone who says you fool will be in danger of the fire of hell. So Jesus is saying that in your heart, despising someone, disdaining them, losing your temper at them, crushing them with your words. These are equivalent to murder in your heart. It doesn't mean that it's as bad as murder. It just means that in your heart you are guilty. Don't minimize it It's the first point. You see, we tend to say, well, I mean everybody I know is angry and I'm no angrier than people I man, you should see the guy I work with, you know, you should see my boss. You should You know, so we minimize anger is no big deal because it was only what I thought, what I felt. I only told my wife what a wretched person I work with. You know, we just we do all these things to minimize. Jesus is saying no, no, no. These things deserve help. Now what's raka? Well, yeah, I mean you say, because I'm that's great, I'm three there. I haven't said raca to anybody in three weeks, you know. Raka is just anything that is demeaning the person's mental capabilities. The literal translation would be you empty-headed idiot. It's just, you know, you stupid idiot, that's the kind of thing that Raka means it's. It's attacking their mental competence. Uh you fool is attacking the person's moral competence. It's saying you're not only stupid, you're perverse, uh you your motives are twisted. You're just uh you're you're You're just impossible to live with. You're you know he said, Well, you know, I don't say things like that. You know, he I think of um you know, we do. We live in an angry angry culture Columbia Flyer recently was an article about this woman who uh in Woodstock she had a pickup truck and she uh was running out of gas so that she wouldn't make it to home. So pulled into the Woodstock Post Office and parked there, uh, and uh came back with her gas can after a few minutes, and uh there was a note on her windshield that said, quote, Excuse me, idiot Large capital ID IOT. This is a loading zone for postal vehicles twenty-four hours a day. Look left at the no parking sign, idiot. Again all capitals And, you know, I mean, all right, I knew I shouldn't park there, but I was running out of gas and I but you see, we see somebody, we see what they do And to us, they're an idiot. We don't stop to say, what were the exam what were the circumstance, what were the pressure they were under? All I know is you inconvenienced me, you drive me nuts, you gotta get your act together So we say things. Now, you may not say, Rock a fool, all this, but you know, if you're in a let's say an altercation, husband, wife And you say to your spouse, you know what really drives me nuts is you always do blah blah blah blah blah blah. And you never, you see It's those universal statements intended to destroy. Now, that always intrigues me because you know, what are you really trying to accomplish? You never do this. You you really expect the person to say, really? But yeah, I thought I did sometimes. I never do that, huh? No kidding. I'm glad you let me know No, there's nothing constructive about it. You are simply trying to make the person feel bad. Now, that raises the next point, which is Jesus is not saying That all anger is bad. Anger can be either godly, God has given us the emotion of anger, He's given it to us for a good reason. God Himself is angry. So anger is not in itself bad. Ephesians 4. 26 says, be angry and don't sin. What's the difference between righteous anger and the sinful anger that Jesus is talking about? Well, simply, there's a lot of stuff we don't have time to unpack, but quite simply In a nutshell, righteous anger seeks to restore. It seeks to help the person, put them in touch with reality, help them to repent, and help to restore the relationship. It's an anger which is a constructive anger for the good of the other person. Sinful anger is out to destroy. I want to make you feel bad. I want you to pay for what you did. I'm simply venting my frustration, my judgment upon you as a deficient person. What we don't realize is the law of unintended consequences. Anger escalates. Anger begets anger. You think of the teenagers Mount Hebron. One gives an insult, another gives another insult, and back and forth, and it escalates. The next thing you know, they're meeting on the football field with chains and baseball bats And one kid kills the other with a baseball bat. I remember to still remember, I mean talk about the adrenaline rush. I I remember a group of kids just like that, squared off out in front of our house. And they were pairing up around my car out there with bats and chains and everything. And I thought, this is a war zone. And I thought, why would these kids want to do this? Well, you know, I mean, they're not like a bash my car, they're probably gonna rip some pieces off of it and use them. But fortunately, the police came before anything happened But it doesn't always happen like that. Sometimes there's the law of unintended consequences. So anger that's murderous and destructive in the heart We may say, well, you know, it's not that big because it doesn't work itself out. But that's only because of constraints. Left to yourself, you'd work it out. So Jesus is saying that anger is very serious. Don't minimize it. He's saying that you and I are angry people. There's times when I have to ask myself when I I want to say something to Kathy, and I I uh think, do I really want to say this to help her? I mean, do I want to help her to see her sin and grow as a person in this area? Or I just want to get it off my chest. I don't care how it affects her. I just need to say it. When you just feel like you need to say something, it's a danger signal. And you do. I do. We all do. The biggest fear in this message is that some of you will think you're exempt from it. I'm sure hoping the person on the left of me or the right of me is listening in. They sure need this. And don't realize this is to you. That's what Jesus is wanting you to see. This is about you. This is about your heart. It's about your anger. Your murderous intense. You're feeling that you deserve better. If you could just run the world for a little bit, things would be a better shape. Anger. Destructive anger. You know what he says at the end of verse 22 there? Anyone who says you fool will be in danger of the fire of hell. He was referring to something that was very familiar to them. Just to the east and south of Jerusalem was a valley called Gehenna. And that valley uh had been used over the years as a refuse, a dump. When they would execute criminals, they'd throw their bodies down there to just rot in the open. They would throw the carcasses of dead animals down there. They would throw garbage down there. And they lit this stuff. And so it was constantly this smoldering, stinking fire of rotting carcasses and garbage and refuse. And they came to see that as a picture of hell and judgment. And Jesus is saying When you work out your anger, when your anger in your heart, you don't repent of that, you see it and excuse it and minimize it. He says, I want you to know that that anger is in danger of the destruction of that valley. That's what it deserves. Now, second point. What's the hope? The antidote to anger. Now, what he does is something very interesting here. And Jesus then moves on to two examples that people ponder. They wonder, what in the world are these examples about? There's almost as many interpretations as there are commentators on this. Let me offer to you my own understanding, which I haven't seen anywhere, but It seems to me that the key to understanding these two examples is that they are both examples where you have offended somebody else. And I think what Jesus is saying is the way to become less angry is to cultivate a sensitivity to broken relationships where you are the offender. The angry person always believes they're right and you're wrong. Jesus says if you think about times when you are wrong It will put things in a little more perspective. And he gives you two illustrations. First of all, he talks about a person who is at worship. One of you is offering your gift the altar. There you remember that your brother has something against you Leave your gift there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled to your brother and come and then offer your gift. He's saying, think of anger is so serious. That it disrupts your worship. Leave the dead goat laying there by the altar and say, excuse me, I'll be back in a few minutes. Something I got to take care of. And you go and meet with somebody that you know would rather you disappear from the face of the earth, and it may be your spouse sitting next to you. I don't think you need to embarrass yourself and get up right now and go walk out. Well see, okay, who's leaving, you know. But I do think that it's saying that Jesus is is saying right after this service. Some of you need to go home for lunch and say, I'm sorry. I've been very angry And I want to talk about that with you. I realize that you're angry at me. And I understand you have some reasons. I'm going to listen to them. So Jesus is saying if you don't do that, that's going to affect your relationship with God. You can't worship and ignore your relationship with other people. There's some of you in this room right now that are distant from God and you're saying, why hasn't God seemed close to me? The reason is because you're blowing off people who have problems with what you've done in their life. And you just don't want to deal with that. And so you've put God off at a distance. And Jesus is saying, stop. Wake up. Look at that relationship. Don't come back here another Sunday until you have met with that person. To be reconciled, to find out what you have done, to live at peace as much as you can, to confess your sin. You know what? He says you do that, you'll be a less angry person. The problem with anger is sometimes a person that's angry, really angry, is the least aware of it Everybody else is aware of it. I know a guy that's so angry, he divides all the world into two groups. Either those out to get him, or the rest are incompoop n incompetent nick empooms. You talk to them for twenty minutes, you'll find out how everybody fits in one of those categories. They're either out to get 'em or they're simply incompetent. See an angry person? No. I just live in a world of incompetent nicum poots who are out to get me Who wouldn't be angry? I'm just in touch with reality. Too bad about you. His family avoids him. In fact, his his wife once had him arrested, thrown out for beating up the kids. Spend time in jail? Guy's taking an anger management course for crying out loud and he doesn't think he's an angry person. But if you see what you've done to other people, Jesus says you'll wake up. Second example This isn't even kind of humorous. He's taken you to court. To hear somebody that's saying, You wretch, you've wronged me I'm going to sue you, I'm going to take you to court, and on the way you're arguing with him to prove you're right. Do it while you're still with him in the way, or he may hand you over to the judge, and the judge may hand you over to the officer. So guess who's wrong here? You, you're the one that's going to be handed over to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and you may be thrown into prison. Law of unintended consequences. Second observation, angry people always think they're right You ever hear an angry person say, I'm not sure, but I think that you wronged me when you behaved the way you did, and I'd just kind of like to discuss it with you. No, what's an angry person? You did this and you and you and you It's the finger of accusation of the law. It's the denial of chapter seven, where Jesus says Take a look at the log in your own eye before you point out the speck in somebody else's. And so you and I When we're angry, we're sure. We want to prove we're right. He says, you know, you want to go to court? Yeah, I'll go to court. Go ahead. Let's go to court. Now they're turning the Bible. And Jesus is saying, you better stop, stop. You're going to get to court, you're going to find yourself in prison. And what's going to happen? Verse 26. I tell you the truth, you will not get out until you have paid the last penny That brings us to the third point. The need for the gospel. The need for the gospel. See, angry people always focus on what other people deserve. They live by the law. Some of the angriest people I have known have been perfectionists. Not only unbelievers, sometimes Christians, perfectionists. I know how the world should operate. And you stupid idiots, why don't you do it right? No tolerance, no patience, no mercy. You didn't keep your word. You said you would do this and you didn't do that, and you're thinking, yeah, I know. I'm really sorry for that. And you you know No, don't give me any excuses. You're inconsistent. You claim this and you deliver that The church is full of hypocrites and on and on and on. And often I find it so sad people like this are perfectionists and they hate themselves I know I'm not making it. I know this is what God demands, and I'm trying, and I'm not making it. But you know what? The only way I can survive and live is to say you're worse than me And if you dare to try to point out any of my sins or my faults, boy, look out for the blue torch. Angry perfectionists The need for the gospel. See, the reason that we're all angry is we all fit into that category thinking I deserve better and you deserve worse. And God has commissioned me to deliver on justice. But once you see That justice will put you in prison, that you will not be able to pay the last penny, you will not be able to buy your way out. You have no hope, and the only hope you will ever have is to cry out, mercy! Mercy! That's all I can hope for. Jesus says, when you cry out for mercy, when you are poor in spirit, And recognize and mourn your own angry heart that punishes and makes life miserable for other people. And you will receive a mercy of the Savior who took your sin on the cross, who died so that you would not be judged for your anger or for anything else. And when you receive that mercy, when you're able to look at your heart honestly and see that and understand that, changes you. I like the quote about Nancy Pelosi, who said last fall, if people are ripping your face off, you have to rip their face off. As she picked delicately at a chicken salad dressed only in lemon wedges. I'm a good person who simply occasionally does bad things. Jesus Christ is searching your heart here this morning to say, no, no, no. I'm a person who, if you rip my face off, I want to rip your face off. And I'll do it if I can. Until I realize that if I live by that code, I am hopelessly lost because I need mercy. And Jesus Christ offers to you this morning mercy. Mercy based on his sacrifice. Mercy if you don't minimize your sin, but you confess it. I minimize my sin. My anger specifically against Kathy, my kids, my co-workers. Fellow elders, people in the congregation, I become critical. I become judgmental. God has to wake me up to see my need for His mercy. So I invite you to come and confess with me this morning your need for mercy, as I so need mercy. So that you would be able to go to the person that you've offended. Become more sensitive to the people that you have wronged. And you would actually be able to say to them, Have I wronged you? Help me to understand. I know I haven't been the kind of husband or wife or friend, mother, father, daughter, son. That I should be. Help me to understand. And then shock them by asking, would you pray for me? Pray for me about that. I can't change my heart. I need God to change me in that area. You see what happens is when you become poor in spirit in that kind of way. And Jesus says, you become gentle. The third beatitude. Blessed are the gentle. And when you become gentle like that, you become merciful because you've received the mercy of Jesus Christ. Now this is so important. We're going to spend two more weeks on this, and we're going to see, as you saw, the men's retreat. Because this is really serious, brothers and sisters. What would it mean if God were to change Columbia Presbyterian and take out that sick, dominating anger? from our homes, our families, our small groups, our session, our fellowship here together. What would it mean in our closeness to Jesus Christ, in terms of our witness to the community, in what our lives would be like if he made us a gentle people rather than Our Father, how we thank you that you do not simply leave us here by displaying in this mirror our anger. But Lord, having held up that mirror to us, having made us undone, you now come and you offer us mercy if we come. Not minimizing, not blame shifting, justifying, but simply saying, Lord, yes, I'm an angry person. I believe that I deserve better, and I believe that I have a right to my anger Lord, you would show us that you have a perfect right to your anger. And our only hope is that you do not execute that right. But that you've taken that anger out on Jesus and you offer His mercy in Him. So Lord, give us grace to see our anger, to confess it, to hate it. To receive your mercy, that we would go home and have some difficult but important conversations as we repent of that anger. Ah Lord, Lord, meet us in Jesus' name. Amen.