Well let me say happy Mother's Day to all you moms. This is a day that reminds us that we are not manufactured. We are created. And that we are created within the body of another human being. Our moms. That's a unique and very precious relationship. And so we honor you moms and we honor the memories of our moms. And while I want to continue this series on the Beatitudes so that the thoughts hang together, I think it's especially appropriate. that today we look at the beatitude of gentleness. But when we think of our moms, there are few things probably more precious to us than her gentleness. When we think back of that in most cases. So uh happy Mother's Day to y'all who are moms. And now we take our place once again on the hillside. Let's see it there. Along the Sea of Galilee, this place which is reported with some um some credibility as the exact place where Jesus in fact Preached the Sermon on the Mount. He's down below. We're sitting up there. We listen to him again describing the eight habits of the heart. that characterize his disciples who are the happy people. Have you uh memorized the attitudes yet? Yeah, I have no idea whether five percent, ten percent, twenty, fifty, ninety percent, uh But here it is, just again to in case you forgot, you know. And uh you know I s I saw a kid's bulletin after the first service that had these letters. They just were you know really kind of working on that. In case you didn't get it, you know, PMM H M P P and very simple, you know, poor in spirit. Uh those who mourn, meek, hunger and thirst for righteousness. Those who are merciful, pure in heart, peacemakers, persecuted. Now, uh I mentioned that because Coming to worship is not something you kind of check off. Okay, well, did that, don't have to feel guilt. Hopefully, when you come to worship, you come both to bring your worship to the Lord of glory as well as to hear him. And if you expect to hear him, then you want to do what things will help you to hear him better. And since we're spending a couple of months on these verses of the Beatitudes one a week, um it makes sense for you to say, you know, I want to have those in my mind so that when I'm on hold for a telephone call or I'm waiting at a traffic light or in a traffic jam or whatever. I can have that portion of God's word going through and think about. It will make a difference. So let me encourage you. It's not that hard and uh keep at it. I know some of you kids are doing it, and that'll be very, very helpful to you. We don't offer a prize for that like some other things, but you know, it's an internal Today we look at the third of the Beatitudes, verse 5, where Jesus says, Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth. Now, we don't use that word meek very much, and we don't certainly use it in a positive sense when we use it. So the first thing I want to look at is what is the meaning of this word meek? It's probably better to think of it as gentle. That's the idea. Blessed, happy are the gentle, for they will inherit the earth. And of course that means not those who are cruel or sadistic, but you know, even though we are all capable of that I want you to ask yourself in the full meaning of that word, are you a gentle person? Happy are the gentle. For they will inherit the earth. Are you gentle? What does it mean? What are some of the more subtle ways that we believe? Well Let me give you just three examples. A number of others could be given. But uh first of all, a gentle person is not defensive. Not defensive. A moralist is a religious person who wants to feel okay about themselves because they have kept the rules, they've lived up to a standard. And they can present that as justifying them, even Christians, slip from living by grace, we become moralists, we become defensive. I become defensive because I can't let down my guard on establishing my righteousness. I have to protect it. And as I thought about this passage, I thought of a basic rule that I think is fairly reliable. The degree to which I am defensive is precisely the degree to which I am not resting in the righteousness of Christ. Let me say that again for you. The degree to which you are defensive is a precise measurement of the degree to which you are not resting in the righteousness, the finished work. of Christ. You know, it's almost amusing. We come to worship and freely confess that we are sinners In a few minutes, Tim's going to have us sing a hymn where we declare, guilty, vile, and helpless we, in contrast, spotless son of God was he. And so, you know, I doubt that any of you by, you know, sort of like, I'm not going to sing that, you'll sing guilty, violent, helpless we But let somebody else here call you guilty, let alone vile and helpless, and you bristle. Who you call and help you know guilty and I did uh you know why, you know And there's this internal rising up to defend ourselves. That's not gentle. That's needing to protect my reputation. I remember the first time that somebody told me that I was manipulative. And it felt like a slap on the face. And I remember thinking, me manipulative? And I thought of all the reasons why that was unfair. It was an overstatement and how I I was misunderstood. In fact, I tried to manipulate the person into retracting the charge, you know. Yeah, I mean, isn't that the way our hearts are? Um But you know, I found something. Um after getting over my defensiveness, feeling misjudged, and all the rest of that, and I was able to look at my heart and see the truth of that And then able to mourn it, second beatitude, able to grieve it, I found that Rather than my needing to cover my manipulation with spiritual sounding excuses, I was able to look at my heart, admit it. And surprise, there was less energy expended in mourning it than defending and denying it. You see, the pathetically humorous thing about us is that we think that we hide our sins from other people. They don't really see that I am insecure, controlling, manipulative, the rest of this, you know. And all we're kidding is ourselves. I mean, I hate to tell you, but people pretty much know your sins. I mean, you know them and you think the others don't, and we do, and you do about me The only question is whether your brothers and sisters, particularly in Christ, feel freedom to talk to you about it, or whether they say, You kidding, it's not worth it. I'm not bringing it up. And so we go on in self-deception. Because we're defensive. We're not gentle. See, a gentle person is approachable The gentle person is somebody that you can talk to about sin because their security is in Christ's righteousness. And so if my security is in Christ's righteousness, I can hear about my deficiencies without them crushing me In fact, I can even add, pfft, boy, you know, and what is even worse is that I can lie and not even feel bad about it. When a person touches something in your heart and you're able to say, you know, and what is worse? You know what happens? You've won an ally. Because then you can say, pray for me. Pray for me. Help me in this area. I hate that sin. I mourn that sin. And I want for God to root it out. So a gentle person is a person who has acknowledged spiritual poverty and mourned it. And then is able to hear it without being defensive. A gentle person has a realistic assessment of their heart Another couple of examples briefly. The gentle person is not demanding. I don't need to have my own way because I deserve it. I can always justify why my way is right and why people either need to submit to my way or get out of the way. In contrast, a gentle person is easy to work with. The gentle person seeks to negotiate a win-win solution. I don't need to win over you. I want to win with you. There's nothing in me that needs to control. Now, by our nature, by our hearts, there is. But as I admit that and mourn it and come to Christ, He gentles me. I don't need to be so demanding. A third example is a gentle person is not impatient, not touchy or easily provoked. I don't live with the attitude that I deserve to have things my way and that I'm rather superior to the Goofballs that work around me or that I live with, you know, it's kind of like the monster dot com commercials. I work with a bunch of jackasses and chimpanzees and all this, you know. And you know, you look at those commercials, and what does it do? It feeds this idea, you're really superior to the people you work with. You know, and what happens? You know, that does not produce a gentle spirit. It produces a critical, superior spirit. Boy, the people I have to put up with. That's not the spirit of gentleness. Jesus says, Happy are the gentle. For they will inherit the earth. Now all of this illustrates the second point that I have here, which is the connection with the first two Beatitudes. You see, Jesus here brilliantly places these in an order which is interrelated, and the successive Beatitudes build on the former ones. Not only that, but I think in the first three I see three different orientations. And we're getting far enough down on these Beatitudes, I ought to just remind you all the Former ones are online. Just go online. You can listen if you wanna catch up on what's going on or miss one. But you remember in the first one we talked about poverty of spirit. Acknowledging my spiritual bankruptcy. That is to God. I acknowledge to Him I am spiritually bankrupt. I have nothing to offer. I can only receive. That is not something to just cognitively do, but I mourn it to myself. Within myself, I mourn and grieve that sin, what my heart is like. That leads to the third, which is toward other people. Gentleness is how we behave toward others because we have admitted our spiritual bankruptcy and warned it. Martin Lloyd-Jones, in his classic commentary on the Sermon on the Mount, says that the true estimate of myself leads to gentleness toward others. See, the gospel inevitably gentles you. A heart that's faced its poverty of spirit and grieved over it will be a heart that is gentle. So another principle? The degree to which you are not gentle is the degree to which you have not grasped the gospel. If you are not gentle, you're not grasping the gospel. Doesn't mean you never did. But at the point when I am not gentle, I am not grasping the gospel. Because I know that I am not in touch with my heart when I am defensive or demanding or touchy. Let me give you another example from Nova Scotia. In planning the trip that I took last year with my son through Nova Scotia, I had purchased a book. It was a beautiful little travel book uh illustrated richly with full color photographs, but it was a small book, very compact, and I thought Boy, that book is so great that, you know, I'm gonna keep that in my library. It'll remind me of the places we were. It's got these great little descriptions and pictures and everything. So we would consult that book frequently as we planned in the early parts of the trip. And uh the second morning of the trip Uh I was having my quiet time on a balcony overlooking this beautiful harbor. I mean it was just a pristine sight and I was meeting with the Lord and it was God was gracious that morning. He was Uh showing me my heart, my need for him. He was showing me his sufficiency, and I was kind of rejoicing in him, had a good time with him. And then uh I went out to our car to get something before rousing my son, uh, who tends to have his quiet times a little later, and uh so I thought I'd go out and check something, and I I looked in the car and there was My book. It was wedged down between the seat, what was left of it. What had happened was uh sometime the afternoon or evening before Um it's one of those seats, you know, where you push the seat forward and the motor pulls it forward and then you push the seat back, motor grinds but It's a pretty powerful motor and this book had been down there and it ground the seat into this book so that it twisted and broke its spine and it was just a massive pulp. And I looked at that with horror. And I thought, I'm sure didn't Dean didn't mean to do that. Are you kidding? Man, I was ticked. And I thought, how stupid. How could he do that? What did he see? He was crushing the bar, you know, and I was, you know, and I'm getting pretty worked up about it. And then I start thinking, and I say this to my shame, but examine your hearts, brothers and sisters, with me. I thought, I wouldn't do that. I wouldn't have been so dumb. I would have thought about where the book was, and I would, you know, and I wouldn't have done something like that. When I do things that are mistakes and wrong, it it's I didn't mean it. And all of a sudden the thought hit me. Like he did. Why would I think that Dean was just careless and he's different from me? And God showed me in a powerful way at that moment. That's my heart. I think I don't do stupid things. I think he deserves for me to ream them out because he does. And then the Lord convicted me. Two things. One, if you have a choice right now, you can ruin this day or at least the morning by going in and reaming them out over something he never intended to do. And number two, you can teach them there's no difference between mistakes and sin. The way we treat our kids when they mess up and didn't mean it and it's not sin. If they don't detect the difference between that when they do something wrong, we are not helping them And God convicted me in that moment, and I, Lord, I am sorry. So after I had a tough time with the Lord, I went in and I told Dean, I showed him the book, what was left of it, and I said, I'm really disappointed this happened, and I know you didn't mean to do this. I know it was a mistake. And he said, yeah, he really felt bad about it. And we talked about it and we prayed together. And we had a great day. And I thought, why am I so often not gentle? Why is it so often that I'm harsh? Because I'm not in touch with my heart. Why is it that you are not gentle with your spouse, with your kids, when they mess up? It's because you're not in touch with your heart. Jesus says, Happy are the gentle. They're in touch with their hearts. They're in touch with the gospel. They inherit. You know, I think about um Just recently, in reading a number of things, whether secular magazines, Christian magazines, Christian prayer letters. And I'm noticing, I believe, particularly in the last month or so, an escalation of harsh language. This week, Time magazine talking about Christianism. I read a number of things that I come across. That sort of sound like if we could rid the earth of evangelicals, everybody'd be better off. And the response of evangelicals are to curse the ACLU. use the word liberal as if it's a curse word. And it's kind of a response that says, oh, you want to fight? Okay. You want to fight? We'll fight. We'll take you on. And uh so we produced a little logo for a T shirt that um let's take a look at this thing that I think maybe sort of captures a lot of the Christian uh now this this is uh courtesy of John Barnes and they're not for sale, but there is a t-shirt that exists with this on. But you see, I mean, isn't this kind of the attitude of some Christians? You know, our church fathers could beat up your church fathers. Okay, ACLU, you want to take I mean there was a letter I got this week from a organization, Christian organization that I respect. That would say, why are Christians cheering? We're beating up the ACLU. You know. I mean, can we see that that is not the spirit of Jesus? And what is so important is that within political discourse, we engage with strength but gentleness. Our adversaries, who are seeking with great vehemence to defend gay rights or whatever else the issue would be, don't notice our argument so much as our attitude. And if we can respond with strength and gentleness, that may be more effective than simply combating. a person who we view as the enemy to try to defeat them. It's a delicate thing. It's the kind of thing I. Some people wanted to discuss that more afterwards when I first served. We talk about this, let's discuss that. We need to be thinking about that more. And that's all I'm saying at this point is to think about it. I still remember the time some years ago when I went into a convenience store that I frequented and it was a pornography display. I went to the manager and I asked, I would like to request that you remove that display. He said, Yeah, right. And I said, it's not good for the community, it really doesn't add anything, it's harmful to families, and you know, I'd just like you to think about taking it out. Two weeks later it was gone. I was the only person. I mean it's not like I got a crowd. We didn't pick at the store. We didn't do anything. I went back and I said, I want to just express to you, I'm really appreciative of the fact that you've taken that out of here. I'm curious, why'd you do it? Says to tell you the truth, you're the first person who has ever protested it that didn't curse at me or abuse me verbally. So I could listen to you. Jesus says, happy are the gentle, for they will inherit the earth. There's things here in my heart and your heart we need to learn. Philip Yancey, some years ago, asked the Christian public to pray for President Clinton. He said the response that he got was several death threats from evangelicals. Somehow we have missed what Jesus is talking about here. Because third point, Jesus is a gentle Savior. Jesus is a gentle Savior, you know, in Matthew 8, 11. You heard at the beginning of this service, the invitation, Jesus says, Come to me, all of you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle. And humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. Gentleness, if it is in the person a person who is weak, is not very impressive. If you see a gentle giant, as in Princess Bride, who is very gentle, that's really impressive, isn't it? Someone who created the stars and can vaporize you with a word, but holds you in the palm of his hand and is gentle, blows our minds. Jesus was not weak. Matthew 21 talks about the last week of his life, his going into the temple. And violently expelling the money changers, those who were who were secularizing and profaning the place that was a house of prayer And he can act with great strength, and sometimes even with violence. But Isaiah 53 tells us that when he was led away, he was led as a lamb to the slaughter. He didn't open his mouth to protest. In fact, Peter tells us in 1 Peter chapter 2. That you were called because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example that you should follow in his steps. He committed no sin, no deceit was found in his mouth. When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate When he suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. When Jesus was personally attacked, he was gentle. And Jesus went to the cross gently to die for your harshness. That in itself should gentle you. Jesus is oh so gentle, but oh so strong. We worship him as the strong and gentle Savior that he is. The interesting thing is that when Jesus here talks about why the gentle are happy, While it is connected, I believe, to the first two beatitudes, acknowledging our poverty of spirit and grieving, mourning over our sin. so that grace comes to gentleness, that's not what he refers to. He doesn't say, happier the gentle, because they've been forgiven. He refers to the future. That's significant. He says, happier the gentle because they will inherit the earth. What he's doing there is quoting from Psalm 37, 11, where the psalmist says, the meek will inherit the land and enjoy great peace. It turns out that the Hebrew and Greek word for land and earth is the same. So you could translate either the Psalm or this as those who inherit The earth or those who inherit the land. And of course, the land refers to, that's your blank under four, the promised land. Those who inherit the promised land. Will enjoy great peace. The idea was the idea of Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 1. Hear now, O Israel, the decrees and laws I'm about to teach you, follow them. so that you may live and go and take possession of the land that I am giving you. So God is saying, here's my inheritance. It is this land of milk and honey and peace. And if you follow me, you possess the land. That's the same word that is used in Isaiah 66 to refer to the new heavens and the new earth. In Isaiah 66, verse 22, as the new heavens and the new earth that I make, the new earth is that same word. that I make will endure before me, declares the Lord, so will your name and descendants endure. So the earth that you are possessing as a gentle person, is the new earth. It's the new heavens and the new earth of his kingdom that he's talking about. Revelation 21 1, same word used again. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. This is a new heavens and a new earth, a restored Eden. And if you read in Isaiah chapter 11, you find that it's in a place where there are no predators. Even lions are gentle with lambs. Even snakes are gentle with children. Even wolves are gentle. There are no predators to take advantage of their strength over the weak in this place. There are no sexual abusers, no verbal abusers. There are none who torture And we have a longing in our hearts for such a place, don't we? I mean, it's a deep longing in the human heart, not just Christians. What's the story of Cinderella about, after all? Isn't it about somebody gentle? Who was oppressed by evil, strong stepsisters and a stepmother? Took advantage of her? But who gets the prince? Happier the gentle. But they get the prince. There's something in our hearts that cleaves to that and says, yeah, that's a good story. Happy are the gentle. For they're the ones that are going to possess the earth. And so what Jesus is saying here If you look at that Psalm 37, take a look, and you see that that idea of inheriting the earth is used again and again, and up to the next one, Psalm 37. Number of times, 9, 22, 27, 29, 34, as well as verse 11 that Jesus is quoting. You notice again and again, we'll inherit the land. And you notice that in a couple of cases, verse 27 for instance, we'll dwell in the land forever. This is talking about eternal. This is not talking about a piece of real estate in Palestine. That's a picture. of the eternal inheritance of the new heavens and the new earth. Because in every case, and take your Bibles out, Psalm 37 this afternoon, check this out, in every case the context is in contrast to the wicked. Who are going to be cut off, they're going to vanish, they're going to disappear, they're going to be gone. But the gentle, those who love the Lord, those who trust him on different descriptions, they're going to inherit this land forever. Now, this is what Paul picks up on in 2 Corinthians chapter 6. In 2 Corinthians chapter 6, Paul is contrasting the lot of the Christian, those things that we suffer. and those things that we have as his people. And the climax of what he says there is in verse 10. Sorrowful yet always rejoicing, poor yet making rich, having nothing, yet possessing everything. You see, Paul's saying, that's your hope, that's my hope right now. You don't have to fight for it. You don't have to scrap. In the world of competition and people that want to look for any shred of weakness in you to take advantage of, you don't have to fight back. Because your hope is in your strong Savior. And the hope of your heart is set not on the things in this world. It set on the new heavens and on the new earth, and in that place you possess everything. What a hope! That's tremendous! Do you see why you can be gentle? You don't have to fight to survive. You have a Savior who's provided a kingdom. And his spirit is in you to bring the peace and the gentleness. You see, only secure people can be gentle Only somebody who's strong can be gentle. And you and I do not have hearts like that. It's a supernatural blessing. Happy are the gentle who set their eyes upon the eternal kingdom. They will inherit it. The word inherit means a gift. It will be given. And the word meek in its root means dispossessed. You don't belong here. But in Jesus you've got everything Now I want us to pray, and I want to ask these questions. As you see at the end of your outline, they're written there so that you can take them home and you can ask yourself these questions again and search your heart. Let's pray Lord, help us to search our hearts now as we think of the great news. That Jesus gives to us in such a simple statement, happy are the gentle. For they will inherit the new heavens and the new earth. So how do you respond when you're criticized? What do you do when you don't get your way? Would people describe you as a gentle person? What keeps you from gentleness? Oh, connect this blessing with the first two. See the connection in your heart of what it means to admit your spiritual bankruptcy, to grieve and mourn it So that that gentles you, reveals whether you've grasped the gospel. Come and humble yourself anew to the Lord right now. And I invite you to observe this week whether you are gentle, when you are, by God's grace, and when you're not. And use that experience to deepen the gospel in your heart. Lord, give us that hope Rich and vivid, your grace, your gentleness, the restored Eden, the new heavens and the new earth where there are no predators Where all are gentle. How our hearts long for that place. Lord, gentle our hearts, gentle our hearts. But our husbands, our wives, our friends, our kids. Lord help us to see our hearts And in grasping the gospel, past and future, we could live in that hope which gentles us. We can't make ourselves gentle. But you can. And this is how you do it. May we experience it. May each person here experience it. So that you will be glorified. Because only you can do that in sinners like us. Do it, we pray, for Jesus' sake. Amen.