Thank you, Choir. That's a good example of the words and the Music amplifying the comfort and the hope of those words. Thank you Well, it is commencement address season again. President Obama delivered the commencement address at Arizona State University. They did not confer an honorary degree on him, so he pronounced that they would soon receive a tax audit. Hillary Clinton gave an address and also of Oprah Winfrey, Vice President Joseph Biden spoke at his alma mater, Syracuse University, where he said, Since I have been in public office, there has never been a graduating class that has graduated into a moment where they actually have the chance to make more than an incremental change. That was a bit more upbeat than President Obama, who told the Arizona State grads that they were going into a world with two wars going on, historic recession still raging, threats of a pandemic, and a few other things to keep you awake at night. Now you flash back 2,000 years to another commencement address given by Jesus Christ. He had been teaching the disciples for about a year at this point, the master teacher. He would instruct them, then he would have them observe him, demonstrating what he was speaking of Now he comes to send them out to imitate what he has taught them. Then he will bring them back and evaluate, do more teaching, repeat the process, and send them out again. This is the first time in Matthew chapter 10 that he is sending them out on a short-term mission, so it's kind of his commencement address to this group of twelve. Matthew 10 is a difficult chapter. It's the kind of chapter you don't hear preaching from very much. It's the kind of chapter that if I was not doing expositional preaching, I'm not sure that I would choose Matthew 10 to preach on. It's all about rejection and suffering and persecution and hell. Kind of chapter that you say You know, I'm picking topics and these are not the ones that turn people on, so let's move beyond. But let me tell you this as I began to get into Matthew chapter ten and began to study it and think about it and meditate on it. I originally planned to give two, three messages, one on the disciples, and then two more messages to cover the chapter. And um by the time I got through it, I'm up to seven messages. Um and that's not to um scare you, it's just to tell you it's uh It's got a lot of very worthwhile things to think about in there. So um I say it's a difficult chapter. Just for example I don't know if anybody picked this up, probably knowing this congregation, there was at least one who did, that there is an apparent conflict. between what Jesus says in verses five to sixteen and what he says in verses sixteen to the end of the chapter, uh just even the part that that uh Tim read, you may have noticed that He says in verse 5, don't go to the Gentiles. And then in verse 18 he says, And when they haul you before the Gentiles and you witness before them, You think well he just said don't go to the Gentiles. Now he's talking about what's going to happen when they go to the Gentiles. So this is talking about two different situations. Most commentators agree that that um Either this is two messages that Matthew simply joined together, as he does sometimes in his Putting the teaching material into blocks or perhaps he gave this as one message But it's about two situations. The two situations are, verses 5 to 16, he's talking about an immediate short-term mission. Little or no preparation, just go out. It's going to be for maybe ten days, two weeks, and then come back. Starting at verse 16, which is kind of the transitional verse. He's talking about what's going to happen after his resurrection, what's going to happen between his first and second coming. So he is broadening this whole commission to what ministry and mission are to what will happen during the so far 2,000 years since his going back to heaven. And in that, um I want to focus this morning on the first message. The immediate short-term mission, verses 5 to 16. I'm going to cover that this in this message, and then I will take five messages to talk about verses 16 to the end of the chapter and then we had of course one message on the disciples so that's seven messages. Alright so seven lessons I would like to offer to you on this commencement address about um this short-term mission, seven lessons that apply to you and to me as Jesus sends you out after this worship service to minister in his name during this week. We had a lot of very good discussion about that. in the Q<unk>A time during the um middle hour, some practical things about our ministry. So first thing I want you to notice is first that um ministry is not a spectator sport. Ministry is not a spectator sport. Verse 5, these twelve Jesus sent out with the following instructions. He's sending them now. They've been watching him till this point. They have been amazed. Being with Jesus, you were never bored. You never knew if a couple demoniacs are gonna attack you or you know, somebody's gonna talk about a dead person and you're gonna watch them Jesus raised the person up from the dead or a leper be cleansed or a blind person see. You just never knew what was going to happen, but you watched in amazement what he did And it never occurred to you that he was going to tell you to do the same thing. I remember some years ago out in Colorado in the Rockies Watching people repelling off of cliffs. And that looked kind of interesting and exciting until they put me in the harness and said, jump backwards off this cliff. It was a little different story, you know Or or I remember a few years ago um being on the banks of the Yucagini River at springtime and the river was two feet above normal, which means it was running very quickly And watching the whitewater rafters go zing down the river, and boy, that was kind of exciting. Until I got in the raft. And they said, now you're going to navigate here, practice a little bit, and then you take off. We never got to practice. The current took us so that in less than a minute two people had been ejected from the raft in the first rapids. We're trying to drag them out or s the search for their bodies somewhere. And I s I suddenly realized that I had entered a new arena of excitement. and also a very steep learning curve. It's one thing to watch someone else do something. It's entirely different for that person to say, now you do it. And that's what's happening. Ministry is not a spectator sport. Jesus is saying, it's your turn now to do what you have seen me do. Now, some Christians by nature are activists. They say, just give me a little Bible knowledge, give me a few facts, and I'm off. Let's just get going. I don't want to sit and talk about it, I just want to do it. Then there are other Christians who tend to be the absorbers. These are the people that never tire of learning and hearing. more about the gospel and ministry and all the kinds of things that we can discuss, but somehow never feel ready to get out there and do it And that is a problem because ministry is not a spectator sport. Jesus says there comes a time when you need to do it. If you continue to simply absorb and keep yourself from ministry and lost people's lives, you begin to live what I call the vicarious Christian life. Which is different from the victorious Christian life. The vicarious Christian life is where you get all of your faith built on hearing about other people's experiences, how they stepped out on faith, and God honored them and God blessed them. And you say, boy, that is really great. But there's a certain hollowness because you haven't stepped out on faith. In the in the Christian church, we tend to associate with people who are kind of like us. You take two streams within the Church of Christ. There's the Anabaptist stream and the Reform stream. There's other streams, but just take those two. In my opinion, in the Anabaptist stream, the emphasis is pretty much on following Jesus. How do you live? Not so much emphasis on the doctrines and what you believe. In the reformed emphasis, it is very much on what you believe, not so much on how you live, but make sure that your doctrine is correct. In both those, there can be an imbalance. We need to have the balance of learning together. It is what you believe and following Jesus, how you live. Let us be careful that in our tradition we don't encourage so much focus on simply what we believe that we do not think about the fact that we need to be out exercising our faith to see how it is that we live to follow Jesus in ministry. Which leads to the second lesson in this, and that is that following Jesus requires faith. It's not just knowledge, it's faith See what he says there in verses 5 to 10. These twelve Jesus set out with the following instructions. Do not go among the Gentiles. or enter on any town of the Samaritans. Go rather to the lost sheep of Israel. As you go, preach this message. The kingdom of heaven is near. Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse those who have leprosy, drive out demons, freely receive, freely give. Do not take along any gold or silver or copper in your belts. Take no bag for the journey or extra tunic or sandals or a staff for the worker is worth his key. Now there's two kinds of faith that Jesus is talking about there. First of all, there's the miracles, the healing, the raising, the cleansing, the driving out. I mean can you imagine the first time that Bartholomew said to a cripple, get up and walk. And he's thinking, is anything going to happen? Where he says to a blind person, see, open your eyes, look. Or imagine the first time he confronted a demon. What do you do about this? Where's Jesus when you need him? This was a whole new area of faith. This is getting in the raft that is going through the rapids. It is not looking on and seeing. It requires that you trust Jesus in a way you've never trusted him before. Let me ask you, where in your life are you saying if the Holy Spirit doesn't come through for me, I'm sunk? I'm in big trouble here Jesus, you have gotta come through. It wasn't just in the miracles what they did. It was also in the provisions You notice he says, don't take anything along with you. Don't take any gold, don't take your savings, don't go to the bank account and get stuff out. Just go. I will provide for you So uh Bartholomew and his companion are coming to the end of the first day of this thing and and they're saying, you know, um have you thought about where we're gonna stay tonight or where we're gonna have dinner? Well the Lord said he's gonna provide. So they get they got to trust him. Is he going to do that? And then somebody says, hey, how about you guys come and stay with us? And they go and they're given a good meal and they're given a place to rest and their faith grows. Your faith grows. It's like a muscle when you exercise it. It grows in its strength, but you have to be in an area where you can't just provide for yourself and pull off what it is that you think you need to do Where is that in your life? Where are you trusting Jesus to do what you can't do simply on your own? Ministry requires faith. Third lesson. He says, to begin with a familiar. Begin with a familiar. In verse 5 and 6, again, he says, don't go to the Gentiles or enter any town of the Samaritans. You don't like those people anyway. Go rather to the lost sheep of Israel. And what he's saying is basic gospel principle. Gospel is to the Jew first and then to the Gentile. But he's also saying to them, you're not ready for this difficult, more difficult ministry of going to people unlike you. the Samaritans that you don't like, the Gentiles that you can't relate to, you're going to start with the people that you do naturally relate to. The world will come later. Right now Deal with your friends before you talk about being a missionary to China. Bring the gospel to the people that you culturally relate to. And that's true for you and for me. We need to begin with the familiar. Jesus calls us into that. Then he stretches us to go beyond that. Fourthly, you see the blend of kingdom proclamation and kingdom transformation. Kingdom proclamation and transformation. Verses 7 and 8. Did you go? Preach the message. Kingdom of heaven is near. Heal. Raise. Cleanse. Drive out the demons. You see the pattern of word and works, preaching and healing. And so the same thing is true for you and for me. Jesus has this two-fold ministry that he gives to his people. Now, what is it that they preached? You notice they didn't go out and say, Here's the message, he says, go tell them they're sinners and they need a savior. What he said was, preach that the kingdom of heaven is near Now, that's related to the gospel, but it is far more encompassing. That's talking about cosmic transformation. That is saying God is about to restore the brokenness of this world by bringing a kingdom that He rules. And in that kingdom that he rules, there is healing and restoration. That's the message. So As we talk about this in the middle hour, I like to say, get yourself involved in kingdom conversations. that occasionally will lead to gospel conversations. For instance, as you interact with people And they just talk about current events. And that will get you into issues of sanctity of life or lying, greed, forgiveness. Is there hope? These basic issues, all these issues, relate centrally to Jesus Christ. As you raise questions with people, Uh you know, we talked about a lot of this in the middle hour. Uh but just raising questions with people about their lives, is life working for you? You're bringing in the perspective of the kingdom, and in some cases you will get into specifically their need for Jesus Christ But Jesus tells them to proclaim the kingdom. And with that, he wants them to demonstrate something of the kingdom. He tells them to heal, to demonstrate his power, to show his compassion. But It gets their attention. when they see these miracles. They're seeing in those miracles the first fruits of a fallen world being restored, which includes the physical. And this, of course, is the basis of medical missions. This is why we have six people going out next month to Burkina Faso and Bolivia. to bring with the gospel the demonstration of the healing and of the compassion of Jesus Christ in restoring brokenness, physical brokenness in a sick and broken world. So these two things are always joined in ministry for the believer. Now you notice that when Jesus comes to Matthew 28, he does not talk about casting out demons and talk about Um healing, miraculous healings as part a basic part of ministry. I believe that a basic part of our evangelistic ministry is praying for people and sometimes we may see miraculous answers to those prayers. We talked again in the middle hour of the importance when you're engaging with somebody and they share something of brokenness. To just ask, I've never seen somebody offended, an unbeliever, to say, hey, could I pray for you? And pray to see the power of God demonstrated in their life in a way they will notice. in a way that they will see. And that's joined then with the truth of the gospel. So there is this blend of the words and the works that Jesus commissions for you and for me. Fifthly Resist the temptation to become wealthy from the gospel. You notice he says that freely you have received, so freely give. Don't take away, don't take gold, silver, any of these things. Don't take you know God will provide for you. Um stay at the house of the people He provides, but freely you've received, freely give. Now Becoming rich by the gospel is probably not much of an issue for you and me, but it is an issue in our culture as we confront the health and wealth thinking of many Christians. Who look at the gospel as a way to obtain wealth. That is counter to biblical Christianity. Jesus is saying here, I am demonstrating my grace and compassion to these people. You don't charge for ministry. Now when you get into the long-term commission of ministry, he does talk about people gaining their salary and their support from those that they minister to, material support. Not the issue. But right here, he is saying it's not about Getting remuneration for the ministry of grace in the kingdom, focused simply on demonstrating that which will draw attention to Jesus Christ and His grace and compassion. Sixth lesson that you see. Judgment Day is more about, and get this, your response to God than how moral you are. This is probably the most counterintuitive part of this whole message. You notice what he says in verse 14 and 15. If anyone will not welcome you or listen to your words, Shake the dust off your feet when you leave that home or town. I tell you the truth, it will be more bearable for Sodom and Gomorrah. on the day of judgment than for that town. So, on the day of judgment, who will fare better People strutting and flaunting their perversion in the gay pride parade. or pornography distributors, or very moral religious people who read guideposts magazine, but when they hear about Jesus Christ as the one way to be reconciled to God, say, that's too intolerant for me. I won't have anything to do with that. And they renounce Jesus Christ, whom they have heard clearly. Jesus says the second group will receive the stricter judgment Now is that how you see it? Is that what you expect? Or are there people in your life That you know, don't know Jesus Christ, but when you look at them, you say, but they're good people. They're they're moral people. And so even though they don't know Jesus somehow I'm not real concerned what's gonna happen. Somehow maybe it's gonna work out some way, you know. I mean they're they're they're sympathetic to Christianity. These people were sympathetic to kingdom talk. They were Jews steeped in the scriptures. Jesus says, when these people reject your message about me, they will receive more severe judgment And in that, he is talking about the fact that there are degrees of hell. It's not people either all just go to heaven or all go to hell. Hell is perfect justice. Hell is the receiving of exactly what you deserve. And Jesus says that to knowingly renounce me offered clearly to you. Is to bring upon yourself severer judgment than the person who is in sexual perversion, the person whose life is sordid and they don't know the gospel. I remember a while back sharing Christ with a guy that I was working with. And as we got into from kingdom to gospel, real clear presented the gospel to him, was talking to him about his response, he was resisting, and he was going through the usual litany of questions to throw things off. Like Well, what about those that have never heard of Christ? What's going to happen to them? You can't be telling me this is the only way to God because what about all those millions and billions of people that haven't heard? To which I responded, I'm not worried about that because God is perfectly just. And you know what? When you stand before Him in that day and you see His justice, you will agree That he was entirely just in every verdict he rendered. But you have now heard the gospel. And therefore, it will go much harder for you to reject Jesus Christ consciously. You know what his response was? He said, I wish you hadn't told me that. He was honest enough to be saying, revealing his heart, you see, what he was saying is, I want to shut God out, and I want an excuse to do it. And Jesus says, that is the most damnable thing of all. It gets to the very heart of the issue. Jesus says it is more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah than for your moral religious friends that you are not concerned about when they stand before God. Who is it that God is speaking to you about this morning to warn? The person that you haven't been all that concerned about, but now God is showing you, I need to talk to this person. Get down to the two things, the two lessons at the end of this that God is calling you to act on. Perhaps for you it is I need to talk to this person who is moral and they're religious. They're a good person, but they want nothing to do with Jesus Christ because they don't think they need him. To pursue with him. Is your life working without him? Gotta move on. Finally, the seventh thing. Seventh lesson from this commencement address. Your ministry will receive two kinds of receptions. He says in verses 11 to 16, whatever town or village you enter, search for some worthy person there and stay at his house till you leave. As you enter the home, give it your greeting. If the home's deserving, that is, they're receiving your message, they are responding to your message, let your peace rest on it. If it is not, that is, they hear you and they reject the message, then let your peace return to you. If anyone will not welcome you or listen to your words, shake the dust off your feet. When you leave that home or town, it was a Jewish custom of saying, I want to shake off all defilement and rid myself of it. I tell you the truth, it will be more tolerable, more bearable for Sodom and Gomorrah on that day of judgment than for that town. I am sending you out like sheep among wolves, therefore be shrewd as snakes and innocent as doves. We have both that come to Columbia Presbyterian. The decenists came and there was a point where we talked about the uniqueness of Jesus and was there any other way? And when I shared that uh no there wasn't, Debbie began to weep. And I thought they're gone. But God continued to work in them. And they worked through that issue and they worked through the other issues. And I said, John's most telling point was he said, When I saw I was a sinner It all began to fall into place. There will be people who will hear may not at first respond to you But you see a softening over the period of months, maybe years, until they come to receive Jesus. Others will become more hostile. Others will reject and Jesus will go on to talk about this as we pursue this chapter. Like the f the guy who came to me and said after he'd been visiting CPC for six, seven months, he said I really like your church, like a lot of things about it, like the worship, like all this stuff, but he says, I'm not continuing. I'm not coming anymore. And I said, how come? He said, because I don't like to hear every week that I'm a sinner. So there will be some who will say, I am. That's reality. And I need a Savior. It was a glorious moment when that broke through to John and I saw his face. There'll be others that will scowl, they'll reject, and you'll feel personally feel rejection. Notice that Jesus gives three animal images where he brings us to a conclusion to describe what it's like. He said, I'm sending you out like sheep among wolves. Isn't that comfortable? It's like going down those rapids in the whitewater raft when the river's two feet above normal Points of it are exhilarating. And other points are scary, like when we came around the bend and I saw a sign that said the end of the world. And there was no more river. It just it was the river just came to an end and that was it It was a false. We went over those false, and one guy's canoe broke in half. And you say, what am I into? What have I gotten myself into? Sheep among wolves. And some Christians say, I want to stay with the sheep. So you just hang around sheep all the time. You just want to be with the sheep because the sheep bad like you do and you can bleak together and you can talk the same language and you're all on the same wavelength. He said, hey, later for the wolves. Talked to one guy after the first service. He said, I wish in my office that people had on their chest a little sticker that said secret. I could talk to them. It's those wolves that I try to talk to and they oh no, it's just uncomfortable and it's tense. Yeah, Jesus says that's the way it is That's how you experience me in the midst of that. Don't be naive. Be wary, shrewd as snakes. Snakes are not naive. Snakes are always on the lookout. You never catch a snake off guard. And he said, also be harmless. Vulnerable is really a better perhaps way of translating. Be vulnerable like doves, gentle. Doves are among the last birds to take off when humans approach. Doves are very different from geese if you approach them. Be vulnerable, gentle as doves. So, what is the Lord saying to you this morning? What he's not saying to you is, all right, you shame me into it. I'm going to get out this week, going to think about ministry, because I feel guilty enough that I'm just going to push myself to do it. Did somebody share an experience of that during the middle hour? It was terrible. I said, man, that's a what a terrible story. You must put all this pressure on yourself. Yeah, I'm gonna do this. It kills me The disciples were motivated because they spent time with Jesus. They saw him. They saw his compassion. They experienced his compassion. You need to spend the time with Jesus so that you are feeling his compassion in your life. And you share with him that compassion that sees lost people, a sheep without a shepherd. You see his power in how he has changed your life and is continuing to change it, how he laid down his life for you and is showing you that he is involved in your life and answering prayers and hearing you. And then you see that he gives you this commission and you want to obey him because you want to know him better and you want to be involved with him. In the ministry he's called you, that's like jumping backwards off the cliff in the harness and headed down the river in the whitewater raft. And so I ask you to this day look at those two things. What are two things that you would put down that you see God calling you out of this message to step out on faith? Two of the lessons that you're willing to say, here I am, Lord, I don't want to just hide from the wolves. I want to follow you. And I want to see you at work in my life. Let's pray. So, Lord Jesus, we thank you for your compassion to us. How you extended yourself, laid down your life for us. Went to the cross that we, poor, dumb sheep without a shepherd Would have you. Lord, we're tired of hiding from needy people. We want to follow you We want to join you in proclaiming kingdom truth together with mercy and justice in action. And we want to see you working in us and through us, trusting you to enable us. We know there will be mixed reactions. Lord, we trust you with that. But we want to see you use us, to see you use me this week in following you into the world. We pray that in Jesus' name. Amen