Now don't you all just want to jump up and sing, For unto us a child is born, to us a son is given? I mean, God, just what a message. Thank you, Tom, Debbie. That's powerful. Two books that in recent years have influenced my thinking, though I don't agree with everything in them, are Jack Dennison's book, City Reaching. And Robert Lewis's book, The Church of Irresistible Influence. He's a pastor of a church that has sought uh in a number of ways to be salt and light in their community, has a number of things to share about that that I think are helpful. And uh let me quote to you from Lewis, who quotes Dennison and then goes on. This is quoting Jack Dennison. There is a widening gap between the condition of the average American city and the impact and influence of the church, observes Jack Dennison in his fine book, City Reaching. When the church measures itself against its past, there may be a degree of satisfaction found in growing numbers But when looked at in the light of an increasing population, accelerating decay, and the greater needs of our cities, we find the church's capacity to effect change continues to plummet. We are losing our cities at an increasing rate. That's the end of the quote. Now, Lewis, I wonder how many churches would be truly alarmed at this statement. The fact is, many churches have long abandoned any idea of reaching and influencing the city in which they are nestled, settling instead on some reduced vision that is much less intimidating. In this regard, Doug Small warns, quote, Pastors have given themselves to ministering only to the pain of their congregations, but have failed to mobilize their congregations. To minister to the pain and the problems of the city. Either we learn to do both, or reaching our cities for Christ will be nothing more than a hope and a dream. Then he talks about Matthew chapter 5 and Jesus' statement to be light. And he breaks it down, verse 16, this way. This is Robert Lewis. Jesus is telling us to take what he has done for you and in you. Take that light. And what it has done to transform your lives, your abilities, your resources, and use it in such a way Which speaks to strategy, a strategy that draws people rather than repels them, that they, meaning the world around us, our friends, our neighbors, our city, even our state, may see our good works. Not endure our haughty arrogance, nor suffer through more of our unsupported boasts, nor react again to our mean-spirited remarks. No, see our good works And because of that undeniable goodness, because of those humble works of love, our community rather than ignoring, ridiculing, or reacting in unnecessary anger Would instead do something absolutely amazing. Give glory to our Father in heaven As I have been saying in this series four weeks, this is the last week on light, salt, salt, light, that um Sum it all up in one sentence. Jesus is calling you and me to love sinners and the city that we share with them. Jesus is calling you and me to love sinners and the city that we share together. Similar outline to last week. Covered the first part of it last week. And so you can get it out again. Just quickly review the first part of it. Jesus says, you are the light of the world. He is the sun. You are like the moon. You simply reflect his light. Came in this morning on the way into the service, was a little late, just saw on my desk a t-shirt. And this t-shirt says on the front of it, be the moon. And then on the back, reflect the sun, S-O-N. Now that's from our image department, John Barnes. I mean isn't that a John Barnes T shirt? Even glows in the dark it says. I haven't tested it. Didn't have enough change time to put it on. Uh but you know it doesn't say it. Be the moon, reflect the sun. So, you know, I wish I could put it on, but there it is. Take a look at it afterwards. Let your light shine. Jesus gives two pictures. He says, be like the city that's on a hill. You see the light. You can't ignore it. There it is. And then he says, people don't take a a light and put it under a bowl, they put it on a lampstand so that it shows the things around it. See by the light. The light reveals what wouldn't otherwise be in darkness. You couldn't see it. So that's what Jesus is calling you and me to do, to let your light shine. When Jesus spoke these words, as we have commented on before it was from this hillside, right along the Sea of Galilee. And W. D. Davis, a New Testament scholar, thinks that when Jesus spoke those words, don't hide your light. People don't hide the light. They don't put it under a bowl to stand so that it can show light to all in the house. That perhaps he cast a sidelong glance downriver. Sea of Galilee empties out into the Jordan Valley, the Jordan River, which empties into the Dead Sea. Along the Dead Sea, there were a group of people, kind of a monastic community called the Dead Sea Community or the Qumran Community. Who called themselves the Sons of Light. This is where the Dead Sea Scrolls were found in their caves. And these people who called themselves the Sons of Light. were people who withdrew from society. They withdrew from Jerusalem, from all the cities around, all its corruption, and they gathered together To be light in this one little community, totally separate from the rest of the world. Davis wonders if Jesus perhaps didn't glance downriver to that community about 100 miles away. And in his mind, don't be like that. You and I are not called to be salt over here, shaking on each other, and the meat's all decaying and rotten over here. We're not called to have the light all compartmentalized here in a room while over here is total darkness. His call to you and to me, love sinners and the city that we share together, be light, be salt. And so we ask, what is the light? It's quite clear. Jesus says, verse 16, your good deeds. In the same way, let your light shine before men that when they see your good deeds. Well, praise your Father who is in heaven. That's the working out of our lives as Beatitude Christians in community. We looked, and I can see here in the outline, there are six ways that I suggest that we do that as Christians. We looked at five of them last week. My suggestion to you now, in conclusion on this, was to is to just do a little personal self-test. Take this home this afternoon before you come. to the Lord's Supper tonight, the prayer meeting in the afternoon. Just think about these six areas and answer three questions personally. Number one, rate yourself on each one, zero to ten. How am I doing in that area? This is not for guilt, it's not for boasting, it's simply between you and the Lord. A realistic, how am I in that area? You know, whatever I should be, how am I? Then secondly, how can I grow a bit in each of these areas this fall? For instance, In the first one, loving, not despising, or fearing our city and county, maybe you'll you'd say, well, I'm going to read the Columbia Flyer and the Howard Times a little bit. I'm not just going to grab the food ads out of it and throw it away. Yeah, but I'm going to actually look and see what are the issues, who's running for school board, what's going on. Just know a little bit about the community. Maybe take a moment to pray for the issue that I see there, the crime or whatever that's going on. I'm just going to do that. And then, thirdly, what is the next step of faith I need to take? What's something I could do toward this? For instance, I'm going to come to the prayer meeting this afternoon where we're going to pray simply for the community. We're not going to strategize, no plans, no campaigns. We're just going to pray because we care for the community and its needs. We believe that God hears prayers, it makes a difference, so we're just going to gather to pray for them. And then at the Lord's Supper, For some of you who may say, God's been speaking to me, here's something I've tried to do, here's a step of faith I've been taking, here's just something I'm thinking about, to just be able to share that and encourage one another. What's something? As you go through those things, second one, living your values in community, what difference does my being a Christian have to do with how I uh treat the three powers, sex, money, and power itself. Um how does being a Christian make me different? Thirdly, living your vocation as a servant of Jesus. How does being a Christian make a difference in how I do my job? The fourth area, observing community needs in mercy, seeing those needs and matching them with whatever resources that we have. To be able to minister, perhaps joining together, forming task forces, things like Sand Town. Doing a ministry like Upward, various things that we can do. What can we see? How can we connect with the community in our resources? Now the uh and then the fifth one, being willing to uh get involved in public issues, bring a Christian voice to them, difficult. Uh for many of us that's pretty scary thing that you know I can't just not speak to this. Somebody's gotta say something where we tried to shut down the pornographic store um on Route 40, you know, and spoke to that publicly. We've gone to on occasion we have gone to meetings to testify in the county. Um and God has used that. I've seen difference that that has made in uh things that we have spoken to What are those things? Well, now we come to the sixth one that I didn't touch on last week: boldly sharing the gospel truth in the darkness. Boldly sharing gospel truth in the darkness. And here some of you are probably saying, but I thought you just told us that our light is good bees. And I was glad to hear that. Frankly, I was kind of relieved because, if you ask me, I'd rather build a house in Sandtown than talk to a non-Christian about Jesus Christ. And I thought you were telling me, oh, well you see, just be salt and be light. Just be a loving person. Be, you know, use good deeds in the community, and people will see that and they'll You know, somehow they're going to make a connection and they're going to praise God and glorify the Fathers in Heaven. Why do I have to say anything? Well in the scripture, of course, you can't separate works from words. You Jesus never separated his works from his words. In fact, we've pointed out that in the Gospel of Matthew It cycles between sections of his words and sections of his works. And you'll see that as we go through the gospel. Continues, use a section of words, works, words, works. Because Jesus' ministry, neither of those ever stood alone. Your works nor your words can ever stand alone. They must go together. Now, you see, Jesus isn't only light for you. Some of you have said through this series, you know, I feel so inadequate. I feel like such a flickering little candle. And I remind you that when I was in college, I did dark experiments, experiments on total darkness. And uh I'm saying the the kind of darkness where if you held your hand up in front of your face and you could feel the heat, you still couldn't see any silhouette. And in that darkness, you can see a candle a hundred miles away. Now the candle may be complaining, I'm not a searchlight, I'm not even a flashlight, all I am is a stinking little candle. What do I have to offer? But as the darkness gets deeper, The light becomes brighter. And you may not think it's a light in the midst of the light, but in darkness, Jesus has made you. You are the light. Think, what would your life be without Jesus Christ? It would be palpable darkness You would be in total confusion. In that kind of darkness, you're disoriented. In fact, if you carry on a conversation with somebody in total darkness, it's kind of an eerie experience. There is no sense of where things are. You dare not move. You might bump into something. You have no idea. You're confused. You're disoriented. Where am I? Who am I? Where did I come from? Why was I born? Who is God? Why did He make me? Why did He make this earth? You would have no answers. Without Jesus. Speculations, people's ideas, you'd have no answers. You'd have no hope. How do I what do I know? What is going to happen after I die? How do I make sense of that? What will happen to me? If I try to live good, will that make a difference? Do I have to believe the right thing? What do I do? All I have is people's ideas and opinions and books and It would be total confusion. You'd be like a person in a deep cavern. You know, there are caverns that have passages that go underground for miles. And it would be like you'd be in one of those caverns. You could hold your hand up, you wouldn't see a silhouette no matter how close you held it. And there are lots of passages that go out of that cavern. How do you know which one to feel your way along? How can you ever find your way out? There is no hope. You could wander until you die of thirst or hunger. You can't find your way out. Jesus comes to you as the light. At some point in your life, as he did in my life, he came as the light. He didn't hold the light, he was the light, and he said, follow me. And Jesus led you through the passage that led to the daylight of his forgiveness, that led to giving you purpose and meaning. That led for you to, as his disciple, know why you're here, what is your hope, as I told Mackenzie with her baptism, the hope you have of eternal life. Because Jesus is your light. And so if you're feeling inadequate, there's just one solution. It's not try harder, it's get closer to Jesus. It's like the moon. Don't let the earth get in between. The more you are in the presence of the sun, the more you shine. But you see, Jesus is not only a light for you, he is to be a light from you. You are a light, therefore shine, and you shine, your good deeds, words, and works joined together. What does light do? Three things. You see them there in your outline. Let me give you the scripture for these because I think it's important that you see the connection. Light does three things. Number one It exposes darkness. Now you see on the screen there, good old Ephesians, once again, light exposes the darkness. Darkness comes gradually. I told you of the time I was sitting next to a copperhead up on a mountain and had no idea it was there until I turned on the flashlight. When all of a sudden, what had been totally dark and hidden, there was this copperhead. And so in the darkness Dirty jokes, gossip. Well, those things seem perfectly normal. But Paul says in Ephesians chapter five For you were once darkness. Now you are light in the Lord. Live as children of light, for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth. That's what God is making you. That's the Beatitude. Find out what pleases the Lord. If you do that, you'll find out more what pleases him. But you have to, in doing that, have nothing to do with the fruitless deeds of darkness You don't stand there and say, I don't listen to dirty jokes, I don't gossip, but your heart is uncomfortable in people's sense you don't participate. And by that you rather expose them. For it is shameful even to mention what the disobedient do in secret, but everything exposed by the light becomes visible. For it is light that makes everything visible. You simply, that is your nature, the nature of Christ by the Spirit expressing itself in darkness. That is why it is said, wake up, O sleeper, rise from the dead, and Christ will shine upon you. He is the light. And Paul says you simply bring that light into the situation that they will see Christ shining upon them. Light exposes darkness. The second thing that it does is that light reveals the causes of darkness. There are two causes, Paul says, for the darkness of people's hearts and in this world. The first is their choice and their love of sin. Back in Ephesians chapter four, Paul said, So I tell you this and I insist on it in the Lord, you must do no longer as you must no longer live as the Gentiles, the nations, those without Christ do. In the futility of their thinking, they are darkened in their understanding, separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that's in them. Why? Due to the hardening of their hearts. You see, having lost all sensitivity, they've given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more. Immediate self-gratification, whatever kind, however, gotta have it. And by doing that, the hardening of their hearts produces greater darkness, he says. And so if if you have exposed the darkness and there is a curiosity, remember we talked about a couple weeks ago, you do it in little bits and pieces. You don't dump the whole thing generally all at once. A little bit, little piece. Then there's a curiosity. Why is that? Let me tell you about your heart and my heart The second thing that he says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 2, second reason for the darkness, on the contrary, says, by setting forth the truth plainly, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. Not just to the intellect. A lot of us think, you know, if I can just persuade the person, show them the Bible's true, Christ rose, all that. But Paul's method was to Focus on the conscience. You know your heart is not right. You know that there are things you've done that you rightfully are ashamed of. And you aim at the conscience. As you do that, he says, even if the gospel is veiled, it's veiled to those who are perishing, because the God of this age, Satan. has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ who is the image of God. See it there again. The light involves the truth. It involves speaking, not just doing the things that are kind and good. So Paul says, because of the darkness that you choose your love of sin, because Satan has blinded you, there is this darkness. Let me explain, let me share with you. You see, if there has been something in your life that the person says, you're different, I'd like to know what is that Let me give you an example. This summer, in the Israeli-Lebanese War, that little mini skirmish, 1,300 Lebanese perished, besides thousands more injured, and thousands lost their homes. Beirut Baptist Church alone was home to a thousand displaced people that they in their facility gave housing to. It was so crowded that people began to fight, and so the Christians had to go break up fights and try to counsel and work and bring peace and help people through this. In one case, a 17-year-old Shiite was killed by an Israeli air raid The father came stricken with grief. The Christians helped the family. They sought to minister to them, to love and to comfort them, provide shelter. And the father, a Muslim, said to one of the Baptist pastors in that congregation, you Christians are supposed to hate us Muslims. Why are you doing this for us? And the pastor shared with him the story of the Good Samaritan that Jesus told. And he said, Our Master Jesus has told us to not only love our neighbors, but to love our enemies, and to pray for you. And he said, I have known Christians for years. I have never heard that message. Tell me more. You see, an openness to hear because of a curiosity spawned, a thirst produced by salt, a glimmer of light, and a desire to see some more. That's what Jesus has placed you and me here for, to reveal the causes of the darkness. But then thirdly, it's not just there, thirdly, to point the way out of the darkness. To point the way out of the darkness, Philippians chapter 2. Paul says here that you might become blameless and pure, children of God without fault in a crooked and depraved generation. That's darkness. in which you shine like stars, little pinpoints, spots of light in the universe, in that dark sky. Notice now, as you hold out the word of life, in order that I may boast on the day of Christ that I did not run or labor for nothing. In Colossians chapter 1, he puts it this way. For he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness, the kingdom of darkness. And he's brought us into the kingdom of the Son that he loves. Now that kingdom of the Son He loves. And the verse before that he described as the kingdom of light, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Paul is saying that your friend is lost in a cave, just like you were, and they're in total darkness. They almost forgot that there's a world of light. And you've come with a flashlight. You've come reflecting Jesus. You come and you bring Jesus who is the light. Maybe a family that comes to upward basketball. And they've heard some of the testimonies. It may be somebody that comes to the fall festival. It may be somebody in the neighborhood in Sandtown. It's somebody that is in some ministry that we corporately or you individually have touched. And there is the opportunity then to say, let me tell you what Jesus has done in my life. Let me tell you that the light is a person. It's a person who takes away your record of shame. It's a person who's died on the cross to bear that shame so that you could be forgiven. So that you could have a new heart, new purpose, new meaning. New desires, so that you could live in this kingdom of light forever. Now it's not in those words, but that sums up what it is that you're seeking to do that Paul's describing here This is what Jesus is saying. Your good works, that which you do, as those words are joined with the word, so that people see And they glorify the Father who's in heaven. That's the purpose. Let me pause just for a moment and ask you, do you know this Jesus who is the light? Maybe for some of you you say, I can't bring that light because I'm still in the darkness. Let me urge and plead with you. That you who have heard the light of seeing Jesus Christ is the light to come to give forgiveness, meaning, purpose in your life. Don't put off coming to him out of your personal darkness, pitched darkness of despair and gloom. Jesus stands here to receive you this morning. And to bring that light into your life of his presence. Come to him. Let us know if you want to talk about that. You need some help. We'd be delighted to talk to you. But now the purpose that Jesus states this is all about is so that as people see this, whether you or the people that you're interacting with, Will praise your Father who is in heaven. First time that Jesus mentions God as Father. That you will praise, that they will praise your Father in heaven. This does not mean certain things. It means That if we don't do it to create the impression that we're good people. We're just good folks. You know how many times I hear when I get into discussion with people about Columbia Presbyterian, yeah, those are good folks Those are just great folks. We want to have more churches like that. If churches were like that, we wouldn't need social agencies. And we don't you know that feeds us, doesn't it? Feeds the flesh. Yeah, you know, we are pretty good for You are. I mean, oh I know you. Peep some of you are working Hard for the Lord. You're doing these ministries. I mean, some of you is salt and light, it's old stuff, you know. Hope it encourages, prompts you in certain ways, but you've been doing this But we don't do it to give the impression we're good folks, because we know our hearts. We know the darkness. And so it's to point them to the Father in heaven. He's the one that's made the difference. He's the light. We're just the moon to reflect him. Look at him. See his goodness. There is no inherent goodness in us We have to remind ourselves as we display that to people. We don't do it so that God will love you more. There's always the flesh, the works, the law. We had this inherent idea that we get what we deserve. And if I go out and I serve in a more salt and light, then I'm more likely to get my prayers answered. God will love me, He'll take care of me. I heard a guy on the radio this week said, pray for my niece, you know, because she's such a good person. She gives to the church. She works hard for the church. So pray for her. You know, like that's the ground of your prayer. She gives and works, so pray for her. If she had cancer, pray for her that God will hear because of all that? No. It's only Christ, no good works That we do ever. God doesn't love you more if you are more salt and more light. Do you believe that? It's based on Christ He loves you in Christ. He couldn't love you anymore. We don't do it for that. We don't do it to add to the numbers. You know, this is our strategy for church growth. Get out there and love people and they know that they'll love us and they'll come to church and all join. We'll have all, you know, build our building and do all this. No, it's nothing to do with it. If we are faithful to the Great Commission, we should see growth. But that's not the point. The point is, as Jesus says here, you do that so they see your good deeds and they praise your Father who is in heaven. He gets the glory. You don't do it because God loves busy people more than unbusy. Some Christians still think that. God loves busy people. I'm sure there's a verse in there somewhere that says that. Because I sure hear it. And I sure believe it. It's not in the Bible. And love busy people more We don't do it for that. We do it so that people praise our Father who is in heaven. And how do they do this? Two ways. Number one, they do it when they see the truth of the gospel, the light of the gospel, and in that they see their need for them and they become Christians. Some people, by God's grace, will be touched. They will be opened. The gospel will come to them with a credibility that they'd never known. And they will listen to the gospel. They'll see your life and they'll say, I wish I could be like you. I wish I had the peace, the sense of stability. But no, compared to them, you have peace. And they try to be like you and they say, I can't be like you. And then they see their need of Christ. And as they do that, then they praise the Father who is in heaven. As believers, transformed. But there's a second way. I don't think it's just saying Christians. Because he says they. I believe it also is at times when unbelievers simply acknowledge that your life is different. That you're somehow different from other friends that they have. You're a better friend. You're somebody that they remember the couple weeks ago? Feel more alive when they're around you? There's something about you that they enjoy, that they like being with. And that acknowledgement of the transforming power of the gospel. glorifies God who is in heaven. It's interesting here that actually the word, the translation praise is probably not the best. Better translation is glorify. It is from the word that we get doxological. And so I think that there can be an inadvertent glorifying They don't realize they're glorifying the Father. They're not praising Him. They are inadvertently glorifying Him by declaring the power of the gospel in your life. Now this is coming to a clue conclusion. And Jesus Christ is calling you and me individually He's calling us corporately to shine where he's placed you. What does that mean for you? What step of faith does that mean for you this fall? Brittany McComb is a very attractive freshman at Viola University in Los Angeles. Growing up, Brittany was a super obsessive, overachiever perfectionist. For instance, Britney went out for the swim team. She swam her heart out. She made top 10% in the nation, not just her school or the county, top 10% in the nation. She was miserable because she was only in the top 10% Brittany got straight A's in all her classes, but she wasn't invited to go to the interco-scholastic math competition until she pouted and was miserable. She was in a photo contest. She only won second place. So she grumbled and complained. And then when she was in her sophomore year in high school, Somebody pointed out to her that while she said she was a Christian, her security was in her achievements, and they pointed her to Jesus Christ. And in her sophomore year, Brittany Macomb gave everything of her life to Jesus Christ and said, Lord Jesus, I want to live for you, not for my success. You know the first thing she did? She resigned from the swim team. She was like a huge burden off my back because now my security comes from my identity in Christ. Not from how high I placed on the swim team. Not that there's anything wrong with being on the swim team and doing well, but for her it was an idol. And she began to grow in that. Well, as things had it, she still was valedictorian of her class. So she had to give a speech. She decided that she would give a speech on how Jesus Christ had set her free She wrote out her speech to give to the class. This was last night. The school board came and they looked at the speech and they said, you're not given that speech. And she said, why? And they deleted every reference to Jesus Christ. She said, I can't give that speech. It just talks about God. They said, yeah, you can talk about God, but you can't talk about Jesus Christ. You're not taking a captive audience to do your evangelism. She said, without Jesus Christ, the speech is pointless. I can't give it. They said, if you mention Jesus Christ, we will turn off your mic. She agonized for weeks and prayed, What should I do? Lord, what should I do with this? She's not a rebel by heart at all. Finally came down to it. She said, I can't deny, my Lord. I must be salt and light. These kids know what I stand for. I can't deny them at this moment. And in her speech, she boldly talked about God who loved her and gave his son Jesus Christ, and off went the mic. You know what happened? She'd been light to those kids, her friends, in that high school. The kids began to chant. Let her speak, let her speak, let her speak. But they didn't. In the weeks afterwards, the media crucified her. They said, this girl, one of these evangelicals, just trying to push her religion, taking an opportunity to just push her religion on the other kids. You know what Brittany's response has been to that? She says, I think God's calling me to be a journalist. Yay, Brittany, you go, girl. Jesus Christ is looking for Brittany McCombs among you teenagers. Some of you have just stood here on the platform this morning and said, I want to follow Jesus Christ. There is opportunity to be salt and light if you're sold out for Jesus Christ. It means for us as a congregation that each of us pray, Lord, where do you want me to be salt and light and how? It is said in the year 391 that a small monk by the name of Telemachus first visited in Rome and went to the Colosseum to see the games. He was appalled to see that the entertainment was gladiators sword fighting and killing each other in cold blood for the entertainment of the crowds. And so when he saw the next two soldiers come and stand up and say to the emperor, We who are about to die salute you. And they began to fight. Telemachus could not stand it any longer. He ran down the ramps, jumped over the wall, and out onto the floor of the arena. The people thought that this was part of the entertainment, and so at first they laughed. And he kept and continued to scream, In the name of Christ, stop! In the name of Christ, stop! He tried to interfere with the gladiators, and one of them in irritation plunged his sword into Telemachus. And as he died on the sand, his dying words were, in the name of Christ, stop. And then they say a very strange thing happened. A couple of people got up in silence and walked out of the arena. And then a few more. And a few more. Until finally the Colosseum was empty. And historians can't prove it. But they say it was in that year. That the last Colosseum games were ever fought, the last gladiatorial combat. And it seems because of one voice, of one man. In the midst of cultural debauchery, we changed history. Jesus Christ is looking within this community, in this crowd. For people who say, Lord, whatever it takes, let me be salt and light. Jesus Christ is looking for those of you, what would it mean to this community if this crowd of people We're to be that sold out to Jesus Christ like a Britney McCo Brittany McComb or a Telemachus. Lord, here I am. Use me. However. Are you willing to be one of those? Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we come and we offer ourselves to you now. Lord, we Some of us have been salt and light, and we're trying in our own strength, and we need you to rescue us, to call us to spend time in your presence again, to take from you that light, Lord, that we don't have. Some of us have been light, but we have not wanted to bring the word. Lord, forgive us for our cowardice. Forgive us for wanting to be honey, not salt. Forgive us for hiding our light. Lord, help us that we might be those who say in whatever small way and simple way, Lord, I just want to be where you have me and I want to be faithful. Lord, at this moment, call your people to that commitment. Show them Jesus Christ, who is light for them, that we might be light for you. In Jesus' name. Amen