When I was young, probably the most familiar and the most quoted verse in the Bible was John 3 16. For God so loved the world That he gave his one and only son, so that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. And Most, I would say, of Americans were familiar at least with that verse. Might not be able to quote it exactly, but they knew that verse. And it was probably the most quoted verse in the Bible. No longer. Now, the most quoted verse in the Bible, although probably few could give you the reference, is Matthew 7, verse 1. Judge not. Don't judge, lest you be judged. Or in the full paragraph that Jesus gives us, Matthew chapter 7, you heard it, look at it again. Do not judge. Or you will be judged. For in the same way that you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure that you use, it will be measured to you. Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother's eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye when all the time there's a plank in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Do not judge. Be tolerant. Tolerance is seen as the chief virtue of our society, and in tolerance, the cardinal sin. Now just last week um I was not here while Tim was doing the second message on those first five verses because I was up, my wife and I were up, seeing our son. Graduate from University of Pennsylvania forty-four years to the day after I had graduated from the same institution. In fact We stood uh at the building that uh my parents took a picture of me 44 years ago last week. The building looked exactly the same. I hear that I don't. But uh it was a very moving experience. Recently there was a symposium of the professors at Penn. Fifteen of them spoke. And they were speaking on the contemporary issues of America today. The first one to speak was a professor of physics, and this is how he began his talk. The most amazing thing about this world of wonders is that we can understand it. It is not at all evident why this had to be the case, but it is the case, and there are two reasons why First, underneath all of the immense complexity and apparent randomness of the natural world, there seems to be an intricate order To perceive this order, we must look beneath the surface, often with specialized instruments, but it is there nonetheless. What is more, second reason. The human mind can apparently understand the underlying structure in the universe. It's amazing. He went on to describe the wonder of this. Then the second speaker, professor of classical studies, stood up and he continued along the same line, talking about the amazing things that we have discovered about the world. How our knowledge is expanding exponentially. But then he said this. But then again, there are still some things we don't know. We don't know whether we have souls. We don't know where we came from. We don't know where the universe comes from. We don't know whether killing is necessary for life, as some people tell us. We don't know whether light is a particle or a wave or something else entirely. We don't know whether we're alone in the universe, whether there's a God, or whether good wins over evil. We don't know what separates matter that is sentient, that is, has feeling, awareness, from matter that isn't. or what counts as objectivity. And maybe most significant of all, we don't know how big the unknown world is. That is, while we may feel like the known world is expanding, we do not know whether we can meaningfully say that the unknown world is at all shrinking. That I would suggest to you sums up the posture of the modern mind. Basically, it says we have grown so much in our knowledge that we now know that we can't know anything for sure. that is beyond the simplest facts verifiable by experiment. We really can't know anything Because all of our perspectives are so narrow, we only can speak from our own background, our own experience, our own tribe. And therefore, it is arrogant to postulate anything absolutely So when we read the verses, do not judge, so that you will not be judged, our world today says, that's right. You Christians really annoy us because you are so judgmental. You think you know not only what works for you, but what should work for me. You know not only what you believe, but what I should believe. And that's arrogant. Now, my concern, deep concern that I I wish I could convey Is that we as Christians live within such a culture and that is softening our own ability to be able to say anything absolutely. We are so intimidated. Chuck Coulson runs a worldview institute called the Centurion Program, in which he tries to teach middle and high school students Christian worldview. Lesson 10 is about distinguishing between taste and truth. And in a recent course, and they came to lesson 10, they flashed up on the screen, believing Buddhism, Islam, or Christianity. There was a whole group of students. They had eight group leaders who were seen to be committed Christians. None of them could agree that that was a statement that was more than taste. They said, it is perspective. It is wrong. It is offensive to say that our way is the only way. It's what we believe, but we cannot say it's what other people in the world should believe. So when we read these words, do not judge. That you would not be judged. We need to understand what it is that Jesus intended You see, the professor from Penn was absolutely correct. If God has not spoken But we as Christians believe that God has spoken. And that makes all the difference. So how do we understand Jesus' words when we engage the world around us? And the contemporary scene. Well, I've said that as a Tim and I spoke about these first five verses, the first two weeks. That in order to understand these verses, you need to see them in their context. And you see up there at the top of the outline, take a look at that later. But I'm saying that The first part of chapter 7 is talking about four reactions that are possible to have to what Jesus said in chapter 5 and 6. And the first two reactions are the reactions that a person has if, although Jesus has given us chapters 5 and 6 in order to show us our spiritual poverty In order for you to see that your heart is really different from what you would like to believe about it, that it's really full. of hatred, self-righteousness, pride, ready to be pricked at the slightest provocation. And if you hear chapter 5 and 6 and don't respond by saying, God be merciful to me. I am spiritually bankrupt. I need a savior. Then you take chapter 5 and 6, and you can have one of two reactions. First is Did you say, now I really understand from the master what life is like, how it should be lived, and in order to preserve my sense of my own righteousness, what do I do? I judge other people. I criticize you. I look for flaws in your life so that I can criticize, then compare, and say, well, at least I'm not. This or that or whatever other thing we talked about last couple weeks. But now, here in verse 6, Jesus gives us the second possible reaction. Now, let me um well, let me just state it. The second possible reaction is that You preserve your own sense of righteousness by feeling superior to others through not judging anybody You say, I am so loving, I would never judge another person. I accept everybody. And particularly within our culture, that is a very affirmed. Posture for you to have. I don't want to criticize somebody else's convictions. And verses 1 to 5 become a refuge for people who hate conflict. Who wants to be unliked? Who wants to have people look at you and say, How how can you say, you know, on the feelings that you have, you know, when you think What? You know, um in fact there's a classic well, I'm not even gonna get into it uh very interesting discussion on radio. Um with somebody who believed truth and somebody who didn't. And it was just such a put down. You believe this? You really believe that? And so to be able to say, well Jesus said don't judge. So I mean that's that's the Bible. But then you see, in the very next verse, he goes on to say these words, don't give to dogs what is sacred. Do not throw your pearls to pigs. If you do, they may trample them under their feet and then turn and tear you to pieces. That doesn't sound very tolerant, does it? He's calling people dogs and pigs. So how do you put these two things together? What's Jesus saying here? Let me try to deal with this by asking three questions. Three questions focus from verses one to five and then how chapter verse six. fits in with that. First question. Is this in fact, verses 1 to 5, a command to be tolerant? Well, you look at your bullet and outline, you see there that there are two kinds of tolerance The traditional understanding of tolerance said that tolerance is respecting one's right to their opinions and living at peace together with those differing opinions. I respect your right to have a different opinion from mine. I'll live at peace with you. I will not try to force you to change your mind, to agree with me. And so that's tolerance in the trish traditional understanding. In our contemporary world that has arisen a new definition of tolerance. The second is accepting. All values, opinions, and lifestyles as of equal merit, not simply respecting, but accepting All values, opinions, lifestyles is of equal merit, so that I have my opinion, you have yours, but who's to judge? They're of equal value. It's all perspective This view is the view that is often used to gag Christians, as you see up here. You know, be tolerant, which means shut up. Keep your convictions and your opinions to yourself. So, what is it that Jesus is teaching? Is this a command to be tolerant in the second sense of that word? That leads us to the second question. How do we know that Jesus did not mean the second meaning of tolerance? It's because of what he says right in the same context, chapter 7, in verse 6 that I just read. We'll come back to that in a minute. Spend the rest of the time on that. But let me just give you a few other verses that are also right there in chapter 7. If you go to the verses 13 and 14, Jesus goes on to say, Enter through the narrow gate For wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction. That's making a judgment. That's saying there is a narrow way that leads to life There is a broad way of tolerance that leads to destruction. That's a value judgment. You look at verse 15. He says, watch out for false prophets. A warning against false prophets indicates, implies that there is truth. There are true prophets, there are false prophets. You need to distinguish them. Watch out for the false prophets. He goes on to say that the false prophets will be delivered over to the fire of destruction. That's very judgmental. Or you look at verse 21 to 23, where Jesus says that many are going to say in that day, the day of judgment, Lord, Lord, didn't we prophesy in your name, cast out demons, do many wonderful works? And he'll say, Depart from me, you evildoers. I never knew you. That's judgment. That is distinguishing between those who enter into life with him from those who don't because they did evil. So clearly Jesus does not mean here, don't judge, just accept everybody, be tolerant, it doesn't really matter. You can look at verses 24, 27, many other verses. But now I want to focus on verse 6. What is verse 6 teaching? It's a difficult verse Difficult to understand. And it actually involves obviously some very strong value judgments. First of all, it's saying that something's sacred. Do not give what is sacred So what is that which is sacred? What's he referring to? Well, in chapter 13 He says in verse 44, the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again, and then in his joy he went and sold all that he had and bought that field. In the context of Jesus' other teaching, what is sacred clearly is referring to the gospel of the kingdom. The gospel, Jesus says, is sacred. It's a treasure. It's something that is That is infinitely valuable. It's so valuable that it's worth everything else in your life being forsaken in order to obtain it. This is sacred. It's holy. It's a treasure. In a day when we hear We don't know if we have souls, we don't know where we came from, we don't know where the universe came from, we don't know if there's a God, whether there's a judgment, whether the end of history is despair or hope. We don't know any of these things. The truth of this book is a treasure. It is the only thing that gives to your life meaning Purpose, hope, because God has spoken And when God speaks, he speaks truth. And that truth is sacred. It is a treasure. So Jesus speaks of taking that treasure. And then he says, don't give it to dogs or pigs. Now what's that referring to? Who are dogs and who are pigs? That is a judgment call. That's a judgment statement. So what's Jesus referring to? I believe that it's the same kind of idea that you have back in Proverbs chapter 9, in verses 7 and 8. Where the Proverbs say, Whoever corrects a mocker invites insult. Whoever rebukes a wicked man incurs abuse. Do not rebuke a mocker. Or he will hate you. Rebuke a wise man, and he will love you. I believe that Jesus is referring here to people who do two things. Very important to see what he is saying so we don't misuse this verse. This is referring to people who not only do not believe the gospel or who reject the gospel. But to people who trample the gospel. Now, dogs and pigs were not domestic animals in Jesus' day. He's not talking about a dog that you would pet or a pig that you would tame. He's talking wild dogs and wild pigs, dangerous animals. Animals that you had to avoid because they would attack you. Jesus is saying There are people who don't only reject the gospel or who say, I can't believe it, I don't believe it, I don't agree with it. There are people who, when you continue to share the gospel We'll take the gospel and they will trample it. They will mock it. They will go out of their way. to discredit Scripture, the gospel. And then the second thing they will do is they will turn and they will attack you. They will mock you. They will criticize Christians. They will say we're all hypocrites. They will continue to go on and on with a vitrail, a reaction that says, I repudiate this. I don't want to hear anything more about it. Jesus is saying when you come to that place where a person turns on you Don't be masochistic and think you're being faithful. What does it look like? Jesus illustrates it for us. Luke tells us in Luke 23 when he was taken to his trial, and Pilate heard he was from Galilee and sent him to Herod. Luke tells us that Herod, who had had some sensitivity to spiritual things, was really nervous about taking John the Baptist's head. Didn't want to do that. He was fearful. Has now come to the place where he hears Jesus is coming and he says, This is great. Maybe we'll see a miracle. We'll have some good entertainment. Gets all his friends. Come on. And he questions Jesus, Luke tells us. He's questioning about who he is and what he does, but these are not sincere questions. They are mocking questions. And what does Luke say Jesus' response was? He answered him not one word. He was not going to give that which was sacred To someone who simply wanted to mock and repudiate it. You have examples of this in the book of Acts In Acts chapter 13, in Poseidon Antioch, Paul and Barnabas are preaching the gospel. The Jews come and they don't simply reject it. They then attack Paul and Barnabas. They seek in every way to discredit them, to start a riot if necessary. Paul's response is, we came to bring to you the gospel, that which was sacred. You have repudiated it, therefore we leave, shakes the dust from his feet, and says we go to the Gentiles. We are not going to cram this down your throat. Acts chapter 18. The Jews at Corinth. It's the same idea. He brings to them the gospel. They don't just not believe, they turn and attack him. And he says, I am not going to continue this discussion. I'm going to go to the Gentiles So there's something here for you and me. It's not simply a matter of what do you do, how far do you go in presenting the gospel. Jesus is giving you a warning. He is saying there comes a point where you are going to call on yourself danger. It's not simply fruitless to pursue the discussion, it's dangerous. So back off I don't want you to suffer needlessly. Now, in the context, then Verses 1 to 6. Jesus is calling you and me to do two things. Two things that we struggle with. Let me say because we didn't have a middle hour sermon discussion this week, you guys get a chance. Uh if this is hard. We're gonna work it through. So if you want to come next middle hour for sermon discussion next week, we'll we're gonna talk about this. How do you How do you hold these two things in tension? Do not judge. Do not think that you can know someone else's motives and heart. Focus on your own sin before you seek to be able to correct someone else. Paul says specifically in 2 Timothy chapter 2, don't argue. Because you're not going to change somebody's heart by winning an argument. Rather, he says God must grant them repentance in order to come to the truth and to life. That takes the kind of security in Christ where you don't need to win. I get into a discussion, man, I want to win. Jesus says it's not about winning. It's about simply presenting the sacred truth of the gospel And letting God come in to change the heart. Now, that raises some tough personal questions for you and for me, and you see them there. On the one hand, do not judge. On the other hand, be willing to make judgments about truth and realize that truth is going to divide. So the first thing is, are you willing to stand for truth? Are you willing to stand for truth? None of us want to be a Martin Luther standing against all his contemporaries. None of us want to be the only person in the room in the discussion that says, I believe that's wrong. I believe that God intended sex to be between a man and a woman within the bonds of marriage. And I don't think this is something just joke around and say it's just whatever anybody wants. I happen to believe that there really is only one way to be right with God. And when we talk about, you know, we're all going to get there in the end, not going to matter and all this kind of thing, I I no, I can't go along with that. Are you willing to take the unpopular but faithful position in a discussion today when truth is at stake? We're tempted to wimp out, aren't we? I am. You know, recently George Bush was asked about his uh his position on Mormons, I mean Mormon Muslims. And uh this is what he said Well, I believe in an Almighty God, and I believe that all the world, whether they be Muslim, Christian, or any other religion, prays to the same God. I believe there is a universal God. I believe the God that the Muslim prays to is the same God that I pray to. After all, we all came from Abraham. I believe in that universality That's not faithful to the gospel. But before you're too harsh on George Bush There was some pressure there. And there's going to be pressure on you, and there's pressure on me to soften the edge. To say, well, you know, who knows what'll happen in the end. Jesus calls you and me to hold the gospel as sacred. And to stand for it and not to be able to say who knows. You know the problem with our generation, the problem in the church today. Is that we have come to equate two things that is a false equation. Today, in much of the evangelical church, uncertainty equals humility. Uncertainty equals humility. To be certain is to be arrogant. Let me give you another quote. This is from a book that is engaging with what is sometimes called the emerging church, the church that is really concerned to reach our generation. And the authors of this book say that in this church, among contemporary Christians, uncertainty is seen as a breath of fresh air. Here's a quote from a very popular evangelical author. Quote: Drop any affair you may have with certainty, proof, argument, and replace it with dialogue, conversation, intrigue, and search. Clarity, after all, is usually boring and wrong, since reality is seldom clear, but usually fuzzy and mysterious, not black and white, but in living color. That is a prominent evangelical author. Today in the evangelical church, what is celebrated as mystery Now, I'm old enough that I remember when the evangelicals weren't making enough of mystery. We had to have everything nailed down. But now there is such an overreaction that we celebrate and embrace mystery and doubt and uncertainty rather than to struggle to know God's word. so that we are able to minimize the doubts and grow in our convictions Where are you in that? Is God speaking to you this morning about the need for you to, on the one hand, be able? To say, I will by God's grace, I cannot do this of myself, I will by God's grace stand for what is true in a discussion when I feel intimidated And I have been there. And I know that when I do speak about whatever convictions or whatever about the gospel, and the person rejects me, I walk away. Feeling kind of lousy until I preach the gospel to myself again and be able to say, but you know, praise God, it is true. If it wasn't true, What other hope is there? But it is true. Jesus has risen. The scriptures are his word. And I can hang on to that. Amen. But you do that without being arrogant and judgmental. You're able to do that in a humility that says, I am not going to press this. And if this is something that you begin to react to and you're saying, I don't want to hear this, then I'm going to back off. And sometimes I will say to a person, I've done this on a number of occasions, I'm simply going to pray that God will show you your need, and if necessary, he'll make you miserable so that you'll see your need of Jesus. Paul says the gospel is a treasure. In Second Corinthians chapter four, in verse seven. He says, we have this treasure, speaking about the gospel, in jars of clay to show that this all surpassing power is from God and not from us. Not about us. I don't have any great insight. I don't have a corner on the truth. It's the treasure that I've received, the gospel. And then he says that that treasure That treasure is best used when I engage somebody by simply appealing to their conscience, not trying to win the argument. Just appeal to their conscience. You look back at verse 2 in that same paragraph. Paul says, On the contrary, by setting forth the truth plainly, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. And even if our gospel is veiled, it's veiled to those who are perishing. The God of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so they cannot see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. So what do you do? You don't argue. You say, is life working for you? Based on how you're trying to live, is it working? Or do you see that you're not able to live like you know you should be living? Let's peel into the conscience. I find that much more helpful a question than do you believe the Bible is true? Do you believe that Jesus died on the cross? Get to where their heart is. But then press as long as God gives an openness But that rests on what you and I believe about the gospel. Is it, brothers and sisters, is it a treasure to you? What Jesus is saying here is you take what is sacred and give it to dogs and pigs, they're going to trample it underfoot and they're going to tear you to pieces, and that's exactly what happened to Jesus. He gave what was most sacred, God incarnate himself to the world. And what did they do They rejected him. They trampled him to pieces. They turned and they tore him to pieces and crucified him on a cross. So that he would die for your cowardice and my cowardice and show us the treasure of the truth. God's come into history to solve our deepest problem. And you and I, when we see that, that it is To bring Jesus Christ to you and to me to know him, to have the hope of eternal life through him. That's a treasure. And when I believe that's a treasure, I am not intimidated by people who have no hope. But I'm gentle to present Jesus Christ to them. Let's pray. Lord our God, how we thank you for the treasure of the gospel What a treasure is the truth of your word. We thank you for Jesus who died for cowards like us. Cowards like me who want to fit in, who don't want to say something that raises people's eyebrows and gets a snicker and brings reproach. Lord Jesus, give us courage. The courage of your spirit that comes from a people who see the gospel as a treasure. A treasure that is not meant to be sold, to beg people, please come and and And just believe my Jesus, but it presents with a gentle boldness. Here is Jesus for you. Do you see your need of him? And to know, Lord, for us, when to stand and when in gentleness and tears to back off So, Lord, by your Spirit would you work in us as people who are weak hearted to strengthen us through the treasure of the gospel? That we might this week be bold and gentle and wise for Jesus' sake. Amen.