This morning. Well, Happy New Year. Well, thank you. Uh what we'll make for a Happy New Year. I believe that, with all my heart, I believe nothing will make more for a happy new year for you and for me than to come to know Jesus Christ better. You believe that? Good. And so we're going to start this new year in our study of Matthew by looking at the meaning of his name, Jesus. As a way of kind of launching us into a year where I hope that we will desire to want to know him more deeply, more fully. And so even just to know the meaning of his name and explore that. Interesting, in birth narratives, both Matthew and Luke make quite a point of his name. When the angel came to Mary in Luke chapter 1, verse 31, he says, You will be with child and give birth to a son. You're given the name Jesus. And that goes on to describe him. In Matthew chapter 1, in verse 21, the angel says to Joseph, She will give birth to a son. And you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. Verse 25. He had no union with her until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. Names were quite important in that culture, not like names for us. When our firstborn came into the world, we called her Heather. We didn't call her Heather because she looked like a Heatherbush. We didn't call her Heather because somehow we thought she had the qualities of Heather. It really wasn't anything more than we liked the sound of Heather Lee Harris. It was as deep as it went. But that was not true in Hebrew culture. In Hebrew culture, names were descriptive. Where they were hopeful. And so three times you see in the birth narrative, you will call his name Jesus. That's specified. Picture, once again, has been thinking through this season, that stable, where After all the activity, get away from your mind, the romantic. Mary is doesn't have a hair out of place, you know, and she's just there with her robes and the baby's all washed and clean. You know, it was pretty chaotic, very little help. And the baby finally comes out, and when Mary catches her breath, He pictured Joseph picking up the little infant, just minutes old, holds it up and says, You shall be called Yeshua. In doing that, Joseph was actually performing a legal act. Hebrew law said that only the father had the prerogative of naming the son. And so in that act, Joseph was claiming the responsibility to raise Jesus as his son. He was saying, this is the son I will raise as mine. Of course, we knew that he did it in obedience to the Father who gave the name Jesus and told Joseph in obedience. To give that name which would be above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Perhaps a day or two later Joseph comes and appears before the Roman census taker. Name? Joseph, or Jacob, of the house of David. Married? Yes? Wife's name? Mary. Miriam. Any children? A son who was born just last Sabbath. His name is Yeshua. And so the Roman census taker would have written for the very first time in history, since Jesus' birth, that name before whom every knee would bow. Can you imagine what the response would have been from the Roman census taker if Joseph had pointed to the name and said, you know, He's the reason you had to take the census. It was to get us here to Bethlehem, which was the house of David, and that was in fulfillment of God's prophecy. Thought you'd like to know that. And by the way He's going to be the end of your empire. In fact, one day, you are going to claim him as the head of the empire. Surely the Roman census taker's sides would have ached from the laughter. But it would have been true. A Galilean Jewish peasant, the head of the Roman Empire, the ruler of all the nations. Did you ever think that this name, Jesus, is the only personal name Jesus has? All other names are titles Only Jesus was his personal name. The Father to whom names are profoundly descriptive and revelatory, who reveals himself to his people by his names. And remember we took a couple, two, three years, one point, to study the names of God. Because they're so significant in knowing Him. God chose this one name. For his son, when he sent him into the world, you shall call his name Jesus, because you'll save his people from their sins. This one name, above all other names, reveals Jesus in his human nature. It doesn't mean king, for he was always king. It doesn't mean the holy one, for he was always the holy one. This one name, of all the scores of other names that are applied to him, uniquely describes What God in the flesh came to do that he had never done or had never been before in all eternity. This name describes the very heart of what he came to do. You shall call his name Jesus. Why? Because he will save his people from their sins. There is so much you could meditate on in just that one sentence. It's actually a struggle to try and open it up in any kind of adequate way, even in a little over a half hour. But let's try. And focus on a couple of points to try and get at it and encourage you to continue to think about that one sentence through this week. First of all, the meaning of the name. What is the meaning of the name? That's the first blank. Well, first of all, about the meaning of the name, what is the literal meaning of the name? The name Jesus comes from the Greek Jesus, which is the Greek counterpart of the Hebrew Yeshua, which we pronounce Joshua. And it literally means Yahweh saves. Yahweh saves. Remember back in Isaiah 62 When Isaiah said, the Lord has made a proclamation to the ends of the earth, say to the daughter of Zion, see your Savior comes. In the Hebrew, that see your Yeshua comes. It's salvation. But salvation is a person because he goes on. See, his reward is with him, and his recompense accompanies him. Salvation is a person, Yeshua. Simeon, you remember when Jesus was brought into the temple to be circumcised, picks up when that play on the words, and he says, Now Lord, I can depart in peace because my eyes have seen your salvation. And what he's saying is, my eyes have seen your Yeshua. I've seen Jesus. Jesus is salvation. Jesus then quite simply means Savior, deliverer, rescuer. That's the literal meaning of his name. But what about the figurative meaning of his name? God has a way in the Old Testament of spelling out the characters, heroes of the faith in ways that describe the person and the work of Messiah to come. And so when Moses stepped down from leadership, Joshua, the son of Nun stepped in his place. Joshua. The name's Yeshua. And Joshua, or Yeshua in the Old Testament, Does on an earthly, literal way, so that we can see and grasp and understand a little bit What Jesus does in a heavenly and eternal way that's difficult for you and for me to begin to grasp and understand. So God gives us Joshua As the one who does earthly, temporally, what Jesus is going to do finally Spiritually, heavenly, eternally. What is it that he did? Well, to try and reduce it for time's sake down to three basic points The first thing that Joshua did was that he delivered Israel from their enemies. When he You remember the spies, Joshua one of the twelve, and when they went into the land they came back and they said, Boy, that land's everything you heard. Man, you know, and they're carrying grapes on a pole, and they say, you know, it is you know it looks like one of these um trick photographies, you know, where the fruit and everything is so large and so huge and you just can't believe how lush it is and they say, that's the good news. Bad news is we're never going to take it. Places crawling with giants. We are like grasshoppers in their sight. They live in these big walled cities. You know, there's just no way. It's ten to two. Never gonna do it. You know, you wonder if one of the people say, hey, you know, one of those two spies that's arguing to do it. Remember his name is Joshua, and Joshua means God saves, Yahweh delivers. The hope is that he will do it. Come on, let's trust him. Nah, no way. And so they spend 40 years wandering in the wilderness. Until Joshua comes to lead them into the land and demonstrates the meaning of the name. Yahweh delivers, rescues, saves. And they come against Jericho, this great walled city, and they blow the trumpets, and God reduces the walls to rubble. And they say, God really saves. He delivers the giants into our hand. And soon those mighty giants are fleeing refugees in their own land. Because Joshua Jehovah, the mighty one, has conquered the giants, the enemies And Jesus comes and he says, You think you have all these problems, and your problems are other people, and your problem is this, and your problem is that. Let me tell you who the real problem is. The problem is the evil one. There's an enemy of your soul, there's an enemy of your life, and he wants to destroy you. And until he has conquered, you have no hope. And so the true Joshua, Yeshua, Jesus, comes. And when Satan thinks that he has masterfully rid the world of Jesus and finally conquered him on the cross, it's in that very act That Paul says in Colossians, he makes a spectacle of the demons and of Satan. And he conquers the giant. He conquers the evil one. The enemy of your soul and mine. And Jesus walks out of the tomb, a victor. All authority has been given to me in heaven and earth. Go and make disciples. The enemy has been conquered. Joshua, Yeshua, has come to reign. That's your hope. Call his name Jesus, because it'll save his people from their sins. But ridding the enemy was just the negatives. That was the problem. The other thing that Joshua did was bring them into the land, into their inheritance, into the promise, so that they could enjoy those luscious grapes they could see. And remember when you think of Palestine at that time, don't think of what you see now. Think of it as a place that was covered with forests and streams and there were animals roaming all about. A delightful place to see And Joshua brings them into that land. And they have it as the promise that God had offered to them. But that's nothing compared to the new heavens and the new earth that the true Joshua, Jesus, is going to bring you and me into if you belong to Him. Jesus will bring us into a place where if you look through the pages of National Geographic and you go to your grandmother's attic and she's got all these you know volumes all stashed up there and you look all through them and you see them one after another, valleys and mountains and hills and waterfalls and all these things and your imagination is extended and you begin to go beyond that and you say, what will heaven be like? What will this new earth That is not under a curse going to be like, Yeshua, Jesus, is going to bring us into that land. He's going to bring us into that land where there are no enemies. Israel never actually rid the land of the Canaanites. And they harassed them on and on and became a snare to them in the book of Judges and on beyond that. But in this land that Jesus is going to bring us into, there will be no enemies. They're all conquered. They're all gone. It's a land thirdly you see of perfect rest A land where you and I have no internal conflict, no interpersonal conflict. There are no earthquakes or tsunamis, nothing to threaten and destroy. A land of perfect peace and rest that he brings us into. For he's Yeshua, the deliverer, the rescuer. And all this is revealed in that figurative name pictured in anticipation of Jesus. Now that's the name. But secondly, let me look briefly with you at the meaning of the explanation of the name. The meaning of the explanation. And let me break that into two parts. First of all, he will save his people. And then from their sins. First of all, look at that one little phrase there. He will save his people. The blank there is that that refers to sovereign grace. Sovereign grace. Notice, first of all, it does not say he'll save everyone. It says he'll save his people. That's a subgroup of all the peoples. There are some who are his people, not everyone. I would dare say that not everyone in this room are his people. How do you become one of his people? By recognizing your need of a deliverer. Recognizing you can't defeat the enemy. Recognizing that you are helpless and hopeless apart from Jesus. And when you place your faith in Jesus, and he becomes your Savior, you become one of his people. That's who he came to save. Now some Christians believe that Jesus died for everybody. That in dying for everybody, he made salvation possible for everybody. That that's the magnitude of grace, and that's universal, and that's wonderful. The only problem is, if you say that Jesus died for everybody, and you know the Bible doesn't teach that everybody's saved, that some are saved and some are lost, then What is it that actually saves us? It means that Jesus made salvation possible. He went to a certain point. Now there's something that you or I have to do in order to complete that. So that we are actually saved. But that's not what the verse says, does it? It says he will save his people. You see the precision of the language? It doesn't say he made salvation possible for all people. It says he will save his people. You and I are incapable of responding to the offer of salvation. For as Tom read, we're dead in our sins, and it's only by God's mercy. That he comes as part of what Jesus died for. In his death on the cross, Jesus in that act Provided for the Spirit to come to awaken your heart so that you would see your need for Jesus. Now, don't misunderstand me. Let nobody here say, well then if it's up to God and He's got to give me the faith, well then I guess I'll just wait for Him to do that. He commands you to believe. He says you must come and bow the knee and see your need of Jesus. But there's a mystery, and the mystery is that even as you recognize that you need him to put in your heart that faith, he said, no one who comes to me will I cast out. There is none who has ever sought Jesus who had to wait for God to give faith. The fact that you seek Jesus is his work in you. And you come and you look back and you say, I I trusted him and as Dave. Said, and I remember the day where he was so thrilled and said, you know, this week I've come to place my faith in Jesus. But you look back and you realize, but it was only God who enabled me to do that. How do you reconcile those things? I can't reconcile it, but I don't have the mind of God, and neither do you. But the hope is he's Jesus who will save his people. And he offers that salvation to you this morning if you've never received it and trusted him for it. And as you do, it'll be very evident to you. That was not something that came from within your own being. It was what God in his mercy gave to you to believe Jesus, to trust him. Don't put it off. Don't put it off. Not one more day. He will save, actually save his people. Notice finally that it is not just individuals, but it's a new people. If we were writing that today, we would say something like, we'll call his name Jesus because If you get beyond the he'll make possible salvation for everybody who decides to respond and even acknowledge his sovereign grace in saying he will actually save, we think of it as a group of individuals loosely joined in some sort of federation. Notice the language. It's language That has solidarity to it. It says he will save his people. It's a new people. In fact, you come to chapter 8 in Matthew. And do you remember when Jesus talked to the centurion who had besought for him to come for a man under his charge, and Jesus said, Well, I haven't seen this kind of faith in Israel when he said, You don't have to come, Lord, just say the word And Jesus says, you know, from the east and west, from all nations, there's going to come a people that's going to sit down with Abraham. It's a new people, see? In Matthew 16, when Jesus confesses, Lord, you are the Messiah, the Son of the Living God, Jesus says, You're right, Peter, and upon this rock, that confession, and you as that confessing disciple, I'm going to build my church. The word in the Greek is ekklesia, a gathering of people who are called out, joined together. In Matthew 21 in verse 43, if you have the NIV, it says that he has a people. Actually, the Greek is the word ethne, a nation. He is forming a nation, a new body, a new people. And that's why on the microscopic level, on the small level, at Columbia Presbyterian, our strategy is basically through small groups, cells. Because you and I need one another. It is not me and Jesus, and I go to church and worship and you know kind of associate loosely, voluntarily, maintaining my independence. But it is that I am part of a people, and I need to be part of that people. That one that Jesus has defeated, the enemy, is still very active. And he wants to divide me from Jesus. And through the years I've seen so many people who come and they remain peripheral and they remain independent and they don't get involved in the groups, the face-to-face fellowships of the cells or the small group communities. And after a while they drift off and you follow up what's happened and you find out they're not going anywhere. But I've still got my faith in Jesus. And then you see their lives are less and less distinct and pretty soon they look like everybody else, except they gotta say, I got my faith in Jesus. That is so far into the New Testament. You will call his name Jesus because he will save his people, a group who are joined together in unity who recognize their need for one another to grow in grace, a people who reflect the fact that God works through a body. And that's just true on this microscopic level. On the larger level, we also need to see that We are a congregation that is a people, and that people should reflect the community. There should be a diversity in our midst that shows that we are not a group of people who can be explained. Anthropologically, you know, we're kind of people who like to associate together. The glory of the gospel is when the community looks and they say the only blue that holds those people together is the gospel. Because they're so different from one another. But they're a people, they're a new people, they're a counterintuitive people who love Jesus and they join together for Jesus. Different races and ethnic groups and demographic groups and educational groups, the people of God That magnifies his grace and his power. That's us. That's what we should be. We should be striving and praying to more and more reflect that, shouldn't we? Call his name Jesus for save his people from their sins. Let's look at that last phrase. From their sins. That's solving the root problem. The root problem is you see that it doesn't say he will save his people from their enemies. That's what contemporary Jews would have thought. They would have thought all our problems are the Romans. The Messiah is going to come and he's going to save us from the Romans. In fact, one of the sayings of the rabbis was, as the first deliverer Moses, so shall the second Messiah be. That is, Moses delivered us from the Egyptians. Messiah will deliver us from the Romans. The problem is not other people. The problem is not that you look and you say, the problem is my boss, the problem is my wife, the problem is my husband. The problem is, Lord, deliver me from other people. It says we'll save you from your sins. He's the fulfillment of not only the Joshua that came after Moses, but the Joshua of Zachariah VI, the priest Joshua, who brought his people to the temple. Because their sins needed to be forgiven. He's the Joshua that reconciles us to God. It's not just from our enemies. Secondly, it's not just from our problems. Not just from your problems, he saves you. He saves you from your sins. What a contrast to so much of contemporary expectations. Jesus comes to save me from sickness, to provide physical healing. Jesus comes to save me from my failures. Jesus comes to save me from my financial woes. He comes as my friend, my comforter. He comes as my helper. But let me tell you, the word of God says if he doesn't come as your Savior, he doesn't come at all to your life. If you don't know Jesus as your Savior, you don't know Him in any of the rest of those ways. And He does come to help you in your problems and sometimes to deliver you from your problems. But his primary concern is to save you from your sins. That's your biggest problem. He comes in order to Remove the barrier between you and God so that God can be a father that you can come to in your problems. He doesn't come so that all your problems will be taken care of. He comes to be your Savior in those difficulties. And finally, thirdly, you notice He gets to the root problem, which is our own sins. You see, we don't really understand the gospel when we begin to think that If I would have stated it, I would have put it a little differently. I would have had Jesus come for some of the other things that I feel like are bigger problems in my life But Jesus with infinite perception and wisdom comes to address what is really the biggest problem in your life and mind. He comes to pay the penalty for those sins so that you can have access to God and there is no longer the barrier. That God is able to be your father and to invite you into his kingdom and to his new heavens and new earth, the final kingdom forever and ever. That barrier is removed. And that, brothers and sisters, is the biggest problem in your life. But notice it doesn't simply say he comes to save you from the penalty of your sins. It says he came to save you from your sins. You will call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. He's too gracious to simply remove the penalty, but leave you in your sins. He comes to save you from the bondage of your sin. He comes to save you. First fruits, beginning not instantaneously, once for all. We still struggle with our sins. You look back at 2004 and you say all the things that I'm so ashamed of and the defeats and where was God in this? And I'm still struggling with that. And you'll still have those struggles in 2005, but the promise of the gospel is he comes to save you increasingly from your sins. And in that day when he comes again, there will once for all all those sins be eradicated, even the very presence of sin. But until that time, he is still in the process of saving you from your sins, from the generational dysfunctions, and from the bondage and from all those things. That cause you pain and grief and shame as you look at your heart and how you've treated other people. Billy Graham once said The smallest present I ever saw was a box and a man all wrapped up in himself. Jesus comes to save you from being all wrapped up in yourself. Jesus comes to free you. Back last century, the newspaper in London uh put out a statement, an invited response, what is the biggest problem in our society? And they got all kinds of responses. The very briefest was from G. K. Chesterton. It was simply two words. What is the greatest problem in our society? I am G. K. Chesterton Until you see that your biggest problem is your sin. You don't see a need for Jesus. Because essentially Jesus comes to be your Savior from your sin. And all the rest of the blessings flow out of that. But that's the root problem. And so finally, see the meaning of the command and promise. The meaning of the command promise. That's the last two blanks. You shall, he will. Joseph, you shall give him the name Jesus, and he will save his people from their sins. It's as good as done, you see. Sovereignly stated, his name will be fulfilled in his character and his person and work. Now that's not true of our names. There's girls called faith that have no faith. There's girls called joy that have no joy. I once read of a set of parents that had a little son. They called him Methuselah. Probably hoped he'd be a long liver. Methuselah lived longer than any other man. Methuselah Coney died at six months. Delida's name. My name Alan comes from the French means handsome. What are you laughing at? Don't live up to my name, do it. Now one kind woman after the first service said, Happy New Year, handsome. Then I knew what she meant. We don't live up to our names. Jesus does perfectly. He comes and he is a savior from the sins of all of his people. And Matthew goes and testifies, and he says, His blood is the cup of the new covenant. And it was shed perfectly for the redemption of his people. And he rose from the dead, and all authority is given to him. For people to come and be rescued. And down through the ages, the church has borne testimony, alcoholics, those on drugs, those full of shame and brokenness. That have said, Jesus has delivered me. He has saved me from my sin. Has he saved you? Is that your testimony this morning? Can you say, Jesus I could stand tonight in the Lord's Supper and I could say, Jesus, save me from my sin. Let me tell you something he did in 2004. In another area of my life, when he's begun to take control. He's still saving me from my sin. But you know, I'm a person that is different from what I was, radically different from before Jesus. Can you say that? If not, I pray you come to Jesus. But you know this promise is also a warning. It's only Jesus. It saves you from your sin. We're all aware of the horrendous tsunami and the earthquake that happened just one week ago today. Of all the things I've read about it, perhaps the most disturbing was, besides the fact that, by the way, that earthquake If it had happened east of Indonesia rather than west, the tsunami could have come to the west coast of the United States. But the most disturbing thing was that when the earthquake hit, they knew the tsunami would come. And the warning was not given. There was hours between the earthquake and when it hit shore. And they have conceded we didn't give the warning. Let me tell you, before God I stand to give you the warning. The God who produced that earthquake, moving the tectonic plates under the Pacific Ocean, 98 feet, moving mountains. So that one tiny wave in his sight, 15, 20 feet high, comes and devastates lands. is the God before whom you will stand. And that God has a righteous, burning, holy wrath against sin. And unless you come to the higher ground, the rock, Jesus, to be saved from your sins, you will stand before him and be swept away in the wrath of his righteousness. He may never say that you weren't warned. And I call you to come to Jesus. Come to Jesus, who alone can save you from your sins. And out of that flows all the riches of his blessing and the fullness of his being. That you will know in 2005 and on and on forever. Let's pray. Lord our God, we come and we realize we are such puny people. We think of the people swept away in that small wave. And Lord, who can stand before you and say, My record is good enough? We come this morning and we are reminded again of what a God has made heavens and earth. The God who has not only come and who must judge sin in order to maintain order within this universe, but the God who offers to us his own Son. Yeshua, who has come to save us from our sins, the penalty, the power of those sins, the very presence of those sins in that new earth, the land. That we have to look forward to. Lord Jesus. Come and speak to our hearts for any who doesn't know you to come and say, I need Yeshua, I need Jesus. And that all of us, Lord, would come to know your power to deliver more in this next year, to set our hearts in, I want to know Jesus. I want him I want to know him more as my deliverer, my savior. We come and we ask you to do that. And we ask you in the name, the matchless name of Jesus.