In the October nine issue of Time magazine, one uh just a couple weeks ago A very interesting and significant article by one of my favorite columnists, Andrew Sullivan Time saw the significance of this article because it devoted three pages to it with no ads and a color background. In this article, Sullivan says that the presidents of Iran and the United States have something in common. President Mahmud Ahmadinidad and President Bush are both men of secure faith, confident that they know truth and that they know God's will. And he says that kind of secure faith is the greatest threat to the survival of our civilization. He talks about the new Pope being more dogmatic and sure of truth that he believes. He says that the loudest voices of our times are the most certain that they are right, and they are the most dangerous. He says that liberals and secular type say that therefore religion is the problem. And he would beg to disagree. In fact, he says that the way out of the scary road that we're headed down toward religious wars is actually to be found in people of faith themselves. He says that will be because let me give you a couple quotes from the article here now. He says that this way out will come from the much derided moderate Muslims, tolerant Jews, and humble Christians. The alternative to the secular fundamentalist death spiral is something called spiritual humility and sincere religious doubt. Fundamentalism is not the only valid form of faith, and to say it is is the great lie of our time. He talks about a faith that treats the Bible as a moral fable as well as history, that tries to live its truths in the light of contemporary knowledge, history, science, and insight. It's a faith that picks and chooses between doctrines under the guidance of individual conscience. We decide which parts are true, which parts are not true. And uh this is the Bible is not intended to be an account literally true in all respects that declares an elaborate theology and explains everything. Rather, God is beyond our knowledge. Therefore, we need a little humility. We cannot know the kind of surety that allows us to proclaim truth with a capital T. The faith that begins with the assumption that the human soul is fallible, is a healthy faith, even the gospels tell us that Jesus doubted On the cross he doubted. He asked many questions. He asked as many questions as he gave answers. He was often silent in self-doubt or elusive or afraid. So at the core he says, at the core, the very core of the very gospels on which fundamentalists rely for their passionate certainty is a definition of humanness that is marked by imperfection and uncertainty, even in Jesus, perhaps especially in Jesus And his conclusion, so if we cannot know for sure at all times how to govern our own lives, because nobody really knows, finally. What is right, what is wrong, what right or business do we have in telling others how to live their lives? It is from this humble searching faith that comes a toleration of other faiths. In the ends, that the very survival of our civilization depends on that kind of faith prevailing. Now it's I appreciate the article. It's a very clear article, makes his case. There's just one confusion I find in the article, and that is that Sullivan confuses humility versus arrogance with humility versus confidence. There's an assumption in this article that to be confident necessarily is to be arrogant. And yet, who is less arrogant than Jesus? I've never heard Jesus referred to as arrogant with any shred of evidence, and yet you hear his words in Matthew chapter 5. Verses seventeen and eighteen, do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them. I've come to fulfill them. I've come to fulfill the whole Old Testament I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen will by any means disappear from the law until everything is accomplished. Sorry, Mr. Sullivan. That doesn't sound like there's a lot of doubt there. It sounds pretty confident. And yet it's the same Jesus that had said back in verse 5: Blessed are the gentle, for they will inherit the earth. Verse 9: Blessed are the peacemakers. For they will be called the sons of God. My heart goes out to Andrew Sullivan because I have followed his columns for some time. He is a practicing Catholic who's also a homosexual. And you see in a lot of his writings tremendous tension. Trying to hold on to these two things. Trying to have a faith because he he sees value in the Bible, but not a faith that's going to be dogmatic about everything about the Bible. But it doesn't work. And you certainly can't say that Jesus was someone who was full of doubt. He speaks in these verses that we're looking in our study of Matthew. Studying now for three weeks, chapter 5, verses 17 to 20, and are going through the book of Matthew, you see there just something that is astounding in its confidence, but totally without arrogance. Jesus here is denying that he is in any conflict with the Old Testament. And then he asserts two things. Number one, that he's going to fulfill the whole Old Testament. It's kind of matter-of-factly. I'm going to fulfill the whole thing. All the hopes, all the commands, all the prophecies, all the pictures. Secondly, then, he makes a promise. And the promise is that the scriptures, Old Testament, are more durable and more reliable. Than any words ever uttered by humans. Absolutely reliable. So he both describes the Old Testament scriptures, and then secondly, he makes a promise. concerning them. And I'd like to look at those two points. So the first point, the description of Scripture. The description of Scripture. Three points to notice about that. Jesus says, first of all, that the scripture is more durable than all creation. See what he says? I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, the least stroke of a pen will by any means disappear. from the law until everything is accomplished. It's more durable than all creation. We're taking a look at Luke chapter 16, parallel passage in that. Where Jesus says it's easier for heaven and earth to disappear than for the least stroke of a pen to drop out of the law. All heaven and earth could disappear and collapse. But nothing of God's word will disappear, collapse. It's like the anvil that wears out all the hammers that beat upon it The hammers are gone, the anvil remains. God's word is more durable than all creation. Secondly, it's more dependable than all history. He's saying here that there is a time coming when heaven and earth will disappear. I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear. So there's a time when they will. And uh until that time, to us, history seems very uncertain. Who knows what will happen? In the relations between the United States and Iran, between the United States and North Korea, nobody knows But Jesus says one thing is absolutely certain, every single prophecy, every single declaration of the Old Testament is going to be absolutely certain it's more dependable than anything else in history. Nothing else is certain from our perspective. In fact, it is so certain that many of the prophecies of the Old Testament were written in the past tense. About future events just to make the point that it's as good as done. Jesus is asserting that in this verse Thirdly, he's saying it is more precise than you can imagine. I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen. Will by any means disappear from the law until everything is accomplished. Now what's that saying? Well, he's referring, of course, to the Hebrew alphabet in that And what are you saying? So we have the Hebrew alphabet up here, and I want to point out what Jesus is referring to. Uh when he's saying that, the smallest letter is a yod, kind of like our Y. And he's saying, not one yod, not one little You know, the tiniest letter, or uh the least stroke of a pen is sort of like a seraph. It's just a little well, here's a couple of seraphs. You see this? That's uh that's like R B. Uh the Hebrew goes this way. And then down. So that's A. You know, that's kind of like A, B, G, D, H, and one down through. Okay, that's a B, bait. And that that B is very similar to the K, Kof. What's the difference? You see on the B, you see that little hook there? That's what Jesus is referring to. That's the leaf stroke of a pen. He says not one of those little things It's different from that. Not one of those little things is going to disappear. Another example would be taking the uh the uh the cough here And or take this one, take the dolit, a little simpler. The dolit, which is kind of like the D, and the Raish, which is like our R. The difference between the raish and the dolits is that little hook right there on the end. That's what Jesus is referring to. Or take the Wab and the Zion. It's that little hook right there That's what Jesus is referring to. He's not one of those little tiny things. And you see in your outline that um most of you have in your Bible Psalm nineteen has the Hebrew alphabet above every eight stanzas. You'll see a little Hebrew letter. So it it shows you above which verses you'll find the things that I just referred to so you can see them for yourself. But see what Jesus is saying is not that that precise, minuscule uh declaration of nothing of that is going to disappear until it is all fulfilled. Every single detail. Now that's not saying that it has our views of precision, all the numbers or exact numbers. A lot of times things are rounded off. So there are ways that the Old Testament deals with history that are just a little different from the way we think of history. But he's saying they're all reliable, they're all true, they're all Things that absolutely will be accomplished are true, you can depend on them. Take, for instance, uh in some of the prophecies, some of the particular details. Now One example from what Tom just read from Isaiah chapter 53. If you look at verse nine You notice that Isaiah says about the Messiah that he was assigned a grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death, but in the Hebrew there is a a little detail that is missed in our English Because the word wicked is in the plural. He was assigned a grave with wicked men. The common grave, they would just take the criminals and they'd dump them in this common grave. And the and could also be translated but, so you could translate it, he was assigned a grave with wicked men, but with the rich, and that word is singular. in his death. He actually was buried in the grave of a rich man, singular, Joseph of Arimathea, though he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth. He wasn't among the wicked. Now, that's a detail that is so easy to overlook. Jesus is saying that's how precise the Old Testament is. Or let me give you one of my favorites. Because of the way it affected me in my own life. I've mentioned uh in other times about my struggles with my faith in college. I had become a Christian just before college and um When I went to college I was naive enough to take Bible courses at a secular university. And so they essentially were anti-bible Bible courses. In fact, the professor I had, J. B. Pritchard uh was one of the most renowned archaeologists in the world. Peter Lee, when he studied in the last few years, was still using J. B. Pritchard's texts. You go down to Borders, you can still find his books there on the featured table rack. This guy is big deal in archaeology. He was my professor as a new Christian. You He did not believe the Bible was inerrant. He did not believe the Bible was reliable. And he would mock the faith. He would refer to the little Israelitish deity. And it was just a tremendous struggle for me as a new Christian. Can I really believe the Bible? And I struggled with that. I struggled with the assertions he made about the Bible's uh contradictions and its errors and on and on and on. And in that, during that period of struggle, I came across an article about the city of Tyre. And that article um was such an encouragement to me. Let me share with you the point that uh that it sought to make. The city of Tyre was one of the great most prominent cities on the Mediterranean coast, north of Galilee. right there along the coast uh of its day. It was kind of the port of entry for a lot of Mediterranean trade. And um it was a very rich city. It it had existed since before the time of Abraham. A very wealthy city, and it was absolutely impregnable because it was built on an island a half a mile off the coast. And thick walls, deep water around it, and so many times it was besieged and it was never taken. Now, during the exile, the period between 530-600 BC, the prophet Ezekiel wrote. He wrote a number of prophecies. And this was when Tyre was at its height. And one of the things that Ezekiel said was that uh God was going to condemn and destroy Tyre because of its arrogance, because when Jerusalem was destroyed, Tyre rejoiced And he said, Hey, one less competitor on the market, you know? Good, they're gone. And so because of that attitude, Ezekiel said uh that God was going to destroy Tyre. Now let me just give you a couple verses to see what he said here in Ezekiel chapter 26, verses 4 and 5. Written when Tyre was kind of like New York City or, you know, Philadelphia, a major port. He says they will destroy the walls of Tyre and pull down her towers. I, the Lord, will scrape away her rubble and make her a bare rock. Out in the sea she will become a place to spread fishnets. For I have spoken, declares the sovereign Lord. Now, a place to spread fish nets means that it's so bare that there's not even snags, because you've got to have absolutely smooth, or else it's going to tear the nets. So that's a pretty dramatic way of saying there's not going to be anything left of this place. Or take a few verses later, just in case the Lord says you missed it the first time. Let me tell you again, I will put an end to your noisy songs and the music of your harps, and I will they will be heard no more. I will make you a bare rock, and you will become a place to spread fish nets. You will never be rebuilt. For I, the Lord, have spoken, declares the sovereign Lord. And so you um say, well, I just heard about Tyre this summer. They were being bombed, and people still after Tyre, you know. So what do you mean never be rebuilt? What do you mean bear as a rock? Well Tyre was in two parts, and the main part during that time, as I said, was an island. Now let's go to the next slide Because you see this here's the coastland, and this is the island, and that was the city of Tyre. All this was kind of suburbs and other stuff that was separate Everybody tried to besiege this, tried to take it, nobody did. 333 Alexander the Great comes along. He's conquered the whole world. Alexander the Great comes up to Tyre. This is all water. This Mediterranean Sea is 20 feet deep. water and Alexander comes against Tyre and he can't take it. And so he decides, because his navy is somewhere else in the world, That he's going to take all the rocks and the rubble from here and he's going to build a causeway a half a mile across the ocean out to this to the land so we can march his soldiers out. So he starts building, they're attacking him and they're, you know, shooting them down and all that. About uh, you know, a couple months into this, he's gotta quit. He's gotta go take care of business somewhere else in the world he'd conquered. And during that time they destroyed all the work that he had tried to accomplish. All gone. Well, he came back, and now he's really ticked. And he thinks, uh, you think you're gonna knock me off? Okay. So he builds a whole land out here. He takes sand and boulders and rock and everything he can from destroying everything back here, builds this thing out. a half a mile on out to the city of Tyre. They saw him coming. They didn't take him seriously at first. It was kind of like, you know, what is he doing? And after a while they realized he was making progress. They weren't able to stop him. They started Evacuating, they made human sacrifices to their gods to protect them. Finally, he invaded Tyre, broke down its walls, he was so furious he crucified two thousand of them. destroyed the entire city, and he and his successors totally eradicated every remnant of this place, made it a bare smooth rock. So that at the time of the article that I was reading, it was said, fishermen to this day spread their nets on what was once tire in order to repair them because it's so smooth. Now notice a little detail. It'll never be rebuilt. Again, this exists back here. That's what was bombed this past summer in this area. But this no longer is inhabited. Now, I don't know what that does for you, but when you're wondering, you know, can I really trust the Bible? And do you see something that's not only so improbable, but so precise It makes the hair stand up on the back of your neck. It makes you say, God, I never understood. What a God you are who sovereignly speaks the future. But you notice the detail? It will never be rebuilt. Interesting if you look at Old Testament prophecies that talk about destruction of cities, sometimes it says they'll just simply be destroyed. Other times it says they'll never be rebuilt. Now how are they going to know, apart from a sovereign God who controls history, how is the prophet going to know is this one going to be rebuilt or isn't it? There's no way they control that. So he talks about Jerusalem being destroyed. Doesn't say it won't be rebuilt. Samaria is going to be destroyed. Doesn't say it's not going to be rebuilt. Damascus is going to be destroyed. Not going to say anything about being rebuilt. They're all rebuilt. When it comes to Babylon, city just like all the rest, big prominent city, bigger than most of them, very central in that culture, Babylon's going to be destroyed. Isaiah says, Jeremiah says, it's not going to be rebuilt. Give you the reference there for you. Look it up. Babylon will never be rebuilt. Want to disprove the Bible? All you got to do is rebuild Babylon. You know a guy tried to do that? It was a Roman emperor. Hated Christianity, but wanted to disprove it. So he said, I'll disprove it. I'll rebuild Babylon. He sent a whole force over there to rebuild Babylon. Failed. Tried again. Failed. Tried again. Tried, I don't know how many times. Kept trying. All kinds of strange things would happen. Is none of his building crews were ever able to rebuild anything until he finally pronounced the place was under a curse and gave up. Jesus says, not one stroke of a pen, not one letter, will disappear until all of this word is accomplished. It is 100% reliable in its precision, in its ability to declare the future as if it is the past, because it is written by a sovereign God. You can be confident. without being arrogant. You can trust this word. Now, again, I I don't know what that does to you. That did an awful lot for me And I hope that for some of you who are going through some rough times, you'll have your faith strengthened in believing that the Bible is absolutely reliable. But it's not just about the past. It's also, Jesus speaks about the future. Because there's a promise here. You see in verse 17, he says, I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, that's still future. Not the smallest letter, the least stroke of the pen, will by any means disappear from the law until everything is accomplished. He also said, I have come not to abolish the Old Testament, but to fulfill it. At the time Jesus was speaking, he had not yet fulfilled it. Now, there were certain things that he had fulfilled that he had no control over, such as his ancestry, being of the house of David. That was a prophecy he fulfilled, such as the fact that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. Micah 5. 2 promised the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem, in Judea. So Jesus had already fulfilled prophecies when he was saying this, but he was entering in on his ministry now in full force, and there were many things he would now begin to do. He would fulfill every command of the Old Testament. He would also fulfill all the rest of the prophecies, Psalm 22, Psalm 110, Isaiah 53. He would fulfill all the pictures of Messiah perfectly. The prophecies, the Old Testament describes Messiah as a prophet, Deuteronomy 18. Jesus comes, and when he comes into Jerusalem, they say, here's the prophet. Jesus is the perfect prophet. that declares and reveals God and His will. Jesus comes as the fulfillment of the picture of the priest who offers sacrifices on behalf of the people. And so Jesus comes in Matthew 26 and says, This blood is the blood of the new covenant, this is my blood, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. In Hebrews chapter 10, other places describe him. As the priest who made the perfect sacrifice of himself for his people, he fulfills that picture perfectly. He comes as the king. If you remember in Matthew chapter 2 it described that the uh the magi came to see the king of the Jews. Who is this one who is the king? Zechariah 9. 9 describes the king. It will come into Jerusalem seated on a donkey, an animal of peace. Matthew twenty six, in Matthew twenty-one, we see that prophecy perfectly fulfilled. In Matthew 28, Jesus says, All authority is given to me in heaven and on earth. And so I come to rule my kingdom. I come to establish it. He's the true manna pictured in the wilderness. He is the true temple. Picturing all of the presence of God. He is the Joshua that brings us into the promised land. Jesus is the fulfillment of all the Old Testament. He's the one who accomplishes the atonement, the one who is perfectly the substitutionary sacrifice that Isaiah spoke about, that Tom read. We have like sheep gone astray. The Lord's laid on him who's perfectly fulfilled the law, the iniquity of you and me, your shame, my disobedience, all those things. Jesus has fulfilled them perfectly. He is the true Passover Lamb sacrificed for us. Isn't that amazing? I mean all these things were stated hundreds of years ahead of time. And Jesus perfectly fulfills every syllable of every prophecy and picture. And then it says he fulfills his promise that he would rise again. Remember again in Isaiah 53, after Isaiah talked about his sacrifice, it says, the Lord made him a guilt offering, and as a guilt offering he will see What he has accomplished. He'll see uh the goal of his efforts and he will be satisfied. Now how is he going to see that if he's a guilt offering that has been crucified, that has been killed? Now there's only one explanation. It says after he has died, it says he will see life. He will rise from the dead. Jesus fulfilled that hope, that prophecy of Isaiah 53. And so Jesus comes and says, I will fulfill all of this, but there's still the future. For you see, Jesus, part B there, will still fulfill all that has not yet been fulfilled. If Jesus has so precisely fulfilled everything that he has said so far. Can we not have full confidence that he will fill everything that is yet to occur? He promises, even at his trial, when he's about to be crucified, and they say, Tell us, are you the Messiah? In Matthew 26, 64, Jesus says, you yourselves say it. But I tell you, in the future you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Mighty One and coming on the clouds of heaven. I'm going to come again. I'm going to come again in glory. And so in Acts chapter 1, when Jesus ascends into heaven, the angel says, Why is it that you stand here looking? This same Jesus That you've seen go into heaven will come again just as you've seen him go, back from heaven. And that's what you and I wait for. Listen, this morning, if you hold Jesus at arm's length and you say, well, you know, this stuff's interesting for Sunday morning, but it doesn't relate to my life where I live day by day. I really, I've heard too much about the Bible is really not something that you can trust in. It's full of errors and contradictions and all these things. If you can believe that you can hold Jesus at arm's length, you are betting that the Bible is not reliable. You're saying that these prophecies just happen to be coincidentally fulfilled. But you really can't believe and rely upon the Bibles, prophecies, promises, threats. And its declarations of the future. Really believe that? The most foolish thing you can do is to discount the reliability. Of this book. To say it's man's words, not really God's word. Jesus says every syllable, every letter Will be fulfilled. And I am coming again. I am coming again as king, as judge. I am coming to judge all evil, all wickedness, all rebellion. All sin, all death, and I will establish a new heavens and a new earth. It's very interesting how Jesus uses this word disappear. And how Peter picks up on that word. Now, I want to just real quickly refer you in 2 Peter chapter 3. Peter takes this idea, and he says, there's a lot of you out there that say, well, you know, 2,000 years have come and gone, and where's this promise, where is this coming that he promised? I don't believe it. Christians then thought he was going to come soon. He hasn't come 2,000 years. Everything goes on just as it has since the beginning. Not going to happen. And he says, well, there's a couple things you guys have forgotten, Peter says. First of all, that's what they thought during the flood, the the days before the flood. God was being patient, and then God brought the flood, and the flood, the deluge, destroyed the earth and every living thing except Noah and his family. But God was patient to re-establish the earth and repopulate it the next time he says it's going to be destroyed by fire. And he says, it is not because God can't do it that he hasn't come again, but rather, verse 9, he says He's not slow in keeping his promise, rather he's patient. There may be somebody here God is waiting for to say, I'm waiting for you to come and to receive Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, and then my Son is going to come. Someday, sometime that will happen. Could be Wednesday afternoon this week. We may never meet again for worship. Jesus could come this week. You believe that? God is patient, he's waiting. But then notice what he says in verse 10 The day of the Lord will come. It's going to come like a thief. That is a time when you don't expect, you're not prepared. He's going to come, and then this the heavens will disappear. Jesus said, I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, nothing will fall from the law until it's all accomplished. Peter says, that day will come, the heavens will disappear with a roar. The elements are going to be destroyed by fire, the earth and everything in it going to be laid bare like the top of a rock, like tyre. And since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people ought you to be? Are we not then to live in the light of that hope, he says, looking forward to the day of God? In keeping with his promise, looking forward to a new heavens and a new earth, the home of righteousness, every single person in this room looks forward to that day either with hope or terror. For that day will be a day to you of the greatest joy when death itself will be eradicated and you will be in the presence of God forever. Or you will be banished from his presence, along with the roar of the fire of the destruction of this old heavens and old earth, destroyed from his presence forever. Now can you really say that the God who prophesied a couple of hundred years before Alexander the Great attacked Tyre, one of the great cities of that time, destroyed it exactly like Ezekiel said. There's no way you can say Ezekiel wrote that after, absolutely established he wrote it hundreds of years before, and say, well, that just happened to be coincidentally true. But I don't think Jesus is coming again. I don't think he really accomplished all the prophecies. I don't think I need him as Savior and Lord in my life. I can't imagine anything more foolish. And yet, for those of us who have that hope, whatever is going on in your life, whatever seems to be spinning out of control, brothers and sisters, the hope that you have. It's not the slightest particle of God's promises can fail until every, every iota Every stroke of a pen has been fulfilled of his gracious promise to you. Let's pray. Our Father, we think of the words of the Psalmist, I will seek your face with all my heart. Be gracious to me according to your promise. And Lord, for some of us there are doubts and we wonder, can we really trust this word? And pray that you would show the reliability, the absolute reliability of that word in our lives, that we could build our lives upon it. That no one here would be so foolish as to think, someday maybe I'll think about it, you'll come like a thief. Perhaps this week, in fulfillment of your promise. Lord, for those of us who know you, May we live in the light of that hope, live every day looking up to see is this the day that Jesus will come in fulfillment of his promise? For you are coming. As surely as you have risen, you are coming. And so, Lord Jesus, help us to trust your word and to trust you, the person who has spoken that word, to place our confidence in you, Lord Jesus, more fully, more completely. To love you and to serve you, to trust you this week in every area of our lives for the sake and the honor of Jesus Christ. Amen.