You may recall, as uh I seem to recall, that last week I was uh trying to demonstrate that uh we can read the Bible on various levels. But that you really don't get to the level that the Holy Spirit intends until you see how Jesus is displayed in that passage, not just a story about Jesus. But also how Jesus fulfills all the hopes, all the prophecies, and all the pictures of the Old Testament. And that beyond that, that Matthew actually intends that you and I see that God's purpose is not simply that your life goes smoothly, but that you display Jesus. That Jesus is displayed to you and that Jesus is displayed through you. So we have looked at how Matthew is telling us a story about Jesus, but he's trying to do more than that. You read Matthew, you you need to kind of have the Old Testament in the back of your mind. Because sometimes Matthew will make it explicit when he says things like, This was done to fulfill what was said through the prophet, Hosea 11. 1, out of Egypt I've called my son uh and um about the prophecy uh concerning Rhema and Rachel weeping for her children. Sometimes he's real explicit But then there's those times that are kind of hints, because when he says, out of Egypt I've called my son, he doesn't elaborate that, but if you think about that Then you might, you know, let your mind sort of wander if you're thinking about about the Old Testament, you think, well, okay, ah, well now um Jesus' adoptive father was who Joseph. Joseph had to go down into Egypt because they couldn't stay in the land. Back in Genesis, there was a Joseph who had to go down into Egypt because he couldn't stay in the land with his brothers. And God used that for good and and then four hundred years later there came an evil king, Pharaoh, who killed a bunch of baby boys. And among those baby boys that were killed, one was delivered, Moses, who became the means of the deliverance of God's people out of captivity. And so you begin to see Jesus as filling up a lot more than Matthew specifies Jesus is the true Moses, who also brings out God's people from a captivity infinitely worse than that of Egypt, the captivity of darkness in Satan's kingdom. But beyond all those other pictures, the one picture that is most central to Matthew in filling up the hope of the Old Testament. is the picture of Jesus as Messiah or King. In chapter three, we're going to see how John the Baptist introduces Jesus' ministry by saying, Repent because the kingdom of heaven is near. Why? Because the king whose sandals I am not worthy to carry, John says, is coming. The king is coming. So Jesus fills up all this meaning of the king. What I think that Matthew does, the more I read Matthew, the more I understand this is a supernatural brilliance to this book. What Matthew does is in preparing you for that, in chapter 2, He gives you the contrast between two kings, two kinds of kingships. If you look at the first three verses of chapter 2, the word king is used in each verse. Look at it. The Magi come after Jesus was born in Bethlehem, Judea, during the time of King Herod. Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and they asked, Where is the one who is born king of the Jews? So they're asking the king of the Jews, where's the one that's born king of the Jews? Well, then you understand that um They said we saw a star in the east have come to worship him. When King Herod heard this, he was disturbed. I'm the king around here. And when Herod's disturbed, everybody's disturbed. All Jerusalem with him. And I think what what Matthew wants to do now is he wants to show you the contrast of two kings, two kinds of kingships. The contrast of Herod's heart and Jesus' heart. Do you remember back in uh in Easter time we looked at the contrast between Pilate's heart and Jesus' heart? What I want to do this morning is to show you similarly the contrast between Herod's heart and Jesus' heart, and like with Pilate, To see that it's not that Pilate is some despised character who is so different from us, but to see that our hearts, like Pilate, are also like Herod. But the primary difference between Herod and us is that his selfishness was unrestrained and he could act out on it in any way he wanted. And you'll see also in the story of Herod how miserable the end was and how pathetic was the summation of his life. Seven contrasts I want to show you then between Herod and Jesus as kings. First has to do with their prestige. Herod was all about prestige. I mean he adopted the very name, Herod what? The Great. Whatever you said, Herod, you didn't just say Herod, you said Herod the Great He was uh quite a builder. He came to power about 39 BC at the age of 25, first had to conquer his own kingdom, and then um started on a vast building project. Lots of uh things that he built, the most notable being the Herod's temple. Took forty-six years and then some more to to build that, uh complete that just a few years before it was destroyed. But Herod was into glory. Everywhere you looked, you saw monuments to Herod. We're going to look and acknowledge you seniors uh a little bit after this message. And probably a lot of what you've heard in graduation speeches for you has been uh you guys go out and conquer, you know, make your mark Have people envy you by uh being a success, and that success is defined in terms of how much money you have to spend and where you can go and who you associate with, gaining prestige. Herod was really into prestige. Now, notice how Matthew contrasts Jesus with that. And you see it in those two mysterious verses at the end of the chapter. You look in the end of verse 22. It says that about Joseph having been warned in a dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee. And he went and he lived in a town called Nazareth, and so was fulfilled what was said. Through the prophets, he will be called a Nazarene. Now if you read commentaries and things on this, you you notice that people all puzzle about this because uh you know, commentators are always trying to say, Well what verse is he referring to there? And there isn't any such verse. In fact, Nazareth is never mentioned in the Old Testament. And there isn't any such verse, he will be called a Nazarene. The clue to what Matthew means, I think, is in the one little letter there at the end of Prophet. You see, it's Prophet Not prophet. He says prophet when he refers to Hosea, when he refers to Jeremiah. Here he doesn't say prophet, he says prophets. I think he's talking about a general sense You see, Galilee, where Nazareth was, was a despised place. For instance, in John chapter 7, when People are discussing whether Jesus is Messiah. Some say he's the prophet, some say he's the Messiah. Still others ask, how can the Messiah come from Galilee? Does not the scripture say that the Messiah will be from David's family and from Bethlehem, the town where David lived? Yeah, you got that right. But he lived in Nazareth in Galilee. And so they say, Pff, not very likely. Down in verse fifty-two of John seven. They replied, Are you from Galilee too? Look into it, and you'll find that a prophet does not come out of Galilee. Nothing good comes out of Galilee. In fact, uh Nazareth is specified. If you look in John 1, do you remember when Philip comes and um Finds Nathanael and says, We have found the one that Moses wrote about in the law, and about whom the prophets also wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph, Jesus of Nazareth. Nathaniel says, Nazareth? Can anything good come from there? And Philip just says, Well, come on and see. Can anything good come from Nazareth? You see, Nazareth was a term of operbrium. Nazareth was it was not just insignificant, it was like he didn't want to be from Nazareth You know, it was only about 500 people even in Jesus' time, and there was a Roman garrison there for goodness sake. It was a place that had nothing significant or good associated with it That's where Jesus is from. He's from a place that's kind of nowhere's mill. No prestige. No pedigree. And so you see these two kings, Herod, with all his pomp and circumstance, and Jesus, who be called a Nazarene. See what Isa what um Matthew is referring to are passages like Isaiah 53. Verses 2 and 3 says he'll be despised and rejected. It's not referring to so much Isaiah 11, verse 1. Some people say it's referring to the root Netzer, Nazarene. That's probably not what he has in mind. All he has in mind is the idea in Isaiah 11. 1 of he's a sprout. He's just, you know, there's just something very insignificant. Secondly, notice the power. Inherit power is absolutely corrupted. In Jesus, power is purified. In Herod, you see the fulfillment of Lord Acton's famous dictum, power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. And so Herod became obsessed with his power. He would do anything to preserve his power. His power was his control and he was obsessed with maintaining it. On the other hand, Jesus began his ministry as a rabbi, healing, teaching, doing good. He finished his ministry as the servant. Who washed his disciples' feet. People tried to force him to become an earthly king, and he refused. Power never corrupted Jesus. He had the uh popularity of the crowds at certain points and was never turned by it Jesus is the one person in history who could have power and not abuse it. You can trust Jesus with your life. He's never going to abuse his power. Or use you. He's fully trustworthy. Herod, thirdly, sacrificed others To protect himself. In contrast, Jesus sacrificed himself to protect others. Herod was insanely jealous When he came to the throne, it was between him and the Maccabean household. Remember uh the Maccabeans were had a dynasty and they were ruling at that time, and and Antigonus was uh the rival for the throne. And so when Herod got to the throne, first thing he did was immediately to execute Antigonus. In fact, not only did he execute him He executed forty-five of the nobles of Jerusalem who allied themselves with the Maccabean household. In fact, over the years Herod single-handedly extinguished the Maccabean household. He married the beautiful Maccabean princess Mariami. Seemed like he actually loved her But when her sons would show any kinds of political aspirations, they would be eliminated, strangled two of her sons. had others imprisoned, killed, one after the other. Finally, in a um moment of jealousy and suspicion about Mariammy, he had her executed And he almost went sane with remorse over killing the one human being probably in all the world that he loved and cared for A man who is obsessed with preserving himself, whatever it cost, in the lives of others. He had ten wives. Killed most of his sons because they were a threat. In contrast, Jesus Jesus sacrificed himself in order to protect you and me. Remember again and again in his trial Jesus could have freed himself, but he was determined to save you. And so he continued, the only way he could do it was by sacrificing himself in your place. What a heart. How utterly different from Herod's heart, from your heart, and from mine Pilate even went to the extreme of killing children in order to protect himself. So you read in verse 16. When Herod realized he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was furious and he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem in its vicinity who were two years old and under, in accordance with the time that he had learned from the Magi. Jesus was probably under one year old, but he wanted to just make Make sure. So a few other kids, that's okay. Get rid of anybody who could possibly be a threat. Kill the innocent children. No regard for the weak. That's the next blank. For Jesus gave special attention to children and any who were weak. Just this week I got a letter from the Family Research Council, and it reminded me of how contemporary this matter is You know, we think that uh a man who would go and in cold blood send soldiers to slaughter baby boys two years old and old and younger and You think, uh, and I you know, critics actually read that and they say it couldn't be historical. Um And then you get a letter like Family Research Council talks about our partial birth abortion law, a law that was signed, bill signed into law a couple of years ago. forbids the uh action of partial birth abortions. American Civil Liberties Union has uh challenged that law in court Three federal judges to date have sided with the American Civil Liberties Union and ruled that law to be unconstitutional. Interesting thing is that one of those judges, uh Judge Richard Casey, I believe it's Richard, um, had said, let me make sure here, yes, Richard Casey from New York. ruled against Congress and the President. So he's no friend of um the partial birth abortion law. He ruled against it. But this is what he said in his ruling. The DNX procedure used in partial birth abortions may subject the unborn child beyond 20 weeks gestational age to prolonged and excruciating pain. A lot of testimony was given, and here is what Judge Casey's summary of that. Again, not a person who thought the partial birth abortion law forbidding it was a good thing. And yet this is what he said in his testimony. The court finds that the testimony establishes that the DNX uh procedure is a gruesome Brutal, barbaric, uncivilized medical procedure. Dr. NN's testimony, which went unrebutted by the plaintiffs, is credible evidence that the DNX abortions subject fetuses to severe pain. Plaintiff's expert testified that fetal pain does not concern them, and that some do not convey to their patients that their fetuses may undergo severe pain. So he's saying the doctors performing this who testified said, well, it may be severe pain. We're not going to contest it, but it that really doesn't matter. Is that the heart of a herod or isn't it? And that's today, among educated, sophisticated people. What's a few babies sacrificed? On the altar of our desires to shape the world into our own determination to have things as we want Thank God there's forgiveness. But you see, before you and I are too harsh and say, yeah, those people, I can't believe they do that. The real point here, by the way, there is a law, there is a bill that's been set forth in Congress called the partial, it's called the Unborn Child Pain Awareness Act in order to end that kind of insensitivity. My point's not to promote the bill. If you're interested in it, I can show it to you afterwards My point is simply this. The heart of a Herod, the heart that you and I have, is a heart that minimizes other people's pain to get what we want. Our hearts focus on this is what I want. And what you suffer as a result doesn't matter very much to me. So if I'm inconvenienced, I think a lot of that And I dwell on my feelings. If you're inconvenienced, well, that's really not a big deal. You see, we tend to always maximize Any pain that we feel and minimize the pain of others, particularly when it's in conflict with our own desires. Jesus, on the other hand, paid special attention to children and any who were weak. Do you remember the time when the disciples tried to brush the kids away and said, don't bother the master? And he said, don't do that. Let the kids come and play. And he sat them on his knee and he talked to them and played with them. Matthew 21 tells about a time when the kids were shouting in the temple area and Jesus was enjoying their shouting while the rabbis were grumbling Jesus paid particular attention to the weak, even a Syrophoenician woman who had no status, who had the status of a Mexican cleaning lady in his society. Jesus paid attention, went out of his way to care for the weak. His heart is tender. It's that tenderness that you and I depend on so often, isn't it? He cares for me in my weakness. He cares for me when no one else seems to care. Jesus pays attention to us in our needs. Herod was still cursing and killing even in his death. Josephus describes his lingering illness. that included ulcerated enterils, putrefied and maggoty scrotum, foul breath and constant convulsions Almost seems like one time when justice was administered in this life, not just after. What torment? And this went on for days and weeks. Constant convulsions, torment, pain. One of his sons that he hadn't killed was Antipas. Sometime before that, Antipas had complained to somebody that Herod was taking too long to die, and that he'd be an old man before he got on the throne if Herod kept hanging on. So he arranged to have Herod poisoned his father. Unfortunately, and uh Antipas was promptly thrown into prison Well, Herod was in such torment toward the end of his death, toward the end of his life, that on one occasion he was pairing an apple and he tried to take the pairing knife and kill himself with it just to end his misery. And the servants uh delivered him from doing that. He took the knife away from him, so he continued to live And uh during all the screaming and the hubbub, Antipas heard it, and so he immediately tried to bribe his jailer with huge sums of money to let And um didn't work. When Herod found out about it, he immediately had one of his few remaining sons summarily executed. Just five days Before Herod himself died. In fact, just uh close to his death, uh Herod realized a morning when he was dead And uh he sort of resented that, and so he decided that if people weren't going to mourn for his death, at least they would mourn at his death, and so he called all the Jewish principal leaders to Jerusalem. And when they came he had them all arrested, locked, put in chains, and put into the Jericho Hippodrome, with the orders that upon his death they would all be executed, slaughtered in cold blood, so that at least if people didn't mourn for his death, they would mourn at his death. Fortunately was one order that Herod couldn't enforce. And so at his death, mercifully all the leaders were released. So designed to be a very good idea. Okay, contrast Jesus. Jesus at the end of his death blesses his executioners. Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. That's praying for their salvation. You recall his attempts to reach the heart of Pilate. The Bible says in Ephesians 2, you and I were his enemies. You see, much more explicitly than those rivals of Herod to his throne. You and I try every day to unseat God from his throne. Jesus. We want to rule. We want him to serve us. And the Bible says we're his enemies. And yet it says, while we were enemies, Christ died for us, died for you and for me in our enmity. So that you and I would be delivered, freed from our sin and the curse that was upon us. So Ephesians says, God who is rich in mercy, not only freed you, but it says he lifted you up and raised you with him, with Christ in the heavenlies. And it's all by mercy. And you see someone who's lived their whole life and ignoring Jesus and having nothing to do with them, no interest. And then at the end, when they're deathbed, they come and they trust Jesus. And you and I have some trouble with that. And they say, well you know w All these years I've paid for following Jesus, and this person's going to get heaven, who at the last gasp practically just says, Yes, Lord, I want you. We're like those 12-hour workers, aren't we, in the vineyard that resent the person hired at the last hour who gets the same grace and mercy. And we forget that it's all by grace and mercy from the heart of Jesus. Who gives himself for the weak, for you and for me. Trust his heart. Trust him. And then Herod, of course, at the very end of his life is condemned. He dies in agony. There's no mourning for him. And then he comes to judgment. Can you imagine seeing Herod stand before God's judgment throne, pleading his case? Well, yes, but Yes, but what plea would he have? Dostoevsky In his great book, Brothers Karamasov, talks about that last day when everything will be set right And all the resentments and all the questionings and the whys will be in one precious moment eliminated, and there will be profound satisfaction. All has been set right. For King Jesus will no longer be a refugee, but he'll be upon the throne. And he will rule and reign for Jesus Who died on a cross, the worst death that the Romans could think of, both in terms of shame as well as torture. Was mourned, so that his disciples wept their eyes out and had no tears left. And then the third day he rose again. And Jesus, instead of being condemned, And humiliated is then exalted. Exalted to the highest place. He becomes Herod's judge. He's the ruler. He's the one who sets everything right and sets it all straight. And he calls you and me to reign with him in glory. That's the heart of our Jesus. Trust him. And finally see that Herod's offspring followed in his steps. He had a son, Archelaus. And Archelias was made king over Judea. And you read in Matthew chapter 2, verse 21. That when Jesus got, I mean when Joseph got up, he took the child and his mother, and they went to the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. And that's why Jesus grew up in Nazareth. He went back to the hometown that Luke tells us is where they had grown up. Archelias' father was Herod. Before Herod had died, when he was still in health, one of his great building projects was the Temple in Jerusalem. But in one insane gesture of his own vainglory, he decided to place a large eagle over the gate to the temple. Now that was a double offense to the Jews because the eagle was associated, as you know, with the Roman army, was their ensign. The eagle was also the symbol of Zeus or Jupiter, the Roman god. And so to the Jews, this was an abomination. There were two very popular Jewish teachers at that time in Jerusalem, and they taught against this, and they encouraged their disciples, their students, To go tear down the Roman eagle. So one day they climbed to the top of the gate and they started tearing down the eagle, and the Roman army, of course, immediately discovered and arrested them, took them off They let the students off fairly lightly, but they executed the Jewish teachers who had instigated it. Herod dies. The next Passover, Archelaus is ruling. At that Passover, the Jews stage a great protest, a rebellion. Because of the death of these two honored Jewish leaders. Archelaus wants to demonstrate that he's as tough as his father Herod and cuts down 3,000 pilgrims in cold blood. Archelias was so vile that the Romans themselves deposed him in 6 A. D. and placed governors over Judea in their place. Twenty years later, Pontius Pilate. Jesus In stark contrast, his offspring, spiritual offspring, are people whose hearts have been changed. Hearts of Herods who have been transformed to become servants People like you and me, who think the world revolves around ourselves, who when we meet Jesus are delighted to see the world revolve around him. And so years after the New Testament, when the plagues hit Rome, and Roman citizens fled the cities for safety. It was the Christians who stayed in the cities to minister to the plague victims because their hearts had been changed like the hearts of a Jesus. You see, the world really doesn't care a whole lot what you and I believe until it sees how we live. And if we can live with the heart of a Jesus rather than a Herod, in a day when everyone clamors for their rights like Herod Then the world is intrigued by what it is that you and I believe. So the questions are quite simple. Herod served himself. Who do you serve? Do you serve yourself or do you serve the true King? Her is going to stand before Jesus on his own record. Whose record are you going to plead? Your record, how you've tried, your sincerity, or the record of Jesus that he offers to you today. You see, the gospel is always counterintuitive. Matthew points this out. Here's a king that comes from Nazareth. Here's strength out of weakness. Here's victory out of defeat. Here's life out of death. You see how unique Jesus is. Everything he does is unique and counterintuitive And so when your family and when your friends in Howard County and our community see how you and I act under stress and mistreatment They look to see if we respond with the heart of a heron, or whether we respond somehow different. That intrigues them. And we delight to intrigue the world with a transformed heart, don't we? My wife kind of enjoys trigging people with counterintuitive statements at work. A couple of weeks ago, The day after the ordination of Tim and Peter, she went into work and she mentioned to one of her co-workers, you know what I did last night? And he said, I don't know. What was your thing? And this guy's a pretty pagan guy. And he said, I don't know. What was your thing? She said, I went to an ordination service. That really excited him. And he said, Oh really? And she said, Yeah. She says, I learned there you know what the job of a pastor is? And he said, um, I don't know, um doing a soft shoe, singing swanee. She said, close, but no cigar. The job of a pastor is to work for the joy of his people with the delight of the gospel. And she wasn't sure how he was responding to that. A little bit later a pastor from the area came in and she said to the pastor, You know, I was doing ordination service last night. Found out the job of a pastor is to delay this work to delay this people with the joy of the gospel. He didn't respond. As he shuffled on out the door, the first co-worker came back and he said, you know what? I don't think that guy's into the joy of the gospel And it gave her a chance to pursue it. You see, God is intending to use you and me to display Jesus with counterintuitive living and counterintuitive statements. The purpose, the last thing there is his purpose is to magnify Jesus. And as John Piper says, there's two ways you can magnify. Magnify you can do with a microscope. That's to make something very tiny look large. But that's not how we magnify Jesus. We magnify Jesus as a telescope, which is to make something very large appear more like it really is. Have you ever thought of your life in terms of your one single central purpose is to magnify Jesus? Let me challenge you this week to think, whenever the thought comes to mind, what the next thing I say, the next thing I do Whether it is expected or counterintuitive, my desire is to magnify Jesus. I want to display him. I want to show his heart. So radically different from the hearts of this world and all its rulers, I wanted to slay Jesus. Come to him this morning and let your purpose be reoriented around him. Let's pray. And so our God, we we confess to you that left to ourselves We have the heart of a herod, self-absorbed, minimizing others' concerns and maximizing our own, focused on ourselves, dwelling on ourselves. Lord Jesus, how we thank you. You are not like that. Your heart is so different. You are a king with infinite power who use that power to sacrifice yourself for us. That you who rule and reign supreme might lift us up to join with you. Lord, we we desire to magnify you. We want to display you. And we pray, Lord, that you will reorient our purpose. That you will remind us several times each day this week, how can I magnify Jesus at this point? What can I do? Maybe it's something counterintuitive, because it's not the way I would naturally act. But Holy Spirit, come, give me the heart of Jesus. Because when I display Jesus, Jesus is magnified. And Lord, when I do it, I know it's not the way I am. So Lord, we pray that you will come and change us and show yourself through us, that you would be glorified. Amen.