Uh let me mention that when I um decided to finish Matthew in April, uh I was faced with some difficulty in deciding what passages I would include and preach on and what ones I would omit. Chapter 16 was easy. That's so critical. It's a turning point. Chapter 18 as easy. I preached on the parable of the unmerciful servant back when I covered the Lord's Prayer. So then when I was looking at chapters 19 to 23, which was what I need to cover before we begin the month of missions. I had to decide what am I going to preach on in two Sundays on that whole rich section. And I decided that rather than try to do a superficial overview of it, I would concentrate on one section that sort of hung together and seemed particularly significant. And I think there is a section like that. It's chapter nineteen, verse sixteen through all of chapter twenty. So that's what we're going to be looking at today and next Sunday. And that's because that One section deals with two things that we need to know as Christians almost more than anything else. The first thing is a proper understanding of grace, and the second is a proper understanding of humility. So those two things I want to cover. And this morning, what I want to focus on is the parable that Jesus gives in chapter 20, verses 1 to 16, that you heard Tim read. It's an interesting, rather difficult parable, and I believe the only way to understand it is as you find sometimes in Scripture It is linked to what goes before or after. If you'll notice as Tim read the parable, It is included in a frame. That is, the verse right before it and the verse right after it are almost identical. That's a clue to the fact that that must be key in understanding the meaning of the parable. And without those verses, I don't think you'll get it. So once again, those two critical verses are Jesus says, many who are first will be last, and many who are last will be first. And then chapter 20, verse 16, so the last will be first, and the first will be last. Somebody says the same thing in a reverse order. I think the point of that is simply that judgment day is going to be full of surprises. We are going to be amazed at what we see happen. when all are standing before the face of God. People who think they are going to be first are going to be last. And others who think that they're going to be last are going to be first or very high up in the display of God's grace and of his goodness. Some of us are very good at deferred delayed gratification. You know, that's how you exist in this society, right? You know, you learn that rather than just going out with your buddies and hacking off you have to prepare for that exam, you have to prepare that paper, it's due, the time's coming. So you delay your gratification, get to work and If you did it and you're probably glad you did it and that reinforces you to keep working and finally, you know, you delay all this gratification. You get a degree, and you're glad you got that degree because you delay some more gratification. You get the job. that was at least was within the circle of something you hoped for. And you continue to delay your gratification, maybe get more education, work hard, and you get a promotion And you continue to delay gratification until finally you're saying, What in the world am I living for? I just keep delaying gratification, but I'm preparing for retirement. And then I'm going to really enjoy myself. You keep delaying and delaying. And when you get to the end, you feel like life owes me. You know, I I've worked hard Now what this parable does is it turns that whole kind of thinking on its head. And it says that you and I take that mentality in relating to God. And that that is totally false, misleading, and disastrous. So it it challenges the way we think about grace and the way we think about God. Now, you're curious about what it says? I hope so. So let's look at the parable. In order to understand the parable, I want to deal with it in terms of three P's because the parable is really a response to what goes before it. So the first thing you have to see is what I call the prompt. What prompted Jesus to give this parable? Then, secondly, I want to look at the parable itself, and then thirdly, I want to look at the point of the parable. What is the point that it's making that we so tend to miss? Alright, those are the three things. So the first thing is the prompt. You have to back all the way up to chapter 19, verse 16. Where you have the story of the rich young man. Now Matthew and Mark call him the rich young man. Luke calls him a rich young ruler. So he was rich and he had some influence and some authority. You remember this fella comes to Jesus, says, what do I have to do to get eternal life? And he's got a pretty good record. Jesus says to him after discussing why do you call me good, trying to help him to see the implications. of what real goodness is. And he says, um, so keep the law. And the fellow says, I I've done that since my youth. You know, I I know how to delay gratification, I know how to discipline myself, I have kept the law. I just want to know, is there something I need to do to kind of lock in heaven And Jesus says, well, as a matter of fact, aiming right at his heart, he says, what you need to do is sell all these things that you have, give them to the poor, and follow me. He's trying to get to his heart. to reveal that this man really is building a record without examining his heart, which is a heart of greed and possessions. As a result, the man is really disappointed in Jesus because he expected that he was going to get some kudos. He thought that Jesus was going to be rather impressed with all that he's done. And Jesus is not impressed. In fact, he tells him to do the impossible, so he sort of slouches away disappointed. He thought God owed him, and he was disappointed. Now, scene two, Peter, as usual, opens his mouth. Peter, who, with the rest of them, didn't understand what yeast of the Pharisees was. Peter, who did give by God the ins was given the insight to understand Jesus was the Messiah, Son of the living God, but then immediately rebuke Jesus for thinking he needed to go to the cross. Well Peter speaks up again. And what he says, why we love Peter is because we so out identify with him, right? So Peter says, well now we've left everything, so what do we get? You know, we've done what you told that rich guy to do. What's in it for us? What's amazing is Jesus gives to a two-fold response that's brilliant. On the one hand, Jesus says, you see this uh notice in verses 27 to 29 Jesus says to him, the first thing is, Peter, you are not going to be disappointed. In that day, in the renewal of all things, when the kingdom is fully present, you're going to be judging on thrones And you are going to get a hundred times anything that you sacrificed or gave up for me in this life. Both in this life, and you will get eternal life. You are not going to be disappointed, Peter. And I can imagine him smiling, saying that to Peter to comfort and assure him. But then he adds a second response. And the second response basically says that Peter, that is not the way to think about your relationship with God. You have the whole thing wrong when you ask, this is what I've done for you, what do I get? So that's where he gives that verse thirty, where he says, whoever many that are going to be first, therefore Say it again. Many who are first will be last, and many who are last will be first. Then he tells the parable, and you see that the parable is an explanation of that because chapter 20, verse 1 begins with the word for. The kingdom of heaven. So this is connected. This is explaining that principle. So now let's look at the parable. The parable is an interesting, rather strange story. And you look at it, it's fairly simple to understand. It's a fella who owns a number of vineyards. And he needs people to be day laborers to take care of those vineyards. Now back in those days, the typical working day was 6 a. m. to 6 p. m. The typical pay was a denarius. That was a a standard day laborer wage. It's what you were paid and it was what you needed to support your family. So he goes out at the beginning of the day, about 6 o'clock in the morning, and he hires some people, and they agree to work the standard day for the standard wage, 12 hours for a denarius. But then the story goes on and he goes out at 9 o'clock and he hires some more people and he says, work for me, I'll pay you whatever is right goes out at twelve, goes out at three, and then he goes out at five p. m. just an hour before quitting time and hires some more people and says um what are you doing standing around here? Well nobody hired us. Well then go to my vineyard and um work for me for an hour. Six o'clock, it's quitting time. Everybody comes. Everybody was paid at that time every day, so they come. Tells the steward, okay, pay them. Start with the last ones first, the ones that work for one hour. So the steward gives each of them a denarius, the full day's wage. And at that point, the guys that were out there since 6 a. are starting to rub their hands together saying, wow, look at this. Those guys are getting a whole Daenerys. Imagine what we're going to get Maybe we'll get twelve denarii. At least we're gonna get something more, because he's obviously inflated the wage. 3 o'clock, 12 o'clock, 9 o'clock, all get a denarius. Fellows at work from 6 o'clock get one denarius. Now what they would have been happy to get Fifteen minutes before, now really irritates them. They are disgruntled and they complain. Why are we getting only a denarius when these guys that worked only one hour got a denarius? The master's response to them speaks, defends himself, and responds on three counts. That's important to see in verses 13 to 15 The first thing he says is, I paid you exactly what we agreed. On your wage being. So that's fair. Therefore you shouldn't be complaining. Verse 13. He answered to them one of them. Singles this fellow out. He says, friend, I am not being unfair to you. Didn't you agree to work for a denarius? Take your pay and go Just fair can't complain. The second thing that he says is, don't I have the right to do what I want with my own money as long as I am more than fair. Can't complain about that, can you? So verse 14, I want to give the man who has hired the last the same as I gave you. Don't I have the right to do what I want with my own money? It's mine. I can decide. Didn't cheat you. The third thing that he says is, you're simply envious because I am more generous with somebody else. That's your problem. Verse 15, are you envious because I am generous? You see, you kids. Mom's got the favorite pie or cake that you like for dessert. And you look at your plate and you have twice as much as your brother or sister. Is that fair? No problem, right? Ah boy, hey, like this is a great day, you know? I got twice as much of what I want. No problem But let your brother or sister get twice as much as you, and immediately there are howls of protest. That's not fair. The only time we complain about a discrepancy is if we're on the short end of it. Even if what we got was exactly what we expected and what was just. So Jesus is saying, your only problem was that I didn't give you more than them. Now, what is the point of all this? See, that's the difficulty saying, all right, I understand that, but what's the point? What's Jesus saying in this? The point is simply this you never deserve grace. You never deserve grace. Grace is not owed to you. By definition, if it's grace, it's undeserved. But God's grace is so radical, our minds can't wrap themselves around pure grace. So we're always mixing it up. We don't have a problem with saying, I was saved by grace. I had nothing to offer to God When I became a Christian and Christ plucked me out of my world of woe and sin and shame, and I have been given eternal life, praise God. But what happens is, once we become Christians, we begin to build a new record. So we begin to apply that principle of delayed gratification And we are faithful and we work hard. And what we say is, Lord, I've worked hard for you. I deserve some grace. You never deserve grace. Grace should always be amazing. I have not earned this. God, you don't owe me. We are always trying to live in a way that God owes us, don't we, as Christians. So what is the problem? The problem is that when you and I read that parable, who do you identify with? Well, of course, you identify with the 12-hour workers, right? You say, hey, excuse me, but I do think those guys have a point. It didn't seem fair that they worked the whole day, and these guys that only worked an hour, and they were barely getting started, that they got the same thing. And Jesus' point is you're identifying with the wrong people. The point of the parable is you are all one-hour workers. You and I are are the one our workers receiving what we didn't deserve. You see, because we identify with the 12-hour workers, that reveals that our hearts are operating out of law. We think it's not just Jesus says, if you are my disciple, you have cast away that basis of operating with God. You operate on the basis of grace. Therefore, when you hear this story, your heart should immediately go to, Yeah, Lord, that's me. I am that one-hour worker. I thank you. I am amazed. I am astounded. that you have been so generous to me who did not deserve the least of that. So because we Identify with the 12-hour workers rather than the one-hour workers, we miss the point of the gospel, which is only Jesus is the 12-hour worker. Amen. Only Jesus worked the entire day and did all that was required. Only Jesus bore the heat of the day, the affliction. Only Jesus completely fulfilled God's requirements. And we have been paid what He earned. That's the point of the one-hour workers. You and I stand there after just getting started. We don't even know what this whole thing's about, and God gives to us his pay And you stand dumbfounded. Why am I being given what Jesus deserved? That's the gospel. He died for you. You see, the the landowner did not hire those one-hour workers at 5 p. m. for what he could get out of them. Because he wasn't getting much of anything out of them. They were just getting their tools together and saying, Where in the vineyard do we where should we be? What do we do get out? Oh, squitting time He didn't hire them for what he could get out of them. He hired them for what they needed. They needed a denarius to live. So out of his generosity and grace, he gave them what they needed. God has come in the gospel to give you and me as sinners what we need, not what we deserve. That's what the parable's about. Jesus is saying you can't mix law and grace. And you see that when you and I grumble When you grumble, when you say, I have worked hard and I got this diagnosis of cancer. Or my spouse has left me, or my kids are not turning out the way I thought they would and should. God What happened? What are you saying? I deserve better than I'm getting. God, you owe me. I'm not living by Greece. I've built a record that I expect you to pay on, God. Grumbling is always saying I deserve better than I get. That's just the essence of it. See, that was the point of the Thanksgiving message with the pilgrims. In all their suffering, they still understood we are getting better from God than we deserve. And can be content. So when you think God owes you, you will be discontented Another way that it manifests itself is if you see somebody else appearing to get a little more of God's love than you. Lord, um I wish I had a wife like that. I wish I had a husband that cared for his wife and family like he does. Why did you give me my spouse? Why did you give me my kids? Why did you give me my parents? And I struggle. with the deficit of that my whole life. Why have you given us the limitations on education and income in a community that seems like they're all overachievers. Why have you placed me here? Why with this body? Why with these health problems? Why with the things that I struggle with? Why do those people have it better? You know, Jesus addresses that exactly in Luke 24. He talks there about the days of Elisha. And he said, you know, back in the days of Elisha, there were a lot of widows in Israel But Elisha didn't go to any of the widows in Israel. He went to a widow in Phoenicia, a Canaanite woman, a Phoenician, a Gentile. And there were a lot of lepers in Israel in those days. But who does Elisha go to? He goes to and heals Assyrian general, Naaman. Why in the world would God be gracious to him for crying out loud? You see, God owes us. And Jesus is saying, if you understand grace, you never say, God, you owe me. You always recognize the grace is completely undeserved, that you are getting far more, far better than you deserve. And that's why that frame, you see, the first shall be last, and the last shall be first. Things are going to be reversed. Before I explain that a little bit more, let me say one other thing. This really speaks to one of the most difficult questions that Christians come up against in the matter of uh sharing their faith in evangelism. You talk to somebody And you're beginning to really get into the gospel, and what's the question that comes up? Yeah, well what about the heathen that haven't heard? You're telling me that if unless a person hears the gospel about Jesus and they accept Jesus, that they're going to go to hell, well That seems so unfair because all these people that never heard that, you're telling me they don't have a chance. God's not just But see, this parable speaks exactly to that. Saying, oh no, no, no, no. God will be perfectly just to them. None of them, nobody standing before God's throne at the end will say, You were not just. We will all be amazed at the precision of his justice. The real question about the gospel Is not how can God be loving and condemn anybody The real question is how can God be just and save anybody? That's the question that the Bible struggles with. You see, the question, how can God be loving and condemn anybody? presumes once again, God owes people grace. He owes them the opportunity. And what is hard, really hard for some of us in our works focus, in our difficulty in understanding sovereign grace, is to be able to say God didn't. Owe salvation to anyone. Are you envious because I am generous to some? So the next time somebody throws that at you, it's a tremendous opportunity To talk about what the gospel is really about, what real justice is. God will be just. But grace is always amazing and undeserved. So, what does he mean? The first will be last, and the last will be first. I think what that's saying is simply that in that day when we were all standing before God, That judgment day full of surprises. There will be people that come at the end of that time, the end of their life, and they will say, I didn't need Jesus Christ. He was a peripheral concern to me, even though I went to church, even though I heard about him, because my life is good enough. Thank you very much. In fact, I think I'm better than a lot of other people. I'm going to be in the upper percentiles. And Jesus is saying: if that's your frame of mind. And that God owes you something, you're going to be last. I don't think last means in that you're going to be disappointed with what God will do. Last, I believe, is cast out from his presence. Last is what we saw in Matthew 7. Jesus says, depart from me, I never knew you. You will be last cast out because you are operating on the basis of law and you got perfect justice But your life and my life before God to get justice, we recognize, is the last thing we want. However, the person that comes before the throne of God saying, I have nothing to offer. I mean the very fact that I am standing here, the very fact that He is not casting me out from His presence is infinitely more than I deserve. He says, if you come with that attitude, you are in for some big surprises. Because you will taste God's generosity and his favor and his mercy beyond anything you ever imagined. The last are going to be first. So you tie it back to what Jesus said to Peter. Peter, you are not going to be disappointed. Peter, in that day of the renewal of all things, you are going to come before God, and you're going to find yourself on the throne, and you're going to find that everything you gave up and seemed like a sacrifice, and during your life. Following him, you put it aside because it was inconsistent with your following Jesus Christ. You denied yourself, you took up your cross, and you followed me And you're going to find that my reward to you was a hundredfold. Now, ING, I understand, currently is giving two percent. And they say, you're lucky to get that, so don't complain. If you can get 5%, grab it, particularly if it's guaranteed In fact, tell me where you got it. If you get 10%, you're probably incurring some risk, and if you got 10%, you'd be very happy. But imagine if you could get 100%. 100% even uncompounded would mean you double what you have every year. And you'd say, wow, that's a bonanza. Man, look at everybody wants my portfolio. 100% return. What if you got a thousand percent? You can't imagine a thousand percent. Jesus in verse 29 says, I offer to you 10,000% on the return of your life. 10,000%. You hear about Haiti and you say, wow, that is that's really rough and we have missionaries there and they need resources. We're gonna take a hundred dollars we're gonna use for something else We want to give it for our missionaries to use to bring the gospel and mercy to those people. And what you don't see is that laid up for you in treasure in heaven is ten thousand dollars from that hundred dollars. Now that's not literally you're gonna get a ten thousand dollar check when you get to heaven. No, but The idea of values, Jesus says. When you function, understand the gospel, understand grace. Instead of seeing what God owes you, you are going to be astounded by his generosity. You are going to be dumbfounded By the wonder of his grace to those who depend on that grace and nothing else. Therefore, brothers and sisters There is nothing that should not keep you from leaving this service with your heart light. With your heart light and singing the praise of the Savior who worked the twelve hours so that you would receive the recompense of his life and death and resurrection. And the best is yet to come. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, Lord, we we sit here and I wonder how much of this is sinking in. How much do we comprehend the way that we grumble and complain because we mix grace and law? Lord, there are some people here that aren't even mixing that. They're depending on justice. They're saying, my life is good enough, thank you very much. Show them how foolish, how foolish that is. Press upon them the grace that you offer to cover their sin. Give them new life in Christ now before it is too late. Lord, some of us are complaining because they feel that you owe us something better than we have. Better spouse, better life, better job. Better kids, better parents, better something. You don't owe us. We get infinitely better than we deserve You are gracious in ways that do not equate to our external circumstances, but to the joy that you alone can bring into our hearts. Some of us envy others. Some of us are mixing law and grace, and we pray, Holy Spirit. That you would rip from our thinking that law-based operating that robs us of joy That you would show us what Jesus is saying here, that we are all one-hour workers who will receive infinitely beyond what we ever worked for or deserved because of Christ. And give, we pray, light hearts to go this week to love you and to serve you freely. In Jesus' name. Amen.