Well, last week we uh looked at Matthew two, the same passage, and we asked the question Who were these magi, these wise men that we hear about at Christmas time? And all we know from the passage is that they were rich. They were influential, they had access to Herod, they were Gentile astrologers, stargazers from the East, and they had a keen interest in the Jewish hope of Messiah. Most commentators will look at this and speculate and say, we're not really sure who they are, but probably from the east somewhere. Okay, that's sort of what it says. I tried to make a case that we probably have a lot more not absolute certainty, but pretty good idea. From Daniel chapter 1 and 2, showing that these were likely the descendants of the Babylonian magi that Daniel worked with and presided over That he uh had probably shared the hope of Messiah with these fellows, and that um even though we don't know What their response was, there's no indication that they believed, no indication that there was a change in Babylonian Magi policy or anything that Here over 500 years later, that witness finally bore fruit in these Magi still looking for the fulfillment of that hope, that that witness had not been forgotten. So I hope that's an encouragement to you as it is to me that in our feeble attempts to witness We say something and somebody may seem like they don't really care all that much. Doesn't seem like the word's taking any real root that Eventually, in God's time, it may bear that fruit. Hopefully you don't have to wait 530 years to see that happen, but remember Daniel and be encouraged But there was a second question that I said we could also ask of this passage, another mystery that is here, and that is this question of the star. What was this star that the Magi saw? Was it a real star? Was it some conjunction of planets? Or you know, was it a myth? Something that Matthew made up? You know, when you see that star in Christmas cards and Christmas art, you ever wonder? What was that star? uh been a lot of speculation and it's not like it's a minor thing in the story. It's pretty prominent actually. It appears four times. You look there, you see uh on the screen there. Um In verse 2, we saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. Verse 7, Herod called the Magi secretly, found out from them the exact time that the star had appeared Verse nine, after they heard the king, they went on their way. The star that they had seen in the east went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they were overjoyed. Now, we had four clues with the magi. We only get two clues with the star, and the clues are themselves a little mysterious. First when you see in verse two, we saw his his star in the east. What does that mean? The the word there, the phrase in the east, um, the literally the Greek is in its rising. And um because the sun rises in the east, the idea of east and rising. were associated, but it actually is a slightly different phrase from verse 1 from the East. We saw a star in the East. Uh it's literally in its rising, and um I think that probably refers to the fact that they saw it low on the horizon As they were in the east looking west, they saw this star low on the horizon. Um Since the New Testament, there have been many astronomers who have speculated on what that star actually was The famous astronomer Johannes Kepler, who died back in 1630, thought that possibly it was a conjunction of the two planets Jupiter and Saturn. some evidence that they were associated with the Jewish hope of Messiah. And in seven BC they well sorta came together. Unfortunately they didn't quite close as they got Um I I wasn't there, I'm just reading this. Was that the was probably the diameter of the moon apart. And seven BC is too early anyway. Jesus was very likely born in five BC. And if you wonder why Jesus was born in five BC, ask me about that later. But um that's probably when he was born, and so that one doesn't make it in fact Kepler wasn't even persuaded by his own theory and he later on said, I think probably it was a supernova that kind of appeared and but there's no evidence that there was a supernova then. So He wasn't being real helpful. Actually, there was a couple of books that were published on this recently. One by Michael Mulner back in 1999 called The Star of Bethlehem, The Legacy of the Magi. And uh Moeller postulated that that it was actually an eclipse of the star of the planet Jupiter as it was passing through the constellation Ares. Jupiter is a sign of a king. Ares was a Jewish associated constellation and um on the 17th of April in 6 BC that happened and was pretty unnoteworthy, so he thinks In fact, they even apparently minted a coin after that that shows a Rand sign of Ares looking back at a star, so he thinks, you know, there it is, that was the star. There's still 6 BC, when 5 BC. Then Mark Kidger comes along, same year in 1999, he writes his book, The Star of Bethlehem, an Astronomer's View. And he combines Kepler's first and second views, it was a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn during a supernova. A brilliant uh star coming appearing um during a const in in the constellation of PCs, which is uh sometimes associated connected with the Hebrews. And he actually found some evidence that there was such an unusually bright uh star that appeared for about seventy days in five BC. Haha Hot on the trail. But it seems that every astronomical theory, whenever I read these things, I always have to kind of smile because it seems to me they fatally stumble on verse 9 And I don't know if you've ever pictured this, but you know, verse 9 says, when they heard the king, they went on their way, and the star that they had seen in the east went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was How does a star do that? You know, if you uh you know I don't know either, um, but if you look at the sun, for instance, Which is ninety-three million miles away. If you just had that, let's say the sun got to be forty-two million miles away, it would incinerate the earth like that So this star, I mean it it not only points out that it's in Bethlehem, you know, like it's Columbia versus Helicate City, but you know, it's it zeros down on the particular cul-de-sac And then it goes right down to the particular house. And it, you know, it's it's standing over this house, apparently shedding some light to point it out. How does a star do that Well, it's fascinating to me that I've never read in any of these speculations, articles, books, whatever, anybody deal with how that would happen. It seems to me it's pretty obvious it can't happen. So what I propose to uh offer to you is a solution for what Matthew is intending. I've never seen in a commentary Uh I've um I've only I originally came across it in a little book published by a guy who had absolutely no credentials. Had some credentials, but not You know, it wasn't r a weighty tome. It was published back in nineteen seventy-two. The author was Dwayne Spencer, and he said that he thought that this was The Shekinah glory, the pillar cloud of fire of God's presence. Now, uh, as I began to look at that, I thought, well, there's some problems, but uh As I've thought about it over the years, I find fewer and fewer problems, and I was interested to note that in recent years, that in their books on uh Christmas Both John MacArthur and James Boyce think that that's the right answer. They don't give any credit to Spencer, and nobody gives any credit to Spencer. Nobody ever heard of who Spencer was. I don't know where this thing originally came from But I think it's right. And I want to show you why I think it's right and why it fits exactly what Matthew is trying to say in his gospel. So I'm suggesting point two that it's the pillar cloud of fire. Those are the blanks, the pillar cloud of fire that we see in the Old Testament. For instance, in Exodus chapter 40 In verses 34 to 38, you have that explained. You see it up there now. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting. That's the tabernacle. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Moses couldn't enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled upon it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle In all the travels of the Israelites, whatever the cloud lifted from above the tabernacle, they would set out. But if the cloud did not lift, they did not set out until the day it lifted. So the cloud of the Lord was over the tabernacle by day, and fire was in the cloud by night in the sight of all the house of Israel during all their travels. So that this phenomena of this glory cloud of God's presence leading was a a cloud in the day, but at night it glowed. It was a fire. And this thing had three functions. First of all, next blank, it leads. Its function was to lead Israel You see there in verse thirty six and thirty seven, travels of the Israelites, whenever the cloud lifted from above the tabernacle, they'd set out. They'd follow it. But if the cloud didn't lift, then they would not set out until the day it lifted. You can see other scriptures there. Sometimes it would stay in the tabernacle for a day and then it'd go move on, sometimes for months. Whatever it was, that's what they followed. It led them along. Now in Exodus thirteen, verse twenty-one You have an interesting uh statement that helps you even to see more clearly uh what this thing looked like. By day The Lord went ahead of them in a pillar of cloud to guide them on their way, and by night in a pillar of fire. So that's that same cloud. You see there it's described as a pillar of fire So here's this glowing pillar of fire to give them light. It wasn't just like, you know, faint glow. It actually gave Israel, and this is well over two million people It gave them all light so that they could travel either by day or by night. So it was their own private light source, you know, bigger than a stadium, uh, just that would carry them along so that they would be able to see by night There's some other scriptures there for you to check out if you want to see other references to its leading function. But secondly, not only did it lead, but as you as I was just saying, it gave them light. It gives light. See that in verse 38. The cloud was over the tabernacle by day, and the fire was in the cloud by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel. They could travel by day, they could travel by night. That's the idea of it. Now, this idea of of giving light fits what Scripture says about God. Um the Lord speaks about the promise of Messiah as the one who will bring light to the Gentiles. And so it seems particularly appropriate that God would announce uh shortly after the birth of his son, uh to demonstrate that by a light to the Gentiles, quite literally a light to the Gentiles. uh and bring them as the first fruits to worship. It's almost as if God is saying, I can't wait for my son to grow up to give light to the Gentiles. I want to get on with it. I want to bring them immediately to come to see him. And he brings this light so that they will come. But most important of all, the function of this pillar cloud of fire was that it denoted the presence of the living God. It denoted his very presence. You see again in Exodus 40 that God says that it was the cloud that was the cloud of the glory of the Lord that filled the tabernacle. Moses couldn't even enter Because this was the presence of God. The glory of the Lord was filling the tabernacle. Now, um Just in case you're not yet persuaded, let me give you the final most persuasive bit of evidence that I think demonstrates that Matthew 2 is talking about this pillar cloud. If you go to Exodus 33, Moses is describing there how he used to meet with the Lord. And he says there that That's describing how this happened. And in Exodus 33 and verse 9, as Moses went into the tent, this is the tent of meeting, The pillar of cloud would come down and stay at the presence at the entrance, while the Lord spoke with Moses. Whenever the people saw the pillar of cloud, this is in the evening, it's dark, so this they see this glowing pillar of cloud of fire. When the people saw this standing at the entrance to the tent, they all stood and they worshipped, each at the entrance of his tent, because God was here. He was visibly present in this manifestation of his glory. But what I want you to notice is twice, verse 9 and verse 10, you have this interesting little phrase. You would come down and stand over the entrance. Literally, it is it would stand over the entrance. Verse 10 you see there. It would come and it would stand over the entrance. Now in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, that's the same phrase you have in Matthew 2. You look down at verse 9, after they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star that they had seen in the east went ahead until it stopped over the place where the child was. It stood over, just like over the tent of meeting. Only now instead of it standing over this tabernacle where there was an ark To symbolize the presence of God. Now God in his Shekinah glory comes and he stands over the presence where God in the flesh tabernacles. He actually dwells. Isn't that amazing? I mean, you know, doesn't that kind of get shivers up in your spine? Here is God fulfilling in Matthew what he had done to Israel. Now, if that's all the case, uh why do the Magi call it a star? And why does Matthew call it a star? I mean, why don't you just call it the pillar of fire, you know? Well, it's because this is the perspective, this is the report of the Magi. And the Magi don't know anything about the Shekinah glory and the Pillar of Fire. So let me let me describe to you what I think was going on. I think that the Magi, perhaps, we don't know could have heard in their hope of Messiah a verse that would have connected with them more than any other verse. And that's Numbers 24, 17, that says, A star shall arise out of Jacob and a ruler from my people. And so, you know, being astrologers, they would say, oh, the Messiah is pictured as a star. Okay, well, heads up, you know, see anything that looks interesting, particularly in the direction of Judea. And so they see this light in its rising, verse 2. You see, low on the horizon, it's not way up. You see all these pictures way up. No, it's not up there. It's down, it's low And uh I don't think it's uh over Judea. I think it's it's just west of them, maybe a hundred miles. You know, if it's absolutely pitch dark, you could see a candle a hundred miles away. So I You know, and pitch dark, but it's pretty dark out there. And so they're looking, they're seeing this thing. Looks like a star and they follow it. They begin to follow. And and what happens was when they get to Judea, what what what's it do? Disappears, remember Now they assume that the king of the Jews is going to be born in the capital, so they go to Jerusalem and they say, you know, hey, where's the this one born the king of the Jews? Now why does Matthew do that? Because he wants to get it on the record that the Jewish leaders knew Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. So that when Jesus credentials are examined and he says, We know he's born in Bethlehem they say, What so what? No, no, no, no. You guys knew from Micah 5. 2, you had even said when Magi came and they said, Where's Messiah going to be born? Well, we know where he's going to be born. He's going to be born in Bethlehem. That's eight miles away. They don't bother to go to check it out. But these guys have come 800 miles from Babylon and they keep pressing on. See, Matthew's playing with a contrast there And he's getting it on the record. He's also showing that these magi, they come now, they're headed down toward Bethlehem. And verse 9 says the star reappears Now what's happening I believe is now they see it more closely, here's this pillar of fire, but again they don't know about pillars of fire. They don't have any categories for this. And remember back in those days people didn't know what stars were. They didn't know they were light years away. They didn't know that, you know, it's just like the sun, only they're in other parts of our galaxy. They didn't know any of that. They have all these kind of ideas of star. I mean obviously didn't have telescopes or any of that. So they see this and they think, okay, well there it is. That's there's that same heavenly luminary that basically the that's what the word means They see this thing and they follow it until it comes and it points out, stands over this one house. Now, um people after the first service were asking, well, you know, who else saw it? Well, we don't know, maybe nobody else saw it There's times when God appears uh like he did to Paul and the rest of the people just hear thunder or there's various visions and so it it's very likely, I think, that that that Shekinah glory was apparent only to the Magi. They come and they see it, stands over the house. supernatural light. And what they do is they simply report it in the categories they understood, and that's what Matthew does with us. He doesn't change it Now why is that? Well, let me get to the so what. Because I, you know, I don't know about you, but to me this is kind of breathtaking. Messiah is light. Matthew wants to demonstrate that this Messiah is the promised light coming into our darkness. Is prefigured in this Shekinah glory coming and appearing, not to the Jewish leaders But the Shekinah glory of God's presence comes and he appears to a group of Babylonian astrologers. And that's something so radical to the Jewish nation that Matthew just hints at it. He just kind of says, Well, you know, I'm going to tell you what the Magi said, puts it in their language and says, Nick, now you you put it together. What do you think that was? You see, that's such a radical thought that this was God displaying himself to those who were totally outside the covenant. outside of our categories of those who would fit as his worshipers to demonstrate that God seeks Babylonian astrologers and outsiders to religious acceptability to come to be his worshippers. That's how gracious our God is. Now remember as you read this, I'm trying to demonstrate to you that Matthew's building a case. This is not just a record of things that Jesus did. These things that we've looked at, almost everything I've told you so far from the book of Matthew is unique to Matthew. It's not in Mark, Luke, or John. Now why is that? Think about who Matthew is. Particularly think about Matthew is after last week. Matthew was what? An IRS agent. Alright? He was a tax collector. Now let me suggest to you that the vilest thought that you have had about the IRS this past week. could not begin to compare with how vile Matthew was seeing in the eyes of his fellow Jews. Because when they saw him at the mall driving his BMW 730i, that was their money. And it had not been gotten from them legally. It was extortion. Matthew was corrupt. He was a guy who would sell out to the Romans to rob his own people in order to buy his house and his cars and all the stuff that he had. He was despised. And Matthew says, I came along and one day Jesus had mercy on me. And so when Matthew writes his gospel, it is gospel saturated. Chapter 1. Let me tell you about the lineage of Jesus. And he includes four Gentile women. Then he describes Joseph and he says, now let me tell you who are the first people to come. Wasn't even shepherds. He didn't tell you about the shepherds. He said, let me tell you about some Babylonian astrologers that God appeared in the Shekinah glory to lead them to worship him, because that's the kind of God we serve. A God who is gracious beyond your and my categories to imagine. And that's why, brothers and sisters, in the capstone campaign As we think about the pledges and bring them on May the 22nd to build a new facility, that's a new base of operation, not just for ourselves. but a base of operation to reach people outside of the gospel. People who like you or me, perhaps, who did not grow up in a Christian home who have done things that you feel shame for and you feel like sometimes I wonder if I fit within this group and the gospel of Matthew comes to you and says, God calls Babylonian astrologers to worship him. He calls you and he calls me. To come as light in our darkness, wandering around in our gloom to see the light that comes to turn the lights on in your life and mine. And so it's no coincidence that when we come on May 22nd to present our pledges for that new facility, that's also going to be the inauguration of a new greeter's ministry. A new name tag system, a new way of welcoming people who come, who may be just wandering in to say, I want to know, does Christianity and this person Jesus have something to offer in my life? So that you and I break down the categories of who are the elect and who are the non-elect, you know, and people like Babylonian astrologers don't fit and they never will. But then we look and we see but our God is gracious beyond our boundaries. Just yesterday before coming to the dinner here for the Banquet for the Leadership guy came up to who I'd known for a few years and he uh was uh trying to sell me a ticket for a fundraiser, two hundred dollars a seat And um we started talking a little bit and uh I I had known he had some Christian background and started talking about what he was gonna do, which was kind of a mission-oriented thing, but without Christ in it And I just stopped and I said, what's keeping you from Jesus? And he told me. But you know, I share that because I think sometimes we're hesitant to just ask those simple kinds of questions to people who we assume are not going to have interest. It didn't bother him. He just stood there and we talked about what it was that was keeping him from Jesus. You see, we we have to be careful not to draw lines and and as if we've got some you know, um inside knowledge about who were the elect. Um we would have written off Babylonian astrologers long ago. God says, I I bring my Shekinah presence to come and draw these people to myself. Because that's what his heart's like. And so he's building this case that's going to lead up to the conclusion of Matthew 28. All authority is given to me. Go for to the nations, you see, and tell them about this Jesus. So when you and I think about our greeters' ministry, when we think about after the service, we need to Seek to engage people that are here because who knows? It could be a Babylonian astrologer that God has led and brought here to come and to seek Jesus. That's why we have the middle hour, four weeks of gospel discussions going on now. This morning Matthew, and if they felt like they dispatched Matthew enough, then move on to Mark next week. It assumes nothing if you don't know anything, if you've never read the Bible. I know of at least one or two in that group that have never read the Bible before. They just come and say, I'd like to know more about this person, Jesus. And just come. Join the group, 10 o'clock next week between the two services. Because Jesus is the light to come to meet you in your own particular darkness, your gloom Remember Zechariah described in his hymn in Luke 1 that the Messiah would be the morning star, the rising sun to come to meet us. John 1. 5, John describes Jesus as the one, the word who comes as a light shining in our darkness. John 8. 12, Jesus says, I'm the light of the world. He who walks in me will not walk in darkness. Revelation 22, 16, Jesus is described as the bright morning star who comes in our lives. What's the darkness of your life this morning? The gloom? Jesus wants to draw you. To come to see the Shekinah light of his glory, sufficient to banish the darkness and the gloom of your life. And one day, you know what? He's going to come as the lightning. It's going to appear from horizon to horizon, and nobody will miss him then. Isn't that going to be some Shekinah glory in the darkness? Jesus is going to display his light so that there will not even be a need for the sun from then on. But then finally, let me urge you to notice that leading function. The Shekinah glory leaves. That's what it did to the Magi. They had very little to go on. They just had some understanding of prophecy and this hope of Messiah. When they saw the star, they followed. They were obedient. They sought what God provided. And he gave them more light, more leading, and they were blessed. Notice that when they came to Judea, the star disappeared. They didn't give up. They didn't say, Well, well, that's the end of that. Go back home. They kept on. Pressed into Jerusalem, asked Herod, followed what they found out there and continued on down to Bethlehem. The star appeared again. And you notice the reaction? Look again at verse ten. When they saw the star, they were what? Overjoyed. They were overjoyed. Why? God, yes, there you are again. Leading us on, giving us more understanding Pointing us to this one that we're seeking. They weren't going to give up. Nothing's going to turn them back. They kept on. God leading through little signs and signals Has God been leading in your life over these last days and weeks to draw you to Jesus? Just little indications and it sort of fits and starts, follow, and then back off, and then move on a little bit and back off. See, he's drawing. He's saying, come, come. Come, I want to show you that place where Jesus is. I want you to see him. See their eagerness and see the fulfillment of all their desires. Peter, in his letter, describes prophecy as Something that comes to us from the Old Testament. And he says basically his argument in 2 Peter chapter 1 is that The Old Testament prophecies were made more sure. They were confirmed by the transfiguration that we saw Jesus when all of his glory was displayed. Then he makes this statement, very interesting, kind of a cryptic little statement, commentators puzzled over. In 2 Peter 1. 19 he says, And we had the word of the prophets made more certain, that is, it was confirmed. by the transfiguration and our seeing Jesus. And you will do well to pay attention to it. What? To this word of prophecy. Now that's Scripture. And how does he describe Scripture there? As a light shining in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. In other words, Peter is saying something like this, I think. He's saying, you're in a you're in a deep dark woods. You know, you're one of those places I used to do dark experiments, was totally, absolutely as dark as the best technology could make a place. You know, I couldn't see my finger if it was right up here. It took 40 minutes to dark adapt. You're in this absolutely dark place and you've got a flashlight and that's scripture. Now every day you you need to make decisions. Every day you got to decide. Somebody's nasty to you. Do you respond and confront them or you you should just be patient, move on Should you stay in your job? It's getting pretty discouraging. Should you look for another job? You know what? All kinds of decisions. Constantly. Just think about it. Notice in the next day how many times you say, wonder what I should do. Now you don't have absolute certainty on those things. But Peter's saying, you got this flashlight And that flashlight doesn't show you the whole area. It shows you step by step some way to move. And as you're moving, you're moving, looking step by step, but there's something else going on. You're looking up, and you see off toward this distance, this faint glimmer. And that's Venus. Venus is the morning star. When the sun's beginning to come up, it reflects off Venus, different places, different times of year. But you see that, and so he says as you're moving along, you're following this light in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star is rising in your hearts, giving you the hope Jesus is coming back. There's going to be a time when I'm not going to wonder what to do. I'm going to every inclination, every thought of my heart is going to be perfectly in line with his But right now, I'm following along in the darkness. Right now, he's examining your heart and my heart. Do you want to follow me? Are you wanting to follow me? Are you trying to follow the light that I give to you Now let me close with what Paul says in good old Ephesians. Because in the book of Ephesians, Paul describes the Christian life. in terms of light coming out of darkness. Remember he said back there in chapter 5, and in this, there are two very important principles for knowing God's will. No extra charge for this. Throw it in at the end. Chapter 5, he says, For you were once darkness, but now you're light unto the Lord. Live as children of light. For the fruit of light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth. So he's saying Okay, here you are, you were in the darkness, now you're in the light, so follow the light. Here's things you know to do. Scripture says, follow what's right. Stay away from what he's what you know is wrong. And the result of that, verse 10, you will find out what pleases the Lord. You become sensitized as you seek to follow him and obey him as he leads you along. Okay, so he goes back to have nothing to do with the deeds of darkness. The rest of that, okay, stay away from the darkness Um follow in the light, expose the darkness, wake up a sleeper, rise in the dead, Christ will shine on you. There it is, that picture again, the Shekinah glory, Christ shining on you Now, conclusion, be very careful then, how you live, not as unwise, but as wise, making the most of every opportunity, because the days are evil, therefore do not be foolish, but understand what The will of the Lord is for your life. Two principles, you see. Do what you know to do from Scripture, and you'll become sensitized to what pleases them. Make most of every opportunity. You know, I could watch another DVD, or I could go to the cell group or read scripture or read some book that's going to help me to understand God. Make choice make the most of the opportunity. And the result is that you will be gradually seeing in more light what it is, what the will of the Lord is, particularly for your life. He made you by his light, because he's gracious. Gracious to all of us. Let's pray. So our Father, how we thank you. That you are a God who doesn't stay within human categories No one would have written a gospel that would have had the Shekinah glory appearing to the enemies of God's people who practiced occultic arts. But you display yourself to sinners, calling them to come, to worship, to be transformed By your light and in your light. We who were once darkness are now light in the Lord, because you've come and you've displayed yourself to us. Lord, we pray for those that are in our midst who might feel like outsiders and feel like I don't know if I fit with this crowd. Oh Lord, may we never be an exclusive club of religious people. May our facility be a base of operation for the community. May our hearts be open, breaking down the categories of these people don't care. They're not interested. And to write them off. Lord, I I thank you that that friend that I talked to yesterday said, yeah, but he'd be willing to talk about this more That you are drawing people to yourself all about us. Lord, incline our hearts to follow, follow your word for people who need to be in that word and to Make a plan to be in that word so that they're not always saying, I don't know what to do, I don't know what God wants. But that you would display yourself to them more fully, as Peter says, that light that shines in a dark place, that shows us and leads us. For we don't simply have a pillar of fire to lead as we have your word and your spirit to come and to show us Christ, Lord Grant grace that our hearts will be like the Magi, overjoyed to see the display of who you are, and to know you better this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.