Okay. We are back to Matthew. Yes, I love all the special things we do in the holidays and uh month emissions and all that, but I'm also glad when we get back to the regular book that we're studying, Matthew. We've been in for some time now. Been so long since we've been in Matthew that I sent you by email this week And an overview. So you should have something in your email along with your 16 pages of announcements and all the rest of that. And another four pages of prayer requests. They got the uh overview here of Matthew. 5 to 7 and 8 and 9. If you did not get that because you're not on the prayer, you're not on that distribution list, then there should be copies of this on the back table, the side table over there. um to pick up uh afterwards. Don't go run and get them now, you don't need it. Um in a in a word to summarize it Matthew focuses on Jesus' authority and in chapters 5 to 7, Matthew talks about Jesus' authority in teaching. He teaches that God is righteous, that he is a father, and that he is the judge, and how we should live in the light of those three things about God. Shows us our hearts and our need of a savior. Then Matthew moves from that to chapter 8 and 9. To show Jesus' authority in action, his compassionate authority in healings, and then also in other miracles of mercy. So I try when I come to the end of those times to get to the end of a section. And I wasn't able to do that in the fall, so whether you noticed it or not, I kind of ended the story in the middle. In fact, this morning is the climax of a story that Matthew's been telling in chapter 9. He was describing that Jesus is beginning to get criticisms. He's beginning to get opposition in the exercise of his compassionate authority. So you remember that uh you may or may or not remember that back then uh Jesus remember healed the paralytic and the scribes say, you know, well what is with this you think you can heal people? Jesus says, I have authority to heal, and so that you know that he heals the paralytic. Second criticism calls Matthew. Matthew, the tax collector. despised Matthew, calls him to be one of his disciples. Matthew's so happy, he has this feast, invites all his friends, has Jesus. And they say, are you aware that some of these guys that you invited to this feast, they're not the kind of people you hang around? What are you doing? You think you're a rabbi, you're holy, or hanging around these people? Jesus says, No, don't you understand The scripture says, I desire mercy, not sacrifice. I've come for the sick, not just for the whole. Those are the two criticisms. This morning we get to the third one. Now, because I don't choose what I preach on, I just follow the passage, follow the text, I'm going to preach to you this morning on fasting. Because that's the next question that comes up. Fasting. Let me ask you. Do you fast? I didn't ask, do you diet? I ask, do you fast? Fasting is empty plate, empty cup. Not just cutting down the portions because I need to, you know, and it's lent my cut back and all that. No. Do you fast? If you don't fast, do you feel guilty that you don't fast? Should you? Does God want you to fast? Under what circumstances? Or why? This is a rather difficult passage. So what I'm going to try to do is to deal with this passage. I mean, not only is it about fasting, but he brings in about a bridegroom. He brings in about um claws, old claws and new claws and uh old wineskins and new wineskins So, what I want to do is try to deal with this whole thing by means of six questions. Let's first of all look at the passage, read the passage, get that in mind, and then I ask six questions to try to understand. What Matthew intends for us and how this applies to your life and to my life. Hear God's word. Then John's disciples came and they asked him, How is it that we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? Jesus answered, How can the guests of the bridegroom mourn when he is with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them. Then they will fast. No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch will pull away from the garment, making the tear worse. Neither do men pour new wine into old wineskins. If they do, the skins will burst and the run wine will run out and the skins will be ruined. No, they pour new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved. Okay. First question. What is exactly the question and where does it come from? You notice that in Matthew's account, he says that John's disciples came and asked him. And if you're really sharp following that along, you remember the first couple were the Pharisees. Now it says John's disciples. If you really study it, you notice that Matthew's account Mark's account says John's disciples and the Pharisees. So what's happening? Apparently, after John was put in prison, John's disciples began to fall back into some of their relationships with the Pharisees. So they're hanging around the Pharisees again. And at this point, they come, both of them, to ask this question. I think that's significant because in the first two questions Jesus is rather stern in his response because it's the Pharisees who are just being critical. In this case, I think there's both a criticalness. We fast They fasted twice a week. This was Mark tells us. One of the days they were fasting, so they're looking rather hungrily on this feast and enjoying themselves. And you know, we're fasting, I'm hungry. Why is it that We fast and you don't. But there's, I think, also some confusion, genuine confusion from John's disciples. Spiritual people know the benefit of fasting. They do that. Why aren't you fasting? We don't understand. Help us out. Well, uh the answer is rather surprising, and it may seem like it's not that helpful. Second question: How does Jesus' reference to the bridegroom answer their question? So notice what he says. Jesus answered, how can the guests of the bridegroom mourn while he is with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them and then they will fast. So what Jesus is saying here is, hey Friends of a bridegroom don't mourn on his wedding day. That's a time for feasting and rejoicing. Okay. Well, what's that got to do with it? Jews knew that the Old Testament described God Yahweh as a bridegroom to Israel. Tom read one of the passages in Hosea. Look at it again. Hosea chapter 2, verse 16: In that day declares the Lord, you will call me my husband. You will no longer call me my master. Verse 19, I will betroth you, that is, I will have you as my wife forever. So Israel was God's bride. He was their bridegroom. Jesus doesn't spell it out, but what he is saying is, I am that bridegroom, and I am here. Now, John's disciples should have remembered that earlier, recorded in John chapter 3, John had said that. You look at John chapter 3, it's a lengthy passage, but just the 1 verse 29 is enough. John said there, the bride belongs to the bridegroom. The friend who attends the bridegroom waits and listens for him and is full of joy when he hears the bridegroom's voice. That joy is mine and is now complete. And Jesus is coming back to that and he is saying, Do you see, I am the bridegroom. And when the bridegroom is here, You can't mourn. You you're so full of joy that the bridegroom is here. Now, do you remember those of you who were married when you were engaged? Or perhaps you women remember as that day approached, do you remember the morning of your wedding day? Maybe your mom came and she woke you up and she said, this is it, honey, this is the big day. Today you're gonna get married. You're out of the house. And you said, yep, I'm going to get married today. And um what else am I going to do today? I got some other things I need to get done. Probably watch some TV afterwards. And um not really feeling all that great. Think I'll just skip dinner tonight. Go to bed early. Geez, why? Why are we today Mr. Wonderful is gonna possess you? You're gonna be his forever. How can you say that? You see, mean you don't do that on your wedding day. Your wedding day is consumed with the bridegroom. There he is. Now, the the question for you and for me as you hear this, when Jesus says, the guests of the bridegroom can't mourn on his wedding day. And then you think, as you read on through scripture, you find out we're not simply his guest, we're the bride Does your heart respond to that by skipping a beat and saying, of course? Or do you say, help me out, what's the connection? You see, Jesus is presenting here what the heart's connection to the bridegroom is to be. He is saying, you don't fast because fasting is mourning. That's what he says. How do they mourn? Fasting is mourning. You don't mourn when you have me. Because I'm your refuge. I'm your perfect husband. I meet your deepest needs completely. Now, what does it mean, third question, when he says that he'll be taken away and then they'll fast? What's that about? Well, um, in Isaiah fifty-three, in verse eight, when Isaiah describes the suffering servant's atonement, his death He describes it in terms of being taken away. So the taken away refers to his death. Quite clearly, after Jesus' death, I don't think there was much eating going on the rest of that Friday and Saturday. Their hearts were broken, they probably fasted. You didn't tell them to fast, they just fasted because their hearts were broken and in despair. After the resurrection, they feasted. They had a picnic on the beach. I'm sure they had a lot of meals, and they rejoiced together. But if you read Matthew chapter 25, it talks about the bridegroom and the ten virgins that are waiting. And it describes how he delays his coming for a long time. So which is it? Is Jesus referring to his death, or is he referring to this time of his being absent before he comes back for us? I'd say yes. It's both. The immediate reference is to the fact that they will be fasting when he's taken away, but when He comes back and then is removed again in that time while we're waiting. Paul describes that as a time of longing. Two passages that I have down there for you, 2 Corinthians and Philippians 1. Remember where Paul even says, We so long to see him and be with him that if you ask me, do you rather live or die, you know, I'm sort of ambivalent. Part of me says, yeah, I want to go on, be of service to the Lord, but you know, man, it'd sure be great if this was over. And if I was dead, I'd be in Jesus' presence. All pain and sorrow would be gone. I would see my bridegroom forever. That's awful appealing, right? But the difference is, in the fasting after the resurrection, it's never a fasting of despair. It's a fasting with hope. Because the bridegroom has been here and we're waiting for his return. So, fourth question Why then, what should be the place of fasting in the life of the Christian today? Notice Jesus does not command fasting. He doesn't say you should fast. He says, when the bridegroom's taken away, they will fast. You remember back in chapter 6, when he was teaching in the Sermon on the Mount, he says, when you fast, so Jesus expects us as his people to fast. There's no command in the New Testament to fast. In fact, there's only one command in all of Scripture. to fast. It's repeated a few times, but the only time that God's people are commanded to fast is on the Day of Atonement. When God's people mourn their sins, they confess them. He says, you afflict yourselves, you sorrow for your sin, and the sacrifice is made for your sins. Well, of course, as Christians, we realize that Jesus, the bridegroom, has come and he is the sacrifice. He makes the final atonement. He is the one who comes and fulfills the Day of Atonement, so there is no more shedding of blood, so that Jesus has given himself once for all for your sins, for my sins, if we see our need for him. And he becomes the fulfillment of all that was pictured in the Day of Atonement. So, why is it the New Testament shows the church occasionally fasting For instance, in Acts 13, you have the church at Antioch fasting, praying about God's will for missions, and they set aside Paul and Barnabas. Well, I would suggest, first of all, we do not fast for any merit Any way of twisting God's arm, any superstitious notion that if I fast and pray, then God is more likely to hear my prayer and He'll answer it because I fasted. I should I'm really serious about it. Or if we can get a lot of people to fast, that'll really s you know, that'll put the pressure on heaven. I remember back in the 90s hearing some Christian leaders saying, if enough people in America would fast and pray, God would bring revival. Which made me kind of shudder a little bit, like, you know, we got we got this way of putting the pressure on God. So y'all just fast. I mean who knows? Y'all fast and Columbia will come to Christ You see, there's always a shred of truth in something like that, and the shred of truth is if we in fact did humble ourselves and did say that we desire more to see God's face than even going through a regular pattern of meals, that would show that our hearts are broken before Him and God would respond to our broken hearts that is simply demonstrated in the fasting, but it's not the fasting. So why would we fast? Let me offer three reasons. You see him right there in a bulletin. The first reason is simply out of grief. The word fasting is used as mourning. It is always in conjunction with mourning and praying. And there are times when your heart is so broken you don't want to eat. You just cry out to God. And that's an appropriate and helpful thing to say, I am going to set aside meals. And just cry out to God, grief over death, over sin, over whatever, a brokenness. There's no reason that you should not do that. Secondly, I think that you would fast to arrest your attention over some emergency, some crisis. For instance, you remember when Esther, in the book of Esther, Xerxes made an edict for genocide to get rid of all the Jews. And Mordecai says, Esther, this is your time. You gotta go and intercede with the king, to the emperor, on our behalf. She says, Well, you know, it's taken my life into my hands to do that. So tell you what. Get all the people to fast for three days. She doesn't say and pray, but that's of course what she means. You don't just fast. Always in scripture, fasting is in conjunction with prayer. So get the people to fast and to pray for three days, then I'll go in. If I live, I live. If I die, I die. But She is saying, give this some serious prayer, guys, before I go in there. So sometimes fasting is to say, this is a crisis, and we are going to Say to God, you are our refuge, you're our hope, and fasting communicates the seriousness of our devotion to prayer. Early part of our century 1623, and the pilgrims were in Plymouth, Massachusetts, there was a drought. And here they thought they had gotten through the tough times, and now it looks like all the crops are going to die, the harvest will be destroyed. They called a day of humiliation and fasting and prayer. Fasting to twist God's arm? No. Fasting to cry out to God, to confess sin, to say, Lord, you're our hope. What are you trying to say to us? Help us to examine our hearts, examine our lives. That's an appropriate use of fasting. To fix our attention. Thirdly, it's sometimes to get our concentration focused on a particular issue, like knowing God's will in something. You may say, I don't know what the Lord wants me to do in this. So I am going to take the day and I'm going to fast and pray about it. Now some people say to me, well, doesn't that isn't that sort of counterproductive? Because by fasting, you start thinking about how hungry you are and you lose your concentration. The interesting thing is I have always found the opposite. If I I used to think that would be the case, but I've been surprised that it never is. When I'm fasting and I notice that I'm hungry and I'm starting to think about food, that brings me back to why I am not eating And it fixes my attention on what it is that I'm to do, and I find I'm less distracted because the hunger forces me to focus. I am motivated. If I'm going to miss eating, I'm going to have a good reason and I'm going to make use of this time. So it helps in the concentration, setting aside the satisfying of bodily appetites to say, I'm going to focus on you. You're my refuge. You're my home. And it's a sustained period of time, uninterrupted. So fasting really is simply extraordinary prayer that is so focused. So engaged that you forego food in order to set your heart desperately on God Now that's my suggestion. That's what I see, the weight of Scripture. But that leads us to the fifth question. What's about the claws and the wineskins? What is the meaning of the incompatibility of the new and old costs and the new wine screens? And what's that got to do with fasting? Look again what he says in verses sixteen and seventeen. No one sows a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch will pull away from the garment, making the tear worse. Neither do men pour new wine into old wineskins. If they do, the skins will burst, the wine will run out, and the wineskins will be ruined. No. They pour new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved. The idea is simply that the old cloth has shrunk, the new cloth is not shrunk, so when you when you sew it on there, then it shrinks and it pulls away, you got a worse tear. The leather wine the wine bottles were probably goat's bladders. Now if you've never drunk wine out of a goat's bladder, you don't know what you're missing. But that's what they did. I have not had the experience, but that's what they would do because the a new goat bladder was uh quite flexible. The wine would come in, it would ferment, and the bladder would expand to accommodate that You get an old shrunken rigid rotted boot bladder and you stick some new wine in there, you got big problems. So Jesus is saying, there are things that as they become old, they become rigid. And they do not accommodate the new. You guys, as Jews, are saying spiritual disciplines are very important. You just can't have a quiet time when you feel about like it, you know. You just read the Bible whenever you feel like it. You're never going to read it until you're beyond hope. So we set aside this very helpful spiritual discipline. Twice a week we fast. Very helpful. And Jesus says, except in all your fasting, you missed recognizing the bridegroom. So you see, the old disciplines become counterproductive. They can become, they can get in the way of the new thing I'm bringing, the kingdom, me. It will not be accommodated to your old regimens of spiritual disciplines. What does that actually mean? You see, when a person practices their spiritual disciplines, then two things always happen. First of all, they feel superior to people who don't. So it becomes a means of self-righteousness, and that's very counterproductive to the gospel. Secondly, they start criticizing people who don't practice the same disciplines. Right here. How come we fast and you don't? You look like you're having a good time over there with that feast and we sort of resent it. So, the question you see is, does Jesus want to burst some of your categories Of your ostensibly helpful but moralistic spiritual disciplines that have become for you the way of approaching God the way of relating to God and the way of establishing your sense of righteousness and obligating God to you. I have had my quiet time. God guarantees me a good day. He owes it to me. You see, there's a lot of you I understand who don't have regular quiet time. You know, the daily quiet time And you say, you know, just wish I did, but I don't. Okay. I urge you, practice the spiritual discipline of reading Scripture and praying, meeting with God. Pick your time. Talking to a guy this week, morning, nah, that's evening, nah, how about lunchtime? Hey, it sounds pretty good. Whatever. But some of you have that, and you say, you're not talking to me, man. 6. 30 every morning, I am there. I am pouring coffee down my throat, but I am there 6. 30 to 650 every morning. 650 comes. That's it. Check it off. Go to work. I've had my quiet time. Or you went to a conference where the speaker recommended you practice acts. Yeah. You know what acts? Adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication. Five minutes adoration, five minutes confession, five minutes thanksgiving, five minutes supplication. There's my twenty minutes. Gone. God owes me. I remember when I was a kid, about twelve twelve or thirteen I God was beginning to work in me, didn't come from a Christian home, had a desire to read the Bible So I thought, well, here's what I'll do. I'll take a Bible. It's a Bible that somebody had gave in my family when I had given my family when I was born, one of those old King James two-column Bibles. So I said, I'll read a column every morning And that's exactly what I did. I'd start at the top word and I read a column all the way down to the bottom. Maybe I'd finish the sentence But I don't remember ever going on to say, yeah, wow, I'm kind of caught up in this. What's happening? One column every day. I did that for a couple of years. I don't remember a thing I got out of it, except feeling like God owed me. Because I was reading the Bible. What's a spiritual discipline in your life that has come into the way of your heart's connection with the bridegroom? You see, the gospel is about a heart connection with the bridegroom. The gospel is about after you've had your time. That there's some time when you say, Lord, I am so caught up in how wonderful and sufficient you have forgiven me. I mean There's times you ought to be able to look at the end of your time with the Lord, that time that you set aside, that precious sacred time, and ask yourself, is my heart lighter or heavier at this point? It ought to be lighter. But if it's not, continue with the Lord. Come to that place where you have connected with Him. Remember the context of this thing. It's about Matthew. And Matthew is saying, Yeah, I was there and I I saw him forgive that paralytic. And then I looked at my life My despicable, self-righteous, cheating people to get rich life. And Jesus said, follow me. He forgave my sin He doesn't hold any of those things against me. And Jesus wants to spend time with me. I invite all my friends to this feast and he comes and he wants to be with them. He wants to be with me. He wants to be with you. He has laid down his life for your sin. He has forgiven you. Kathy and I saw a movie on Friday night. It was this guy who was a husband, and he was he was a guy who was generally he was a upright guy, he was, you know, Mr. Straight Arrow, and he was mostly irritable. And he would set up tests for his wife where she would always fail. And then he'd scowl his disapproval. The result was that he found out later on that she had had an affair. She was still continuing it. And he was furious. Why would you do that? What's the matter with me? What haven't I given you? What haven't I provided you? Why would you do that? And she looked in deep shame and said Because he's easy to be with. Breaks your heart, doesn't it? Doesn't justify it. But you know what? There's some of you who don't spend time with Jesus because to you, he's not easy to be with. You read the scriptures and you say, it reminds me of what I come up short on. It reminds me of all the things that I owe that I don't do, and all the things I do that I shouldn't be doing. And Jesus isn't easy to be with for you. And you've got to go back to Matthew 9. Where Jesus says, where Matthew says, Jesus, forgave the paralytic. The guy was ridden with guilt. Jesus forgave even me, a tax collector, a cheat, who'd sell himself out for money. Jesus wants to spend time with me. And Jesus is the bridegroom for whom I'm his treasure. He is going to come back and take me as his bride and delight in me forever. How could you not want to spend time with Him. Time that is not constrained by the duty of discipline, but a time that bursts the category so that while you're driving to work, you gotta turn off the radio and just praise him. Jonathan Edwards talks about a time when he was riding through the woods on his horse, and he said, I was thinking of Jesus and his great condescension and his mercies to me, and I got off my horse and just laid knelt down and I worshiped and praised him for a half hour or so, lost track of time, and it was exquisite Jesus says, I'm the bridegroom. And I burst the categories of your spiritual disciplines. So the sixth question, of course, is how's this a climax? You see it. For those that come and need to have the blanks filled in, I can appreciate it, put the blanks there. He forgives sins because he's God. He has the authority. He eats with sinners because he's the Savior. And he is disciples' feast. Not fast, because he's the bridegroom who's their delight. And so I invite you to come to this Jesus who can forgive your sins. This Jesus who wants to spend time with you. This Jesus who wants to be your delight. As Tom put on the screen, I love Jesus Christ. Here's what I mean. And explore why it is that you love him. That your heart will be filled and burst forth in the new wine of praise and joy. Let's pray So our Lord, we need to have a fresh understanding of what you are like. Lord, we need to see the kindness in your eyes, the forgiveness that you offer. The desire that you have to spend time with us, the delight that you have in us, that we might be delighted in you. That we would find you as our Savior easy to be with, because your eyes are kind. And your delight is immensely satisfying. We want to discover that more. And Jesus, you gave the answers you did here because you want for us, each person here, to discover that for themselves We pray that you will do that. In Jesus' name. Amen.