Quote with my prayer down again. Uh back in the room there reporting to our prayer team, you know, people pray during the message every Sunday. And it was sharing a couple of requests to pray for you guys and for me as we look at God's Word. Before I begin, let me also add my invitation to Wayne's and Tim's for next week that join us as we come to pray. And I think uh it's the kind of thing that highlights how the Church of Jesus Christ is different from any other human organization. You're not coming just to get more information, to do some planning. You're coming to put ourselves before God, believing that hearing from Him and praying will make a difference. in this strategic and exciting time in the life of our church. So don't miss that because um we're expecting God to show up and to To set ourselves before him. So take advantage of that. Hope you will. There is a show on ABC TV. that deals with the mystery of what they would consider to be um destiny, fate uh from a secular point of view, and human choice or responsibility on the other side. It's based on a nineteen ninety-nine book called Fast Forward, and that's the name of the TV show. The premise of this show is that for 137 seconds, the whole world is put on hold, and everybody has a vision of their life six months later. And so what the visions do is for some people, it freaks them out, uh, they're disturbed. troubling other people are elated, it instills hope in them. For some it's delightful, for others it's depressing. But the question that the show deals with is What do you do with that information? Is it possible to change your future? Is it possible to change if someone says by some prophecy, this is what's going to happen? Are you simply a puppet? that lives in a world where you really don't have meaningful choices, or can you change your future Now Matthew chapter 26 deals with a very similar kind of question, only in this case, Matthew is dealing with God's sovereignty and his revealed Prophetic purpose that must come to place come to pass versus the choice of a human being who seems to be necessarily complicit in the most terrible crime in all the world. And that's Judas Iscariot. Could Judas have done differently? Now, Matthew 26 and 27 are the very heart of the gospel. This deals with Jesus' suffering and death for sinners whose crimes were against God and he took their punishment, your punishment, my punishment. In our place. It's the most important week in all the history of the world, and the whole future and fate of the world rests on what happens in this week. Like chapter 20, I'm only going to have time to deal with two messages on it, and I'm going to make them two related messages. Looking at the most tragic character in all of human history, Judas Iscariot. And this morning, what I want to deal with is how Matthew brings out the mystery of these two. Besides God's divine purpose and Judas's responsibility If you look at the beginning of Matthew chapter 26, you see Jesus for the third time saying that he is going to be betrayed. When Jesus had finished saying all these things, he said to his disciples, As you know, the Passover is two days away, and the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified. That must happen. He said that back in chapter 17, said that back in chapter 20. So that will happen, but it requires the insane choice of a betrayer. What if he warned the betrayer? Could the betrayer have decided to do differently, changed his mind, choose to stop, or was Judas simply a puppet? Within God's divine predetermined plan? That's a very important question, both to understand the story of that last week But also to understand God's ways in your life and my in his ways in my life and how we respond to him Now in verses 20 to 35, Matthew gives his account of that last supper, the Passover meal that Jesus has with his disciples. Beginning in verse 20. When the evening came, Jesus was reclining at the table with the twelve. And while they were eating, now here it is again. Jesus said, I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me. Three times he has said, I will be betrayed. But now he says, it's not some enemy, it's not somebody who We view as someone who, of course, that wouldn't surprise me that person betrayed. No, it's one of you. Right here at the table with me, one of my disciples, one of the trusted twelve. Then what Jesus does is he brings in verse twenty-four One of the most shocking statements in all of Scripture because it brings together two truths. In a startling connection, the closest proximity of something that is impossible for the human mind to comprehend. Something that you say, these two things cannot be true. And it is a major step in your life with Jesus Christ and mine When we come to accept that both these things are true. So follow what Matthew teaches about this mystery. In verse 24, Jesus says, The Son of Man will go, just as it is written about him. But woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man. It would be better for him if he had not been born. Those two simple phrases, the Son of Man will go. God's sovereignty God's prophecy and foreknowledge of what will take place. But woe, the responsibility of Judas to make the choice that he can freely make. We'll go Scripture had again and again said that there would be God's Messiah who would come and bear sin. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 53, look at verses four and five there on the screen. Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows, and yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. That is so certain to take place that it is written in the Hebrew perfect tense, that is the completed tense. They don't have quite like us past and present and future. But this is the completed tense saying that it's as good as done. He can write it as if it has already been completed. Or you take a look at Daniel 9, verse 26, talking about after the exile, after the 62 sevens, the anointed one will be cut off. Absolute certainty. It will happen and have nothing. Psalm 22 describes in gory detail the crucifixion. You have in Zechariah 11 the betrayal, the thirty pieces of silver that is stated Jesus himself declares that this must happen. I mentioned he said it in chapter 17. Look at verses 22 and 23 when they came together in Galilee. Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is going to be betrayed into the hands of men. They will kill him. And on the third day he will be raised to life. The disciples were filled with grief. They kind of didn't get that last statement there, but they heard the first part. Where you take in chapter 20, Jesus says, We are going up to Jerusalem and the Son of Man will be betrayed. To the chief priests and the teachers of the law, and they will condemn him to death, and they will turn him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. Notice the specific detail And on the third day he will be raised to life. So when he says this again in chapter 20, that's the third time he said it. And he says it in As you know, the Passover is two days away, the Son of Man will be handed over to be crucified. Jesus is absolutely clear, the Son of Man will go as it has been written. As I have said, looking back on it, the early church, in the preaching book of Acts, you have Peter in chapter 2 of Acts, verse 23. This man was handed over, again, the betrayal to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge. It was not something that happened in any kind of a vacuum or void. That's the way it worked out. It was set by God's purpose and by his foreknowledge. In chapter 4, verse 27 and 28, indeed Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. They did what your power, this is a prayer, so it's to God. They did what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen Can't have, you can't imagine a stronger statement of God's sovereign purpose in what will happen in the future and came to pass exactly as He said. But Jesus doesn't end there. He says, but whoa Woe to the man who betrays him. It would be better for him if he had not been born. The word woe is a pronouncement of warning. Woe is like a sign that you might have come to yesterday. When the rains were coming down and the creeks were flooding and there were places that were washed out, and you'd come along a country road, and there is this sign basically says, whoa, turn around, go back, you're not going to get through here. That's what woe is. It's the warning, stop, go back, or something dreadful is going to happen. Then Jesus says, it would be better for this person, if he had never been born, if he continues in this. Now because we know that God is just, that means that this person deserves the most extreme kind of punishment, a punishment so bad. That Judas every day in hell is wishing he had never been born. He had never played as a child. He had never known the beauty of a spring day. He had never known the delights of love, of time with his wife. Life is so miserable And justly so, that it would be better for Judas if he had never been born Therefore, you cannot say that Judas was simply programmed or inevitably he had to do this because Jesus not only warns him But he states that the just desert of what he will do is a punishment so extreme that it non-existence would have been preferable. Very, very sobering. Notice how Jesus specifically warns Judas. Verse 23. Jesus had said, the one who has dipped his hand into the bowl with me will betray me. Now that wasn't really saying any particular person, wasn't just Judas that did that. They all did that. So he's saying again, one of you The Son of Man will go just as it's written about him, but woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man. You'll be better for him if he had not been born. Then Judas. The one who would betray him said, Surely not I, Rabbi. Now all the other disciples asked that question with Lord Judas says, Rabbi, no place in the Gospels does Judas ever call Jesus Lord. He says, Not me, Rabbi teacher. It's kind of like bluffing. Oh, you really don't mean me. And Jesus answered, Yes, it is you. Looks him in the eye. And Judas doesn't flinch, but decides at that moment. He could have said, No, no one has ever loved me like this man This man doesn't deserve such base betrayal. You say, well, how could he have done that? There could have been someone else to betray Jesus. We don't know the mystery of it. What we know is that Jesus states in one verse, in closest possible proximity. The Son of Man will be betrayed, but woe to the one who chooses to do that, the just desert of that decision. Is a punishment so terrible that every day he will wish he had never been born Acts looking back on that, the same two texts that I just read. That state how it was by God's set purpose and foreknowledge. Look again at verse 23. This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, and you with the help of wicked men. Put him to death by nailing him to the cross. Not victims. People who decided to do that. Wicked men. With chapter 4, verse 27. Indeed, Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in the city to conspire against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. It was a conspiracy that they willingly, wholeheartedly entered into. It was something they decided to do And we live in a day that neither takes comfort in God's sovereignty Because we believe that blind chance is all that's in charge. And you are simply the product of your genes, your brain chemistry, evolutionary psychology, and your parents and environment. No one's in charge. There is no God who is unfolding his certain purposes with a good and perfect end to history. Recently, in the University of Pennsylvania Gazette, there was an article by one of this nation's most noted criminologists asking the question Is it right for an enlightened society to punish criminals? His resounding answer is no. Because they are simply the product of their genes, their brain chemistry, and evolutionary psychology, and their environment. That's what our society believes. People are not responsible for what they do. And we hear the blame shifting in every trial. In every accusation, whether it's politicians or murderers, wasn't me. I was a victim And at the very same time, in gross self contradiction You turn on the TV and you hear Oprah or Dr. Phil or any other well-meaning person trying to help you out of your the bondage of your addictions and dysfunctional behaviors say, take responsibility for your life. Take responsibility for your actions. You can change. You must decide to do it. And our world sees no contradiction. They say to you as a Christian, how can you believe that God is sovereign and that we are responsible for actions And I say, how can you believe that you are simply a mechanical, pre-programmed, operational, functional being who takes charge of your life and can change? For only the Christian position has a personal, infinite personal God who has a purpose. While also declaring that we made in his image have the dignity of choice. Judas is in hell because he chose to betray Jesus. There was a dignity to that condemnation because he wasn't a machine I'll tell you, it may be very difficult for you. I had one guy come out, he says, I'm a scientist, and this goes against everything, the law of self-contradiction, and I you know it's hard But he said, I know I have got to accept it as a Christian. And the day that you not only accept it But are content in it to say these things are true, both true. I cannot, in my mind I cannot fathom these two things, but it's like a Dixie cup trying to contain Niagara Falls. I wouldn't expect to be able to do it. God is infinitely above and beyond. But both things are true. In the reality, the ultimate reality of the universe, those things are true, and they are uniquely true to Christianity. It's the only point of view in this world That gives meaning and purpose to a plan plus responsibility with hope. Rejoice in that, believer. And that leads to the second, you can say here two coins, two tensions, two mysteries. And the second one that that thrusts us into. Is the two-sided coin that you see in this text of assurance and the need for self-examination The fact that the Bible teaches you can have assurance of your salvation. You can know that your sins are forgiven, you're saved. But on the other hand, you need to, from time to time, examine your heart to ask, am I in the faith? And that's what you see in this text. When Jesus goes on to serve the supper, he says in Matthew's account, This is my body which is given for many. Luke's parallel account says, you specifically, this is for your sin. Luke chapter 22, verses 19 and 20. He took bread, gave thanks, broke it, gave it to them, saying, This is my body given for you. Your sins. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way, after supper, he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. Last verse of Matthew, Lo, I am with you always to the end of the age. You can know that. 1 John, in his short letter, spells out that glad tiding in 1 John 5, verse 13. John says, I write these things to you who believe on the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. You can know that this morning. You can know that today. Jesus didn't come at 2 o'clock last Sunday afternoon. We had the lasagna But if Jesus were to come at two o'clock this afternoon, you can know right now That you would go to be with him, to enjoy his presence, and to rule and reign in the delights of his heaven forever and ever. You can know that Do you know that? But at the same time, the Bible teaches That our age particularly has abused that assurance by presumption We take that to mean if I assent to something, I believe that Jesus died for sins, I went forward at a meeting, Billy Graham meeting, signed a card, did something, so now I never doubt that I'm a Christian. You take a book like a booklet like this. How can I know for sure? The basis of the assurance in this book is God's promise, whoever believes has eternal life. I have believed that that's true, therefore I have eternal life. Never doubt it. The missing ingredient is to not look honestly at my heart to see, have I grasped That Jesus portrayed in all that he is, so that I've repented and given my life to him, and he has worked in me, so there is evidence of the new life. So in the passage, Jesus says in verse twenty You have the setting. Evening came, Jesus reclining at the table with the twelve, they eating. He says, I tell you the truth, one of you will betray me. They were very sad, and they began to say to him one after the other, surely not I, Lord, of all the things they have missed in his teaching. They are beginning to know that they don't really know their hearts. So they are willing to entertain the possibility Could I be deceiving myself so bad that I would be capable of this? Surely, Lord, it's not me, is it? Now you contrast that with Judas. When Jesus says The one who is dipped with me, and Judah says, surely not I, Rabbi. He is not asking that as a sincere question. He's bluffing. So in this case, when Jesus says, yes, it is you, he still doesn't flinch. He refuses to look at his heart. To see the evil, the vileness that could betray one who has never done him wrong, but only has loved him for the three years that he's been with him. He refuses to look at his heart. And there are people that go to churches today around this land, people possibly right here this morning in this room. That name the name of Jesus, and your assurance is based on something you did ten or twenty years ago. And John is saying it must be based on the evidence of a changed life. Willing to look at your heart to see if there is in fact anything in you that only the Holy Spirit can explain, can account for. Look again, when John says, These things have I written so that you might know that you have eternal life, what are the these things? That these things are about 26 marks of a changed life. Read through the five chapters of 1 John Check them off yourself. And you look at those things and you say, is this true of my life? Is this true of my life? These things. It's not just Jesus' work for you, it is the Spirit's work in you that gives you the assurance. So, for instance, in chapter 2, we know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says, I know him, but does not do what he commands is a liar. The truth isn't in him. You can't say, I love Jesus, and then blow off what he says in his word to you. Chapter 4, we love because he first loved us. If anyone says, I love God, yet hates his brother, he's a liar. For anyone who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. Do you love your brothers and sisters in Christ? I mean you don't have problems with them, of course. We rankle each other and irritate each other. Disappoint, let each other down. But is there that love for those not only of your brothers and sisters, but those that bear God's image? It's the mark of a changed life. It gives you the assurance. Chapter 5. This is how we know that we love the children of God by loving God and carrying out his commands. This is love for God. To obey his commands, and his commandments are not burdensome. We don't keep those commands consistently. Every day I break his commands. But I look in my heart and I say, His commandments aren't burdensome. I want to keep them. Lord, help me. Deliver me from these temptations. There's a desire to want to obey him. That's the basis for biblical assurance. Judas refused to look at his heart. And he made a series of choices. Next week we're going to look at the seven-step progression of choices Judas made. that took him to hell. But what about you? Paul puts it this way in 2 Corinthians 13, verse 5. Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not realize that Christ Jesus is in you? Unless, of course, you fail the test. What's the test? The work of the Spirit in you that has changed your life, willing to examine, is there anything in me that only the Holy Spirit can account for? And if you have questions, talk to somebody, somebody that you know, an elder, one of us who are on staff, talk so that we can work with you on that to give biblical assurance. These are the two mysteries. God's sovereignty and our choice and responsibility can't explain them, can't understand them. But peace and contentment lie in resting in the fact that both are true. It's the only thing that gives us hope, the gospel, distinct from any other point of view. And the other side, the other mystery, I can know that my sins are forgiven, but I dare not presume. On something I did in the past, but be willing, like the disciples, unlike Peter, who when Jesus says, you're all gonna Forsake me tonight, people. Oh no, not me, not me. What happens? Blows it royally. You must be willing to examine your heart And find your rest in Jesus Christ, who alone can give you the faith to even trust Him or to believe Him. Do you rest in contentment with those two mysteries? It's the only way For peace. Ask Judas. He regrets that he didn't do that every day to eternity. Let's pray. So, Lord, we thank you that while we cannot understand, we accept the mystery. No other explanation satisfies or even gives meaning and hope. But to know that you are sovereign. Your purposes will all surely come to pass. Not only globally, but in every single life here. And yet, Lord, we are responsible to believe and to obey, knowing that we cannot even believe except your Spirit comes We cast ourselves upon you. Lord, help us that we might rest in your sovereign control. That we accept that offer of life through Jesus Christ alone. Grant faith to all who need it here. Lord, help us to enter into the assurance to know our sins are forgiven because of Jesus Christ alone, that heaven is ours. And if there is anyone here presuming on some religious experience of the past, Lord, we pray, open their eyes. To see their need for Jesus Christ now. That they would speak to someone until they have sure biblical assurance of eternal life through Jesus. Thank you for what you have offered and offered to each one of us now. In Jesus' name. Amen.