Uh we do have people that pray while I preach and while the service is going on. And uh so one of the things I do is to let them know some specific things to pray about. So I was reporting to our prayer. to um during the service and while I was talking I said, I think I'm on. Uh I think we better cut this report shut short. Thanks for your patience. In the uh current movie The Atonement Uh there is a scene on the lavish English estate of nineteen thirty-five where Robbie and Cecilia are playing on this lavish front lawn And Cecilia has a pitcher that she wants to fill from the fountain pool. And Robbie grabs it and they have a brief tug of war and the result is that the pitcher breaks And Cecilia gets furious and she says, that was probably the most expensive thing in this whole place. Robbie looks at her and says, No longer. And you know, that's the way it is with everything. Everything that is so expensive, that is so valuable in this life is either going to end up in a landfill, it's going to decay, fall apart, going to be replaced, or In the end, it may be part of that final fire of the judgment that destroys all things here You see sometimes on those California wildfires, you know, these luxury homes that would just be so wonderful to just walk through and there they're all all going up in flames. And Realize that's just a foretaste, a picture of what's going to happen to the whole earth in that day of God's judgment and cleansing. And you say, oh, what a tragedy But you know, to the Lord, that's like clearing the field to build the palace. It's all gonna go. Now in Matthew chapter 6, in verses 19 to 25, what Jesus is wanting to do is to teach you and me to live in the light of that reality. He does that by using four contrasts, four contrasting pictures. Because he wants us to see that you and I live in such a short-range view of wanting to acquire as much as we can here or being anxious that we don't have enough to take care of us here, and miss where the true treasure is, and miss the fact that we have a heavenly Father who's made all things who is able to provide for us and want you to learn to trust him. Four pictures that he uses are first of all treasure, treasure on earth and treasure in heaven. A contrast of two kinds of eyes, a bad eye that can't see, a good eye that can. A contrast of two kinds of masters, materialism, God. Contrast of a preoccupation with my own body and its needs and wants and with God's kingdom and its concerns. Last week we looked at the first of those contrasts, and I asked you two questions from it about the treasure in our heart. The first question was, where is your treasure? Where is your treasure? You see in verses nineteen to twenty-one where Jesus Brought that to our attention last week. Looks look at those verses once again. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Why is it that he says, do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth, but rather treasures in heavens? Not because treasures on earth are bad in themselves. It's because it's stupid. It's because they don't last. Either they're going to be destroyed or they're going to be stolen or finally you're going to leave them. Like that Illustration I gave last week of the three weeks we lived in Ireland. How stupid it would have been to spend all our time and our money refurbishing that home that was there when we're going to leave it in three weeks. rather than to bring the stuff for our home in Maryland, or more to the point of Jesus' words here, to store up and refurbish the home that he's building for us in heaven. Principle that he gave to us, you cannot take it with you, but you can send it on ahead. How? By what you invest yourself in. Remember chapter 6, verses 1 to 18, four times he talks about the Father's reward. He talks about it in verse 1. He talks about it in your giving. You give, you invest in people, but it's not to be seen of other people so that your father will reward you. And you're praying, you don't pray so that other people think you're spiritual and do all this, but it's so your Father in heaven will reward you. You fast and defer gratification and look spiritual, not so other people will see you. You do it simply for your Father who will reward you. And so he's picking up on that idea of the rewards and showing that those rewards are those things that you and I are storing up in heaven by serving and investing ourselves in him. We are made for one person. Jesus Christ, you are made for one place, heaven. That's your home. And Jesus is teaching us to live with that treasure in mind. And the second question that I asked you last week is where are Where is your heart? Because the principle, second principle they gave us is that your heart follows your investments. Your heart follows your investments. The Sermon on the Mount is about our heart. And Jesus says, where you invest your treasure, your heart follows that, inevitably. Now this morning we want to deal with the second and the third contrasts. And you see those in verses 22 to 24. He's unpacking the same idea. About living in the light of eternity. Verse 22. The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eyes are bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. Now notice in passing in Jesus' mind um way he unpacks this. I believe that um the first and the third image, treasure and heart are connected Excuse me, treasure and values. So that it talks about treasure on earth and treasure in heaven. And then the third image is the eye that sees true values. The second and fourth images I think are also related. Your heart and your master. What is your devotion? Where is your heart placed? Who is the master? So the third question, the first question was where's your treasure? Second question, where is your heart? Third question, what are your values? What are your values? Jesus is asking you that this morning. Now he does that by using a vivid picture, the picture of the physical eye. And people in our sermon discussion, people wanted that unpack more because That that's that's um can be a little confusing to us in understanding what he means about this idea of the I. Look look at it again. The I is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eyes are bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you is darkness, how great is that darkness? What is the good eye and the bad eye? I believe the clue to that is seen in chapter 20 in verse 15. I'm indebted to John Piper for that insight. In Matthew chapter 20, Jesus is giving the parable of the nine-hour workers. Remember, he talks about the fellow who has a vineyard And he wants some people to uh work in the vineyard, and so he goes out at nine o'clock in the morning and he agrees with a group that they'll work for nine hours for one denarius But then he goes out at noon, gets some people, and they work six hours, goes out at three o'clock, gets some more people, they work three hours, goes out at five o'clock and gets some more people, and they only work one hour When he goes to pay them, he pays them all the same. So the people that work one hour get the same as the people that work nine hours And the people that work nine hours are all upset and disgruntled, that's not fair, why you know we worked in the heap, why do they get the same as we do, and on and on and on, you know And Jesus' answer is in chapter twenty, verse fifteen, Don't I have the right to do what I want with my own money? Or are you envious because I am generous? Now, literally, that last question, are you envious because I am generous? Literally in the Greek it reads this way, is your eye bad because I am good? So it's the same words, it's talking about a bad eye. And what is a bad eye? A bad eye is that which only sees money. It only sees the material gain. I'm not getting what I ought to get. You see the ironic thing about that whole thing is when we hear the parable we all identify, don't we, with the nine hour workers. We think, yeah, I think I'd be a little upset too with these guys. that only worked one hour, getting the same as I got that I worked the whole time. It's interesting, we all look at ourselves as the one that worked the whole day. And Jesus' point is you're all one-hour workers You see, the last thing you want is to get what is just. You need grace and mercy. And the people with a bad eye don't see that. All they see is getting what I deserve. I want my money. So the person with a good eye is the person that sees God's character and understands grace. That's what he is saying. Now What is it that you see? What is it that you focus on in life? You wouldn't say it, but do you really see that a person's value is determined by how successful they are? How big their house is, what kind of car they drive, what kind of vacations they take. People that are successful and have money are more valuable, more important people. That's the bad eye. There's a book that was popular recently called Death by Suburb. A great book. And in that book the uh the author is uh talking about one point where he's uh shopping for a a new car and he goes beyond being absorbed by that to being sort of obsessed. And his friend says to him, Dave You know the price of everything and the value of nothing. That's a bad eye. See, the bad eye knows the price of everything. But it knows the value of nothing. That's what Jesus is saying. And you see, Jesus wants you to be able to see. He wants you to be able to see reality. Richard Pratt, professor at Reformed Theological Seminary, used to be, talked about a time when a student came from Kenya to study. And after a semester, six months had gone by, uh Richard Pratt asked this fellow from Kenya, what most surprised you about America? You know what the answer was? He said the lack of joy among American Christians who have so much more than we do in Kenya He said, in Kenya, we know hunger, and when we get a chicken, we share it and we know joy. And it makes you wonder if the lack of joy among American Christians is related to the fact that our eye is so much on our stuff. And because our eye is on our stuff, it's never enough. It never satisfies. And it robs us of joy. You know, the book of Revelation is to enable you to see That's why it's called revelation. You know, literally revealation. It's to help you to see reality. It's not to give you a chart for the future. It's to help you and me to see what reality is. And so when it describes the horror of Babylon in all her materialism, in all the values that hold people in bondage in this world, in chapter 18, all that goes up in smoke. And as it goes up in smoke and you see this vivid, terrible picture of everything being destroyed, God is calling to his people, Come out from her, come out from her, my people. See reality. See that everything here will wind up in a landfill. That God is going to clear this place to build the palace. Of the new heavens and the new earth. Invest yourself in that. That's the nature of the good eye. Now, what does it see? Well, I list in the bulletin outline there, just four things that I think are involved in what a good eye sees. The good eye sees, first of all, that this world is very temporary. It sees that. It understands that. It's not diluted. By the things that I can feel and touch are more substantial, they're more real than spiritual things. It sees that the only things that last beyond this world are God's word and people. That everything is going up in smoke someday, and that that's good, because the second thing that it sees is that heaven is my home. And that heaven will be my home forever That's only true for you if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning. If you have not given yourself to Jesus Christ for Him to forgive your sins, to take you as His disciple. To give you a new heart and a new life, you don't have heaven as your home to look forward to. And that beyond anything else is the chief concern for you. to have heaven as your home through Jesus Christ. If you wonder more what that means, talk to me afterwards. I'd be glad to talk to you and set up a time for us to talk about that or talk to some friend of yours that's a Christian. About what that means. Because the hope of the heaven, the good eye sees, the hope of the Christian is that heaven is my home forever. So I will live for the line, not just the dot of time. Thirdly, then the good eye sees that you can take nothing with you, but that you can send it on ahead. As the first 18 verses of the chapter give you some illustrations, it's not just how you spend your money. It is investing yourself for God and his pleasure in every area. And to do that because Jesus is the person for whom you were made, and heaven is the place for which you were made. That's your true home. Fourthly, then, you do that, you send it ahead by investing in people, not by spending or hoarding. You do it, you know, some of us as Christians say, well, I don't spend my money on all the stuff that my neighbors do and all this other. You know, I'm a good steward But you can be a good steward and still miss the principle by hoarding. You know, I have more problem with hoarding than spending. But there is there's still that desire, I'm going to take care of myself, I'm going to provide for myself, I'm going to trust in what I produce and can make and have stashed up. The good eye sees that I have a Heavenly Father to take care of me, and that what He is calling me to do is take the two things that outlast this world, God's Word and people. Put those two things together and invest myself and his word in the lives of people. And so now we come to that quote that a couple of you asked for last week. Well here it is. Jim Elliott. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose, sealed it with his life. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Sounds good. Do you believe it? Do you live that way? What does that mean for you? And I give you on the other side of the bulletin here from Randy Alcorn's book, Money, Possessions in Eternity, an excellent book. He has 40 questions to ask yourself. I've chosen ten. Forty, I think it's overwhelming. There's ten questions. For you to just look at those questions And to ask yourself, where is my heart? Remember, the Sermon on the Mount is all about the heart. And you must be consistent as if you look at this section, no different from the other sections. When you read those questions, when you and I look at our eyes, we realize, as a Christian My eye is not fully clear. It's mixed. It's clouded. You know, this last Monday Kathy and I went to the Maryland Science Museum to see that Body World exhibit. Fascinating exhibit. One of the things they tell you as you're going through that exhibit is everything you're seeing of these bodies is absolutely original. They are all the original human parts that you're looking at, with one exception. The iris of the eye. The eyeball is the original eyeball, but the iris of the eye. Why? Because they said at death, the iris clouds over. Some of us have clouded irises, clouded by materialism, even as we live. Even as Christians, as a Christian, my values slip, my eyesight gets clouded by the things that I think I need and must have. And as you read those questions and you hear Jesus' words, recognize two things. Number one, only Jesus had an absolutely unclouded eye. Only Jesus saw reality as it absolutely is, perfectly clear. That's why we want to listen to him. He sees things clearly And secondly, as you see your heart and repent, this is why you need Jesus. to forgive you and to change your heart because you are made for him and the more you see him and the more you understand his perfections and the more you understand his sacrifice for you the more your eyesight becomes clearer. And you want to live in the light of what you see is reality. It's a growth process. It's not a matter of either-or that you just simply come from clouded darkness. How great is that darkness? Much greater than physical darkness. But did you recognize, Lord, help me to see more clearly this week? Help me to see. We talked in the middle hour discussion about the sermon, about the little choices that we make, little choices every week. That sets us up for the big choices that come from time to time about who's really the master. And that leads us to the fourth contrast. There's a third contrast, fourth question. Fourth question then is who is your master? Who is your master? Again, Jesus places it in terms of an either-or situation. Verse 24: No one can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money. He does not say there you should not serve both God and money. He says you cannot serve both God and money. Why is that? Three key words in that verse help you to understand what Jesus means here. First of all, the word masters. No one can serve two masters. Why does he say that's not possible? You have to remember what master meant in that culture. We would not say you cannot serve to employers You cannot serve two bosses. You could. But the word master, as it's used in that cultural context, was the person who owned you and provided everything for you. Your master was the person who provided your clothes, the place that you live, provided the food that you ate. They had absolute claim on you. And you could only have one master. You couldn't have two places you lived and two provide provisions for your food and all the rest of that. So there was one master you chose if you had the choice, but there was one master that you had. And if there was somebody else that competed for that, then in your allegiance, you see, you you would be divided. When push comes to shove, this is the second the second word, why he uses um hate and love. They seem Kind of extreme does. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or will be devoted to the one, despise the other. Semitic communication often exaggerated to make the point. You know, where Jesus talks about hating mother and father, he talks about camel going through the eye of a needle, things like this. Those are to make the point. Now what's the point here? When push comes to shove, you only got one master When push comes to shove in your life, you are either depending on what you make and how big your bank account is and your retirement plan and the rest of that That's your trust, or your trust is in your Heavenly Father and in Jesus Christ. You can't ultimately trust in both of those And which one you trust in is which one you serve. And that is tested every single week, every single day. Little tests of that allegiance. And so the third word, the key word, money or mammon, is an interesting word. Because it was a word that originally meant something in which someone places his or her confidence Over time, it was observed that people tend to place their confidence in their material possessions or in their wealth, and so it took on that meaning, the meaning of wealth and money But really behind that is the idea of that which you place your confidence in. That what you're trusting in. What are you trusting in? You know, a couple uh month ago uh shingles started blowing off our roof. And we didn't plan to get a new roof, but all of a sudden we had uh $4,600 bill to get a new roof. Who do we trust at that point to take care of us? After the first service, somebody told me about her daughter works for Atlantic Bread Company, I think, over by Appleford. Yeah, that's her job. Went in this week, all of a sudden, doors closed, sign, closed, closed her business, went out of business. No warning whatsoever. End of job. That's it. Who do you trust at that moment? Who's your confidence? That's why the next section is going to be all about anxiety. Because Jesus is saying if your eye is clear and you understand reality, if you understand who your master is, The one that you love and that you serve, then those issues are settled for you. But if you don't, you're always going to be clamoring for stuff, a bigger account, more stuff to make you feel secure. Once again, in experience, I don't find it simply either-or. There are times when I acknowledge that Jesus Christ is my Lord and I should be investing myself in people, and I don't do it. I think of one example of this that happened to me last summer that's very much to my shame It was at a time when we were planning for our cruise to the Mediterranean and we had to choose excursions. We were going to have a discussion about this. And so here it was Sunday afternoon and I'm looking through some of these excursions and it dawns on me that The neighbors are having a cookout in our cul-de-sac outside of our door. Now, as Christians, of course, we're always wanting to meet our neighbors and have time with them. And here's a perfect opportunity. What do I do? I say, let me get these excursions done. The result of it was I kept working on the excursions and I never did join the cookout. That was very short-term thinking. That was saying, I want to invest in something I'm going to enjoy for me right here, right now, and the bigger picture. Totally eluded me. Brothers and sisters, when you're in those situations You are so glad that you have a master, Jesus, who served one master. Perfectly. Jesus never made the wrong choice. He never invested in himself for here and now to the exclusion of people and God's kingdom. And that Jesus died for my sin. That Jesus died for your short-term thinking. That Jesus died when you made money your master rather than your Heavenly Father. And so again, it is a process of looking at your heart, repenting, and asking, Lord, give me a A little better understanding. Read those questions. Examine your heart. No, you are not going to answer those questions as you wish you could. Those questions will convict you as they convict me, but they are to prompt you to look to Jesus and in looking to Jesus to say, I want to move my perspectives, my priorities. Shifted toward his kingdom, following him, learning. The disciple is a learner, learning how to follow Jesus in that area. And then finally, you take a look in the back of those ten questions, you'll see on that sheet, My Giving Covenant. And my giving covenant is a statement there about what it is that you can look at uh affirm six things to affirm and then to sign it, have somebody witness that you're signing it And that you would keep that in a place that you'll see it. But you don't necessarily sign it today. We're going to have two more weeks Tim preaching, Steve preaching first, next week then Tim preaching on the same topic. So what I want you to do is I want you to take that, and from your bulletin, I want you to tear out that paper. And tearing out that paper, I want you to keep it. I don't know how long you keep your bulletins, whether you toss them out Monday or what you do with them. But keep this paper to look at these questions, to pray about that covenant. To think, can you by the grace of God and trusting Jesus Christ find that thing over these next couple of weeks to be able to see that God would give you clearer eyes? And a more devoted heart. Let's pray. Lord, we do, we want to trust you We want to believe that what we do here and now affects eternity because you very clearly tell us that. We are able to store up those treasures. You tell us in Matthew 16, 27, that you will come and judge everything that we have done, and you will reward us by the things that we have done. Lord, we want to live by grace, not by the law. We want to look at our hearts realistically. And see you, Lord Jesus, as the one who died for us that you do not hold against us our materialism. You do not hold against us those selfish short-term desires that we've acted on instead of you. But you also want to free us from the bondage of our materialism, the darkness of our seeing fuzzy, and seeing not by reality. But by the illusions of this world that cannot deliver on its promises. So right now, Lord, we want to bring our hearts to you. We want to ask for your forgiveness. And we want to ask for you to give us eternal perspective. And how we thank you, Lord, that there is treasure in heaven, treasure beyond what the mind can conceive of, where we will live among things in a new heavens and a new earth. In a situation we have never experienced where things and relationships are not in conflict, where the things that we enjoy and the feasts that are lavish Are fully integrated with our love for you. We look forward to that time. Lord, help us to live in anticipation of it for Jesus' sake. Amen