Just a couple of personal words before we get into the message. Many of you may not know. This is Bob and Carrie's last Sunday, Bob and Carrie Bjorkis's. last Sunday here before they move to the West Coast. Many of you think, so what? Who's Bob and Carrie Bjorkes? Bob and Caribjus are two kids of two of the founding families of Columbia Presbyterian Church who are still here. And um Bob has taken a call to be a pastor. of a Presbyterian church, Presbyterian Church in America, just uh about five miles from the ocean at the Malibu area. So he'll probably see his friends more out there now than he has seen them here. But uh They take off this week. It's their last Sunday. So we bid you Godspeed and His great blessing upon a new ministry that I'll have for you guys out there. And uh several of you have been asking why Kathy and I are still here in mid-August and not up at Cape Cod where we belong. And I I really appreciate your concern for us. I want you to know we will not be going to Cape Cod this year, but that's okay. We do not feel deprived. Because next week Kathy and I will be celebrating our fortieth wedding anniversary. And so we will be Thanks, Matt. Thank you very much. That wasn't a prompt, but I appreciate it. Too bad my wife's not here to hear it. I'll tell her. Uh and so we are going to be uh celebrating that with a twelve-day cruise in September And so we will not be here the last half basically of the month of September. And that works out really quite well for some of the things the other staff and I have planned in kicking off the fall Uh and we're saying it works out better because I'm not here. Well, you'll see when we get to that. Um but uh what that means is we're continuing our study of the Lord's Prayer uh un Hindered, unstopped throughout August. Now, last week or the last couple of weeks, we have been seeing that prayer is not a bending machine where we learn how to operate it to get the things that we want. But rather that what Jesus is teaching us here in this model is that prayer is a relationship, a relationship with a heavenly Father. It is how, together with the Bible, you and I get to know God. By seeing how he describes himself in Scripture, and then as we ask him for things, as we relate to him in prayer He opens himself up to us to display his character to us in very personal ways. Now, the model that Jesus has given to us that we're studying in Matthew six has two parts to it. First of all, an address. And then secondly, the six petitions. The address has two parts to it. Last week we looked at the first, our Father. We saw there that God has given to us in this an incredibly rich privilege of calling upon the Infinitely majestic, infinite personal creator of all reality, of all the universe. To without deserving it call on this one as Father. We reminded that when we come to Him, we have no right to come to Him. But that this God had his own son, who shares his nature, fully God, who came to earth, lived as a son. And lived the life you and I should have lived, then took upon himself your sin and my sin by paying the debt fully for that He removed the obstacle for God to be able to adopt you and me as his own children, so that we have that privilege of calling him father, daddy. And that when we do that, we remember that he is more unlike our earthly fathers than he is like them, no matter how good they were or are to us. Because he is the perfect dad that your heart always longed for, always wanted. This is the perfect father that invites you to come to him. So he is caring, fully caring for you in all of your needs. But he's not only caring, he's fully capable. And this morning we look at the other side of that address, our Father in heaven, Matthew 6, verse 9. Our Father in heaven. This is how you should pray, Jesus says. Now I want to do two things with that. I want to look at first of all what does that mean, and then I want to look at the implications of how that affects how you and I pray. So first of all, what does in heaven tell us about him? What does it mean? First of all, literally you notice up there that in heaven is literally in the Greek in the heavens. That's an interesting phrase. It's um it's a deep mystery to understand what that means. Things I'm going to share with you now are difficult, they're weighty, um but Um i i it's not necessary for you and me to fully comprehend this mystery in order for us to pray, so don't think I'm not sure I fully got that. Can I still pray? Don't worry. You can still pray. Simplest child, our Father in heaven. But what does it mean when the Bible says, our Father in the heavens? First of all, in the heavens is not referring to some place up in the sky, not referring even to some place beyond the galaxies. It's not some place that you could visit in outer space. But it is within creation. Now it's hard to understand it, but this idea of in the heavens refers to God in creation. You see that, for instance, in verse 10, where Jesus goes on right after this to pray, teach us, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. So this place, this idea in heaven, in the heavens, is where there are creatures who are doing his will. These spirit creatures, the unfallen angels, are in this part of this creation. We can't see them, but they are in this abode that Jesus was referring to in the heavens. You see that idea also you remember back in chapter 5 when Jesus was warning us about not keeping our word, our oaths. And he said that, I tell you, Matthew 5, 34 and 35, I tell you, do not swear at all, either by heaven, for it is God's throne. It's a place where God's throne is, or by earth, for it is his footstool. So what it's referring to is a place where God rules, where his reign is absolute. It's invisible to us, but it is real. In fact, it is more real than what you and I see day after day. How can we understand that? Let me try at least an illustration to help a bit. Let's imagine this piece of paper as uh having only two dimensions. I know you scientists will tell me it has three dimensions, but let's just imagine it is a plane with only length and width. Okay, it has no thickness. Now, creatures that would be swarming around or crawling around on that that are two-dimensional creatures have only length and they have only width. That's all they know is this two-dimensional universe. But I'm a three-dimensional creature. I not only have length and width, I have depths, I have uh you know thickness And and yet these creatures, if I keep my hand and keep myself out of their plane, are totally unaware that I exist. They have no comprehension of me The only way they would know I exist is if I intersect their plane. I touch it or I might put my hand through it, then they might be able to see, detect that, oh, there's something else that has come into our universe. It's displayed in a way that we can see, but normally we can't. So I think this idea of dimensions, it may be that this idea of our Father in the heavens is referring to a dimension. of his of where he is reigning that you and I normally cannot see. One of the last well let me give you a couple other scriptures on that For instance, in Ephesians 2. 6, where Paul says, God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. Now what does that mean? It's not something you and I can see. We don't experience that directly with our five senses. But The Bible says we're really there. We are with him in this reign, this place of his reign, this dimension where God is in ultimate control displayed in all of his will being done. Every moment, all the time, completely. You and I, if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you are actually in your true identity. in that place with him. Or in Colossians chapter 3, verse 1, since then you've been raised with Christ. Set your heart on things above Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. This again, it's not up in the air, it's in another dimension. Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God, set your mind on things above, not on earthly things. You've died, your life is hidden with him in that dimension, in that That sphere, that realm that you and I can't see with the eyes, can't hear with the ears. Now I started saying, one of last centuries greatest Old Testament scholars in my judgment was a man by the name of Meredith G. Klein. I had the privilege of studying under him back in the sixties when he was Hale and Hardy. He actually died earlier this year. He thought that the best way to conceive of these two dimensions, these two kinds of realities, was in terms of what he called registers, the two registers. Don't worry about what that means. But you see in your bulletin outline that the upper register is real but invisible. That's the heavens. Our Father in the heavens. It's real. It's part of creation, but it's not visible. It's not perceptible in any way to you and me. except with the eyes of faith. The lower register is real and visible, and that includes heaven and earth. That's why it's a little confusing, because we use the same word to refer to two different kinds of dimensions. The heaven, the galaxies, space is part of this lower register of reality that you and I see. But here's where it gets exciting. You see, what the Bible teaches is that in the day when Jesus Christ comes back, those two registers will be united. They will be put together. Let me quote to you from one of Klein's writings on this. and uh give you um just some idea. He says thus the upper and lower registers relate to each other spatially, not as different locations. But as different dimensions of the one cosmos. God's heavenly habitation, therefore, exists on a mysterious, invisible, spiritual plane, a dimension permeated with created spirit beings. We are not to conceive of heaven as a location within our universe or even outside of it, as if one could travel there via a spaceship or set set to certain coordinates within the time-space continuum. Although it is presently seen only with the eyes of faith, Christ is seated as our king and priest in the upper register. From there he will come on the clouds of heaven with all his holy angels to execute judgment upon the world and to bring about a perfect, eternal union of the visible and invisible worlds. a union of these two worlds. Ultimately the upper register will become permanently visible to you and to me. For the two registers will be united in the last day, removing the present distinction between the two levels. clothed in the brilliance of the glory of God, the new Jerusalem will come down out of heaven, and the dwelling place of God will be with his people. So when you read Revelation 21, for instance, that he's referring to there, you notice that John says, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any seed. This is part of this new reality that is coming into being And what now exists, the heavenly Jerusalem, the Holy City, now becomes visible. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. You see this? reality where he is reigning. Prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband, heard a loud voice, and God is saying, I am now dwelling with you. We see him He's with us in a way that is perceptible to us. So in the heavens, when we pray, our Father in the heavens We're referring to him in the transcendence of his glory, absolute authority, and power, which is real but unseen to you and to me right now. Now give a moment to let that sink in, because brothers and sisters, that is staggering Open your eyes when you pray to understand you are entering by faith into a different dimension of reality, praying to your Father who is in the heavens. What difference does that make in how you and I pray? Let me offer to you what I call three P's of the difference. The first has to do with his power. His power and how that increases your faith. You see, when you pray our Father in the heavens, you realize you are praying to a God who is ruling and reigning. Heaven is his throne, earth is his footstool. And therefore he is capable of doing anything he pleases. Remind you again of what we read. A few minutes ago, Psalm 115, verse 3, Our God is in heaven. And you see, it's like you could put in a little therefore, because it's there's a connection. Our God is in heaven. Therefore, He does whatever pleases him. He is reigning in this dimension where his authority is unquestioned and Absolute. And he is bringing that authority to bear on this world. And one of the ways that he does it is through the prayers of his people. You connect with that authority and that power in your praying. And you ask him to demonstrate, to display that power. It is never a question when you pray of is he able to do this. If your mind begins to grasp his power and his authority, then you would laugh at yourself to be able to say, well I wonder if he's able to help me balance my budget at the end of this month or provide for what I need or take care of this relationship or whatever. So his power increases your faith, the display of that, your understanding of that. But secondly, it means that when you pray Mentally at least, if not physically, you are prostrate. I am prostrate. It leads to my worship. I must never think that calling him daddy means that I can buddy up to him It never means that I can be cozy with him or familiar in a way that is inappropriate from a creature to the Creator. Psalm 95, verse 6 says, Come let us bow down in worship. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. So we must always keep these two ideas in a certain amount of tension. It is a grace privilege for me to be able to call the infinite personal Heavenly Father, Daddy, my God, who I can come with awe and reverence, and yet I am able to, as it were, climb up onto his lap and be embraced by him. The Jews of Jesus' day emphasized God's transcendence to the exclusion of his nearness. Jesus did a radical thing when he taught us to pray to our Father, our Daddy. But contemporary evangelicalism has gone to the other extreme. Today we emphasize his nearness almost to the exclusion of his transcendence. Many of the worship songs that we sing, if you did not know who the pronouns referred to, it could refer to your boyfriend as well as to God. And that should give us pause to examine the nature of our worship. You see, we're in a culture that is determined to be comfortable with God. We demand to be comfortable with him. We don't like to hang around people that would make us uncomfortable. But in the in the need, the demand for comfortableness, we have lost the reality of his transcendence, of his power. We have lost the ability to worship and to believe that he is capable of all things. And so we are not a culture of deep worship or great faith, because we have reduced God so much. John Piper In his book, Let the Nations Be Glad tells about a fellow, Charles Misner, who is a scientific specialist in relativity theory And he was writing about Albert Einstein's skepticism over the church. And let me quote from Misner. He says The design of the universe is very magnificent and shouldn't be taken for granted. In fact, I believe that is why Einstein had so little use For organized religion, although he strikes me as a basically very religious man. He must have looked at what the preachers said about God and felt that they were blaspheming He had seen much more majesty than they had ever imagined. And they were just not talking about the real thing. My guess is that he simply felt that religions he had run across did not have proper respect for the author of the universe. That's the end of the quote, but Piper goes on. This charge of blasphemy is loaded. The point is to pack a wallet behind the charge that in our worship services God simply doesn't come through for who he is. He is unwittingly belittled for those who are stunned by the indescribable magnitude of what God has made, not to mention the infinite greatness of the one who made it. The steady diet on Sunday mornings of practical how-to's and psychological soothing and relational therapy and tactical planning seemed dramatically out of touch with reality. The God of overwhelming greatness. And when we go away on vacation, I'm always glad to come back to services that Tim and our other worship leaders plan to help us in that balance. Of drawing near here at Columbia Presbyterian to a God who is also worthy of bowing before Him. And so it is appropriate for us to kneel. To bow before him in worship, to recognize his greatness, that he is bigger than the earth that he is bigger than our solar system, greater than our galaxy, larger than the universe. In fact, we're going to be showing a visual aid at the end of the message. To help you and me to grasp just a little bit of the magnificence and the transcendence of this Creator God. Let me quote also from another clipping I've had for some years in my file. To capture a glimpse of who this God is, let's take an imaginary trip across our universe. Our space vehicle will travel fast, in fact at the speed of light, 186,000 miles per second. How fast is this? Well, to begin with, we'll pass the moon in just 1. 3 seconds after blast-off. Traveling at 660 million miles per hour, we leave our solar system, that's our sun and all its planets. in only five hours. Four years will then pass before we reach Earth's nearest star. While in our galaxy, the Milky Way, we arrive at a new star approximately every five years. In the Milky Way, there are at least a hundred billion stars, possibly double or triple that number. It's going to be a long journey. If we travel directly across our galaxy in a straight line from Earth, it will require 80,000 years, 660 million miles per hour, of continuous travel. If we were to visit every individual star in the Milky Way, it would take us 500 billion years to make the trip. But now the trip really begins. Once out of our galaxy, it requires two million more years just to reach our closest neighboring galaxy, Andromeda. Galaxies come in groups. Dark group contains approximately 17 separate galaxies, each with at least a hundred billion stars. Some groups have as few as three galaxies. Our group, incidentally, called by astronomers without a smile or chuckle, the local group. The largest of these groups in known space is Hercules, which contains 10,000 separate galaxies. We will reach the first of Hercules galaxies after traveling 300 million years. When our trip is completed. Scientists say we will have passed some 100 octillion stars. That's a one with 29 zeros after it. What a universe, and what a creator. And when you pray, our Father in heaven. You are praying to that God who is in the dimension of his rule and his reign. At each point, at each star, at one and the same time, and he is listening to you at that same moment. Brothers and sisters, let that sink in. He listens to me in my stammerings and in my weak faith and my crying to him. In all the transcendent power and glory of His Majesty. And he says, Call me Daddy. I can still remember when I was when my mother had uh Died some years ago, coming to God and sensing in such deeply moving personal ways His closeness, his care, his tender thoughtfulness for me and for Kathy during those difficult days. I felt like he was holding me in his hand. I felt so safe and so loved And so as you and I come to this God, it is entirely appropriate that we kneel. The word in the Hebrew worship means literally to prostrate yourself flat out before Him. That's the appropriate posture. I wish that we could kneel in our prayers at Columbia Presbyterian, but it's awkward with our church with the chairs and the floors and our arrangements to do that. But in our minds or at least at home this week, take some time to kneel before this God. And to understand both those truths, transcendent and yet your daddy. Third point. Of all this, the third P is our priorities. This is why the first three petitions are about Him and not about you. Our priorities, not just his priorities, but Jesus teaches us that in our praying these should be our priorities. As I've said before, life is not your party. It's not about you. It's his party. And you're an invited guest. But it centers on him. The Father who is in the heavens captures these two things about God that we must always keep in balance. And they are communicated as we begin the prayer with the three first three petitions about Him and the second three about us. It's captured in our understanding that he cares infinitely more for you than you could imagine. But he is capable in his majesty infinitely more. Then you realize, and your submission to him is so entirely appropriate. Paul captures something of that balance in his writing in Ephesians when he is describing this balance. In that prayer of Ephesians 3, let me pick it up at the end of verse 17 that you see up there I pray that you being rooted and established in love, Paul says, may have the power together with all the saints to grasp how wide and how long and how high and how deep is the love of Christ. His closeness, that's his fatherhood, that's his coming to you. In fact, he begins that prayer by referring to the Father of all heaven and earth. And to know this love which surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able. Now he moves to the other dimension, to him who is able. To do immeasurably more than all that we ask or imagine according to his power that is at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever, and all God's people said Amen. Right. You see, get that balance. See those two things put together. Let me ask you personally, how's your view of God imbalanced this morning? How's it deficient How do you see that reflected in the way that you pray? If God seems distant and unreal to you? Let me suggest that you get into Scripture. That you learn more about this God of the dimensions, of the one in the heavens. And how he brought himself into the confines of this reality, of this earth, this dot within a dot, within a dot that you'll see in a minute. And to display himself here and to bring salvation through his own son for you, for me. Get into Scripture to enlarge your view. Does he seem like he's distant and that you are unable to connect with him? Remember his faithfulness. Remember that he bid you to call him daddy and think of how in the past he has shown his faithfulness to you. And then ask yourself, how would my life be different if Jesus Christ had never come into it? And think about the difference that He has made and that He does make to you right now And then if it seems like it's impossible that what you're praying could ever come to pass, you couldn't imagine that person changing or that circums changing circumstance changing. Let your mind be enlarged to understand what it means that our Father is in the heavens. that he does whatever pleases him, and that you're able to bring your needs before him, and that he hears you. And that though he rules in an invisible realm, that invisible realm, Is the realm for which he reigns in the visible realm that you and I live in. In the year 2002, Robert Kirschner wrote a book, published it, called The Extravagant Universe. Let me quote from a review of that book in Books and Culture. Quote, In the extravagant universe, Robert Kirschner tells the story of the discovery, this recent discovery, that the universe consists not only of the matter and energy that we can perceive through our senses. and scientific instruments, but also of a mysterious dark energy and dark matter that we cannot currently observe As Kirchner writes, quote, the universe that we see is controlled by the universe that we do not see. Dark matter that is not like the neutrons and protons that make up our bodies And an enigmatic dark energy that shows itself in the runaway expansion of the universe. What's he saying? He's saying the things that are really in control are things we don't see. And we have scientific evidence that that's the case. Now when I read that as a Christian, this isn't a Christian book, but when I read that as a Christian, I'll tell you it sends shivers up my spine. Because I see it as a witness that God has given That within this world, heaven and earth, there is the display of the fact that there is this whole universe that you and I don't see. And it is from within that universe God is displaying his power over the world that we do see, and we connect to that in prayer. In crying out as simple sinners, our Father in heaven So come to this father. Come this morning Come and see what that means when you pray to him. You know the problem with this message? The problem with this message is you hear all this stuff. And you say, you go out and you say, wow, boy, isn't that God is so great. That's really terrific. Boy, you know, it expands my mind. That's wonderful. And then you go home and the dishwasher breaks Where somebody snaps at you, kids don't do something, you know, something goes wrong, and all of a sudden, poof, you're helpless, on your own, nothing's ever going to change, what am I ever going to do? How am I ever going to figure this out? What am I you know? And you feel absolutely abandoned and helpless. Brothers and sisters, connect the dots See the gospel truth of the reality of our Father in the heavens with your world of need. Your world of weakness, your world where you need to connect the dots between his power and your need. between what is inherently your and my self-centeredness and his agenda for the display of his glory. And learn what it means to pray, our Father in the heavens. Let's go to prayer now. Let's connect the dots in our thinking between gospel truth and your reality, and we will end by praying once again together the Lord's Prayer as you see it printed in the sermon outline in your bulletin. Our Father, how we repent of our small tiny views of you. We want so much to be comfortable with you. That we have reduced you to an impotent God that is only displayed in looking for parking spaces and needs with bad health reports and job needs. And oh our God, we pray that you would expand our understanding. Expand our minds to see who you are and the display of your glory not only within our creation, but to know that You reign in the heavens in a whole different dimension that we cannot see except with the eyes of faith, and we pray for that faith now To see the adequacy and the transcendence of the one that we bow before. That you would shape and transform our thinking, that you would enable us to connect the dots between who you are and the world of our own need. So, Holy Spirit, we pray that you will teach us More of what it means to pray according to that model that Jesus in infinite wisdom gave us. To pray to you. And so now, Lord, we pray together, our Father in heaven. Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread. Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen.