I uh very very rarely ever say anything just personal before I get into um opening God's Word, but um indulge me, I would like to say something this morning. Um today I entered kindergarten Uh I met a fellow whose name also was Alan. He was nine days older than me And delighted to remind me of that through school as we went on from kindergarten on up through high school Um we neither of us were from church going homes, went to the same church that was between his house and my house. About the same time we became Christians at that church. went uh separate ways and um he uh got married. I was in his wedding. Um when I got married to Kathy he was in my wedding was my best man. And uh then after a few years we lost contact with each other and I discovered him this past December and called him up and uh we talked and caught up. It had been uh thirty-five years since we had seen each other and forty-five years since we had committed our lives to Christ together. found out that uh we have a girl, girl and a boy. He had a girl, a girl, and a boy. Found out that he is now on staff at Willow Creek Church in Illinois, and you know where I am. This afternoon at uh 3. 30, right after we leave, finish here, Kathy and I are going to get in the car, and he is worshiping this morning at the church where we became Christians. And we're going to meet in the parking lot of the church where we committed our lives to Christ 45 years ago and celebrate God's faithfulness that we are still married. to the same woman wom women. He and his wife celebrated uh forty years this June. Kathy and I are not quite there. But uh what a celebration of God's faithfulness through the years. So really looking forward to that. So I'm not gonna be hanging around very long today. Gotta get up there and meet him in the parking lot Which is across the street from where he grew up and a few blocks from where I grew up. Well, now in our study of the Gospel of Matthew, We have been looking at the person and the ministry of John the Baptist, a colorful and charismatic character, who God used to prepare the way for the coming of Jesus. and his ministry. We've been looking at the four ways that John prepared the people to receive Jesus. Uh first um had to do with uh the first three had to do with our seeing ourselves more realistically. We see that John wants us to see that we tend to want to keep God in a convenient corner of our lives and pull him out when we need him And that that denies his sovereign rule. And John says his sovereign rule is coming in a new and imminent way. Therefore, repent. Turn back to God. as he really should be as ruler over your life. Secondly, John prepared the way by cultivating in us a sense of the need to be cleansed and purified through this picture of the baptism by water. to know that only he can cleanse us from our sin. Thirdly, he tried to disabuse us of those notions that we had of our own self-righteousness of the ways that we could approach God and be okay because our good would outweigh our bad or because our creeds or our standards that we seek to keep somehow were sufficient or that either through our connections with family or church that somehow those connections would make us okay. Now, John has tried to show us then how we need a Messiah, a Savior, by helping us to see ourselves more realistically. The fourth way that God that John prepares us for Jesus in his ministry Is not to help us to see ourselves more as we really are, but to see Jesus as He really is. John wants us to look away from ourselves and to direct our gaze to Jesus to see what he is like. As John 1 records, John's the Baptist's words, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. If Satan can get you to look at anything else, anything apart from Jesus, to distract your gaze, to look at something else, to look at some other person, then he has accomplished his purpose. Even if it's to get you to look at your sin and and to mourn it and to to feel how deficient and how rotten you are and on and on and on. He can just get you to keep focused on your sin and yourself He's accomplished his purpose. He don't care. If he can get you to think about the principles of the gospel and how God-centered life is to be So that in a subtle way you begin to feel superior to other Christians because you're more God-centered and you understand the principles of grace more. He still accomplished his purpose Anything that'll get you to shift away from Christ. That's all he wants. And so what John wants to do, more than anything else, After he's talked about seeing ourselves more realistically, as he says, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And in Matthew chapter 3, we see he does that by displaying four characteristics of Jesus that I want to look at this morning as we conclude this little mini-series within Matthew. I want to look at these four things, but as we look at them, I want to say one other thing by way of preface to make sure you don't miss this, because it's easy to miss, maybe a little subtle. Um sometimes people will read through Matthew and they'll say, Well, you know, Matthew doesn't really say that Jesus is God But what John says about Jesus here is four things, and those four things are simply that he is infinitely more powerful than I am. That he is preeminent among all creatures, all men. Thirdly, that he is judge of everyone's eternal destiny. And fourthly, that he is perfect. If those four things or any one of those four things are not true, then Jesus was wrong to allow that impression to persist. Jesus never corrects John. Jesus never says, well, I'm not really perfect, or, well, I'm, you know, I'm not that preeminent. Jesus allows what John says to stand. If he is not, if those things aren't true of him, then he's not a good man. He's a deceiver. And secondly, if Jesus isn't God, then he's wrong to allow those things to stand, because the inevitable conclusion of the fact that not only is he vastly more powerful than John and preeminent beyond all men, but that he is judge of everyone's destiny and eternal welfare and that he is perfect. If that's not true Then Jesus is wrong to allow it to stand. But if it is true, it's pretty hard to escape the conclusion that He's God. Now I want to look at these things. I want to look at them in some more detail. And so let's go through the four. Number one Jesus is powerful. I want you to see something of his powerful. Look again at verse 11. I baptize you with water for repentance, but after me will come one who is more powerful than I. He is more powerful. John is the law in a person. John tells you that you need to change as the law does. And so you go and you confess. Yeah, here's my sins. Here's where I need to change. John has you come down. He baptizes you. It's a sign of cleansing. And then you go home. But you know what? You're still gonna lose your temper. You're still gonna be a control freak You're still going to be demanding and critical and complaining. Nothing that John did will change you. You confess your sin. You have this hope of being cleansed. But you're not different. When Jesus tells you you need to change, he says, Come to me, and he baptizes you, John says, with his spirit. And he changes your heart. That doesn't mean, of course, that you become instantaneously perfect. It doesn't mean that any particular sin is eradicated. But it does mean that you change. It does mean that he gives you new desires and new power by his spirit to change. Just this week I met with a couple that uh were on the brink of divorce a few months ago. And uh the woman called me, a part of our church. They said that I could tell you their name, but I'm not going to do that because I'm hoping they'll tell you their story sometime this fall at a Lord's Supper service. She called me up and she said, uh, I want to leave him. I'm desperate. Um surely God wouldn't have me to stay in a situation like this. What can I do? We talked for a while and my heart really went out to her as she described the kind of situation she was living in. And I said, I've got good news and bad news. Bad news is you can't leave them. The good news is you're going to need to discover an intimacy with Jesus that you never knew was possible. You're going to need to become a woman of peace regardless of what your husband is like. Apart from his support, apart from the kind of relationship you wish you had, and you're going to see the power of Christ in ways you never dreamed. And this week we met together. I didn't know how they were doing. I wanted to meet. And she walked in and she said, It's true. It's true. I I can't explain a principle or something I read or you know all I can tell you is Jesus changed my heart He gave me a new love for this guy. He's sitting there. He gave me a new love for this guy. We're intimate again. And we're working together again and he is supportive and I sense his love for me. And I said How did you change? And there were other people working with him, and he said, God has given me a whole new trust for Jesus Christ, like I've never had. And he comes home and he's helpful and all those kind of things. Now, let me tell you, I can't guarantee you that when Jesus changes your heart in a bad marriage Believe me, they are not the only bad marriage. Since that happened, since that was said a couple of days ago I have talked to two women who have said, I could tell you the exact same thing in my own life, that are also part of our congregation. It doesn't always mean that when the wife or the husband's heart changes by Jesus Christ, that the other will necessarily become more loving and reciprocate By God's grace, that happened in this case. But my point here is that Jesus is a powerful Savior. He is able to change a heart when it seems impossible to change. That's the gospel. Not you need to change But come to Jesus, he can change you. Amen. He can do it. See, John, who had said That Jesus, behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, a few verses before that John I had said, He is the one who was from the beginning with God, and through him all things came into being. He is the one who calms the waves of the sea, stills the storm, raises the dead. Through him all things came into being. Now You look at your little bulletin outline there and you see that little thing looks like an O that's just kind of sitting by itself. And the office thought that was a mistake, had to argue to keep it in there. That's there for a purpose. I want you to look at that thing and I want you to imagine that that's a hole, you know, just like if you could get a hole punch and punch through that little thing and if you were to hold that up at reading distance and hold that up to the sky, you'd be looking at one little tiny section of the sky that big. What would be up there Fifteen hundred stars? I mean, wow. That you know that's amazing. In that little section of sky, I mean, you know, you think of the power of the sun. The Sun is so large, just an average-sized star, but if you could put 300,000 Earths inside the Sun. And if you took a golf ball that was of the heat of the sun, it would kill you instantly at a distance of a hundred miles. That's power. But there's not fifteen hundred stars in that tiny speck of the sky. There's about fifteen hundred galaxies. Each galaxy containing ten to a hundred billion stars All things were made by him and through him. And you and I wonder, is he powerful enough for this problem It's overwhelming me in my life. John says he is more powerful than I am. He baptizes you with his Spirit. We're going to look at the next message from Matthew at what that means. But Jesus is the one who has created all things, and he says to you this morning He is available and his power is available to you in the needs of your life. This woman said, I could have never believed how Jesus could change my heart. And this morning you come to him in your need. And you will be able to say also, I couldn't believe what he was able to do. Trust him. Trust him. Secondly, John points out that Jesus is preeminent. Back in verse eleven. After me will come one who is more powerful than I, whose sandals I am not fit to carry. Carrying the sandals of a person, or as Luke says, tying the sandals of a person, was the job of a slave. John says, He is so majestic, I am not fit to be his slave. And people saw John as a holy man, one whom they respected. And whom they revered. And John says, I'm not fit to be a slave of this Jesus. Let me ask you, are you ever amazed? That Jesus would associate with you. Sometimes when I worship him and I'm speaking to him and considering who he is, I find my heart just kind of recoiling from the fact that he calls me friend and Associates with me. And I say, Lord, it just doesn't seem right. It seems demeaning to you that you associate with me. It doesn't seem right. Do you ever feel that? Do you ever feel that his preeminence is just so vast? Well you know, we don't see it, do we? Now I um Talked about the stars. One star, Monocerrotus, back in uh January 2002 Suddenly grew inexplicably in its brilliance until it became six hundred thousand times more luminous than our sun For a brief period of time. But how many of us noticed it? You know? I mean nobody's oh look at oh wow, yeah You see, we don't have eyes to see it, even though it was 600,000 times brighter than our sun. Our culture has lost a sense of the preeminence of Christ. Back in the Great Awakening, when evangelists would preach the gospel, They found that people could, in opening up the Bible, people had respect for, come to recognize their sin, and their great difficulty was in persuading people that there was forgiveness for their sin and that Jesus Christ really would be sufficient and he would forgive them. Today, you can't get people to see their sin. I don't have any problem believing God will forgive me. Of course He'll forgive me. But what do I need to be forgiven for? See, we've lost a sense of the majesty, the preeminence of Christ. We need eyes to see Jesus in his worthiness as Johnson. I'm not worthy to be a slave. And yet Jesus says to you, come, come to me. Come to me. I want to have a relationship with you. And that should stagger you and me, as we consider what kind of a gracious invitation that is. John says he's powerful, and he is preeminent. Thirdly, he is the judge of people's ultimate destiny Again, look at the scripture. After me will come one who is more powerful than I, whose sandals I'm not fit to carry He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. Now, commentators debate all back and forth whether that's the Holy Spirit and fire, or the Holy Spirit or with fire. I side with those who say it's the Holy Spirit or with fire. Back in verse 10, John talked about the fire of judgment. The very next verse, verse 12, John talks about the fire of judgment. So it seems to me that to say that that's a purifying fire in the believer's life is to take it out of its context. Clearly it can mean that, and clearly the context, I think, argues is what John is saying. is that he will baptize you either with the Holy Spirit or with fire. And then verse 12 describes that. His widowing fork is in his hand. He will clear his threshing floor, gathering his weed into the barn, and burning up the chaff with unquenchable fire. Now, you've got to go back and picture that because it's easy for us to read that and kind of like, you know, well whatever and go on. What John is picturing there is a farmer who grows wheat or barley. He grows the grain and what he would do is he'd harvest it by cutting the stalks, the sheaves, and then he would bring those in and he he would have a place that was usually a a large flat rock. and usually uh on on a little rise uh on a small hill. And uh he would take those sheaves and he would dump them there And then he would take a team of oxen that would draw a sled, and on the bottom of the sled there were stones attached, and they would drag that around the rock a few times, and that would separate the grain. From off of the stalks. So after they did that for a while, you'd have these stalks and then you'd have these grain of grains of wheat. You'd clear out the stalks And now you've got the wheat, but the wheat's still got the chaff, the hull attached to it, and some dust and dirt and all that stuff. And then this is where verse 20 12 comes in He would take a thing called a widowing fork. A widowing fork looked kind of like a shovel with prongs, tying on the end of it. And he would take that shovel and he would shovel up the wheat and he'd throw it up in the air. And he would usually do this in the late afternoon when a breeze was beginning to rise. He'd throw that up in the air. And as he would do that The light calf would separate and the wind would would just blow that aside, blow the dust and the rest. And so gradually as he did that again and again and again, he would have a pile of pure wheat. And the chaff would all be scattered around this stone table. Then he would take a shovel and he would take that wheat Which was precious to him. He had labored for months to grow that crop. He would take the wheat and he would put it into his barn to later be ground into flour. That was precious. The calf, he would take a light and he would just throw it on there. And if you were one part of that calf There was no escaping the unquenchable, immediate fire. They would burn it instantly. It was dry. It was like tinder. And John is saying, Jesus is going to come and he's going to separate the nations, every one of you and me. We are all going to stand before him as the wheat. And you will see Jesus separating, one gathered into his barn, to be with him forever and ever The other one being cast away to be burned in unquenchable fire, and your heart will be beat wildly, and you'll say, Well, I I know, I think I believed in Jesus, I know you know, but you'll am I sure? I mean eternity Rest on what's going to happen in these next few moments. And you will either have the Holy Spirit coming to witness to you, it's okay. You have Jesus' perfect record. Or you will begin to think how foolish, how stupid, when my friends and I would kid about hell and say, Well, you know, we're going to hell, that's where all my friends are, that's where I want to be, and all this This irresponsible, foolish, stupid talk about who cares. I don't need Jesus in my life right now. It's not convenient for me. And you think about all the things that the world said and all its values, and you feel like this dumb sheep that just went and followed. Sheep are so dumb. We follow whatever sounds appealing. You know how dumb sheep are? How many of you have read what happened to a herd of sheep in Turkey last week? Few of you? Huh? Let me tell you how dumb sheep are. herd of fifteen hundred sheep in Turkey. The shepherds were around there and this this hill that they were grazing on was uh by a cliff, a sheer cliff. And one sheep, whatever possessed it, you know, depressed You know, MasterCard was way overextended. I don't know what it was. Some one of those dumb sheep jumped off the cliff Now, you know, the rest of the sheep look and say, Well, that was really dumb. Now the sheep behind them comes off the cliff too Then the next sheep jumps off the cliff and the next and pretty soon there was a stampede of hundreds of sheep jumping off the cliff Four hundred and fifty sheep jumped to their death down that cliff. But the sheep kept coming. Well what happened after the 450 to the 1500? Well there were so many sheep down there in a pile that it was kind of like a mattress. And so the rest of the sheep kind of bounced off and they didn't die, you know. That's dumb. But how much more foolish the person who sits under the gospel And hears of a Jesus who will forgive you and change you. And says, No, I'm going to follow my friends. No, I'm going to follow Oprah, Dr. Phil, or whoever I read, or whatever. Seems like it makes sense to me. John says, there's only one way. You're gathered into the barn. Yeah, the perfect record of Jesus. You see, the fourth thing he says about Jesus is he is uniquely perfect. Verse 13. Jesus comes from Galilee to the Jordan to be baptized by John. But John tried to deter him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me? Jesus replied, Let it be so now. It is proper for us to do this to fulfill all righteousness. And then John consented See, John is shocked. It's kind of like if if we a Columbia Presbyterian invited a famous preacher. to come and to preach a series of messages or one special message, you know, and we all come to hear this man of God who has a reputation of great godliness and insight into the scriptures. And and then you go in the back and there he is in the back room where people say they want to come and receive Jesus. need counseling, you know, they come there and they we come back and we talk to him. Here he is sitting like he needs to be converted or something. You know, he's back there mourning and, you know, it's a wait a minute, what are you doing back there? You're supposed to be up here declaring the word See, and that's what John's thinking. See, John's saying, here's all these people, and they come to be baptized because they need to be converted. Now, Jesus, you don't need to be converted. What are you doing getting in line for baptism? And Jesus gives this strange response, let it be so for now, because it's necessary to fulfill all righteousness. Now what's that about? Now I come back to Delaney. Central to the meaning of baptism is identification You see, when you and I are baptized, we are expressing in that, it's a sign and a seal of our identification with Jesus in his life and death and resurrection, particularly his death and resurrection. But the flip side of that is that Jesus needs to be identified with us in our sin. So, to fulfill all righteousness, what Jesus is saying is at the beginning of my ministry now, I am identifying with sinners. This baptism is a sign and a seal of my identification with sinners in their sin. Something that helped me to understand the shame of what Jesus was doing here was a book by John White called Changing on the Inside, or Changing on the Inside Out, something like that. John White is a psychiatrist, was a psychiatrist. He's with the Lord now. And he was a physician. And he mentioned that in medical school One of the classes they had to take was uh on venereal disease, and to do that they needed to go to the clinic and and uh find out what what went on and how what the procedures were. For some reason he missed that class and so they said he had to do it on his own. So he went to the VD clinic and he went to the fellow in charge and he said, I need to see a doctor here. And he said, Yeah, so is everybody else. Get in line. So he said, No, you don't understand. I'm a medical student. He says, Yeah, well, you get it the same way everybody else does. Get in line. And he says, he stood in line, he burned with shame, because he's identified with all these men who have VD. And he said, suddenly I thought of Jesus in lying to be baptized. What is my sense of shame? To think that I have VD compared to Jesus' sense of shame, to be identified with sinners and to take on your sin and my sin. See, this is the beginning of Jesus' humiliation. And Shane, he who is infinitely powerful and preeminent and judge of all the nations comes and in his perfection As soon as Jesus was baptized, he went up out of the water. At that moment heaven was open. He saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting on him. And a voice from heaven said, This is my son whom I love. With him I am well pleased. God declares perfect over the first twenty-nine, thirty years of his life. He has never sinned. In a thought, in a word, in an action. He's never been petty. He has never been critical, complaining Jesus has never been stressed, lost his peace because he didn't trust his heavenly father. Jesus every day gave a hundred percent of every waking moment to serving his Father, to loving the people that were placed in his path. Jesus could say at the end of his life, the night before he was crucified, Father, I have accomplished a hundred percent. of the work that you've given me to do. I can't say that at the end of any single day, can you? And Jesus' entire life was perfect. And to fulfill all righteousness, he identifies with sinners. That's the kind of Savior you and I have. That's the person that I want to point you to see this morning. I want you this morning to look away from yourself. And I want you to just see Jesus. Do you see him with that kind of power available in your life? Do you see him amazed in his preeminence that he would have anything to do with you? Are you dumbstruck by the condescension? of this majestic one to invite you to himself? Are you confident that when you see him in that day standing to separate the wheat from the chaff, that you'll be gathered in his barn? To spend eternity with him. Do you see him not for a few moments yourself and all your imperfections? But simply to see Jesus in all his glorious perfection. Let's pray Lord Jesus, how we need to see you. We want to look at anything else We love to look at principles, we look at our own sin, we go on and on and on. And we thank you for this ministry of John, to say, Behold, behold the Lamb of God. It takes away the sin of the world. Look at his power. Lord, I pray that you would cause each person here who needs to see the power of Jesus, whether In a weak and dying marriage, in broken relationships, a dead-end job, health concerns, whatever it is. To see the one who is able to baptize with his Spirit, to change hearts, change desires, and to give new life. To see you, Lord Jesus, in your preeminence, your glory, your majesty, your worthiness Be amazed that you will associate with us and invite us to yourself. Did you love to spend time with us? When we get up this week, Lord, that when we're tempted to ignore you, you invite us to come and to spend a few moments in your word to Simply have time knowing, cherishing, laying our day before you To be able to live in that confidence that we will see you and welcome us into your heavenly dwellings. And not with terror face the unquenchable fire of your wrath. Lord, if there's anyone here, and I know there have got to be, if there's anyone here outside, Who would, if they were to die and go before you this day, would stand and be condemned Lord, may they not be like those sheep, but turn to Jesus And Lord, we pray that we will behold in glory your perfections and love you all the more, even this week, as we seek to serve you. Because you work in us. Ah Lord, thank you for that. Thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen.