Amen. My sin, not in part, but the whole, is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. Thank you, Elizabeth and Julie, for that The heart of the gospel is forgiveness. So much so That of only three requests that Jesus teaches us to pray in this great prayer that He has taught His disciples, three requests that we pray for ourselves One of the three is for forgiveness. Guilt is so basic to your life, and your need for forgiveness, to be rid of that guilt, is so foundational to your joy. that after asking for food, he has you ask for forgiveness. It's that fundamental. Because we saw last week that God is angry With you, with me, because we have owed him a great debt. All that we are and all that we have we owe to him And we have rendered to him so little thanks, so little honor, so little obedience, but he has offered his own son who without debt came and freely took your debt. So as we saw last week, the certificate of indebtedness was nailed to the cross, the nail driven in, saying, paid in full. So that you do not fear punishment. It has all been poured out on Jesus Christ. You do not fear his rejection, the isolation, the sentence of death upon you, because Jesus has paid every bit of that. You are free That's the gospel. And yet we saw last week that Jesus teaches us to pray every day, forgive us our debts. Why is that? Because as we saw, there is a basic difference, distinction, between God as judge and God as Father. And God as judge has rendered no condemnation upon your life and my life because Jesus Christ has paid the debt. Then the judge smiles, comes down from the bench, and adopts you as his child. Takes you home as his own. But in that relationship, you and I continue to incur debt because we continue to disobey him, we continue to take him for granted, we continue to not trust him. And so relationally we become alienated and we need to pray, Father, Father, forgive me my debt. And we are restored in the relationship that is separate from the condemnation. Now we saw that that's the basic part of that verse, but that was only the first half of the verse. The whole verse is forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, or as we also have forgiven our debtors. And of the three requests that Jesus has us pray for ourselves, this is the only one that he comments on. He picks it up after the next verse, the end of the Lord's Prayer, in verse 14. He comments on it. For if you forgive men when they sin against you, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins. So there is a connection between your being forgiven and your forgiving others. Now, what does verse 14 and 15 mean? If you think about that for a while, it becomes rather disturbing, doesn't it? Because it can seem to mean that God's basing his forgiveness of you on your forgiveness of other people. That doesn't sound like the gospel, does it? somehow it seems like our being forgiven is conditional upon forgiving other people. So what does that mean? But fortunately, the Lord Himself expanded a great deal on that by a story that he told. But he tells that story in Matthew 18. And so you're just gonna have to wait until we get to Matthew eighteen sometime. No, no, no, no. I know. You'd all get me and drag me out onto the lawn afterwards I'm going to wait until we get to Matthew 18 someday in the future. I want to deal with Matthew 18 now because it so helps us to understand What Jesus is saying in Matthew 6, 14, and 15, and as well as the petition. Jesus told a story in Matthew 18 that is a commentary on these two verses. Remember Jesus was teaching there about how if your brother sins against you, your sister sins against you, you need to go to them, you need to tell them about their sin and seek to be reconciled. And Peter, as a result of that, in Matthew 18, uh asked Jesus a question. He says, Well Lord, now how many times do I have to forgive my brother when he sins against me? Like, you know, up to seven times? And he thinks that's being pretty generous. Jesus answers, I tell you, not seven times, but seventy-seven times, or some translators have it seventy times seven. In any case, it's a lot more than you think, Peter, and in fact more than you can imagine. Then Jesus tells a story to illustrate a basic kingdom principle. It's the story that Tim read, but let me recount it. Jesus tells a story about a king who's settling his accounts. You remember a man comes to him and he owes a great deal of money. He owes, in fact, millions of dollars. It's hard to put the comparison to today, but it's many, many millions. I remember reading recently in the news about a fellow who ran up a bar tab of $218,000 in one night. Big party. You know, how do you get into millions of dollars of debt? Well take a look at this character up there. I don't know how many of you recognize him. I'm not going to look for hands, but uh that's uh Marion Shoeg Knight. Marion Shugnight is the founder of Death Row Records. Somehow that probably doesn't surprise you looking at them. His uh rap music is mostly about death and destruction in Mayhem. Uh Sug has uh it according to this article in the Washington Post, gotten himself into debt of a hundred and thirty-seven million dollars. That's what that guy is. You think he'd look like he needs a little mercy rather than keep looking like he is threatening you $137 million. How do you get into a $137 million debt? Well, I don't know, but Jesus is trying to exaggerate to show you this is a debt that is impossible to pay. This guy's only hope. Hope is mercy. And probably with the people he hangs around, he better hope for mercy because otherwise he may not have a very long lifespan. Jesus is saying this is a debt that is not incurred because of basic needs in life. This was something irresponsible, it is something far beyond any ability to pay. But the amazing thing is that when the king says this is what you owe he says oh well be patient i'll pay it back Now can you imagine somebody getting into a $137 million debt and saying, but you know, I think I got a handle on my finances now, and I'll be able to pay that back. Just hang on. And of course it's ridiculous. The only hope he has is mercy, and the king, beyond any expectation, looks on him, has pity on him, and he cancels the debt. Drives that nail through the certificate of indebtedness and he says, paid in full, you don't owe me. And what must must he have felt like when he heard that? I have been released from that debt I don't have to pay it. I don't have to sell my family. I don't have to face the consequences of all my irresponsibility that I thought I'd have to pay. I am free from the debt Short time after that he goes out, a friend of him owes a couple of thousand dollars Now don't misunderstand. He didn't owe him a trivial amount. Hundred denaria is a is a couple, few thousand dollars, two, three thousand dollars. Today's buying. So it's significant, but compared to people put the other debt at up to maybe five hundred million dollars Then it really is trivial. His friend comes and says the same thing to him. Have mercy on me, I'll pay it back to you. But in this case, he throttles him and says, No. You owe it to me, you're not going to pay it, into jail. No mercy. He's going to live by justice. Now, when some other people who were involved in this hear this, the Bible says they were greatly distressed. They go back to the master and say, Do you know what this guy did? The master calls them back in. Matthew 18 in verse 32, the master calls a servant in. He says, You wicked servant, I've canceled all that debt of yours because you begged me to. Shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant just as I had on you? And in anger his master turned him over to the jailers to be tortured, while he should pay back all that he owed This, Jesus says, is how my heavenly Father will treat each of you unless you forgive your brother from your heart. What's that saying? Three possible interpretations of this parable. See them in your bulletin outline. First interpretation says it's about a Christian who was forgiven, but he lost his salvation because of the way he acted. Second interpretation is he seemed to be a Christian, but it was his lack of mercy that showed he really wasn't a Christian. Third interpretation says it was truly a Christian, truly forgiven, but he's not in hell in verse 35, but rather he is being severely chastised. By the Father to teach him grace, which is the correct interpretation. Not going to ask for a show of hands, but you know They are saying, one saying, is this a matter of heaven or hell, or is this a matter of discipline? I believe that the correct interpretation is number three. Let me give you four reasons for that First reason, you see there, is because the parable is an answer to a disciple's question. He's answering Peter's question about forgiving his brother. And so because he is answering what Peter asked, you notice verse 21, Jesus, Peter came to him, Lord, how many times shall I forgive my brother when he sins against me? Up to seven times, Jesus says, I tell you. Not seven times, but seventy-seven, or seventy times seven, therefore the kingdom of heaven is like. And so the therefore connects his answer to the disciple's question Second reason is that in verse 27, the master actually cancels the debt, this huge debt. Once forgiven, God never withdraws that And so you see some scriptures on that. So it seems like since he was actually forgiven, the torture is the torture that is given to someone who's been forgiven, even though it still is based on the debt. And um third thing to notice is therefore what verse 32 to 35 is describing is not the torture of hell, but rather the torture of being placed back under the law by treating others that way. If you refuse to forgive someone else who has deeply wronged you. What you are saying is, I want justice. You're saying I want to live by the law. And when you do that, you need to justify yourself. And when you need to justify yourself, you do that by comparing yourself with other people. You become a perfectionist, and you live in misery. Jesus is saying that the torturers are the torturers of a Christian who is living back under the law. The fourth reason why I believe that that's what he's teaching is because the parable is really an extension of what Jesus teaches in Matthew 6. Verse 12 and 14 and 15, which is clearly again to disciples who ask, Father, forgive me my debt. As you forgive your brother, your father will forgive you. Don't forgive, your father will not forgive you. So it's talking about that relational forgiveness, not the judicial forgiveness of eternal punishment. Now if we accept that, there are two important insights that flow out of that parable for you and for me. The first is again to notice the distinction between God as judge and God as Father. We've already talked about that. I don't want to belabor that, but you notice God has justified you. You therefore are no longer under the law. The judge has acquitted you. He has adopted you. And because of this, this your relationship to him now is as a heavenly father who loves you. But, and this is what the parable is driving home to you. God's discipline, his chastisement can be very painful We dare not as Christians think, once I am under grace and under God's mercy and forgiveness, then he never becomes upset and his chastisement is never going to hurt. It's all just grace and mercy. The father here is upset The chastmentism is very painful upon the child. And I believe that that explains a phenomenon that can disturb and bother many of us as Christians. And the phenomenon is nasty critical Christians. You see them, don't you? People who You seem to talk to them and they seem to understand the gospel. They seem to be able to understand and explain grace and the atonement of Christ. And yet they're miserable people. And they are critical, their gossips, they divide churches, they set Christians against one another. They particularly will criticize leadership, and you see this pattern of misery that follows these people. They usually go from church to church, spreading in their wake misery and criticalness And I believe in in many, if not most cases, what these are are Christians who refuse to forgive. And they're being placed under the tortures of the law, they're needing to be perfectionist and justify themselves and criticize, and they refuse to acknowledge it, to see it They refuse to pray, Father, forgive me my debts as I have forgiven from my heart those who are my debtors. So they continue to live under the law. You see, these people are even more miserable than a non-Christian who's under the law because as a Christian you have a more sensitive conscience. Therefore, you're in greater misery living under the law. Second insight is though this is primarily, I believe, interpretation number three Interpretation number two is not irrelevant. The idea that a person can appear to be a Christian. But that their lack of mercy, their lack of a forgiving spirit reveals that they have never really embraced Christ. See, I believe that the petition in the Lord's Prayer and the commentary of chapter 18 all are expanding what Jesus said at the very beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. Remember, in chapter 5, verse 7 of the Attitudes? Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. Jesus is saying a basic characteristic of my disciple is that he she is merciful. The gospel must make merciful people. Doesn't mean that you won't struggle to forgive people who have deeply wronged you. There may be somebody in your life who has wronged you to such an extent your life Will never be the same since that wrong. It was a life-changing sin and offense. And you struggle deeply to forgive. But if you know the mercy and the grace of Jesus Christ, you will be able eventually to forgive. It's the heart of the Lord's Prayer. Brian Chattle tells about a wedding outside of New York City recently was a an Asian wedding and in this wedding uh part of the wedding and the customs of the people that were getting married was at a certain point in the wedding the mother of the bride was to serve rice to her husband. In this case, the husband had thirty years before that abandoned her and her three kids. Simply walked out on it. She had worked at menial jobs while trying to get a degree. She got a doctorate, had established a child clinic that was of national repute, but she had struggled. And for thirty years she had lived under the consequences of this man who had so abominably treated her. So she said, I am not able to at that point in the service participate in serving him. And she and her husband promised to come to the wedding And uh but she wouldn't promise to participate in that part of it. She was a Christian. She struggled. She struggled with the bitterness she had carried against this man for thirty years. She saw him walk into the room, arrogant, as if he belonged there. She heard him talk to people in the wedding party, with no shame or remorse for how despicably he had treated them. And then came the ceremony. Then came the portion in that ceremony where she was to kneel before this man and to serve him. Let me read what she says. Until the actual moment in the ceremony when the ritual was to occur, the mother would not agree to participate. And then, though it surprised her as much as it did the others in attendance, the mother took the ceremonial bowl of rice, knelt before her husband. Husband and served him. The rice she put on his plate were moistened by her tears. They were not tears of pain, she later said, but of inexpressible joy. When I let go of my anger enough to serve my husband, it was as though I understood for the first time how much Jesus loves me. I understood the pain he endured, not to hold my eternal guilt against me, but to serve me by giving his own life for me. When I served my husband, I felt the love of my Savior flood into my heart and wash away thirty years of fury that had embittered me and enslaved my heart. In forgiveness, I found freedom from the misery in my heart that I had not been able to erase with all of my achievements. More was achieved by that forgiveness she displayed than the mother initially knew. For when the daughter witnessed the selflessness of a soul Of her mother, she later said that for the first time she believed that the love of God was so real it could have power in her own marriage. The daughter's unvoiced fear that her faults or her husbands would ultimately destroy their happiness, as it had her parents, evaporated in the knowledge that Christ's forgiveness could be shared. The forgiveness the mother demonstrated freed her own heart to love again and sealed the love of her daughter's marriage. Forgive us our debts, even as we forgive our debtors If you live in pervasive bitterness and you are able to carry that, and God does not break you, tremble. It may be an indication you have never really known the mercy of Jesus Christ. You see, you and I need to remember what forgiveness actually is. It is the promise of canceling a debt. That's the first blank there. It is a very costly promise. It is not by your feelings, it is not by amnesia. But it is rather a determination to absorb the cost of the sin and not bring it up again. To determine to not cause the person to pay what they owe. To not bring it up again, first of all, to your former debtor the person who wronged you to not bring it up by way of accusation. And that doesn't mean simply that As husbands and wives, you bring up, this is the way you always are, and you've done this and back, you know, five years, ten years, fifteen years of things that were supposed to have been settled, and you bring them all back up again, because you've never really forgiven. It's even more subtle than that. Recently, my wife, Kathy, said that she noticed in my look to her it was not a gentle look But it was a look of sort of of accusation, a hardness, a harshness And I said, well, you know, what's that about? I don't think I'm that way. But as I looked at my heart, I realized there were things I was holding against her. While I wasn't going to say them, ah, it's me, you know, gracious hell came through my eyes. If you haven't forgiven somebody, they'll know it. You'll communicate it. Forgiveness is a promise to not hold it against you anymore. Let it go. You only do that by grace. Forgiveness is unnatural. Second thing is that forgiveness is the promise, you won't bring it up to others. You're not going to get sympathy and vindication by gossip. Oh, how I want vindication when somebody's wrong with me. I want you to come. I might say it's just a reality check, you know, but what I really want is you say, uh Man, that was really rough. Boy, they sure are oh geez. And you know, I may even take the high road and say, well, you know, I'm I'm hurt, but what I want you to do is criticize the other person I didn't criticize them. I just set you up to criticize them. And that's the way I get my revenge. Forgiveness is to determine I will not bring it up to other people. To put you in a bad light. I'll bring it up to you. That's what verse 15 to 17 is about. I bring it up to you. And then we seek to see if it can be reconciled. And if it is, and I forgive you, I don't bring it up to you anymore. But whether or not that gets reconciled, unless it's bringing it to somebody else to help in the restoration process, we'll talk a little bit more about when the person doesn't repent next week. um then I'm not going to continue to bring it up simply for gossip. Thirdly, it means that I don't bring it up to myself. You don't bring it up to yourself here, third blank That is by brooding on it, by nurturing it, by sucking it to gain that self-vindication, that pleasure of Delighting in your self-righteous anger against this person that they so richly deserve. And that's why forgiveness is always, always associated with the gospel. See, the world, Oprah and everybody else will talk about the importance of forgiveness, but it's always self-centered. It's always because the bitterness will eat you up. So you let it go for your own good. Christian forgiveness is gospel forgiveness. It's centered on Christ. What it says is, I let this go because when I look at the debt that I owed God. But he has forgiven me, the five hundred million or the two hundred and fifty million, and then I look at the couple of thousand that you owe me without excuse. I don't minimize it. I don't say it doesn't matter. It does matter. Forgiveness is to absorb the cost. And to say, but forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors In the light of and by the power of the gospel, Jesus Christ, in preparing this, was saying to me, Alan, your awareness of my forgiveness is deepened When you, by the gospel, forgive that person who has deeply wronged you. And if you refuse, your awareness of my forgiveness will diminish. And you will place yourself back under the law. That's the way it operates. See, forgiveness is not forgetting. We feel like if if I could just forget, then I'll forgive. Where someone said, I'm really angry at this person and I'm praying to be able to forgive them. And I heard a person respond and said, no, no, no, it doesn't work that way. You promise to determine that you will forgive them and pray for God's grace to fulfill the promise. So you don't forget to forgive, you forgive so that eventually you will forget. The forgiveness is a promise that is prompted by the gospel. To set the person free, just as you were set free Corey Tenboon was imprisoned in a concentration camp, World War II, along with her family, by the Nazis for giving aid to the Jews. Her father and her sister died as a result of the brutal treatment they received in the concentration camps, and Corey survived. As a Christian, she went throughout the world testifying of God's love and of his mercy. Until one night she was preaching this in a church in Germany And in her own words, it was at a church service in Munich that I saw him, the former SS man who had stood guard at the shower room door in the processing center at Robinsbrook. He was the first of our actual jailers that I had seen since that time. And suddenly it was all there. The room full of mocking men, the heaps of clothing, Betsy's pain-blanched face. He came up to me as the church was emptying, beaming and bowing. How grateful I am for your message, Father Line, he said. to think that as you say, He has washed my sins away. His hand was thrust out to shake mine And I, who had preached so often to the people in Blumenthal the need to forgive, kept my hand at my side. Even as the angry, vengeful thoughts boiled through me, I saw the sin of them. Jesus Christ had died for this man. Was I going to ask for more? Lord Jesus, I prayed, forgive me and help me to forgive him. I tried to smile, I struggled to raise my hand, but I could not. I felt nothing, not the slightest spark of warmth or charity. And so again I breathed the silent prayer, Jesus, I cannot forgive him. Give me your forgiveness. As I took his hand, the most incredible thing happened. From my shoulder along my arm and through my hand, a current seemed to pass from me to him, while into my heart sprang a love for this. stranger that almost overwhelmed me. And so I discovered that it is not on our forgiveness any more than on our goodness that the world's healing hinges, but on him. When he tells us to love our enemies, he gives, along with the command, the love itself. Father, forgive me my debts, even as I forgive my debtors. How do you know when you have forgiven someone? When you wish them well Not when you're reconciled, you may not be reconciled. It's when you can pray for their good. It's when you long for reconciliation to take place and are willing to open the door to it. It starts in your heart and it starts with the gospel. It starts with you right now realizing that when you pray, Father, forgive my debts, even as I forgive. A name comes to your mind, and the rest of the words stick in your throat. And you bring that pain and that refusal to Jesus Christ. And you ask him, Lord, give me that unnatural grace of forgiveness That longs for the good of this person. Who is it that you are carrying bitterness for? Someone in your family, somebody in our congregation, your spouse. You're working so hard to justify yourself God has placed you under the torturers. You're living by the law. You're miserable. But you refuse to give up that bitterness. Jesus Christ wants to set you free this morning. He wants to show you his sacrifice, his grace, his forgiveness for you. That you will only experience as you're willing to release that debt and set that other person free. Are you willing? That's something we need to pray about. Let's pray. And oh our God, some of us are really struggling because a name comes to our mind, or maybe several names, names of people who have deeply wronged us, and we know they're without excuse. We've tried to give them excuses. We've tried to minimize it. We've tried to justify our own bitterness. None of it works. None of it works because it's not gospel. And Lord, we ask you this morning. To show us Christ with the nails driven through him. The nails that were the payment in full of the certificate of our own indebtedness, driven into the cross. That we would see our lack of trust in you, our lack of honoring you, our lack of believing your goodness. And Lord, we're ashamed. But when we become full of the sense of the wonder of your forgiveness of us, you hold nothing of that against us. Then Lord, give us grace to make the connection. That we would forgive even as we have been forgiven. Lord, only you can do that. Forgiveness is not natural to us. And we're struggling. But we ask, Holy Spirit, that you would release us. to release the debt of that other person, not to wait until they've understood how much they hurt us. Not until they have suffered enough. But Lord, that we would seek for reconciliation to take place. We would seek your blessing upon their life. And so Lord, Lord, grant by gospel grace for us to see Christ and to be able to forgive. We ask that not only for Jesus' sake, but because it all rests upon Jesus, to whom we come now. Amen.