Well once again, I want to take you back to Lake Galilee around 28 AD. People are still talking about the sermon that Jesus had preached a couple few weeks ago. They're still talking about the healings on the way back to Capernaum, the healings that um Jesus had accomplished that night when Peter's mother-in-law was healed of the fever, uh, all the different healings that they've been seeing day after day, healings and teaching Until finally Jesus is utterly exhausted and says to the disciples, get the boat, let's go east across the lake, get a little bit of rest. They get in the boat, instead of getting rest, they have this terrific storm. They wake Jesus, he stands and sovereignly heals the winds and the waves, speaks, and they cower before him like a whipped puppy. And all is instantly calmed. What happens after that? Well, Matthew continues the story It's also in Mark and Luke. The most extensive version of it is in Mark, and that's why I had Tim read that version to you. And what I would like to do is to tell you the story, kind of put the whole, the three accounts together and tell you the story. And then go back and look at what Mark Matthew's particular focus is in his account and how that relates to your life and to mine this week. So, after the storm, next morning, they're over on the east side of Lake Galilee They put into this area over there that is a rather barren area. It's got some vegetation, but it's very hilly. It's got steep cliffs. It's got caves, tombs. It's actually a a great spot for Halloween. It's a rather spooky area. Uh it's kind of dismal. Uh not a lot of people that live there. There's n there's not a town on the bank there. And just as Jesus and the disciples beach the boat and begin to walk up, they see two men running toward them. Now, in Mark's account he talks about one man, Luke talks about one man, Matthew talks about two men. And that's not all that unusual in the Gospels that One account will talk about two, one will talk about one, different numbers, because apparently of the two men, only one spoke or was prominent. And so the other was received in the background and Matthew tells you that there's two. The others just focus on the one. So these two come out and and you look at them And you think, man, this really is Halloween. I mean these guys are like monsters. They're they're kind of half men and they look kind of animal-like First of all, they don't have any clothes on. And they're all cut. They've cut themselves with stones. They are infested with demons. And they are wild. They attack people, anybody that comes in the area. They live in the tombs. And they howl and cry out and scream and shriek. People that would go into the area would be beaten up by these guys. They they sent out teams to capture them, put them in chains, they broke the chains. got loose back into their area. People were terrified of them. So they just stayed away from the area. Now these two guys come down, and what's very interesting is that Jesus is not afraid of them. I mean I'd be screaming running back into the boat, let's get out of here. Jesus takes the initiative and addresses them. And they respond, What do we have to do with you, son of God? Have you come here to torture us before the time? Swear that you will not torture us. And as Jesus speaks to them, he asks them their name. What is your name? Legion, for we're many. Now legion is 6,000 soldiers. So, when I say they are infested with demons, these guys are full of demonic hosts in their being. The demons then call attention to the fact that over there on the hill is a herd of about 2,000 pigs grazing. And so they scream, if you're going to cast us out, at least send us into those pigs. Amazing thing is that Jesus can't grant a request. And Matthew tells us that Jesus speaks, as again, to the winds and the waves, speaks one sovereign word. Go. And immediately it's like all hell breaks loose. Because from these men there goes, can't see it, it's invisible. But immediately you look over and you see the pigs getting all agitated. And they start running. And there's a stampede of them going down the hill, over the cliff, into Lake Galilee. Terrific squealing and shrieking. Can you imagine the scene? Picture yourself there. All these pigs coming over, hundreds, couple thousand of them Down into the lake, all this thrashing about in the water, and then silence. Soon there is not a ripple left, and all is quiet. Now there are a couple of herdsmen, maybe more than a couple, taking care of these pigs. They see this, and they take off the little village that's nearby. They can't believe their eyes. Two thousand pigs, their whole job, their whole economy, has just disappeared. Run into the village. Tell the people. The people all run out to see who this is and what has happened. And what do they see? Instead of a couple of maniacs ready to tear them into pieces, here's these two guys, fully clothed. In their right minds, speaking peacefully to Jesus and the disciples. And so are they amazed and they thank him for delivering them? No. They say, please go away. Just leave. Once again, the amazing thing is that Jesus does that. So Jesus gets back in the boat with his disciples and they take off back to Capernaum. What about the two men? Mark tells us that they went down the beach to the boat and tried to get in. And one of them said Please, Lord, let me go with you. And Jesus says, no. Go back to your family, to this area. Be my missionary to tell them The wonderful things that God has done and His mercy on you. That's a story. What does it mean? What does that mean for you and for me in the twenty-first century Matthew wants you to see, once again, in a vivid story, dramatic story, the authority of Jesus Christ. He wants you to see that this is increasing toward a climax. You see, what Matthew wants you to see, because you you definitely trace There is an increase in the demonstration of the authority of Jesus. What he wants you to see is this is a greater manifestation of authority and power Than speaking to winds and waves. Matthew understands: if you understand demons, if you understand the supernatural It takes more authority and power to speak to a demonic host of supernatural beings who are in conscious rebellion to God. than it does to speak to mere wind and waves. Amazing. And Matthew shows you that authority demonstrated in three ways that you see in your bulletin outline. The first is to see how the demons recognize his person and his power. The demons recognize his person and his power, and you see that in four particulars in verse 29. So now go back to the beginning of the story in Matthew's account. We read verse 28 and 29. When he arrived at the other side in the region of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men coming from the tombs met him. They were so violent that no one could pass that way. What do you want with us, son of God? They shouted. Have you come here to torture us before the appointed time? Four things to note about that one verse. First of all, notice that they say he is the Son of God. What do you want with us, Son of God? That's particularly significant because in verse 27, just at the end of the previous story, what did the disciples say? Who is this that is able to speak to the wind and the waves, to calm the wind and the waves with a word? The demons answer their question. Who is it? This is the Son of God. They understand who He is. Demons are not theological liberals. They are not anti-supernaturalists. They understand who Jesus Christ is. But it is not an acknowledgement in worship and all, because the second thing that they indicate is that they're enemies. Have you come to torture us? You see, there's no sense of allegiance, of being under his authority They see this as a confrontation of an enemy. Have you come to torture us? And thirdly, notice that they don't have any power against him. They do not threaten him. They do not confront him. All they do is plead. They simply ask for things They know that he can do whatever he wishes with them. They don't contest that. They don't pretend that they that he cannot. Which is significant for you and for me to notice that if you are here this morning without Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord, Demons can do whatever they want with you, and the only thing that protects you, that keeps you in your right mind, in possession of your faculties and able to function day by day. Is God's mercy. Do you believe in demons? Do you believe that there is the supernatural The Bible clearly teaches that not only is there supernatural warfare going on, that demons are real beings. Demons continue today. And your only protection against the power of demonic forces in your life Either in mental disturbance or in substance abuse or other things that you feel simply in bondage to. Is the strong Savior Jesus. He has power over them. And the good news for the Christian is the fourth thing they acknowledge is there is a time coming. Then they know that they will be destroyed. Have you come to torture us before the appointed time? They know the Bible clearly teaches that Satan and all his minions are fully aware That they are doomed and that they will fail in the end. That there is an appointed time coming when Jesus Christ will destroy all the demonic hosts. that they will be cast into the abyss. They understand that. They believe it. And their sole activity is to wreak whatever havoc they can, like the Joker in the dark night, as long as they have the ability to do it. The second way that you see Jesus' authority is in the actual exorcism. Notice Matthew's account of that. Verse 30. Some distance from them a large herd of pigs was feeding. The demons begged Jesus, if you drive us out, send us into the herd of pigs. He said to them, Go! And so they came out, and they went into the pigs, and the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and died in the water. Amazing. The demons make a request of Jesus. Please, if you're going to do this. We know we don't have any power against you, but we'd like to make a request. Would you at least just send us into these pigs? The amazing thing is Jesus grants your request. Now, why do they ask to be sent in to the pigs? Commentators give a lot of reasons speculating on why, because we're not told why. I think it boils down to two things. First of all, demons like The Joker, which I find in that movie to be a pretty powerful display of satanic evil. They simply are out to produce chaos and suffering and to destroy. And so if they can't do that with these two human beings, then at least Let them destroy something else. Now somebody told me after the first service, Ray Vanderland says it's because peaks were offered to to idols. That may or may not be. Not so sure of that. But the fact is they want to be able to go into something living to destroy it. Second reason is that the demons are always out to, in any way possible, discredit Jesus. And so they think if they can destroy the livelihood of the local people, that'll turn them against Jesus. And so that'll make his ministry more difficult. The interesting thing is he grants his request, which I find to be a very interesting illustration of how God uses evil sovereignly for his own purposes. This is brilliant. Jesus doesn't go off and think about this. He immediately responds to him because he has a purpose, also a dual purpose, to accomplish through the evil that they intend. It's the same thing he does today in history and in your life and in mine. You see, demons are invisible So, in order for Jesus to display to his disciples his power over demons The way he is able to do that is by allowing them to infest another living being so that what the disciples see at that moment is two things happening simultaneously. The first thing that they see is the pigs becoming agitated, stampeding, running down and over the cliff. The second thing that they see at the same time is these wild men suddenly becoming peaceful and calm and restored to their right minds. They can't miss the connection There's been a transference of something evil from these men into these pigs, and they're gone, destroyed. The other thing that happens is that it tests the value system of the local people. They have now just lost A sizable segment of their economy. They are now in a financial crisis And the question that will come to them is, are people more important than tigs? Are people more important than their prosperity? So Jesus uses what they intend for evil in order to accomplish his purpose. The other thing that happens as a result of this, verse 33 and 34, when the men are transformed, and by the way, don't miss, I think, another connection. Between Jesus speaking a word and the wind and the waves are immediately calmed, Jesus speaks a word, and these wild men are likewise immediately calmed. And their spirits are like the waves subdued into peaceful tranquility. So these guys who have been tending the pigs take off. Verse 33. Those tending the pigs ran off, went into the town, and reported all this, including what had happened to the demon-possessed men. And then the whole town went out to meet Jesus. And when they saw him, they pleaded with him to leave their region. That's amazing. Third point of his authority is the reaction of the Gadarenes. It's amazing because, first of all, you notice they don't like this. He's destroyed 2,000 herd of pigs, 2,000 pigs. sizable section of their economy, but they don't threaten a lawsuit. They make no threats whatsoever. All they can do is plead with Jesus. They recognize that. He is the authority. But they don't welcome him They're upset at the loss. And Matthew is, I believe, trying to show you here something of the human heart, lest you think that Matthew's just down on Jews. You know, and so so far in his account, the Jews have been the unbelievers, they have been the ones that haven't understood And the Magi have understood, the centurion has great faith, more than the Jews. Matthew wants you to understand, it's not like Gentiles are somehow inherently better than Jews. These are Gentiles. They don't believe either. They reject Jesus. To them, prosperity is more important than people. Surely they had in their village others who needed healing. Surely they could have seen in what Jesus did, here is someone who can change other misery in our lives. Why don't we serve him and acknowledge him? Look what he can do for us just in terms of self-interest. But they don't. They basically say, leave us alone. We're afraid. Luke 8. 35 says that specifically. They were afraid of him. Go away. You can't help but see the connection between that and twenty-first century two thousand eight America, can you? You can't help but see that in all of the miseries of all the things in our crisis and the rest that we have, Are people saying to the Church of Jesus Christ, tell us about this Jesus? The Church in all its weakness In its inconsistency, the true church still testifies there is a Jesus who can heal. There is a Jesus that, if we bow to him, can restore us. And instead we have new movies out like Role Model Or Bill Mayer's religious, which is a simple mocking of all religion as a spiritual dead end to any thinking person. Saw a cartoon Time magazine this week. Two women were in a pub talking and there's a guy down looking real dejected The one woman turns to the other and says, I remember him when he was only morally bankrupt. And that's America, isn't it? Spiritually bankrupt. Now financially in trouble. What will it take for God to get our attention? But that wasn't the whole story here. Remember, there were two guys. Two guys who knew they were needy. Two guys who knew They needed a Savior. At the time, they didn't. They reacted. They were out of their minds. But Jesus came to restore them and to heal them. Jesus came basically across the lake through a storm. Just for these two guys. That's all he did there. Healed these two guys, restored them to their right minds, and then went back to Capernaum Leaving two transformed and profoundly grateful men Who wanted to serve him with all their hearts. And what did Jesus say? No. I'm not calling you to go with me. I want you to be missionaries to your own culture. I want you to be people who will be able to tell the people here who don't want me around What God has done in your life to give them a hunger and a thirst for me. Brothers and sisters, that's exactly what He's calling you and me to be in our culture. People who, if we see our need, if we continue to be in touch with our hearts, as Matthew keeps trying to get us to be, that we say, we're in over our heads. We cannot resist evil forces, but there is a strong Savior, a merciful Savior, Jesus, who has come and he has changed us. And when we talk about that change to our family, to our neighbors, to the people that we work with, and point to Jesus. Because we see our need and we see his power and we love him. We say, Lord, I want to follow you. What can I do? Go tell the people that you associate with about my mercy. That's how God changes a culture. That's how God works through simple people like you and me. Who believe in the supernatural, who are desperate without him, and because he has changed us, we want to serve him. Let me ask you. Has Jesus changed you? Can you look at ways in your life that you can say this morning When I think of what my life would be without Jesus Christ in it, it scares me spitless. Sometimes I will do that. If I see my heart growing cold and I'm beginning to get complacent, all I have to do Is to remind myself, I am Alan Harris from 316 Alden Avenue, son of Alan and Florence Harris, and I know my background, and I know where I was headed. And I can pretty well guess what my life would be like if Jesus Christ had not entered in. And that warms me toward him. That softens my heart again. Lord Jesus, what a difference you've made in my life. You see your need? Could you tell me of the changes that Jesus Christ has made in your life? Because you've seen him in his infinite compassion. He went across the lake just to change these two guys. He went to the cross To take your sin, to die for you and for me, coming from glory onto this speck, within a speck of a galaxy, within his universe. simply to rescue you and me. Does that make you love them? Does that make you say, Lord, whatever it is, Lord, how can I serve you? How can I show you you've restored me? You are changing me. Sometimes we wonder why it's not changing us more, don't we? You can change these demon-possessed guys and They're in the right mind? Why, Lord, after years does it seem like only gradually is my life changing? We at least know the final story, don't we? The demons will be destroyed. You will be entirely released. There will be no more sin, no more struggle. And in this time, we continue to see his progressive work as we see more and more of our need and of his mercy. You submit to his authority? That's how you see it. that has been consciously to submit to his authority, to say, here's the way by my own inclination, this is how I would go. But Lord Jesus, this is the way you've called me to go. It's to resist this temptation. It is not to make provision for this lust of the flesh. It is to stand against the crowd at this point. And to see your power as sufficient for me. Can you talk about in the last couple of weeks your need for his mercy, your need for his power, you're submitting yourself to his authority, or is it theoretical to you? When you think of that authority and you see the situation that we're in, you look at the politics and the economy and the rest of that, do you say, ah, it's a nice story, nice to hear, yeah, Jesus did that, but you don't make a connection now? Or do you see That Jesus Christ is the majestic Lord of history in the 2008 elections. That when we go to vote, and it may seem hopeless to vote against slots in Maryland. If I didn't go to the polls for anything else, I'd go to vote against that. Why? Because it's a direct violation of Proverbs 1828-19. Remember that verse? You all know. Proverbs 28, 19. What's that? It says, He who works his land shall have abundant food, but he who chases after fantasies Will ensure his poverty. Slots is a chasing after fantasies. You're more likely to be struck by lightning than to win the lottery. And I vote against it. And we look at all kinds of things. We say, this is going down the wrong path I read the news, it depresses me. Do you believe Jesus is still Lord? He can cast out thousands of demons. He can rule over America, even in the economic crisis, in your life, in anything that's going on, he is sufficient. He is the same Jesus that did that on that day who is in your life this week. And calls you and me to trust him. Because the demons are still real, but Jesus is still more powerful. I think of a woman who was a telephone opera and world telephone operator in World War II. She started dating a Nazi SS officer. After a while she became intimate with him, and as the war was drawing to a close and it looked really bad for the Nazis in the Third Reich. This officer in desperation made a pact with the devil. He consciously made a blood pact to sell himself to Satan in order for a Nazi victory. As things got worse and he involved her in that pact. They joined in it willingly together. As things continued toward the end, he became more desperate and finally committed suicide. She continued to live after World War II, and some years later she went to a Christian rally where she heard the gospel and gave her life to Jesus Christ. In the time after that decision, in the after counseling, an evangelist came to pray with her. As they began to pray, She convulsed and went into a fit and collapsed on the floor lifeless. And then out of her came a deep male voice that said, I am an SS officer. Leave her alone. She belongs to me and will join me. That would scare the bejeebies out of you, wouldn't it? Fortunately, this was a person who understood the supernatural. And prayed for a strong Savior to deliver her from the demonic hosts. And she was delivered. She was restored to her right mind to serve Jesus Christ. The demons still continue. Jesus is the same as he was that day in your life and in mine. Let's pray. And so, Lord Jesus, we do believe you are the same yesterday, today, and forever. Lord, show us our need. That like those two wild men, Lord, we have no control or power against evil hosts. We flee to you for protection. We come to you for mercy who went to the cross. to rescue people like us and change us. And sometimes, Lord, we wonder why we don't change more rapidly. But in that last day, when you destroy the demonic hosts, when you crush Satan under our feet, we will see and praise you forever as those who are Once again, fully restored to our right minds to love you and serve you forever. I pray, Lord, there would not be anyone in this room who would miss out. On being part of that throng changed by Jesus Christ. So, Lord, we give you ourselves Once again this morning, that this week we will trust you. We will submit to you. We will be your representatives to this culture that there is a savior Who is able to meet us in our deepest needs and comes willing to meet us If we recognize that, Lord, give us boldness, give us faith to trust you, to make the connections for your honor in Jesus' name. Amen.