Okay. Well, we are back to Matthew's Gospel. Notice I said gospel. It's not a biography. It does not give an account of this happened and then this happened and then this happened in particularly Matthew, unlike Mark and Luke and somewhat John. does not divide his material so that it's just a sequential record. But rather, Matthew puts it into large blocks. He gives six blocks of Jesus teaching interspersed by narrative. And we have covered the first block of teaching, that was the Sermon on the Mount, chapters 5 to 7. You remember that when Jesus, when when Matthew was introducing what Jesus was doing at chapters 1 to 4, the narrative part, When he comes to introduce the teaching, he does it by summarizing what Jesus was doing in Matthew 4. 23. See up there? Jesus went throughout Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness among the people. Then he gives a teaching section of three chapters on the lifestyle of a disciple. What it means to live As one who follows God, who is perfectly righteous, the perfect father, and the perfect judge. Three chapters. Then it goes back to the narrative, chapters eight and nine. He shows Jesus authority and his compassion in his healings, in his miracles that he performs. There's opposition, comes to a climax. Now he's about to introduce the second block of teaching in chapter 10. Matthew is a work of art. So what does he do? You come to Matt chapter 9 verse 35. Jesus went through all the towns and villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom. and healing every disease and sickness. Sound familiar? It's almost identical to chapter 4, verse 23. That's a clue that Matthew is saying, okay, now we're coming back to a section of teaching again. Now we're in the month of May. And the month of May is the month of graduations. And graduations always have commencement addresses. That always confused me as a kid because I thought I word I thought commencement to begin and this is the end. And then I realized, oh okay, it's about commencement because it's the beginning of the rest of your life, you know, okay, you gotta get on to something else. Get a job or something I guess. So commencement is inaugurating something new in your life. Chapter 10 is Jesus' commencement address. We're going to be looking at that in the next weeks. It is introduced by this section of material, chapter 9, verses 35 to 38, which gives a unique insight into Jesus' heart. So that which we're going to look at today shows us Jesus' heart by showing us his mission. Secondly, showing us his heart, particularly in his compassion, and then thirdly, showing us the delegation of that mission in his co-mission in chapter 10. That's the pattern. Now let's dive into these four unique verses to see what Matthew has to say about Jesus' heart for you and for me to understand. First of all, then his mission in verse 35. Jesus went through all the towns and the villages teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, healing every disease and sickness. That's basically his teaching and his touching. You can consider the narrative sections of Matthew, his touching people and demonstrating his power. Then there's the interspersion of the six blocks of his teaching sections. So it says that Jesus went teaching. That is, he's telling people, this is what God is like, and here's how you ought to live in the light of that. He's teaching. But that teaching reveals how we don't live the way we should live. So the second thing that Matthew says he's doing is he is preaching. He is giving good news, the good news of the kingdom. He's talking about Eden restored and even beyond that. He is coming to bring hope. He is the king bringing the kingdom. Then the third thing Matthew says that he's doing is healing. That is, he's showing his compassion and power as king. Now notice that verse 35 Brilliant observation follows verse 34. But notice the connection. In verse 34, you remember Jesus had healed a demoniac who couldn't speak. And so Jesus cast out the demon. The people all say, wow, we've never seen anything like that. That's amazing. The Pharisees who are threatened by Jesus' power, his authority, his ministry, grumble to themselves, yeah, well he's in link with the devil, that's how he's doing that. He just, you know, he's doing that by the power of Satan. So they're grumbling and complaining. Then verse 35, Jesus went through all the towns, teaching, preaching, healing. What's that saying? Well that's what it's not saying At this point, Jesus doesn't answer their complaints and their criticisms. Matthew, by repeating this verse, is emphasizing Jesus simply went on doing what he had been doing. Now I think that's instructive for you and for me this particular week. Because last week we celebrated that God in his power and mercy gave us favor from the Board of Appeals, and we were able to be given a permit to build phase two. And then there was a flyer article this week, had a kind of an edge to it, sort of ended by questioning whether we're really trustworthy congregation and then it was an editorial that had a bit of more of an edge to it and a blog that had even more an edge of an edge. And the temptation might be to say, we need to answer that. We need to speak to these people who are criticizing us and our motives. But I think after the pattern of Jesus here, he simply went on doing his ministry. There are times, there may come a time when a church needs to respond to the criticisms that are being leveled to set the record straight and for the honor of Christ, because Jesus might be dishonored by people believing that we lack integrity. But I think in a case like this where there's just questions raised, just like the Pharisees, they raised the questions, people heard them Jesus simply continued because he was driven by what happens in verse 36, to continue to teach, to preach, and to heal. And I think that's what God's calling us to do at this point, to not engage, but to simply to continue to go on doing the ministries that we do and let those ministries vindicate the mission that God has given to us. Timely word from Jesus' example for us. Now, second point is to look at his heart and to see why it is that he simply continued to go on doing his ministry. And it's because of what we read in verse 36, when he saw the crowds, and I'm looking at those that are the critics, but when he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them. Because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep, without a shepherd. Now I'm not a shepherd, and I've never been a shepherd. But I hear from those who are shepherds that sheep without a shepherd are rather pathetic. They can't take care of themselves, they get burrs in their wool, they get emaciated. They're anxious and neurotic because of wolves that might be prowling around and they don't know what to do. They can't take care of themselves And that's the picture that Jesus gives here, that Matthew gives of what Jesus sees. He sees them as sheep without a shepherd. And I believe that's also instructive for you and for me. Because I believe as Christians, very often we look at sinners And we're critical and we're irritated because they act like lost people. And we say, you know, you ought to act better than that. And th they're simply acting according to their nature. And you know that because you know how you act apart from the Holy Spirit, controlling your tongue and your actions and selfishness and demandingness and all the rest of that. When Jesus saw the sinners, these are people who are out of God's will. They are in rebellion. They're all the things that Paul writes in Romans about them, but Jesus has compassion. He's not irritated with them. He sees them as sheep without a shepherd. His heart goes out to them. Brothers and sisters, we need to learn from that because I find in my heart too much of an excuse that I give myself for being irritated with people who act like sinners. We have a couple of neighbors live on our street, about three, four doors up. We've known them for about fifteen years. They're a a dear couple to us. Um I'm not gonna criticize them. You think, well, what you gonna tell us about his neighbors now? No. Great couple, but you know, they don't know the Lord We have had a relationship with him for fifteen years, but you know, you get a little bit and don't go too far. And it was a little over two years ago when one neighbor had a party And so most of the neighborhood was there, and uh this couple started talking, the the wife particularly started talking about spiritual things. I'm not sure how we got on to that, but she really kind of got intense about this and started talking about how y I I know that this life can't be all that there is you know, there's gotta be more to it than this and I've been to a couple of churches a little bit in my past and I'm just confused and I don't know, you know, and so I mean so she's really getting intense So much so that the rest of the neighbors start exiting from the room that we're in because this thing sounded like the precursor to a revival or something, you know. And so this woman's really getting kind of going and her husband, who says he's an atheist He's kind of looking, you know, like, what's this all about? So we talk about this for a little while. And we said, well, why don't we get together and talk? They said fine, so a couple weeks later we had them over. And a couple of you have heard some of this before. Um but We had a good time with them and I was rather intrigued at one part of the conversation when she said how she really can't stand evangelicals And I thought it probably doesn't even occur to you that we might think of ourselves as part of that crowd. But she didn't. She didn't say because she said, you know, evangelicals are self-righteous, critical people. That's how She perceives those who are believers. Wound up at the end of the night, gave them three or four books, talked about the gospel, and said, well, here's some things that you might want to look at. And so she said, Great. Love to take 'em and read 'em, and that'd be great. So a couple months later I asked her if she had read any of the books and she said, No And I asked her a couple months after that, great. Nah they're by my my table. You know, I look at the covers, but you know, it's you know I don't know what she thought that was going to accomplish. But you know, she kept on moving. Well, you know, a year goes by, I'm still asking, nah. Two years go by, forget it. I'm not even gonna ask him. Can I just get my books back? You know. But we had another party in the neighborhood uh just recently And they were there. And so just because in the discussion we're talking about things, I happen to be over there. And what are you going to talk about? So I said, hey, remember those books? She turns to me and she says, yes, I've read every one that I would like to talk about. Now, we still need to get them over for part two, but What I'm trying to get across here is I need to see her as a sheep without a shepherd. God brings people across your life. And you can either dismiss them and say, yeah, these people are never interested, or they just scorn evangelicals or the rest of this. But when a person's a sheep like a shepherd, they act like a sheep without a shepherd. Matthew is using rich Old Testament language here. The Old Testament gives example after example of people who are like sheep without a shepherd. There's a neediness. There's a patheticness about it. You remember when Moses, who was a shepherd, took care of sheep and Wilderness of Midian. God calls him from that. Calls him to be a shepherd of his people. So Moses is God's shepherd. Comes to the end of his life and he says, You know, Lord, this hasn't been the easiest thing being a shepherd to these people, but you're about to take me away, and what are they going to do? Numbers 24, 17 says, Moses prayed, God provide a successor for me, so that your people will not be like sheep without a shepherd. Same phrase. that Matthew uses. Then you come down a little bit further into the Old Testament story to a fellow by the name of Jehoshaphat. He's going to go to war against Syria to the north, wants to join up with Ahab. And because there's no prophet in the north, he says, Bring a prophet that will give us a word from the Lord. Should we go up, is God going to be with us? We need a word from the Lord. So Ahab calls a prophet Micaiah. Micaiah comes and when they finally get down to business after a little bit of sarcasm, they finally get down to business. The Bible tells us that Micaiah said, I had a vision. of all of God's people scattered across a hillside like sheep without a shepherd. Pathetic sight. You remember in the book of Ezekiel, Ezekiel 34, Ezekiel condemns the leaders of Israel because he says they're false shepherds. They don't care for the sheep. All they care is the monetary gain they can get from religion. They're not caring for the sheep. They're like sheep without a shepherd. I'm going to send my shepherd, David. Remember David was a literal shepherd and then became the shepherd of God's people. I'm going to send to them a shepherd. David is a picture of that shepherd. I'm going to send the true shepherd to them Zechariah picks up on that same image when in uh excuse me, Zephaniah in no, Zechariah, right, Zechariah 9 and 10 and 11 he talks about the oppressed people who are like sheep without a shepherd. And then chapter 13 he says, I am going to send the true shepherd. And that true shepherd of my people will be struck, and the sheep will be scattered. Remember, Jesus quoted that passage at the Last Supper When he described to his disciples, that is to be fulfilled tonight. I am that shepherd. I will be struck, and you, my sheep, are all going to be scattered. We still live in a day where people are like sheep without a shepherd. You see it when you pick up any news magazine, when you see stories, uh whether it is on TV or uh other media Again and again, uh last week, cover of Newsweek, Elliot Spitzer, former governor of New York, lost a job because he hired a prostitute was disgraced. Did an interview with him. Cover story. They interview him and they they asked him the interviewer said, When you hired that prostitute, did you know that you were doing wrong? His response? Absolutely. No question about it. Well why did you do it He said that we we come upon temptations and things that we know are wrong, and sometimes we just do it, and then we look at the damage that we've caused and we ask ourselves, how could I have done that? Then it goes on to talk about, is there any forgiveness? Can his wife forgive him? Is there any purpose? He's lost his job, his career, he's in disgrace He's reeling and recoiling. What is there to life now that I've lost all that I lived for? Is there any strength ahead to not do the same thing? That's a sheep without a shepherd. It's easy, you see, for us to be critical and say that's disgusting, that guy. Yes, it is wrong. But we can't miss that Jesus saw sinners as sheep without a shepherd. Same issue of Newsweek. gives uh an interview uh uh with the authors of a new book called The Narcissism Epidemic just come out I'll grab and grab that book. It is a interesting book. The person writing that book says, uh, you know, we're in a culture basically where we all believe that we're above average And uh one of the girls, a college student I interviewed in for this book, says, at the end of the day, I love me, and I don't think there's anything wrong about that And the person writing the article says, yeah, you know, I used to think that too And then I realized that by thinking that way, I simply became a selfish, antisocial, demanding, non-coping Rather unpleasant person. Play my music loud, who cares? I love me. All I think about is me. She says, and in this culture These people can't cope. Can't cope with hard times. Sheep without a shepherd. Don't know why their relationships are broken. Why doesn't life work? You see, when you and I read those articles Somehow we need to pray that God gives us the eyes of Jesus to see sheep without a shepherd rather than disgusting people who we feel superior to. Jesus' heart broke when he looked at the crowds, as sheep without a shepherd And so you come to John chapter 10 in verse 11, and you read that Jesus says to the people, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. See, Jesus sees our needs at the deepest level And that's why Matthew says that he teaches, he preaches, and he heals. He teaches because he understands we don't know how life works. And he needs to tell us, this is how life works. And when you see that, you realize not only do you have broken relationships, you're a broken person. And I'm a broken person. So he preaches the good news of the kingdom, the restoration of Eden and beyond that, because he the king has come to bring in the kingdom. And the way he brings in the kingdom is as the shepherd who offers himself the perfect lamb to lay down his life for the sheep. He heals. He cleanses people of leprosy. He heals blind people so that they can see. He raises dead people so they have new life. Because he's the true shepherd. And those are simply a picture of what Jesus has come to do in your life and in my life as the Good Shepherd. So Jesus comes to offer himself because his heart was broken to give his life for you, if you see your need and trust him. To be your shepherd. Now the third point is the introduction of a whole new chapter of Matthew's Gospel. It's where Jesus now begins to share that ministry. So the third point is his co-mission. Right after he says this, very interesting, it looks at first like perhaps a non-sequitur, but he says, Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. You see, if you're his disciple, you don't just watch him be a shepherd. If you're his disciple, you join with him in seeing people as sheep without a shepherd. Now, you notice here that Jesus is a genius, the best model of a leader that the world has ever known. Because he takes something that we could read as kind of a downer. He sees people all as sheep without a shepherd. You say, yeah, boy, that's a pretty hopeless situation. What are you going to do about that, Lord? And then he turns to his disciples, he says, no, see it as an opportunity. This is a harvest field. Sheep without a shepherd, some of those sheep are going to see that life isn't working. So this is a harvest field. Why is it a harvest field? Because the way God glorifies himself is to show himself as a sufficient shepherd for needy sheep. This is the way God displays his compassion. So Jesus is saying If you begin to see your neighbors, the people in your family without Christ, the people that you work with without Christ, with new eyes, the eyes of a person who has understood their need of a shepherd. Who sees Jesus as your shepherd and realizes how pathetic and broken your life would be without Jesus as your shepherd? You begin to see all the people without Christ in your neighborhood, in your family, all around, as a harvest field for God to display his glory and showing his sufficiency to meet their needs. And when you do that, he says, you begin to say, wow, look at all these people. There's so few workers. Now let me tell you something. People often equate in expositing this workers with missionaries. So you read this Ask the Lord of the harvest to send out workers to his harvest field. Okay, that's praying for missionaries. I don't think that I think it's included, but I don't think that's the main thrust. I think the workers that he's talking about are simply his disciples who have eyes to see lost people as sheep without a shepherd. So, what Jesus is saying to pray for is not only preachers and missionaries, but politicians, educators, media people. People in your field, whatever it is, who simply have eyes to see the harvest field, and to bring his truth, the good news. The power of the shepherd into the lives of these pathetic sheep as one pathetic sheep to another. That's what he's saying. First of all, he is talking about delegation. This is not just for you to watch me to do. This is something I am handing off to you to participate with me. The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. So secondly, when you see that, you see the need for the Lord to send out the workers, so you pray. As you pray, you see the opportunity, you see that he is the resource, you understand that it is, as he says, his harvest field. And so you say, Lord, Lord, bring more people to see lost people, to love sinners, to see them as sheep without a shepherd, rather than opponents to be fought against or to defend ourselves against or circle our wagons to protect ourselves and our families against Workers who enter in freely, eagerly, aggressively into the harvest field with the compassion of Jesus Christ. You see, that's a new vision, isn't it? I mean, that is not the way oftentimes we as Christians think. And that's what Jesus is teaching you and me How he's teaching you and me to see the world. So after he says Look for being part of this worker force. Pray that God raises up more believers to enter into the harvest field with that vision. Then he gives them instructions. He gives the commencement address. Okay, you guys caught it? Now let me tell you what's going to happen. And again, that launches us into chapter 10. Now, if you are thinking I have so little to offer. What does it even matter? I have tried to share my faith. I've tried this and that. I'm just so pathetic. I barely know how to hang on to him as my own shepherd. We're going to start next week. By looking at the motley crew that Jesus worked with. Because chapter 10 starts with Matthew saying, now let me tell you. The material that Jesus had to work with. And he this is the first time that Matthew gives us the list of the twelve disciples. And we're going to look at them And we're going to see what these guys were like. And then we're going to move into the commencement address of what he says is ahead not only for them, but for you and for me who follow. So the message for this morning is very simple. Grasp this mission. See Jesus in his teaching and his touching. See him in his compassion and say, Lord, I want to see you, and I want to understand you as my shepherd. What my life would be like without you, so that I can have a better understanding of how you see people. That I will not, because my heart melts in understanding how good you are to me as my shepherd. I will not be irritated with sinners who get in my way and just wish they'd either get out of the way or just go convert yourself or do something. But I'll tell you, you look pretty non-elect to me, and I'm just moving on. To pray for the heart of compassion, to see sinners as sheep without a shepherd. And then to pray. To pray for his harvest. I believe we as a church need to learn more about praying. We need to learn more about what it means to pray, not just for missionaries and for preachers, for the workers of all of his force of his people. Entering into that global and local harvest field. So, in conclusion, I want to make two suggestions. Number one, I would like to call anybody who would like to to join me downstairs at 1230 right after this service and pray for the harvest field. To simply cry out to God and ask him to open up our hearts, to see the world as he sees it. And then to send forth from Columbia Presbyterian the workers who enter into our community, enter in locally and globally to see sinners as sheep without a shepherd. And bring the truth, the good news, and the power of Jesus Christ as their shepherd to bear on their lives. I know that a lot of you don't have the option. You got kids that are not going to hang around for a half hour to pray. You got options, you got things, you got, you got commitments. But whoever can There's some of you who could join me downstairs, quad four. Grab a chair, we'll just pull them in a circle, and as more people come, we'll just enlarge the circle, and we'll just pray. Maybe a half hour, but just pray. That that Jesus will get a hold of our hearts. He tells you and me, brothers, ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore. Send out the workers into his harvest field. That's Jesus' commands of you and me. Let's join together and do it. And then the second thing I would challenge you to do is this next Thursday is the National Day of Prayer. We as staff are going to be out together, praying, talking about ministry. We're not having any special services here of prayer. But I want to challenge you to take one hour, one hour in your day, morning, afternoon, evening, whatever, one hour with your family, with your friends, alone, however, one hour. Read over these four verses again and ask God, what does this mean for me in the light of our nation and where we are? in world events and local events, in the light of having gained the permission to build a facility, but in the midst of neighbors who don't trust us And all the places where God has put us, my neighborhood, my family, the rest of that, and just pray for one hour. One hour. And see what God does. We believe that Jesus is calling us to join with him to see sinners as sheep without a shepherd. Let's capture his heart and join him. Let's pray. And so, Lord, we pray. Give us eyes to see Jesus. To see Jesus as that shepherd, the true shepherd, who teaches and touches, gets next to sinners, is not irritated with sinners. But who laid down his life for the sheep. And if you laid down your life for the sheep, for us, Lord, who trust you, then surely we can spend some time praying. For you to open our eyes to see the harvest field, to see the opportunity, the way that you display yourself by showing yourself sufficient. For needy, emaciated, neurotic, burr-filled sheep to show what you can do in transforming lives. Lives like my neighbors, lives. Like my wife and me. Savior like a shepherd lead us. Much we need your tender care. Help us to see sinners as sheep. Raise up the workers from Columbia Presbyterian that see our culture. To see the lost world around us as a harvest field, to enter in with the gifts, the training, in their particular careers and calling, As people who bring the teaching and the good news of Jesus Christ into that harvest field, that you would multiply those with that kind of vision from our midst. That you, Lord, we'd even dare would bring change in our nation, revival of a people who are not so filled with themselves that they cannot see their need for a shepherd. Make us available. Teach us as a congregation, as individuals to pray. And prepare us for the commencement address that is coming up in these next few weeks. In Jesus' name. Amen.