We are learning to pray at the feet of Jesus. You see on the first slide up here, this is what we have been looking at so far. His instruction, the address, three requests concerning him, his name, his kingdom, and his will. Our prayer for our provision, our pardon, and our protection. Verse 11, give us our daily bread, and then this request that we have been focusing on. the last couple of weeks. Forgive us our debts as we also forgive our debtors. The one requests that Jesus comments on verses 14 and 15. He says that if you forgive, your heavenly Father will forgive you if you do not forgive Your Heavenly Father will not forgive you. Difficult saying we saw that was elaborated on and explained through the parable in Matthew 18. Where Jesus showed us last week that forgiven people are forgiving people. And if you as a Christian do not forgive, we all struggle with forgiveness, but if you do not and you operate by the law with someone who owes you, then you are placing yourself back under the law And you will suffer the torture of a Christian with sensitized conscience living by the law and its demands, the need to be perfect, to compare yourself and justify yourself and all the rest of that. And if in fact you live that way and that doesn't break you, then you need to question whether you have ever really known the grace of God. I know that a number of you after last uh week are really struggling with that. A lot of conversations last Sunday and this week. about God speaking to you. Um different of you in different situations, trying to apply that. And I know from my own life it's a struggle. I certainly I'm sympathetic and empathetic with that. But there's only one more week that we're going to spend on this this week. And what I want to do this last week is to look back in good old Ephesians at how Paul deals with this topic in the light of the gospel. What Jesus taught in Matthew 6 and 12, he doesn't elaborate on in terms of the significance of his death and resurrection. So we need to, to get a full picture of forgiveness, look at what Paul says in a passage like Ephesians 4. to understand it in its fullness, to see how the gospel applies to this, because of the struggle that we have in how do you do it. So let's look at Ephesians chapter 4. Beginning in verse 31 and going on to chapter 5, verse 2. God's word, Paul says, get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger, brawling, slander, along with every form of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you Be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. You may recall if you were in our study on Ephesians or have just looked at it on your own. This is one example of what Paul says in chapter four about the need since coming to Christ of putting off the old nature and putting on the new nature. And so you see here that in verse 32, you put off bitterness, and then verse 32, you put on kindness There's also a put away. You put away the person's bet. So there's put off, put on, put away and then you put in the gospel. For those of you who are kind of visually pictorially minded, maybe those four images will help you to understand forgiveness. It involves putting off, putting on. Putting away and putting in. So let's look at those four puts to wrap this up and understand what it means for you and me. First of all, then put off Bitterness. First blank, put off. Verse 31, see it there. Get rid of all bitterness. That's what you put off. And so I want to have a slide for each of these to focus on it. Put off bitterness. That's the point. You don't pray for it to go away. You don't say, I can't do it. It's a command that implies a choice to obey by faith or not. So it is a command. Who are you bitter against? Paul says, put off that bitterness. Put it off like a taking off of a shirt. And you say, oh yeah, would that it were just that easy. Would that I could take that heaviness in my heart and the bitterness and I could just put it off Jesus understands that an unforgiving heart, a bitter heart, is a heavy heart. He wants you to have a light heart. He says, put off that bitterness. Oh, but if it were just that simple, you say. But he goes on. In fact, before it gets better, it gets worse. Because Jesus knows And Paul knows as he's writing this, you can't just put off bitterness and just leave it. It should just be a void. It must be replaced. So with the putting off, there must be a putting on. So he says, put off the bitterness. Verse 32 then, put on kindness. So you see there in verse 32, put on kindness, be kind and compassionate to one another. You compare that to chapter 22, verses 23, 24. You had this idea of putting on the new nature of kindness. So you decide you're going to be kind to this person who has so hurt you. whose face and voice bring you pain to think about them. Lord help me. How am I going to do this? So it gets on to the third point. Verse 32, put away. The way that you put on kindness and compassion is to put away his or her debt by grace. And so the third command is to put um to forgive one another, forgiving one another as Christ has God has in Christ forgiven you. So you see the the next main page the The idea of put away the debt. It helps to remember again what forgiveness is. Forgiveness is actually the canceling of a debt. Remember, it's a promise, it's a decision. It is not a matter of feelings, it's not a matter of forgetting, of amnesia, if I could only just Feel better about the person. I'll pray that I'll be able. It's a decision and a promise. I will not bring this accusation up against you I will not gossip about you. I will not brood over it to myself. I will not hold this against you any longer. It's a decision. It is a promise. Now how do you do that? How in the world are you able to accomplish something like that? And here is where Paul brings in the gospel. So that in Ephesians he doesn't stop there, he moves on. And he tells you in verse 32, forgiving one another. Just as in Christ, God forgave you. Be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. as a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God. Twice he says, just as So there is a comparison here. There is something that enables you to get your hands, your mind, and your heart around this dynamic of forgiveness. What does he mean by this? What do we mean by the next slide? Put in the gospel. What do I mean by that? Well, I call it the three M's of forgiveness. And you see in your bulletin outline the three blanks there. Three M's. The first one is the motive. The motive for forgiveness, just as God forgave you because of Christ's sacrifice The great sin that you are experiencing against you should give you a deeper sense of your sin against God and the wonder of his grace against you. How's it work? Well, it goes something like this. As a new Christian, you're taught to pray the Lord's Prayer. Now let's suppose that you prayed the Lord's Prayer without that end to verse 12, just as We have forgiven our debtors. And so you pray, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread, forgive me my debts, forgive us our debts, deliver us from temptation, deliver us from the evil one. And as a new Christian, whenever you pray that, forgive us our debts. Uh, you're overwhelmed with what God has forgiven you. And you just tears come to your eyes and your heart warms toward Lord, you have forgiven me all of my debt against you because Christ took it on the cross. Can't believe that he did that. And that goes for a few weeks. Then after a few months, boy Lord, that's amazing. You forgave me After a couple of years, you sort of rattle through the prayer, forgive us our debts. And if somebody reminds you, you say, Yeah, it's amazing, you know, he forgave us, you know. But you know, somehow you don't feel it a whole lot anymore. You sort of take for granted you're forgiven. But what happens? Somebody betrays you. Somebody does something to you that breaks your heart. Something happens to you, and you think, I will never get over this. And then you pray, Lord, forgive us our debts. But there's that other part. As we have forgiven our debtors. The realization of their sin against you all of a sudden brings back to you the horror of sin. You realize that sin destroys relationships. And as you think about their sin against you, You are forced to come back to remember, as Paul says here, just as God has in Christ forgiven you. And you are forced to think about that. What is my debt compared to what this person has done to me And so this dynamic of having my heart broken by sin brings back to me the horror of sin. And I see that the just as becomes a motive for me, once again, in the wonder of grace, to be able to forgive. But it's not just the motive of it. The just as also communicates the second M, the measure of it. Just as. This is talking about the way he does it. It's as much as I forgive the sin of the person against me, not partially. Not when they come to deserve it, not when they have proven that they're really, really sorry, that they can understand something of how much it hurt me. No May not understand it at all. They may be excusing it and think I deserved it. They may be totally oblivious to it I don't minimize their motives. I don't try to understand and excuse why they do that. Why? Because just as means that I look at the way God forgave me. He didn't minimize your sin. He didn't try to excuse it or understand it or rationalize it or say, I think you've understood enough now how much that hurt me so that I can forgive you. He forgave you freely. He forgave you fully. Completely Knowing the full weight and horror of that sin, how inexcusable it was. When I look at my sin against God, I am still discovering year after year. More of the fullness of its inexcability, of how shameful How deplorable was my treatment of God in His law. And it's not just that the sin itself was so shameful, it's that I understand more as I go on who I sinned against. How he so did not deserve the shabby treatment that I gave to him. And so as I understand more of the measure of his forgiveness to me, I am able to see more. of what forgiveness actually entails. It is the absorption of the debt in full Now, maybe at this point, I need to say a couple of clarifying things about what forgiveness is and what it isn't. So four brief points to help you to understand what forgiveness is and isn't here. First of all, mentioned this before, but forgiveness is, number one, a promise that you make, not feelings that you have. Or the erasing of memories. It doesn't mean that you forget and that to remember it again is a sin. You don't remember it against the person. You forgive in order to eventually forget, that is, to fade. But you don't forget so that you can forgive. You don't pray to be able to feel like forgiving. So forgiveness is a promise. It is a covenant. It is a statement. God has put away the debt of your sin. You are putting away the debt of the one who sinned against you. And if you continue to renew that promise, Every time the bitterness comes back, the memories flood in, over a period of time, the hurt and the memories will fade. They will soften because of the promise renewed. Forgiveness costs terribly It's an immense debt, but look what it cost the father. You absorbed the debt of the other person. He absorbed your debt. Forgiveness is a promise. It is not based on forgiveness, on forgetting, or on amnesia. Second thing to keep clear. Forgiveness is a craft learned by gospel practice. What do I mean by that? I believe there's two kinds of forgiveness. There is daily forgiveness. That's the forgiveness of the normal irritations and slights that we experience from other people. Found out about a book this week called The Living Successfully with Screwed Up People And uh, you know, it's that's the kind of book we all want to run out and get, right? That's a that's a book for me. Because we live with people that are thoughtless, people that cut us off in traffic, people that are rude People that just do stupid stuff and just, you know, what are you thinking? And in each of those cases, forgive us our debts even as we have forgiven our debtors. All right, it's not a big deal. I'm tempted to just want to move on, but I have a choice. Either I accumulate that, there that is, that's that person, and I'm you know, I don't even like to look at him, I want to go the other way when I see him. But these are daily little irritations. Then there is, secondly, the dramatic forgiveness. Now it's how I handle the daily little irritations that determines how I'll handle the dramatic offenses. If I use those little irritations to learn to think gospel just as you have forgiven me. Lord, thank you for showing me through this irritation to identify with Christ, to see the thoughtless ways I treat you, to understand my debt against you. Lord, Thank you for that. And now, Lord, help me to put it in perspective. I can forgive this person. I can put it behind. I'm not going to hold it against them. It doesn't mean that's one, you get three, and then I bust your chops. It just, you know, that's clear. Move on. Then comes that time when someone breaks your heart. There's a betrayal. There's something that's absolutely inexcusable. It's so unimaginable that you can't imitate you just can't fathom what the person was thinking or what would have prompted them to treat you so cruelly Now it's still going to be extremely painful for you to practice, put off the bitterness, put on the kindness, forgiving, putting away the debt. Just as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven you. But if you have been practicing that gospel pattern on a daily basis, When you come to the big dramatic time, your mind will go in gospel paths. You will go back to gospel thinking, and that will enable you, by the grace and the power of God, to be able to say, it's the same dynamic. It's kind of like if you and I saw a bear in the woods. And you gotta outrun the bear. And I say, you know, there it is. And it's you know, just all I'm worried about is can I run faster than you? Because it gets the slower one. But If you have never run, you never jog, you never work out, you're going to say, I got to run, I sure wish that I had made running a practice. I mean, it would help in a time like this. I don't have a choice to say I'm not into running, but I wish that I had run to help me at a time like this. It's the way forgiveness is. You gotta forgive. As a disciple of Christ, Matthew 18, you gotta forgive. But if you're practicing forgiveness on a daily basis, it's going to help you when the race is on to escape the bear. Third um observation about forgiveness is that um it is not meaning that forgiveness does not mean that you avoid confrontation of sin. Forgive us our debts as we forgive those who are our debtors does not mean letting people walk over you. And treat you like dirt and never protest. Forgiveness is not passive. Let me say it again. Forgiveness is not passive. Forgiveness is strong, not weak. Matthew 18, 21 to 35 follows verses 15 to 20 about confronting sin. There is no contradiction between the two. In the verses just preceding the parable we talked about last week, Jesus tells you to go to your brother or sister. When they sin against you or they sin and you see it and you are to tell them about their sin. Seek to win their hearts, press it, even to the point of public church discipline, but you don't ignore it. Jesus, Paul follows here these words, forgiving one another, just as God for Christ's sake forgave you, by saying, be imitators. Of God, therefore, his dearly loved children, to live a life of love just as Christ loved us. Loving a person is to not ignore their sin, not to let them just continue to sin. That's harming them if they're sinning against you. That's harming both of you. To forgive them is not to ignore that. Dan Allender in his book Bold Love gives a number of examples of this kind of thing. And in one of the examples, he talks about a woman who had been abused by her father from childhood. Even into adulthood, his verbal abuse and shaming continued as a pattern in their relationship. He would use rage to control her and use her as a pawn in relationships with the rest of the family. To get what he wanted. Another conversation they were having on the phone was going downhill pretty quickly. And she had been learning some of these principles about forgiveness. The idea of strong forgiveness in Ephesians 4. Let me quote to you her words as Dan Allender recalled them from the time he had with her in uh that conversation where things were going downhill pretty quick. She says, Dad Do you recall the conversation a few nights ago when you yelled and called me some terrible names? Well I told you then that I would no longer allow you to sin against me or yourself by enduring your use of rage and shame. Before you get much more intense, let me make it clear again. I will not stay on the phone if that is your manner of relating to me. Dad, are you willing to think with me about the way you deal with me and frankly almost everyone else in the family? His response. Well, fine. I'll tell your mother about your decision, and let me tell you I have no interest in being lectured to by a kid who has no more sense than dad I will look forward to the day that you do desire to interact. So I'll be talking with you soon. Bye then. And she hung up. She said that she shook like a leaf for hours after she hung up the phone. But she knew that it was a step of faith and obedience Now her father, of course, expected she's up in the ante of the battle now. Imagine his surprise when a week later she called him back. Not with bitterness, but with kindness. Hi Bet. It's Jean again. How you doing? And they talked And he began to realize he was now dealing with a woman that he could no longer control with his rage. And that forced him to begin to look at his own sin. That leads me to the fourth observation. Sin is not the same as reconciliation. I mean forgiveness. Forgiveness is not the same as reconciliation. She was able by God's grace to forgive him in her heart, but that did not mean they were reconciled. That was a private thing. Her determination, by the grace of God, to put away bitterness and to put on kindness. to call him and continue to reach out in the relationship. But reconciliation could only come when he would be willing to look at his sin, admit it, and seek her forgiveness. Forgiveness, then, is a private thing you do independently, first of all, in your heart. To cancel the other person's debt. Because of that, you invite reconciliation. You hope for reconciliation. Kindness is to hope for the other person's good. You invite it, you're open to it, you want reconciliation, not revenge, but reconciliation takes two people seeing their sin. Your forgiveness will soften your heart to hear it, maybe open you to ways you need to repent too. When Kathy and I fight and seek to be reconciled, it is not to return us to the way that we were before. Just experience that again this week. It's rather to go on to something better and deeper in understanding how to love each other. The reconciliation brings a new relationship, not back to the old way. It's not the same The forgiveness is something you first do in your heart, then you offer the forgiveness where there is the expression of repentance and the seeking of forgiveness for wrongs. Forgive us our debts, even as we have forgiven our debtors. Perhaps you're still saying in your heart, but I can't do it. I just can't do it. How do I do that? I've tried and tried. That brings us to the last and the most exciting point. The means, the third M. The motive, the measure, and the means. Let me call your attention to something that is so distinctively gospel in Paul's writings here. You look again at Ephesians 4. 31, where he says, get rid of all bitterness. Literally what the Greek says Is let it be removed from you all bitterness, rage, and anger The command is in the passive. Let it be removed from you. You don't remove it. How do you do that? How do you let something be removed? You cry out, you humble yourself and say, I don't want this bitterness anymore. But God, I can't do it. And Jesus Christ comes in by the power of his Spirit to remove the bitterness from you. The gospel dynamic is the passive imperative. It is a command that you cannot keep apart from the grace of God. You decide the promise, but the promise can only be fulfilled by God's grace in you. You see, that's why it is God glorifying. Because it's supernatural. If it wasn't for that one particular gospel dynamic You could come from this series and say, well, I learned some techniques about forgiveness. It kind of helped you to know what to remember, what to do, promised all, you know. And all that, but you wouldn't be able to do it That's what the world does. It is self-centered forgiveness. I'm doing this because of how it affects me, or I think the relationship's worth it. I just put it beside on and on and on. No, no, no. The gospel is not a technique. It is something supernatural. You come to confess the bitterness. Lord, I want you to change this. I don't want to continue to carry this weight in my heart. I ask you, let it be removed from me by the power of the Spirit, the bitterness That is eating away at me. Grant to me the kindness that is the display of the love of God in Christ. Canceling my debt, giving to me the love of Christ as He sacrificed Himself for me. Brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ is calling you this morning to come to Him. Because when you do that, he becomes your emotional focus. Be imitators of God, he says, as you see Christ As you look at his love for you, his sacrifice for you. That's gospel. Let me ask you. Are you ready to cry out to God to let that bitterness in your heart be removed? Then let's come together and pray. Lord, this is something we can only do in praying. We cannot just take this and accomplish it. Forgive us our debts even as we have forgiven our debtors, Lord. The only way we can forgive our debtors is by seeing Christ. And by your spirit removing from us what we cannot cast off. That bitterness that says, You rob me of something, and I can't live without it. It's an idol in my life, but I can't stand you because you've taken away what I must have to live. But only as we see Jesus are we able to see. I can live without that You can't take from me life. You can't take from me my Savior, my joy. So Lord, we confess that we want to hang on to our bitterness for our own self-righteousness, our own bitter ends. But you want to give us a light heart. Lord, some of us are fearful of engaging people like that, Father. in that story and we have people like that in our own families and and we think, what would it be like to step out? And not let that kind of behavior continue in strength and kindness, not in bitterness and vengefulness. We don't know what that looks like. We need you to show us Lord, forgiveness to some of us feels like death. It's letting go of something that seems like we need for life, and yet now we sense that your spirit is coming. To speak to us. We never knew that that simple request, forgive us our debts, even as we forgive our debtors, was so potent, so life-transforming. And so, Lord, it's time to let go. It's time for some of us to just put off that bitterness. To deepen in our awareness of the gospel and of your grace and your love. And brothers and sisters, I'm going to ask you to do something now as you continue to pray. Can I ask you to think about that person or persons that you feel has wrecked your life, that has broken your heart? I'm going to ask you to bring that person to the Lord. I'm going to ask you to make that decision. to promise to not hold that debt against them any longer. And all of us with eyes closed and our heads bowed I'm going to ask you to make that concrete. I'm going to ask that if you are willing to make that promise by the grace of God to let that bitterness be removed from you. To cancel the debt, that you slip up your hand as a pledge, as a visible action to nobody but you and the Lord and me. That you are determining. I am now pledging to do that. And I will pray specifically for you. I see the hands going up. Thank God, hands going up all over, and I thank you. I thank you. Thank you, Lord. Is there any more before I pray? Okay. I say it. Mothers and others Ah Father, what would it mean? If you were to take the people, all the people in the first service, and all of us here in the second service, And to grant the grace of forgiveness, to grant the removal of the bitterness, the granting of the lightness of kindness. The deeper vision of Christ and his sacrifice for me to seek reconciliation and restoration, that there would be meetings occurring this week, phone calls, and we need to get together. We need to talk. Embracing tears, joy, laughter. Lord, only you can do that, but you can do that And I pray for each person who raised their hands, one person raising both hands. Lord, I pray that you will do that in their lives. That is for your glory and for our joy. I pray that you will enable them to keep that promise, that you would accomplish reconciliation, that we would be a people of light hearts. Because you have set us free. Ah, Lord, do that by your unique power in the strong name of Jesus Christ.