Where did the idea ever originate that you can invite Jesus into your life by assenting to certain facts about him? Like agreeing with the assertion that Jesus died on the cross for your sins and therefore by agreeing with that that you go to heaven. Where did the idea ever originate that people who know you well can not even know that you're a Christian That you can hide Jesus when it's uncomfortable. That your co-workers, friends, neighbors Can have the idea that you're a spiritual person, religious person, involved in a lot of religious activities, but never once ever hear you speak about Jesus Well certainly those ideas never originated with Jesus, who in the current passage that we're looking at in Matthew chapter 10, verses 32 to 39 makes it crystal clear that Christianity is not about some spirituality with a vague association to Jesus But it's rather about unashamed, principled allegiance to him as the primary person in your life. You remember that four weeks ago, looking at the context of this, we saw that Jesus said, Do not be afraid. Of anyone in your life, that the worst they can do to you is kill you. But rather be afraid of the one who determines where you go to spend eternity. The one who can destroy both soul and body and hell. The one who, if you know him through Jesus, is a heavenly father. Who knows exactly how many hairs are on your head And there are fewer there than there were four weeks ago when we considered that text. He knows the number. He knew the number then. He knows the number now. He's the God who knows when any sparrow falls. He's aware. This week I was sitting out on our patio. And all of a sudden, plop, dropped out of a bush right in front of me, a little a baby catbird. And as I looked up there behind the bush were two skulking cats giving me a dirty look. You know, cats can really give you a dirty look when you've taken their bird. And so I rescued that little catbird and thought how I paid attention to it, but that I have a heavenly father who also knew that that little bird was injured and it fell from that bush. Have you thought about sparrows or the hairs on your head in the last four weeks to think about God's care for you? And now Jesus comes and he makes an even more startling assertion. In fact, this passage is full of assertions that only God could make Jesus doesn't say, I am God. He makes assertions that only God could make unless he was crazy. And we'll look at those this morning. You see that what he does here is that he he is challenging You're holding your highest allegiance to him as it conflicts with three competing other interests. He's telling you here that having him in your life will produce a certain tension these certain difficulties raised in that. You know, I'm tempted with the group. I don't know what happened to the group over here this morning. Um this is one of those mornings where I feel like I should just take the accordless and just wander around among you, you know, 'cause This group you must have freaked them out the last two weeks, Tim. I th They're all gone. There's this big hole here. The rest of you out there, you know, come on move up, you know Because this is a very searching passage. In fact, maybe you talked to one person who was on the way out of the first service that said, I felt like I was a bug under a microscope in today's message. And then she added, But that's a good thing It is a very searching passage. So let's pray for a moment. Lord Jesus, Lord God, give us honesty. That we might hear your voice to us. Amen Jesus is telling you that the consequences of whether you hold him first place in these three competing interests is not simply a matter of some rewards, it's a matter of heaven or hell. The stakes are high. What are the three competing interests? First of all, the opinion of others. The opinion of other people in general. Verse 32-33 Whoever acknowledges me before men, I will also acknowledge him before my Father in heaven. But whoever disowns me before men, I will disown him. before my Father in heaven. The statement is simple and clear. You cannot be a secret Christian. You must acknowledge him. You cannot be ashamed of the gospel. Paul says in Romans 1:16, I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it's the power of God to salvation. He says in Romans 10, 9, and 10, in your bulletin it says 10, 19. That shouldn't be that, it should be 10, 9, and 10, that with the mouth we confess Jesus. As our Savior and our Lord. We confess him, we speak of him. We are not ashamed of him. And we do that Not just by witnessing or in uh confessing before the congregation. You do it every day. You either confess him or deny him. Let me give you an example Uh the cover article this week of Time magazine is on marriage. And it's uh it's uh there it is, unfaithfully yours. Infidelity is eroding our most sacred institution, how to make marriage matter again. And if you read the article, um it talks about the number of recent uh politicians who have been unfaithful to their wives and other people. In fact talks about there's like seven different uh in the last couple of years politicians who have been unfaithful The article then ends with a couple of significant comments. She says, the fundamental question is, what is the purpose of marriage? Is it simply an institution that has the capacity to increase the pleasure of adults who enter into it? If so, it's doomed, forget it, that's it, it's over. Or is marriage an institution that still hues to its old intention and function to raise the next generation, to protect it, teach it, ensure that generation's safe passage into adulthood? It doesn't say much for childless couples. Sort of uh sounds more like a statement from the Catholic Church than Time magazine, but it's a moral statement. There's a lot to be said for it. And then she ends by after she castigates again Mark Sanford and the other uh frauds she calls them who give up, don't sacrifice, she ends with this sentence What we teach about the true meaning of marriage will determine a great deal about our fate as a culture. The meaning of marriage. Now, suppose you're in um around a water cooler or something, you know, everybody's chatting about you. Yeah, well I think marriage is dead anyway. Well, yeah, but You get everybody's opinion on what marriage is. What do you find yourself thinking? Are you thinking your blood pressure rises a little and you think, boy, I hope we get off this topic Because obviously as a Christian I have some deep convictions about this, but I, you know, I don't think they're going to go over real well in this group If I say that, well, you know, marriage wasn't man's idea, it's God's the one who invented marriage, and he's the one that assigns meaning to it. In fact, it reflects his relationship with his people In fact, you know, marriage can't work without grace and forgiveness. And if I was in that conversation, I'd probably say, in fact, I can guarantee you that if it wasn't for Jesus Christ in our lives, my wife and I would be divorced. Now you may not say that, but my question is, would you be willing to say something like that? That's acknowledging him Or would you deny him? Would you back out, wimp out, say, not going to get into this, they're not going to like it? So I will Subliminate my convictions so that things aren't uncomfortable And you notice that Jesus here is unique. He says, I will Acknowledge you to my father or deny you to my father, not our father. He claims here a unique relationship and the consequences of whether you confess him or deny him. The word deny there, this oon, is the same word that's used of Peter in chapter 26. Do you remember Peter felt the heat in chapter 26 when Jesus has been arrested and things are very tense? Peter's thinking that they might be looking for him. You read in chapter six, verse sixty-nine, now Peter was sitting out in the courtyard, a servant girl came to him, and she said, You also are with Jesus of Galilee, I recognize you. You belong to him, you're one of his And Peter starts to sweat, his pulse is racing, his heart's pounding. Is he going to confess or is he going to deny? Verse 70 says, but he denied it before them all. Three times he denies That he knows Jesus Christ. What would you do in that situation The stakes are high. Jesus is unique. But then he presses it. He moves to an even harder case. The second thing is where he talks about your parents. The acceptance of your family. The second case. The acceptance of your family. Look at verse 34. He says, Do not suppose that I have come to bring peace to the earth The Jews at that time thought that when the Messiah came, he was coming to bring peace. He was going to judge the Romans, going to get rid of them, going to set up the kingdom. And everybody was going to live in peace and tranquility. It would all be a happy time. He says, don't think I've come to bring peace at this point to the earth. I didn't come to bring peace but a sword. And I got their attention. Then he goes on, for I have come to turn a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. A man's enemies will be the members of his own household. Surely they were thinking, what in the world are you talking about? Your household's where you find safety against your enemies. Jesus says, No, I've come so that your own household will be your enemies. Anyone who loves his father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. Anyone who loves his son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. Again, notice the uniqueness. I have come. I have come. It all focuses on him. Probably most, if not all of us, know of people who have been disowned by their families, shunned, put out because of their relationship with Jesus Christ. And of course you think that it's difficult here. We hear of stories of Christians in Muslim lands where Sharia law says that it's mandatory death penalty. For a person to convert out of Islam into another religion, particularly Christianity. And so if you have been a Muslim and now you profess Jesus Christ And you're asked, do you confess him or will you return to Islam? And if you say, No, I will not, I confess Jesus Christ, He is the only Lord, He is my Savior, it very well could mean death for you. I think of cases of you know, just numbers of cases that could be referred to. Um I literally just pulled one magazine, Barnabas Aid, one issue, wasn't looking, and here's five cases Of Christians who have been disowned by their families because of their faith in Jesus Christ. Let me refer to just a couple of them briefly. Take Hannah Christian and daughter of a British Imam, which is a leader of a mosque, she had to be taken under police protection in December 2007 after received received a death threat via a text message from her brother warning that he could not be responsible for his actions if she did not return to Islam. She became a Christian when she was 16. Since that time, two years ago, she has moved forty-five times. to escape her family in trying to kill her. We take Zia, Turkish Christian. He was disowned by his parents after he converted from Islam. When his parents found out that he had become a Christian, they told people that he had died in an accident rather than have to live with the shame of admitting he had become a Christian. They told him, go away. You are not our son. Or take Sophia, 28-year-old Pakistani Christian. Living with her family in London when she decided to follow Jesus Christ. After her family found out she had left Islam, they tried everything to make Sophia change her mind. They told her again and again, the punishment is death. Do you not know the punishment is death for what you're doing. Sophia ran away from home, but her mother tracked her down and turned up at her baptism, tried to pull her out of the water. Her brother phoned her on her cell phone and said, I'm coming down to burn down the church. Tension And it's still tension today. We don't have that magnitude of tension, but we know if situations are difficult. I remember my wife was in a class. and met a woman, sat next to her in the class, were strangers, but struck up a friendship, began to have coffee together on occasionally before or after the class, got to know each other. At one point this woman mentioned to Kathy that she detested pastors. So Kathy thought probably be better idea to not tell her what her husband did at that point. And they went on, continuing the friendship. And after another couple months, she said uh I'm really upset. My daughter started going to a church with her boyfriend. And um so, you know, Kathy listened, went on a little bit more, and she was getting more alarmed about this and After a couple more months, she said, you know, my daughter has become a Christian. This is terrible. She was alarmed. She was afraid of what her daughter was getting into. felt rejection, felt judged, you know, all these things. And of course as new Christians, a boyfriend and his her daughter weren't always helping, why in the wisest way But then after they were pursuing us for a while, um she said, you know, I think she's joined a cult. This is terrible. Kathy said, Well what what is the group? She said, well it's a some group I never heard of. It's called the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. By the way, what does your husband do? When she and I met for dinner, we laughed about that. But it's still great tension, isn't it? A lot of pain. Kathy's friends with a person right now that talks gets really upset talking about her son who's become a Christian. Rejection, fear. I remember when I became a Christian. Um, it was the end last year of high school. And um greatly escalated the tension in our household. Now issues that had been issues of discipline simply before, my father would occasionally say, and you call yourself a Christian. After my mother died, I was going through her papers, and I saw one place where she had written, My son's faith has alienated him from me. Difficult. Some of you have experienced that. I know many of you have those kinds of difficult, tense situations, brother, sister, parents. Someone in your family. Jesus understands that. He knows He doesn't say this to throw it out there as if that's the way it's going to be. You know, Jesus experienced the same kind of thing. The Bible tells us he has four brothers, names them, and an undetermined number of sisters. And they didn't believe on him during his life. James at least came to believe in him. But during his ministry, they thought he was crazy. They wanted to do an intervention to get him out of this crazy thinking that he was Messiah. We'll talk about that more at the end of chapter twelve. Jesus understands. He knows the pain, the rejection. The things that are difficult for you in relationships. And he gives you the opportunity to display your love for him. Because he says there in verse 37, if you love mother or father or son and daughter more than me You're not worthy of me. Interesting word worthy, same word in Ephesians. It's it's not uh an equivalent, it's not appropriate, it doesn't fit being my disciple Jesus sometimes gives you the opportunity to say, Lord, just tearing my heart out. But I've got to lay before you on the altar my parents, my son, my daughter. Remember Abraham? Abraham, how much do you love me? Take your son, Isaac, your only son, whom you love, and sacrifice him on Mount Bariah. The tears and anguish of heart, Abraham takes Isaac his son, to offer him up to God, to show, Lord I cannot be without you. Without you, I am lost. And trusts what God will do. Some people say, I can't believe in a God who would ask such a thing. God delivers Isaac. Prefiguring the cost of his own son. He has the right to make any demand he desires, for he is Lord. It's in accordance with his majesty, his honor, but it's always consistent with his love. And that's what he calls you and me to do, to determine that issue right now. Lord, I will let no human relationship Come between me and you. No boy, no girl, no family member can come between me and you And then Jesus brings it to conclusion in the hardest statement of all. He talks about saving your own life. Verse thirty-eight And anyone who does not take his cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Again, see how unique is this statement. Who but God could say this? A political leader might say Be ready to give your life following me for the cause. Jesus doesn't say that. He says, be ready to give your life for my sake, simply for me. He demands total allegiance. This statement, take his cross and follow me, is often greatly misunderstood. Taking your cross is not talking about some difficulty that you have in life. Like caring for your mom with Alzheimer's is your cross to bear. It's not about that. It's a voluntary taking of a hideous instrument of death and resigning all of your rights to say, Jesus is Lord of my life. It is saying that I will not let anything, my agenda, my selfish desires. My wanting to live my life my way, I lay that on the altar. In fact, Paul uses that kind of language in Romans chapter 12. In Romans chapter 12, after he has taken eleven chapters to talk about the mercies of God and the gospel. Your need and my need for a Savior are running our lives as if He didn't matter and His coming and sending His Son so that you and I could have life Goes through eleven chapters of the mercies of God and what lies ahead for you and for me in eternity when all things will be set right. And he then begins that last that chapter as he's moving now to the so what part where he says therefore in the light of all that I've said I urge you brothers in view of these eleven chapters of God's mercy To offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual, or you could translate it, your reasonable, act of worship. See, it's the same idea. You don't belong to yourself. You've been bought with a price. And so, in glad response in worship, you offer your body as a living sacrifice. You take up your cross, the instrument of death, and say, Here it is, not just words, but it's my body. I give you my time, everything that I do in my body Everything that you do in your body, I don't care what you do without your body, just what you do in your body, you see. Everything you do is in your body, so it's your life, it's the totality of all that you are. But as someone once scrawled on a wall in Urbana, 1970, the trouble with a living sacrifice is that she keeps trying to crawl off the altar. And so you and I find things that beckon to us to crawl off the altar. And Jesus says, if you are determined to find your life here, you will in fact lose it for eternity. But if you see me as your Savior and Lord, and are willing to lose your life for me, take up that hideous instrument of death, the cross. And say, Lord, I have no rights. I give them all to you. I give you my life. I give you my agenda. I give you my body as a living sacrifice. You will in fact find your life. That's his offer, and that's his ultimatum Remember a few years ago the movie Dead Man Walking? Prisoner and Death Row? When walking down that final corridor to the gas chamber or the electric chair, a guard would call out, Dead man walking! Here's somebody coming whose life is as good as dead. He's walking, but he has no rights. He's given up his life, its forfeit. And you and I are people who in our old nature are dead men and dead women walking because we have a new life That it belongs to Jesus Christ. It is his life given for us. You see, here's where we need to consider the gospel, because if I ended the talk here, we would go out simply feeling guilty and hopeless and defeated. For who of you Myself included, has not denied Jesus at some point, has not said, I'm gonna hide the fact that I'm associated with him Who of you has not at some point loved mother or father or son or daughter or some other person in your life more than Jesus Christ? Who of you has not refused the cross and said, At this point, I'm going to have it my way? I'm guilty of all three of those things, aren't you? Remember Peter. The word that's used in chapter 10 to disown is the same word, remember? To describe Peter. He denied that he knew him. Peter did that three times after Jesus had warned him In Jesus' greatest hour of need, what more despicable disowning could there be? And yet the Bible tells us in Luke that when the cock crowed, the third time Jesus, that Peter denied that he even knew Jesus Jesus turned to him, looked straight at him with compassion and love. A love and compassion that drove Jesus to literally take up a cross And to die for Peter's sins, his cowardice, and his denial To die for your sins, your cowardice, my cowardice, your denial, and my denial of Jesus. And when he rose again before he appeared to the other ten, Jesus made a point of first having a private Meeting with Peter on that Sunday afternoon to restore him Some days later, on a beach in Galilee, Jesus restores Peter not only by forgiving him, but restoring him even to leadership, because he loves him. So you say, which is it that you're saying? You just told me if I deny him, he'll deny me. And now you're telling me it doesn't really matter. If I deny him, he loves me anyway. What Jesus is saying quite clearly is, what is it that characterizes your life? Is it distance and denial? Or is it to confess him, to love him, to want him to be first, punctuated with times of failure that cause you like Peter to go out and weep bitterly and say, Lord, I can't believe that I did that. Help me. I am a frail coward, but my heart belongs to you. And when you come to do that then relationships take on different priority. I mean, how precious is Jesus to you? Is he more precious than the opinion of somebody at a party that you've never seen may never see again, and you care more about what they think than what Jesus thinks? Isn't that ridiculous? And yet I find myself tempted in that direction. Or that person that you cannot give up. You can't be without their approval. Even if it costs you denying Jesus, but your love for Him compels you to follow Him at whatever the cost. To deny your agenda and to find in that mysterious way that is Romans 12:1 says, when you lay your body as a living sacrifice pleasing to him Verse 2 goes on to tell you that you then have your mind transformed so that you discover his will, which is good and pleasing to whom? To you and perfect. So that your living sacrificed body, bringing pleasure to him Causes you in discovering his will to discover it's not what you would have chosen. But if you knew everything the way he does, it is what you would have chosen, and it brings pleasure to you so that his pleasure and your pleasure are fused in glorious beauty. Let's pray. And so our God, we come now to recognize how much we have marginalized you We have lived as if we could add you to our lives rather than radically move us in a different direction. And we confess that. And we're broken by that. Lord, for some of us here it may mean that we're seeing that you really aren't in our lives. Our lives are characterized by distance and denial. We can talk about religious things with Christians, but we don't give a rip when we're with unbelievers because we're more comfortable that way. And so, Lord, we pray, show us how desperately we need you. Lord, we are lost without you. Bring us to the foot of the cross that you bore for us to take our sin. So that we are forgiven. Thank you, Lord Jesus, that you bore that cross for us. Give us grace to take up the cross, which is for each of us unique in The particular ways that it means to renounce and die to ourselves and live unto you. But for all of us, it's the same basic issue, self or Christ. That we would determine this week that we will stand up for Jesus, that we will be known and counted And so in conclusion, I want for you to do in this end of this prayer a physical gesture of that. If you are praying that with me, that God would do that in your life, I'd like to ask you quietly to stand where you are, in your place. Simply as a way of saying, I am willing, whatever anybody thinks, I want to take a stand and stand up for Jesus Christ. I ask you now, whoever is praying that, to stand. Only if you mean this, only if you are saying, Lord Jesus, I want to take up my cross and I want to follow you, have you be my first allegiance and my first love. And I don't care who knows it. So Lord, for those that are standing, make that prayer a prayer of their hearts for those that sit Continue to work in their lives to show, Lord, how wonderful you are And the consequences of making you first or denying you. So speak to our hearts and give us the grace. To take up our cross and follow you this week and for our lives from here on. In Jesus' name. Amen.