And uh I continue to be amazed at how the Holy Spirit times the messages that I bring to coincide with our needs as a congregation. and events going on in our congregation and in the nation. Like Friday, when I was listening to the news and heard a commentator say If you are not scared or concerned, you're not paying attention. Or then in the same broadcast shortly after that to hear another commentator say the state of Maryland has a deficit this year of over one billion dollars. And that's after the greatest tax increase in history, the tenth largest deficit in the nation. And then another commentator who said, this is probably the greatest, most significant non-war event. In many people's entire lives. And we have two wars going on. And the one in Afghanistan is escalating And then there's the people that are really concerned and anxious about the election, thinking what is going to be the state of our nation if the other people's candidates win Sometimes when I hear Senators Obama and McCain debating, casting back and forth the aspersions I think I wouldn't be surprised if one day I turn on and hear in the news one of them say, you know what? You can have this election. I quit. You think I want to handle these problems? And so we come to Matthew chapter 8. Verses 23 to 27 in God's providence. Everybody likes a good story. And this is one of the great winners of all time. So I want to invite you, in the midst of all the turmoil. Various levels that you're aware of, you're thinking, you're going through, to for a few minutes, get your mind off yourself. To engage this story, to look at some of the details, and simply see Jesus In verse 27 of Matthew's account, chapter 8, he says that the disciples were amazed at Jesus. And I want to point out three ways that Jesus is amazing in this story. First way that Jesus is amazing. Is that he leads those who follow him directly into a life-threatening storm Now remember the passage we looked at last week where you have two would-be disciples, one who says, I'll follow you anywhere, a bit naively The other one who says, well, I'll follow you, but let's negotiate. I got something I got to take care of, and I'll get back to you. And the implication is that those two disciples didn't follow Jesus. But you read in Matthew 8 verse 23 that they got into the boat and his disciples followed him. You remember that Jesus had said back there in verse 18 that with all the crowd pressing around him, we need to get away from this. So he commanded the disciples, get a boat ready. We're going to go away off the other side of the lake where we can get some breathing room. And so the disciples, Matthew says, followed him. And I think that's purpose so that you see it's in contrast to those who didn't follow him. These guys follow him, so that then the next verse should be a non sequitur. So without warning, a furious storm came up on the lake so that the waves swept over the boat They followed him, and look where it got them. Into a life-threatening storm. Now at this point, you've got to use your imagination a little bit to get into the scene. Lake Galilee is a deep depression that is about 680 feet below sea level, below the Mediterranean. And uh a bit north of it is Mount Hermon that is 9,200 feet at its peak above sea level. So it's about 10,000 feet above Lake Galilee. And occasionally cool breezes will come down from Mount Hermon. They will sweep into that valley, that pit. and collide with the warm, moist air that has settled over Lake Galilee, and the result is a furious gale that comes up without warning. Instantly, this quiet lake, about thirteen miles by about seven and a half miles, becomes like an ocean. And the waves are ten feet high. And the um the nases were talking afterwards and uh talking about how they've been there and they've described that So these waves are now not only rocking the boat, but Matthew tells us some of the waves are coming into the boat. So they're in danger of either being capsized or sinking. Now, remember that these are hardened fishermen. they are not unused to storms. So probably the the first thing that they do in this boat, the boat is probably it's a fishing boat, probably can hold about a dozen fishermen and a good catch of fish. These guys immediately revert to their training and their experience. They begin to bail and they begin to do all that they need to do to handle this storm. And so they're trying now to get this thing to the other side of the lake. They're trying with all their might. They're dealing with this thing the best way that they know how. And their feelings at this point are probably a mixture. of terror as they begin to see that they are in beyond anything they have experienced. This thing is really threatening. And perhaps a bit of anger and frustration. Why did Jesus lead us into this? We're only here because we followed Him. He said to take the boat across the lake now. What was he thinking? If he can heal lepers and cast out demons and heal a guy from a distance, why couldn't he know that this thing was coming? What was he thinking? What is he doing? Let me ask you. Have you ever asked that question of the Lord? Lord, I was trying to follow you I simply was doing what I thought you wanted me to do, and this storm has come into my life. Unexpected, you notice verse 24, without mourning, blindsided me. Now, God, if you are all powerful and all-loving, why don't you do something? I wouldn't let my kids suffer something like I'm suffering if I had the power to deliver them. And you do. So, Lord, why am I going through this now? Now be honest. You've asked that question, haven't you? I have. See that that's just like these men in this boat What are you thinking? Why does following you put me in the storm? Are you absent? Or are you asleep? Don't you care? Which leads us to the second thing that is utterly amazing about Jesus in this story. And that is that he is indeed asleep. Jesus is sleeping through this storm. End of verse 24. But Jesus was sleeping. This shows us two things about Jesus that are very important for us to see. The first is that it shows you how exhausted Jesus was. He's been dealing with crowds of people all day. Mark tells us that it's at the end of the day. Perhaps it's gone on for a couple of days. Constant demands. People asking for healing, and he's trying to teach, he's trying to do one thing and another, and just it's constant stress. So that I believe that Jesus was saying, we need a break. I'm at the end of my strength. Let's go across the lake to get some rest. So Jesus, I picture, when the boat launches from the shore, Jesus immediately is down and within 30 seconds he's out. Because he's exhausted. Why? Because he is fully human He's totally one hundred percent man. He's not superhuman. He's fully human. Only Christianity has God, who has become flesh, fully human. And that means that when you are stressed and you are weary and you are exhausted God can empathize. Jesus can say, I know how you feel. I've been there. Isn't that amazing? Doesn't that cause you to love him more and want to draw close to him to know that in contrast to Islam or any other religion where God is distant, the Bible teaches uniquely God who has become a flesh, so that the Creator needed to sleep He's so approachable in his incarnation. The second thing That it teaches you and me is that he is sleeping because of his complete trust in his Heavenly Father. Jesus, I believe, fell off into this exhausted sleep. The boat begins to rock, now it's rocking violently, there's the screaming winds. And all these things, and the guys are yelling and shouting, and they're trying to take care of this thing, and the boat's taking on water, and there's water and rain and everything everywhere, and he doesn't even wake up It makes me kind of smile to think of the picture that some people have of Jesus as a wimp who hangs around women and children because he's not able to take it on the playing field of rough men. These were hardened, tough fishermen. These were rough guys. These were burly men, talked about at our conference. And they were at the end of their wits. They were panicked. And Jesus doesn't even wake up. Why? Because he's tough, because he's got courage. No. Because he has faith. He's at rest in his heavenly father's care. So the combination of his exhaustion and his trust enable him to sleep through what seems like an impossible situation for anybody to sleep through. That leads us to the third thing that is amazing about Jesus in this story. The amazing thing is that when they wake him up, he calms the storm with a rebuke. The disciples give it their best. They think, okay, he got us into this. He obviously needs the rest. Let him go. We'll handle it. Keep working, redouble their efforts, try harder, every trick they know to keep the boat from swamping or being sunk, and finally they realize we're we're losing it. We're going down. And so uh you know how guys are uh don't like to ask for help, but finally this is desperate, so somebody's gotta wake them up And they finally come, verse 25 says, They went and they welcome, saying, Lord, save us, we're going to drown. Mark's account adds that somebody, at least one or more, also said, Rabbi, don't you care if we drown? Lord save us. Don't you care? You're there sleeping. We're gonna drown. What is it? Come on. I believe that that reflects a mixture of panic, pleading, and frustration. They got no choice. They need to wake him. They're desperate. But in that you see both a request and an accusation. Don't you care? Have you ever felt that toward the Lord? Lord, don't you care that I'm going through it? I pray, I don't hear anything, I don't see anything change. Don't you care that I'm drowning? That's what they say. They have hearts like your heart and mine, don't they? Jesus wakes up And he does two things. First of all, Matthew tells us his immediate response is to rebuke them for their little faith. Verse 26, he replied, You of little faith, why are you so afraid? What's that about? I believe that's because the first thing he sees when he wakes up is absolute terror in their eyes. And that terror grieves his heart. It's like a parent playing with a five-year-old. And you're playing a game, and in this game there's a little bit of mock, risk, abandonment, you know, you're gonna throw. Your son or daughter and you know, will you catch them or you're gonna hide and will they find you so they think you left them? And The delight for me with my grandkids is to hear, oh grandpa, I we knew you wouldn't go. We knew you wouldn't drop us But what if I throw them and there's terror and they say, ah, you know, maybe you will. There's pain. Do you think that I would drop you? Do you think that I would abandon you? And Jesus is in his mind is, I called you to be my disciples for the mission that I have. That mission's obviously not over. Do you think that you and I are at the mercy of the winds and the waves? Don't you trust me? And can you imagine? Don't you care that we perish? And he's thinking, I am going to give my life to die for your sin. To take it upon me. Do you think I don't care? Painful moment for the Lord. I think also involved in that is the fact that he understands how central faith is to the Christian life. He understands that faith is the absolute bottom line of what is essential and necessary in being his disciple. Why is it that Moses was able to renounce Egypt and follow the Lord? Hebrews 11 tells us, because of faith. And you read through all of Hebrews 11, it's because of faith that we resist temptation. It's because of faith that we look for the better land. It's because of faith. again and again and again and Jesus understands that if you don't trust me you will not renounce this world to follow me. If you don't trust me, you will not resist temptation. If you don't trust me In the storm, whether it's financial crisis or health or whatever else, you will act like an orphan who needs to take care of yourself. You will be anxious And that dishonors me, and it grieves me when I so obviously care so very much for you. Why are you afraid? Why do you have little faith? But it's no time for a Bible study and to sit down and to discuss that matter. So after having said that Jesus does something that's amazing. He stands up in this boat that's going all over. And the Bible says He got up and he rebuked the winds and the waves and it was completely calm. Instant calm. He stands up and Mark says that he said, Be still, be calm. It's like he is commanding an excited puppy. Down, boy. I believe he uses that language because it highlights his authority. He's not praying He's not interceding. He with direct authority commands the winds and the waves Johannes Bees, one of the most prominent German anti-supernatural scholars of the New Testament. Wrote about this incident, he said, at that moment an astounding lull happened to occur in the storm. Yeah, right. Because you see, Matthew points out that it wasn't just the winds stopped But it was completely calm. That's supernatural. I've been in a boat in deep water A day after a major storm. And the waves are still rolling. The swells are still going. But Matthew says there was an immediate calm. You know, again, it get yourself in the picture. See a little bit of humor here. There's an immediate calm, their hearts are still pounding, their pulses are racing, and there's no storm. I mean there's nothing. It's just kind of like all calm, like there had never been You know, uh Kathy and I were at Ocean City some years ago in October when there was a gale. This gale was so bad we went down to the inn because I thought it'd be kind of cool where the channel is, goes through between Assateek and and Ocean City. Went down to the parking lot and there wasn't any parking lot. It was under water, under the ocean, because all the waves were just coming in over the beach, over the parking lot. And I remember we were looking out to the sea, just watching these huge waves come in, and suddenly I spotted a boat out there. It was kind of like what was left of a boat. This was a two-masted yacht that had come down from Canada. So it was an ocean-going two-masted yacht from sailing ship. But there were no masts left. The mast had broken off, the sails were in utter tatters. This thing was going down. And I can imagine someone speaking, and all of a sudden the ocean is calm. No wind, no waves. You know, I mean, we have to see how absolutely staggering what Jesus did is. So that's why Matthew then says in verse 27 that the disciples, these men, were amazed. They were amazed, and he asked, What kind of man is this? Even the winds and the waves obey him. You see, Jesus said, Why do you have little faith? He doesn't say have no faith. And we talked about in Mark, he he says, Why do you have no faith? And that's What happens after the storm. But he says, You have why do you have little faith? Because you see, they had seen him heal lepers, they had seen him healing demon-possessed, they had seen him doing many wonderful things, but they didn't make the connection You and I do that. Lord, I saw you answer this prayer. I saw you work in that situation, but somehow that doesn't seem to relate to the situation I'm in now. Are you able to do this now? I saw you give me a new life, I saw you change my heart and everything, but here's a financial crisis and man this is pretty big, Lord. I don't know, can you handle this? You see? Their faith needed to grow to make the connections about his authority in every realm. See, these guys had been growing in their amazement. They were amazed when they saw him teach the Sermon on the Mount, and he taught as one who had authority, not as the scribes. They were amazed when they saw him heal a leper on the way back to Capernaum They were more amazed when they heard a Roman centurion who understood authority say to Jesus, You are a man of authority, and I believe you could heal my servant without even coming to the place where he lays. They were more amazed when they came in and saw Peter's mother-in-law lying in a fever. Nothing that they could do to help, and Jesus touches her, and instantly she not only is well, she gets up to make dinner. They're more amazed as they see the crowds outside the door, demon-possessed, blind, deaf, dumb, crippled, and everyone is healed. They're amazed when they hear that two people, a scribe, that we've won to our side, and Jesus sees his heart and turns him away. He's not going to negotiate. With disciples. What authority. They were amazed when they saw Jesus sleeping in the boat while they're struggling to stay afloat and stay alive. And Matthew wants you to get the punchline. But nothing amazed them, like seeing him speak to winds and waves in a storm. An instant calm settles. Do you see that Jesus used the trial To grow their view of him. That which they thought was the worst thing that could happen to them. turned out to be the turning point of their lives in seeing how much greater Jesus was than they had ever imagined. Because he was sufficient in that situation. Now, what's the situation in your life? There may be some of you here this morning that are saying, you know, the financial crisis isn't even at the top of my list. I've got things going on in my life now. That caused that to recede. Whatever it is. Debt, health, relationships Some hole you've gotten yourself in, you wonder if the Lord can get you out And he's using that trial, maybe through your own doing, or maybe without warning, and simply because you were following him. To grow your vision of Jesus. See, a contrast between Jesus and human other human leaders Is that with other human leaders, their disciples, those that closely associate with them, the closer they get to them, the more they understand that there are people who have frailties They have struggles. They see inconsistencies. They say, yeah, but you know, you really get close to that guy and you realize he's not all that the public image seems to show. In Jesus' case, the closer you get to him, the more amazed you are. At his consistency and sufficiency and compassion and authority. And that's why you need to be in Scripture not just Sunday mornings, but tomorrow morning. And every day this week, daily getting closer to Jesus, so you can be more amazed, you can connect the struggles, the trials. The storms that you're going through to his omnipotent compassion. Imagine if you and I could have seen what Jesus did on that lake that day. What difference would it make in how you will live this week? You need to believe it was history. This actually happened. Jesus did this, and he is the same Lord today. You know, the world isn't very impressed with Christians when things are going well, unless they see a Christian sacrifice. But when everything's falling apart and everybody's panicking to see someone who is at peace And who has every right to be anxious, just like you, but they're saying, you know, I believe that I have a heavenly father And he is in control of this. And we're going to continue to give. And we're going to continue to trust him. Because whatever happens, and we don't know what will happen. We believe that he takes care of his children. That gets attention. The gospel gains credibility. In that kind of peace. In times of church history, when the plagues would hit the cities, the people would flee and empty the cities. But the records say that Christians stayed in the cities with the plagues to minister to the sick and to the dying. And the world saw a peace it didn't understand. Is God using our current financial crisis as an opportunity for the gospel? For you and for me this week, in trusting a Savior who is able to Calm a storm and speak with authority to winds and waves to be able to speak peace into your heart. Because you know he is sufficient for the situation. Let's pray. Oh Lord, open our eyes. Open our eyes that we might see this Jesus who on that particular day, two thousand years ago Spoke to wind and waves, and exercised authority over nature And so as we read the news and hear the news and see the commentators, and we see the newscasters say, if you are not scared or concerned, you're not paying attention. And to be able to smile and say, yeah, it could get bad. But I have a shepherd who cares for his sheep I have a bridegroom who cares for his bride. I have a father. Who cares for his children, I trust you. And I want to honor you, not just to myself But I want to publicly honor you in the conversations, not to just sound spiritual, but to be able to honestly speak About a peace that you genuinely give to each person in this room, whatever their situation. Because they're able to trust you. They're able to see who you really are. Oh Lord, Lord, thank you for the trials that you give that grow our faith. Thank you for the ways that you can make us bold, that will honor you and give the gospel credibility. We pray that For each of us this week. And if there's someone, Lord, who sees this and says, I don't know that Savior, I don't have him, Lord, that you would draw that person to yourself now. To trust you in the work you did on the cross and rising from that tomb to save them. And to know that each of us can trust you fully for every need. In Jesus' name. Amen.