Okay, this morning we bring two things to a conclusion. First of all This morning completes 30 years of our worship as a congregation. It was September 17, 1978, that we first met for worship, New Oakland Mills. Interface center, ninety-six people in attendance. So thirty years. We're going to be celebrating our thirtieth anniversary in October 18 and 19 with a community on Saturday and then Sunday here together as a family. Hope you can make that, but just thought I'd remind you that you for those of you who want to be precise, it is this week that marks thirty years of ministry in this community. The second thing that we come to a conclusion for this morning is uh the two and a half year series on the Sermon on the Mount. And I was actually wrong last week when I said it was this would be the 50th message. This is the 51st message. Last week was 50. Let's see the picture once again. Last time. This, the best understanding of the exact place where Jesus at the bottom of that hill taught those immortal words of the Sermon on the Mount. We finished the sermon last week, but as you picture the crowd there listening to Jesus Matthew comments at the end of chapter 7, verse 28, when Jesus had finished saying these things, the crowds were amazed at his teaching. Because he had taught as one who had authority and not as their teachers of the law. Now, first of all, just Briefly in passing, I want for you to notice those words when Jesus had finished saying these things. We're doing a study of the whole gospel of Matthew. And so for just a moment to pause and get the big picture, that is the first of five times that Matthew says that. When Jesus had finished saying these things, you see them listed there in your bulletin outline, there are six times, six areas of narrative, six sections that begin chapter one to four. And there are five sections of teaching. You see those listed. That's the way Matthew divides his gospel and it's unique. Mark and Luke are more chronological. Matthew is more topical. So what Matthew is doing now is he is saying, here is the summation of Jesus' teaching about the kingdom. When he finished saying these things, then in two weeks we're going to take off on chapter 8 and talk about a narrative section for a while. So I just wanted you to notice that to see how Matthew is unique. But particularly this morning I want to notice the reaction of the crowd to Jesus' sermon. Because it's very easy for us to read those words and think that they're really not very important. They were amazed, okay, now let's get on to the next chapter. But that would be a big mistake because their reaction gives you some important clues as to the meaning and the purpose of the Sermon on the Mount. And Matthew wants to point that out. Remember again how I said he ends this sermon. He said that if you put my words into practice, you're like a person that builds your house on a rock, and when the hurricanes come, like we keep reading about The surges come through, 15-foot surge across Galveston. When the things come and they hit, the house of your life will stand if it's built on the rock of Jesus Christ. Then he says, but if it's not, if you do not put these words into practice Then the rain's gonna come, the streams rose, the winds blew, beat against the house, and it fell with a great crash Now Jesus is sitting down, Matthew tells us, and that's the end. Silence Didn't say anything about a closing prayer, invitation, nothing, just silence. I picture that probably at that point Jesus got up and started to walk away. And Matthew comments on the astonishment of the crowd. Picture it. Put yourself in that scene. That's really important because it's still common among anti-supernaturalists in our day for people to say Here you have in the Sermon on a Mount a picture of the genuine, original, simple Jesus. He preached, this is the core of his teaching, the golden rule, you know, and all the things you have in the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus never intended to teach theology. No theology here. He just wants you to see these wise ways of how to live. And that's what Christianity in its primitive state was all about. He was his disciples and the church afterwards that deified him and made a big deal about his person. That really wasn't Jesus' original claim. And anybody that says that shows that they have never really read the Sermon on the Mount. Because Matthew tells us the original response of the people who heard it. Was breathtaking astonishment. Why was that? In the middle hour, we talked about some ways you might use this evangelistically And so for you second hour people, if you want to get into some discussion on this, we do meet right here. If you're in another class, that's fine. Keep with it. But if there's some of you that are not in and you would like to discuss these things, we do it in a middle hour. But what I want you to see here is At the men's retreat in a couple of weeks. We're going to be looking at the person of Jesus. One of the things we're going to be doing on that retreat is to see The real Jesus in contrast to some of the false the um misconceptions that are often portrayed of the person of Jesus that tend to turn men off and misguide them into what it means to follow Jesus. So if you haven't signed up and you're a guy, sign up. There's still room for you to be able to come because we're going to explore that as well as other things. But now let's get back to the scene. Okay? Put yourself. Let's get back onto the hillside. You see Jesus Remember what you're seeing. Jesus is a burly, muscular, but ordinary looking, Isaiah 53 tells us, carpenter. He's rough. He's got muscles. He is basically from the hills of West Virginia. That's what Nazareth was like. And I don't mean that as any slam on West Virginia, just culturally that's where he was from. He had not gone to university, didn't have any degrees, wasn't a scholar. Um and he comes and sits down and he teaches in a way like they have never heard before First of all, he doesn't quote other scribes. He doesn't quote other authorities. That's the way all their teachers did. All their teachers what rabbi says this, this rabbi says that, and if he says this and he says this, then you put them together and I and it was all this kind of quoting the authorities. I read here and I read there and Impress you with all that. Jesus doesn't quote anybody. In fact, he contradicts all the authorities Again and again, he contradicts what they say. And then he makes matter-of-fact, breathtaking assertions about himself. That are stated so matter-of-factly, it's easy to miss them. And that's why Matthew says that when he finished saying these things, the crowds were amazed at his teaching. Because he taught as one who had authority, not as their teachers of the law. Brothers and sisters, this morning, that is the Jesus I want you to see. My prayer this week and this morning has been that God would enable me and by his power enable you to see that Jesus To see that what we have here as you look back on, the Sermon on the Mount is not simply instruction for living. It points you to the only Savior. The one who calls again and again attention to himself in this sermon. So that this week what you need and I need more than anything else. is to see that Jesus. May God enable us as we look at this. What I want to do to to do that is to look at three examples, three ways that Jesus points to himself in this sermon. Need you look back on it. The first way is by his demonstrating his authority as teacher. His authority as a teacher. You see them in there in the outline, but just kind of review in your mind quickly. Jesus begins the sermon. By talking about what makes a person successful and happy in life. He starts off with the word happy, blessed, or you could also translate that enviable. And then he describes the things that are that characterizes disciples that are all counterintuitive, but he says, this is what makes a person happy in life. Blessed is the person who realizes their spiritual poverty, who mourns over sin, who is meek and humble, who hungers and thirsts for righteousness, and on and on he goes. And so Jesus is saying, this is what makes a person happy. This is the enviable life. Then he goes on to say that he uniquely understands the meaning of the Old Testament. All the things you hear in all the CDs and the DVDs and the TV programs you're listening to, all the Pharisees, Vestos, they're all wrong. They got it wrong. Let me tell you what the Old Testament was really saying. Woohoo. What an assertion. In fact, then he goes on six times he says, they've said to you. But I say to you, for instance, in chapter 5, in verse 21, you've heard it was said To the people of long ago, do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you, then anyone who's angry with his brother has committed murder in his heart. Or verse 27, you've heard it was said, do not commit adultery. But I tell you, anyone who looks at a woman lustfully in his heart has already committed adultery. You've heard what I say. Six times he says, I tell you, for instance, in chapter 5, verse 18 I tell you the truth until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter. I tell you, chapter six verse two, when you give to the needy, do not announce it with trumpets as hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets to be honored by men. I tell you the truth. They have received their reward in full. Again and again, I tell you, I tell you in contrast to what others are saying, listen to me. Chapter 6, he tells you, I know the heart of the Father uniquely. You don't want to know what God is like? I'll tell you what he is like. You want to know how to pray to him? Let me tell you how to pray. Now, who of us would say, anybody here want to learn how to pray? I'll tell you how to pray. And give a model? Jesus claims to have the perfect model. For our prayers. Then he goes on and he says, now, you know, here's what you think about treasure. and collecting. I tell you, you're you're thinking's all wrong. Let me tell you about true treasure. Let me tell you about the best investments to make Jesus claims to know the heart of the Father so that he says, you're anxious and you worry. You know, that's not just a problem. It's sin. Let me give you ten reasons why you don't need to worry. And he did that in chapter six. Jesus knows your judgmental heart. He knows the way you try to weasel out of feeling guilty about the things that he's saying. He says, but I know the Father's heart, and he wants to change you. He wants to give you a new heart. Ask, seek, knock. It will be answered. You'll find. The door will be opened. And then he warns you. People tell you that the way is broad and you can get into heaven. It's not too hard to find. It's narrow. My way is the way to life. False prophets tell you about the w wide ray. I tell you that if you think you're going to present a religious resume at the final day, I'm going to be the one to tell you whether you get into heaven or not. These are amazing assertions. But it's not simply that he's the ultimate teacher. Secondly, Jesus claims to be the Messiah. He claims that in this sermon. How do you see that? You look at chapter 5 and verse 17, words that we're quite familiar with And it's hard to put ourselves back in the place where those further words were first heard and uttered. But look at them and see what Jesus is saying. Verse 17. Do not think that I have come to abolish the law of the prophets. What I'm teaching is so radically different. People are saying, oh, he's teaching some whole new religion. No, I haven't come to abolish the law of prophets. I have not come to abolish them. Now you'd expect he would say, but to reinforce them, to give you the true understanding of them. That's not what he says. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. And what's that saying? Jesus is saying all the requirements of the Old Testament, I've come to fulfill them. All the hopes and the dreams and the longings of the Old Testament for a Messiah who is going to set up a kingdom and make things right to restore beyond the original Eden to something that is infinitely beyond. I have come to fulfill that. Any Jew hearing that would immediately know who is going to do that but Messiah? And Jesus here in a kind of a matter-of-fact way says, I'm the one that's come to fulfill that Then he goes on, verse 18. I tell you the truth, till heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen will by any means disappear from the law, until everything is accomplished I'm going to accomplish every jot and tittle. Now, he says it In such an unassuming way. There's no roll of the drums, there's no fanfare. There is no hey, you think what I've said is important before? Let me tell you this. I'm the Messiah. He doesn't say it. He just kind of, matter of fact, I've come to fulfill the Old Testament. Every jot and tittle of it. Now let me tell you, I was preaching in Washington Square, New York City, Manhattan one time. As a group of us as Christians, I preached a little gospel message. And then we broke up to talk to people. And the fellow I happened to talk to told me he was Jesus Christ. And we had a discussion about this. Let me tell you, I did not find his claims to be very compelling. There was no time in that conversation when I thought, geez, maybe I'm talking to God He was a little agitated. You could tell he wasn't fully in touch with what was going on. Matthew does not say after this sermon Then some of the people mocked, some of them laughed, some of them said, where is he coming from? Send him back to Nazareth. Nothing. He says they were astonished What he said was so compelling in its understatement that when you were to if you were to ask yourself, what would God be like if he came to earth in humility? To live among us, what would he be like? Nobody would have come up with a picture, a portrait like this So, in magnificent glory but understated humility to say, I've come to fulfill every jot and title of the Old Testament. Now let me explain to you how those teachers you've heard misunderstand it and what God intended. Whoa! Then finally, not only does he claim to be the ultimate teacher, the Messiah who fulfills all the hopes and dreams of the Old Testament, he claims to be Lord. He draws attention to himself again in such a breathtaking way it would be easy to miss it. Three examples, chapter 5, in verses 11 and 12. Jesus says, Blessed are you, the last of the Beatitudes, happy, enviable are you, when people insult you, persecute you falsely, say all kinds of evil against you. Why? Because of me. Because of him Then verse 12, Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Why did they persecute the prophets? Because the prophets were representing Yahweh in a way that offended the people. Jesus says, when you live as my disciple in this world, you are representing me and you will be persecuted. In the same way the prophets who represented God. So what's he saying? He's saying, you are representing me, who is God. Being demonstrated through you. It is an indirect claim to his deity. But even more clearly First of all, notice also the verse 13 and 14. He goes on to say, you are salt and light in this world. You're going to prevent decay, you're going to bring light into darkness. Why? Because of your relationship with me. It is because you're connected to me that you have life-giving abilities in a dark-dying world. Again, what an assertion. But none of those hold a candle to what he says in chapter 7 in verses 22 and 23. That's where he says that at the final judgment, there are going to be people who will come and they will call him Lord. They will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, here's our resume. Didn't we prophesy in your name, in your name, drive out demons, perform many miracles? Then I will tell them plainly. I never knew you. Away from me, you evildoers. Jesus is claiming there to be the one who sits on the throne at that final day of judgment to judge the hearts and eternal destinies of every single person on earth in all history. Every person will have that conversation, as we said two weeks ago, with Jesus Christ. He claims to be the judge of heavens and earth. How can he be saying anything other than I am God? This is blasphemy if he is not in fact God himself. And he calls attention to that In such a matter-of-fact way. He doesn't seek to prove it, he simply states it, as you would expect God to do Again, let me call attention to the fact that Jesus connects the beginning of his sermon to the end. He began the sermon, you remember. By the critical verse, the most important verse of the sermon, because it sets the tone for everything else. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who realize your spiritual poverty. Because yours is the kingdom of heaven. Let me ask you, as we leave this sermon and move on To chapter eight, before we leave it, have you ever acknowledged to God your spiritual poverty? When Jesus shows you in those six examples of true righteousness, your murderous, vengeful heart. Your determination to nurse the grudges and not forgive, to be friends with those who like you and despise those who don't. To protect yourself and to impress others, and on and on and on. And you say, I'll try, I'll try, I I hear you, I'll try harder, I'll try. Have you come to the place Where you finally say, that's it, it's too much, I can't do it. That is poverty of spirit The mourning over your sin and your heart to say, Lord, I can't change my heart. I don't want to invest treasure in heaven. I want to grab it all now in what I can see. Have you come to realize the poverty of your spirit? It's only then that you look at the man down at the bottom of that hill and you say, He is my only hope. He is the one who has said, Blessed are those who mourn their sin. And all the rest of that. Why? Because I have come to fulfill Every requirement of the Old Testament. And I am your hope and your savior, because I've come to take your sin. You understand now why Matthew says the people were amazed. You see, it is not right living that's going to save you. It's not the Bible that's going to save you. It's not right doctrine that's going to save you. Hear me carefully. It is not the gospel that's going to save you. Ideas will never save you. It is a person that you need that is described in the doctrines and the gospel. But I present to you this morning, as vividly as I am able, the person of Jesus Christ, who stands here as the very center and the heart of this sermon. And says, this is not simply about how to live. It is to point you to the Savior who uniquely can give you life. Because in his authority he has kept every command. He has borne the curse for every failure in your life. And he offers not ideas, but himself. To you this morning. Authority is a major theme of the Gospel of Matthew. We will see it in chapter 8 and 9. He expands it. A number of times Matthew will bring it to a climax. You think that's authority. Whoa, that's authority. And then there's a climax, and then he still acts again and he builds it until he finally comes to the end of his gospel, the last three verses, the final climax of all things when the resurrected Christ says All authority is given to me in heaven and on earth. Now go in that His authority is boiled down to two things. That he is a ruler and that he is a refuge. That he is a ruler, he says in this sermon, I have the right to tell you how to live And if you have any sense, you will listen to me, because if you don't, your life will come to destruction. If you don't know Jesus' authority in your life, you don't know Jesus. You can't know him. apart from his authority. You can't know him until you say, Lord, I want you to run my life. I want you to show me and teach me how to live But his authority is not simply in his rule, it is in the fact that he is a refuge. He is an authority because he uniquely fulfilled the Old Testament's requirements, died for them in your place, so that he offers you forgiveness. The only one who chapter 8 will show us who has the authority to declare your sins are forgiven. The only one who can take care of you this week, whatever your shame, your anxiety, whatever it is you're facing in your life, Jesus has the authority. to be sufficient for you in that situation. When I was a kid, I grew up in a home that had two crabapple trees in the front. And as I grew up, I learned that it was at this time of the year, every September, they got to their full size, and they were nice and hard. I learned that those things were great to fire at targets. And my favorite targets were cars. Because I liked the sound that they made when they hit the metal. You know, bong, bong. I even better liked throwing them at the drivers of the cars because of the sound that they would make. So at a certain point my father in his rule said, no more throwing crab apples at cars or drivers. Clear, simple rule. But my buddy and I learned something. If we lob the crab apple high enough into the air We could run and hide before it came down if we timed it just right it would hit the car and there'd be nobody in sight So we would do that. And one day we were practicing, lobbing we get the timing, so we knew just how speed of the car and would come down. In this one case I lobbed this one way up in the air, came down, hit the windshield Guy slammed on his brakes. I was gone. My buddy didn't know I had done it. He stood there. Bad idea. Slammed on his brakes, guy comes out, tears after my buddy. By that time I was already in the backyard. Now get this. I knew I had broken the rule. At that point, I didn't give a rip. I needed a refuge I went into my dad who had made the rule for protection. I went to him to save me from what was going to happen as the consequences of my sin out in front. I present to you, and by the way, my dad did go out and save my friend's life out there. I present to you this morning, Jesus Christ. That you might come to him saying, You're the ruler. I've broken your rules. I don't deserve to be delivered and rescued. But you present yourself also to me as my refuge. You invite me to come not to principles, not to ideas, but to yourself for refuge. That you will protect me, that you will forgive me, that you will save me, that you will take care of me. Have you done that? I invite you to come to him right now in all of your need. Let's pray. Lord God. We come not to ideas. We come not to principles. We come to you, Lord Jesus, who presents and calls attention in this sermon primarily to yourself. As both the judge at the end of the world and the one who has fulfilled every requirement and hope and dream to be our Savior. So, Lord, for some who've gone through this whole sermon and not consciously said, Lord, I want you to run my life. We pray that you will work in their hearts right now to pray that prayer. For those, Lord, who have not come to you for refuge. To speak to them of their need. Lord, I have broken your rules, but I come. I come running to you. From the consequences of all the things I have done, because you present yourself to me as a refuge. And you will meet each person who comes. In Jesus' name. Amen.