Well let me add my greetings and happy Father's Day to all of you dads. Last Sunday my son called up and said, Hi Dad, happy Father's Day. I said, I think you're a week off. He said, I guess I'll have to call you again next week, too. May you have joy and satisfaction in this day. Well, good literature does not always state things obviously. One of the marks of good literature is that sometimes it's subtle. It uh forces your mind to make connections, to be stimulated in finding meaning by making connections yourself. For example, O'Henry would sometimes, in his short stories, end the story exactly as it began in order to demonstrate completion. Now, the Bible, God's Word, because it's God's Word, is the richest of literature. And sometimes the Bible tries to make its points in subtle ways so that our mind finds that, not by stating it obviously. So Matthew in recording Jesus' sermon does it not only wisely, but also beautifully Perhaps you've noticed in your reading, hearing, memorizing the eight beatitudes, that the blessing of the first beatitude is exactly the same as the blessing of the eighth beatitude. See them there on the screen. Notice? No, not the children. Yeah, here we go. Uh that's uh verse eleven. How many that's I think that's stole from the scripture. Let's go on to The next. Keep going keep going. Keep going. Here we go. Uh something happened to it. Was there f here we go? That's the one. Okay, notice. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. That's the first beatitude. Last beatitude. Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And then great is your reward in heaven. That is not like O'Henry to show completion. It is to show a Hebrew device called inclusion. In Hebrew, If you have two statements that are exactly the same, it's saying that everything that's in between those is included in that idea. So what this is saying is all the Beatitudes are connected. Because we meet somebody in the first service said, I finally saw that. They're all connected. And that they are saying it's all about inheriting the kingdom. The rest is specifics about that. But what it's saying is that this is a description Of people who are changed by the Spirit, none of the Beatitudes are natural. We're not wired to be like any of those descriptions, gentle. pure hungering and thirsting for righteousness. They're all the work of God's grace by the gospel in you and in me. And these are all part of what it means to be a person who inherits the kingdom. This is what that kind of person is like. So Jesus is searching your heart, searching my heart through these beatitudes. So that you will see your need for him. So that you'll see your deficiency in each case. But as you see God working in you, It deepens your repentance, it deepens your trust, and you are able to say, yes, by God's grace, He is doing that work in me. Now, today we are at the end of the series. And I plead with you, I hope that you are not saying, just one more message. If I can get through this one, I'm free. You know, I won't get bugged by thinking about these things that make me uncomfortable. If God is speaking to you, don't miss the blessing by shutting him out. Listen. Respond to what he's saying. And when he comes to this final beatitude, it's really the one that's the most counterintuitive of any of them. Blessed are those who are persecuted. Sounds like a beatitude for masochists. Blessed are those who are persecuted, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And then verses 11 and 12 expand on that. Now, when you hear that, be honest. What's your initial emotional response to it? I must confess that my initial response when I hear that, read it, is negative for two reasons. First of all, because it's saying that the Christian life involves suffering and insults, rejection, and I don't particularly want to hear that The second reason is because he is saying to those who are disciples, true Christians are going to be persecuted. And um I think I'm not persecuted very much. So there must be something wrong with the way that I'm living. I guess I'm not living radically enough that I'm inviting the kind of persecution that Jesus is talking about here. And that makes me uncomfortable. Am I supposed to be living more radically? How am I supposed to be doing that? What am I doing that I'm not that I uh what do I need to do that I'm not doing? So the first thing that I want to point out to you as we look at this final beatitude is how differently Jesus looks at life from the way you and I look at it. Because to Jesus, this is a positive statement, not a negative statement. For Jesus, he intends you to be encouraged by this beatitude. After all, it is a beatitude. It's saying, happy, blessed are these kinds of people. Remember, in the beginning of the series, I talked about the fact that Jesus remarkably wants you to be happy. That is to have a full and rich life. He's aiming at your heart to enrich your life. And this is the climax of what he is driving at, because this is the only beatitude where he says blessed twice. Blessed, verse 10, are those who are persecuted. Verse 11, blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, slander you. And then rejoice and be glad. So this is the climax of the blessing. This is to make us stand up and shout, hallelujah! Rejoice and be glad. So let's look at it because what you and I tend to do, I think, is to focus on the persecution part, and we need to see what that's about. Notice there's three ways that Jesus says that you are going to be persecuted. Three ways that he describes that in verse 11. First of all, he said, Blessed are you when people insult you. The word insult there into Greek means to cast something in somebody's teeth. mock them, to revile them. It's the word that's used of the thieves on the cross, remember, beside Jesus, and it says that they also mocked them and cast the same in his teeth. It's that kind of idea. The third word, which is translated by a phrase in the English, say falsely all kinds of evil against you. Uh that idea, the uh basic idea is to slander. It's to say something behind your back. You can't defend yourself. They criticize you. They gossip about you. And you're not there to be able to say what the truth is. You just don't know that it's happening, but it turns people against you. Now think of the early Gentile Christians that would have been among the first to respond to Jesus. The fact is, in your life, life was just a lot of work, and the thing that gave you some relief were the feasts. And the feast, um, which would happen maybe on the weekends, you'd go to the temple. There was temples for various kinds of gods, and you'd pick one and uh You would take some meat and you would offer that meat, the priest would hack off a bit of it, and then the rest was for you and your friends and Uh they put the part that they hacked off for themselves on sale and that was where Christians had this debate about buying meat that's offered idols. But then the rest of it, you'd take and you'd have a party there in the temple. The temple is kind of like the mall. It's where people hung out, kind of the center of the community uh activities. Everybody would hang out and then they would have this meet and there'd be some dancing and drinking and things would start to get a bit rowdy and out of hand, and uh that was your entertainment for the week. Now you've heard Jesus. You see your need for him. You give your life to Jesus Christ. What are you going to do about your weekly entertainment? You don't feel like you can continue to go because you know there's going to be temptations there that you don't want to handle. So what do you do? So you say, oh well that's okay guys, I'm gonna pass this time. You just go ahead. You know, and they go on and they sort of mumble, you know, well what's with him? You know, ever since he's taken up with this Jesus, he's no fun anymore. And now he's you know holier than thou and he's too good to go with this and blah blah blah blah blah and they And what do you do with that, you see? There's a cost to pay for that. They were slandering you. They were saying these things because you don't fit. I remember when I was in college, I used to hang around a particular fraternity because I had some friends there. And um I didn't go to the parties. I remember going down one Friday evening. and I could smell the alcohol a whole block away from the party. They used to steal it out of the chem lab, 400 proof, and then they would mix it with stuff. And uh I thought, well, you know, I was a new Christian. I don't need this. And I thought that was okay, you know. They know, they understand. And one day a brother came up and said, Well you know, um they talk about you that you won't go and you won't come and drink with us. I said, Oh really? He says, yeah, in fact he said the word out is that There's a uh either a bet or a goal that they have made, they're determined to see you drunk by the end of the year Now you're gonna have to see me in the back to find out uh what happened, whether they succeeded. A number of people did ask after the first service. But you see, the idea is there if you don't fit, there's a pressure. And the pressure is subtle. The pressure is either to intimidate or to talk about you. And that hurts. And then Jesus says the third thing is to they will persecute you. That's the worst of all because it's just a word which means to harass, to drive someone, to make life very unpleasant for them. And think again of the early Christians. You were part of the Roman Empire. And uh the Roman Empire, of course, was extremely diverse all the way from England down to North Africa, a lot of different cultures. And so one of the things they tried to do to bring some sense of loyalty and unity was to inculcate what was sort of called emperor worship, Caesar worship. Nobody, very rare, very few people, probably believed that Caesar was any kind of god, but what you did was once a year you would appear at some of the designated state temples, you'd pick one. And you would offer a few grains of incense on the altar and you would simply say the words, Caesar is Lord. And once you did that, then they would give you a certificate called a labellus. And then you could go worship anybody you wanted, any pantheon, any god you cared. Roman didn't give a fig who you worshiped, as long as once a year you acknowledged Caesar as Lord Just a kind of civic loyalty. And you can imagine w what Christians would have said about that. Well, you know, it's really no big deal. I mean, all it is it's a formal thing. Nobody believes Caesar is really Lord or God. You just gotta do it. And then there'd be some Christians who would say, no, no, I can't say that. Jesus is Lord. He's the only Lord. I can't say Caesar is Lord. Now it seems like a small line, a small thing, something that maybe you and I could try to justify, but Do you know many, many of our brothers and sisters lost their lives because they refused to say that? Some were thrown in the Colosseums with lions to be torn apart. Others were burned at stakes as torches. Some were covered with animal skins and they released wild dogs to tear them to pieces simply because they wouldn't say, Caesar's Lord. Jesus is saying that it's going to cost you if you're going to follow me. And the reasons are two that he's very explicit about. You see them, one in verse 10 and one in verse 11. He says, blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness. That's the blank for 3A. Righteousness. That is, doing what is right without compromise, because you hunger and thirst for righteousness. You will not compromise on that Now it's uh a warm summer afternoon, great day for tubing. I don't know how many of you tube, but uh Go down a stream on a summer afternoon in a tube and it's so relaxing. The current carries you along, everything's so friendly. You're at one with the stream, the stream's at one with you. It's all very nice until you hear a waterfalls ahead. And then you decide maybe this is the time to reverse the direction. Now you try to stop that tube and go back up the stream against the current. Uh I remember being in a tube with thick stum as we were going over the rapids and wished that we could have reversed and gone back the other way. All of a sudden that stream which was so friendly Has become hostile and angry. And that's the way it is with the world. So long as you're drifting along with the tolerance, no judgments, everybody's fine, things are friendly. But you go out with your friends to the mall and you see that a couple of them are gonna shoplift and they say, come on, let's help me get this. You say, No, I c I can't do that And find how the friendliness changes. Or going to see a movie or listening to music that you think that's just not helpful. I'm not into that. What's the matter with you? We're looking at a magazine that you think, I shouldn't be looking at this. Or a video Or listening to gossip, entering into some friends that are cutting down on another friend and criticizing and talking about what a wretch she is or he is and and you know it's wrong but it's so easy to just go along isn't it Jesus says, blessed is the one who suffers, who pays a cost. Because of righteousness, because you're not going to do what everybody else is doing. You're not just going to go along with it. And then the second reason He gives us even more pointed. Verse 11, Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Because of your identification with me. Because you remind them of me. And as he says in chapter 10 and John 15, they hate me. The Jewish leaders thought they were okay, felt pretty good about themselves till Jesus came along, and by his purity and his hunger and thirst for righteousness, he revealed their hypocrisy. And they hated him for it. And so they persecuted him, drove him to a cross because of their hatred. And to the degree that you or I remind people of Jesus, sometimes God's spirit will work And there'll be blessing. Other times, you'll get a little sticky. You'll lose friends, maybe lose a promotion. I remember two examples last summer that illustrate this kind of thing for me. First was Dean and I were, as you have heard on other occasions, in Nova Scotia together. On this particular day we were staying at a bed and breakfast in Antigonish. It's a hundred acre farm overlooking Antigonish Harbor. Beautiful place. Delightful hostess, she was charming and uh very gracious and friendly, and she happened to mention something about her church, so I thought I'd pick up on that I always enjoy being able to get into conversations on vacation when people don't know that I'm a pastor. And so um I started talking about our church, you know, without being the pastor, you know, it's kind of below the the uh radar there. And uh so we tar started talking about this and I was talking about some ministries and as I started getting more personal Um it was just kind of like John 4, Woman at the Well deja vu. As I was talking to her more personally about her and Christ, out of the blue, she says, so what do you think about gay rights? What's that got to do with anything? So I tried to deflect it and get back to what we were talking about, and she wouldn't. No, no, no, what do you think? Is that okay? You know what? So I tried to take it and say, well, you know, um, I go by the Bible, and if I decide to make up My rules of right and wrong, I didn't invent sex. God did. He created man and female, male and female, and if I sort of decide what I think is right, then I lose all hope because then I have no hope in the gospel. That didn't satisfy her. And the conversation got very frosty very quickly. And I kind of felt like I just, you know, had done something crude. I just I just brought darkness into the conversation when in fact I was trying to bring a light. And I I felt bad about that. I felt bad about the rejection, about the fact that the conversation ended awkwardly. You know what will happen in a case like that? The next time I'm in an opportunity Where somebody brings up something spiritually and I think, well, you know, I can take this and pursue it. There's gonna be a little voice that goes off inside and it says, Yeah, you remember what happened the last time you did that. Conversation went south. You wanna do that again? Right? And then what happens to you? You think back of the times when you've tried to share Christ and it seemed like it blew up in your face. And so you're more cautious. Jesus says, that's going to happen. But you know what? He says, blessed are you. when that happens. He doesn't say, look out, that's gonna happen. Just endure it. Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, falsely say all kinds of evil against you, because of me. I'm sure she had a field day with her husband after we left. That's not my concern. Second example, Kathy and I came cut last summer. One of the things we like to do when we're up in Wall Street is they have a library there where they have very interesting presentations of all kinds, just a bunch of interesting people. And uh so it caught our attention on the little sign outside the library that said, ten best movies of all time, by a Boston Globe reviewer who's also a minister. So and this guy was going to show some excerpts. So I mean how can you resist that, right? Especially when it's free. So we go, and uh this guy stands up and he introduces himself, starts talking, and then just Right toward the front end of his lecture and presentation, he says, you know, yes, well I'm a minister near Harvard University, but I want you to know that I don't believe the Bible literally. I think it's just figurative. You take it the way you want to take it. And I thought, you scumbag, you're gonna stand there as somebody who is introduced as a minister of the gospel And you are so afraid that people are going to think that you're some sort of a fundamentalist that believes absolute truth and you're going to impose your views on other people and you want to distance as far as you can anything from the From the shame of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Shame on you. I was so mad my wife had to calm me down. She was afraid I was gonna disrupt him and say something Gauche. You know, some of us have not come to terms with the fact we don't fit We will never fit in this world. There are times when we can have peace. But Jesus says, don't expect this. You are blessed when you stand out, don't fit, and are willing to endure that. What is it that you and I endure compared to our brothers and sisters around the world? If you were a Christian in Vietnam, you might have your house burned, lose your job, perhaps lose your life for your faith. There's a pastor there that was in prison, slave labor, for 13 years by the name of Fu Lee. Here's what he has to say. Our tribe of 60,000 now has 39,000 Christians. He told me this laughing. He was in prison where I got a deeper love for God. Although I could have left for America on a special program, I chose to stay here. I'm the shepherd. I must suffer with my sheep. Near our land last week, five houses of Christians from the Hari tribe were burned because they would not deny their faith. And what's God doing there? One writing this says the lowest number of converts that he has heard of in that area is 300,000 And Christians are willing to stand for Jesus Christ when it costs. The gospel goes forth in power. Perhaps you heard the story of uh Ahmed Rahman A man who, uh, excuse me, Abdul. Abdul Rahman, a Christian who in Afghanistan in 1990 had contact with some missionaries and gave his life to Jesus Christ, converted from Islam. He left Afghanistan and then after the Taliban was expelled, he uh came back thinking it would be safe. He was arrested, he was put in prison, and he was on trial for his life this past February and March. It's against Afghan law to become a Christian. And so he was sentenced, or he was on trial, for death for apostasy against Islam. At his trial, the court said that Islam is a tolerant and merciful religion. Therefore, if he would recant his errors He would be forgiven and welcomed back to Islam. Typical of the sentiment of the leaders in Afghanistan was these words from Abdul Rayulf, a senior Muslim cleric seen until recently as a moderate Who had several times actually been jailed by the Taliban for not being severe, strict enough. And he said, it's clear that a man who converts has to be killed. Rejecting Islam is insulting God. We will not allow God to be insulted. They should cut off his head, pull him into pieces, so there's nothing left. Here's a picture of him holding a Bible. At his trial, when they told him what he deserved, called him a microbe. He said, I am a Christian. He's saying there, I'm not afraid to die. You know who turned him in to the authorities? It was his wife and his daughters. Jesus says in Matthew 10, brother will turn against brother, parents against children, children against parents. When you belong to Jesus Christ, it costs something. If we don't experience that cost, if we say I can be a Christian and it makes no difference in my relations with my non-Christian family or with my non-Christian neighbors, people at work, the rest of it, there's something wrong. Jesus says it's going to cost. Well, there was, of course, pressure brought by a number of Western nations. On March 27, they declared him insane, unfit for trial. He was whisked out of the country to Italy that received him as a religious refugee. Since that time, there have been large rallies of people in Afghanistan calling for him to be returned, saying that his exodus was illegal. He should be brought back and executed. This is not the hard line of a few radicals. This, according to the report I read, is the general sentiment of the Afghan people towards someone who would convert to Christianity. Even in our own country. We're finding a growing intolerance for those who believe in absolute, particularly moral absolutes. Are we ready to face the fact that normally it costs to be a Christian? But why after all of this and all that I'm telling you does Jesus say rejoice and be glad? Why does he say blessed? What is it that Jesus has up his sleeve that makes all of this turned on his head so that you and I go out of here rejoicing rather than going out of here fearful or with dread? There's two reasons, well three reasons that Jesus actually gives why you should be happy. First of all, he says, because you're in great company. You're in great company. Verse 12. In the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. And let's look at Titus, I mean not Timothy, 2 Timothy 3. You see that up there, 2 Timothy 3, chapter 3, verse 10. Paul says, you however know about my teaching, my way of life, my purpose, faith, patience, love, endurance, persecutions, sufferings. What kinds of things happened to me in Antioch, Iconium, Lystra? The persecutions that I endured, being stoned, left for dead. Yet the Lord rescued me from all of them. In fact, Everyone who wants to be, who wants to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Paul said, join up! Join up with Isaiah, Jeremiah, me, the rest. It's a great club. People that are willing to stand. Associate yourself with them. I remember again when I was back in college, I was a new Christian, and there would be times when I would stand in class and I would I just couldn't stand what a professor would be saying, and these were guys who not only wrote books and had books published, people actually read their books. And I would be debating these guys, and of course they would make mincemeat out of me, and I'd walk out of the class feeling like a limp dish rag, and I would feel, you know, exhausted. But you know what? There was also a sense of exhilaration. It was unique. I still can recall those days, walking across campus, thinking, what in the world was I thinking? But you know what? I don't regret it for a moment. They persecuted the prophets too. Now you know we don't want to get an obnoxious martyr complex. The fact is, when you stand for Jesus Christ And you realize that you're in the company of those who through the ages have stood for him. There's a sense of exhilaration in that. Second reason that Jesus gives is he says, because Let me get it so I can be kind. I got too many papers up here today. Second reason, because your it assures you of your place in heaven. It assures you of your place in heaven. Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. That's the indication. You see, just as trouble proves the genuineness of love in marriage, so does it prove the heart that really loves Jesus. What do you do simply because you love Jesus? In 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, Paul talks about Christians who are going through difficult times, and he says, that's the mark to you that you are going to be with him in glory, and to your enemies that they are going to be judged. And so it's an indication. Why else would I stand for Jesus Christ except his Spirit has changed my heart? and worked in me so that I don't sit in this world anymore. That's okay. That okay with you? You don't fit? If you feel in your heart saying, Yeah, that's okay, that's the mark of the Spirit of God working in you. Rejoice! Be glad! The third reason is the biggest of all. He says your reward for such faithfulness will be beyond what you could imagine. Verse 12. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven. When God says great, he means great. He means whatever you can imagine, it's better than that. He means that when you look at what you have given up If Jesus Christ came in the next 15 minutes and you looked at whatever you had suffered for, whatever it's cost you in your family, in your job, in your relationships, When Jesus Christ would appear, would you say, well boy, it really cost, but I think it's worth it. Rather your heart would sing, Lord, I didn't suffer anything. Lord, I wish I could have suffered more just to show you that I love you. I wish I could have Demonstrated to you how worthy you are for me to offer myself as a living sacrifice for you. Lord Jesus Infinitely beyond anything that I could ask or imagine, you have satisfied my heart with the delights. That you have poured upon me that will be for now and all through eternity. You know, you look there and you see it says Matthew, look at Matthew 16, 29. Well don't look at Matthew 16, 29, because there isn't any Matthew 16, 29. I Sun, I was thinking Sun But actually Mark ten, twenty-nine and thirty is where Jesus says, whoever gives up homes, brothers, sisters, will receive a hundredfold in this world and in the world to come eternal life. That's not just duration. That is quality. Eternal life is the fullness of all life. It is the restored Garden of Eden and infinitely beyond, in paradise with him. The new heavens and the new earth of Jesus Christ where there is no persecution, there is no suffering. And when you and I see him in the flash of that moment, Everything in our heart will say, Lord, it was worth everything and infinitely beyond. And so let me ask you, look at your life. Got down three times that you suffered. Why? Because I think as Christians, a lot of times we just we don't think, I haven't suffered. But look at any rejection, maybe something that affected your job and affected your relationship somewhere. There was an exclusion, whatever. Put down three times. And then as you look at this, consciously lay them as an offering before the Lord Jesus. Lord, this is for you. Consciously. I haven't looked at it like that before. But Lord, this is for you. And then rejoice. Look at that and say, that Lord, that was really nothing. But you know what? You've promised to give me a hundredfold for that. You've promised that you're going to take that and treasure it and turn it back upon me in blessing upon blessing that I can't imagine. Lord, I'm embarrassed because it really wasn't that much. But look what you're going to do. Ah. Rejoice and be glad. And then if you're hearing all this and you say, you know, I really can't relate to this. Then there's two ways. One would be, you say, I can't relate to this and I don't really care. And remember what Jesus had said back in chapter 3 There is a fire coming that's going to separate those who are his from those who are not. It's an unquenchable fire of judgment. Let not your heart remain cold against Jesus. And secondly, if you're saying, I believe I'm a Christian, but I'm ashamed at the times I've denied him, times that I've been a coward. Remember that Jesus died for Peter, the coward. He died for cowards like you and me. Come to him in your weakness. Lord Jesus, here I am. Take me this day. Take me to the end of this whole series. Receive my life. Lord, I just I want to, for once in my life, finally reckon I don't fit, and that's okay. I just want to be useful to you. Let's pray. So, Lord Jesus, we thank you for the promise of heaven, the promise of all that you have given. We thank you that from the beginning to the end of this series you are saying. Blessed are you, for you shall inherit the kingdom of heaven. And that is so infinitely beyond anything we can imagine. So Lord, help us to reckon with the fact that for righteousness, for identification with you, it's going to cost us. But that's okay. You will never be our debtor. And it's a way of showing you that we love you. Give us courage. Forgive us for those times when we have been cowards. Forgive us, Lord, for times when we've been ashamed of you. And give us courage this week that we might Be proud to be identified with the Lord Jesus Christ, who is so worthy. Amen.