Whenever I listen to a teacher or a commentator, especially if I haven't heard them before, I find myself evaluating how much can I trust this person? Uh do they really know what they're talking about? Um or do we share the same kinds of uh world views Uh what's their agenda? What are they trying to get me to do? Are they careful with their facts and accurate? Or are they sloppy? Uh how much of what I'm hearing is true and I can count on it? You think what a contrast to the kinds of teaching and information we get every day and what it's like to listen to Jesus. You don't have to evaluate Jesus. You don't have to wonder if you can trust him. You don't have to wonder if he's accurate. You don't have to wonder if he really knows his subject, what he's talking about. Picture yourself, let's see the picture again here. This is one of the more reliable, my understanding, is sites. in the Holy Land that is very likely the spot um where Jesus spoke looking up the hill sitting with his disciples picture yourself as part of that crowd Hearing Jesus talk about eight characteristics of blessed people, and as you hear him, you hear him teaching with absolute authority. Absolute trustworthiness. And he's talking about how to be happy. And as you hear him, you realize he cares that you're happy. He's interested in you. And even though you're part of this big crowd, the words come right to your heart. And you can rest all you don't have to evaluate. All you have to do is understand what he's saying. And think, how do I apply that? What does that mean? How can I look at my heart in the light of what he's saying? What's he drawing me, calling me to do? Eight characteristics. Of a blessed, happy, enviable person. Did you memorize them this last week? I had uh one encouraging email. Somebody said, uh my husband and I tried, and we were able to do it in one sitting. You know, you just use the that little little uh clue, you know, P M M H M P P P And you got it down. Poor in spirit, mourn, meek, hunger and thirst, merciful, pure, peace of peacemaker, and persecuted. And again, if you haven't done it or just started it, continue on. It'll really help you because these words are treasure. They're life-changing. We talked about last week how we get used to hearing messages to the point where we don't expect them to change us. And I believe God could really use this series to change a number of lives, my life, and Columbia Presbyterian as a congregation, if we take seriously, are willing to look at our hearts in the light of what Jesus is saying. He's describing a person who is enviable. That's what the word blessed means. Somebody who's happy, whose life is enviable And when you and I think of enviable, we think of maybe somebody like Elliot Yaman Now how many people know Eliot Yaman? The name? American Idol, number one TV show Eliot Yaman, who nobody had heard of weeks ago, now is a household name because he's able to reduce Paula Abdul to tears and incoherence with his singing. Man, that's enviable. Or maybe if you're a woman, you think of Oprah. I mean, there is an enviable woman. Look at this, gone from Rags to riches, one of the most influential people in the entire world. With the use of her gifts and skills, marketing skills, abilities. That she seeks to use for good, and you say, that's that's enviable. And isn't it interesting? Jesus is saying, those are not the people to envy. And who he says to envy has nothing to do with fame, has nothing to do with natural giftedness, intelligence, and skills. He's saying, every one of you, I, each of us can be an enviable person, a blessed, happy person. And he describes eight habits of the heart. Sometimes they're called the B attitudes. Things that we are to be, that are habits of our heart, that make us blessed. And they're reliable. And so Jesus is coming to speak. I was encouraged this week by a number of people who said that God had really spoken to them last week, giving them a sense of anticipation. That God is going to speak to our hearts, not just to our minds, to give us information through this series. So may God be pleased to do so. Let's go. First one. Begins with, blessed are the poor in spirit. These are all mostly counterintuitive. Blessed are those who mourn, blessed are those that are persecuted. Not the kind of thing that we think is we associate with happiness. And he begins, blessed are the poor in spirit. What does that mean? I want to ask six questions of that one verse. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Six questions in order to understand it and to apply it to our hearts. First of all, what does it mean to be poor in spirit? It's really quite simple, interesting. I read a lot of commentaries on this and All the different things people say. It's quite simple. To be poor in spirit, the verb form of that word poor means to cringe and cower like a beggar. That's the first blank. Cringe and cower like a beggar. It's the word used of Lazarus the beggar in Luke 16. So, to be poor in spirit is quite simply to declare spiritual bankruptcy. It's to declare spiritual bankruptcy. Not just Chapter 11, temporary bankruptcy, but Chapter 7, permanent bankruptcy. It's saying, When I look at my heart, I am bankrupt morally and spiritually. That idea runs through Scripture. It's not novel here. Let me give you a couple of examples. Look up there, Isaiah 52, Isaiah 57, verse 15. For this is what the high and lofty one says, he who lives forever, whose name is holy. I live in a high and holy place. But also With him who is contrite and lowly in spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite. That's spiritual poverty. That's a person who is humble, who has seen their bankruptcy. Isaiah 66, verse 2, has not my hand made all these things so that they came into being? declares the Lord. This is the one that I esteem, he who is humble. And contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. He doesn't say, Lord, tell me what you think. I'll check it out and get back to you. When he hears God speak, he trembles. He's the kind of person who may read scripture on his knees or on her knees. Because that's the appropriate posture to receive that word. Humble, contrite. We take Psalm 51, verse 7. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. It's the kind of person that Luke was talking about, I mean that that Jesus was talking about in Luke in chapter 18. Do you remember he talked about the two men that went up to the temple to pray? The first was the Pharisee that said, um, Lord, I thank you that I'm not like other people, especially this scumbag publican tax collector over here, began to talk about what he had to offer to God. Contrasted that with the tax collector who stayed far barely was able to look up and just said, God be merciful to me a sinner. And Jesus began that parable, verse 9, to some who were confident of their own righteousness and looked down on everyone else, Jesus told this parable. That's the opposite. Of being poor in spirit. Hudson Taylor once said all of God's giants were weak people Moses, God, don't ask me to go back into Egypt and lead these people. I'm not up to it. I can't do it. Gideon. You want me to do what? Are you kidding? Peter, depart from me, Lord, for I'm a sinful man. Paul, for I have learned to have no confidence in the flesh, and have renounced all my good works as trash for the sake of Christ. That's poverty of spirit. Tim Keller, pastor in Manhattan, actually quoting from George Whitfield. said that it is not so much our sins that keep us from God, but our goodness. He talked about the parable of the prodigal son. You remember the younger son took off, left the father, ran from the father to indulge in wild, riotous living. Indulged in his sins. And by that ran from God. But he said we often miss that the older brother was also running from God. But he ran from God in his goodness. To him in establishing himself through his moralistic behavior, God owed him. You owe me a party. You haven't given it. Why being nice to this guy? And it was his goodness that kept him from the Father His quote goodness. The things that he thought he had to offer. And Keller quotes from one of Flannery O'Connor's books where she says about a man that he tried to avoid Jesus by avoiding sin. Very perceptive, isn't it? I avoid God's face. I avoid coming before Him by avoiding sin. A person who is poor in spirit is willing to look at their heart. To recognize I can't live the life that you're going to talk about here in this sermon. I simply can't do it. And I can't change my heart. I'm helpless. I'm impoverished. That's what it means. I've made a mess of my life, and I've got two choices. One, I own up to it Or two, I try to defend myself by what I call the At least I don'ts. The At least I don'ts are a fascinating study. I've seen it in prisoners and prostitutes It sort of goes like this. Well, I may not be perfect, but at least I'm loyal to my friends. I may have murdered, but I don't gossip. Or I heard a prostitute on TV once say, well, I may not be perfect, but at least I'm not a hypocrite And so we take these things and we say, well I I know I do this and this and but at least I don't do that. And that helps me to feel like I've got something that I can offer. See, that's the opposite. But what Jesus is talking about. Poor in spirit says with the hymn writer, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. That's what it means to be poor in spirit. Second question. Why is it first? It's first, next blank, because it is foundational to everything else in life. It's foundational to everything else in life. We must begin with honesty and therefore humility rather than self-deception and pride. Those are the basic alternatives. I remember once when I selfishly and foolishly acted toward some friends. in a way that um brought uh their rebuke. And so I wrote an email. Uh with some shame and I said uh I'm sorry I made a fool of myself And I felt that. One of my friends came to me and he said, Alan I understand what you were saying, but you need to know you didn't make a fool of yourself. We already knew that you were foolish and selfish. And manipulative. That stings. But then he added, But I love you What do you do with that? You either determine you're going to try harder to hide your heart so you don't go through such embarrassment. Or you find that the grace of Christ is more palpable because of your emptiness and understanding love that has nothing to merit it. And I don't know about you, but I face that choice every day. And I still want to hide my heart. Not only from you, but from myself. And so when I mess up, I'm surprised. And when I receive grace, I'm embarrassed. It's foundational. Foundational to everything. But there's great freedom and blessing. In being poor in spirit. If I'm willing and you're willing to use the S word. I'm a sinner. Without blame shifting or excuse-making, that becomes foundational to everything else in life It's a watershed. Third question. Why is it so unnatural? Why is it so unnatural to be poor in spirit? The answer is quite simple, because it attacks the core of our self-idolatry. That's the next blank. It attacks the core of our self-idolatry. Everything in our culture says believe in yourself. Follow your dreams and make it happen. You can do it. Renounce all that negative thinking. Believe in yourself. Repentance is for those with a poor self-image. This week, Oprah had a show on girls with negative self-images, particularly about the physical. And she had on the show a girl who was a model, who hated her looks. Now I ask you, how do you get to be a model if you hate your looks? And so she asked her, I mean You're a model and you think that you're ugly and you think that you are have all these defects. How do you do that? Oh, it's excruciating to stand before the cameras. Right And then they talked about the connection between a mother's self-image and what she passes on to her daughter, and how her mother was obsessed with her defects. And as I watched this, I thought these are two people who are absolutely obsessed with their looks And she said a lot of true things about parents and how they influence kids. But when I heard the next statement, I felt a stab of pain. She said, the solution is the mother should say to her daughter, you are beautiful. You are just the most beautiful thing, and build her up. And I thought, she's already obsessed because she's bought into her value is based on her physical appearance. Why don't you just feed the idolatry? Her problem is that she says, my visible, visual, physical appearance is my God. And my God is imperfect. So I hate it. It has let me down. What she needs is to be redirected toward a God who is truly worth worshiping, who is perfect, who will get her beyond an outside of herself. Who will not let her down? But our whole culture says it's in you. Look to yourself. And so the gospel is not only counterintuitive, it's nonsense to our culture. But it's tragic that this is what kids are told. Now am I saying we should tell our kids you're ugly and you're nothing? Well of course not. That too is untrue. For we are made in God's image and of infinite worth. The point that Jesus is making is that And while the world says, be aware of your potential and develop your confidence as a winner, Jesus says, be aware of your limitations. Look at your heart for what it really is and see your need of me. Now people may say that that's negative thinking. You Christians are so negative. You're just people trying to build up and open. These people are trying to build us up and you're saying, ah, look at the defects and the flaws and the limitation. Now, let me offer to you which is more helpful. A person that says to you, you know, all of the nutrition that you need resides within you. Just get in touch with those nutrients. You don't need to eat. That's for weak people You just get in touch with those nutrients and let them develop within you and feed you body and soul. Jesus says, you know what, you do that, you're going to starve. Because in fact, you're empty. You need to feed on the bread of life. You need to recognize your emptiness. And we are in a world that is constantly denying our emptiness. So Jesus says, you're empty, you need to feed. Blessed are those who realize their emptiness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. They come to me as the bread of life. Now which is more helpful? Which deals with reality? Next question Fourth question, what's the result? He said, blessed are those Blessed are the poor in spirit, because those theirs is the kingdom of heaven. You see, you only gain the kingdom of heaven when you give up trying to prove that you deserve it. Again, from Tim Keller, he says You need nothing to get into heaven. And Americans don't have much of that. We have so many places to run, so many resources that we think we can pull from, that they blind us to our spiritual bankruptcy. It's only when you and I recognize our spiritual bankruptcy that we possess the kingdom of heaven because it is only gained through the merits of Jesus Christ. And until you realize you have none of your own, you will not turn to the merits of Jesus Christ that, as Tom pointed out in that prayer, soar above your sin. Now, um let me share with you a story, a simple story that Michelle Lennon emailed me once. And it's got a lot of things you know you can pick at it, but it makes a makes a good point. Man dies and he goes to heaven. He appears before St. Peter, you know, at the gates, same old thing you hear so many jokes. Before St. Peter, and St. Peter says, okay, here's the way it works. To get into heaven, you need a hundred points. Tell me what you've done. When you get up to a hundred points, you get in. So the man says, okay. I was married to the same woman for 44 years. I never treated on it her, and I loved her the whole time. Congratulations. That's worth two points. Two points? Well, I you know, I also went to church for 60 years. I was faithful in my attendance. I served in the nursery. I took down chairs. I put chairs away, served in children's church, and I even helped out at the vacation Bible school. Peter says, well, that's very good. That's worth three points. Three points? Well, you know, I also went on missions trips. I supported a number of missionaries, did some short-term work, and I promoted missions in our own church. That's great. Two more points. Two more points? Seven points for all that? At this rate, the only way I'm ever going to get in is by the grace of God. Bingo. 100 points. Our goodness keeps us from Christ more than our sins. You see, it's only when you and I realize what all those things we put such stock in are worth before a perfect and holy God. Do we see our need of Christ? Thanks, Michelle. Fifth question: How do I become poor in spirit? You become poor in spirit, quite simply, by being honest with yourself and about what your heart is really like. No blame shifting, no rationalizations. If you are outside of Christ this morning, stop the denial. See your need for Jesus Christ. Usually when I'm sharing Christ with a person, I will talk about how we need Christ as Savior. And then talk about him as Lord who comes to save us. I had a case not too long ago where I was talking to somebody and said, I'm pretty tight with God. And I said, really? You know, yeah, you know, I I don't understand this uniqueness about Jesus and you know it just seems so narrow and so limiting. And I said, well very interesting. But you really do want to follow what he says. Yes, yeah, I think great teacher, good stuff. I have no problem with that. I said, okay, well let's tell you what we'll do. You read through and start at a certain point in scripture and you go through that and you just apply it and live it and tell me how you're doing. So we would meet. And he said, well, you know, I'm it's not perfect, but I'm you know doing pretty good on this. And you know, next time we met he said, uh you know, he said, this is getting hard. Um In fact, he said, the more I'm trying to live like a Christian, the more I'm understanding I can't do it. I need Jesus. And soon after that, he gave his life to Christ. You see, sometimes we think that being a Christian is kind of like learning how to ride a bicycle. You sort of get on and learn a few skills, and you need God to be guiding you and holding you pretty steadily there for the beginning. But after a while you kind of get the hang of it. He says, that's okay, I think I got it. What you're really saying is, I have learned how to look like a Christian to other people. I've learned the things to say, the things not to say, and then outside of those embarrassing moments when my heart is revealed in spite of myself I can look like a Christian. So, what Jesus says is learn your heart. And you want a simple exercise to help you to do that this week. What in sonship mentoring they call the tongue control exercise, quite simple. But the next week, just do four things. How to do with your tongue. Don't complain. Don't gossip. Don't be defensive. And what's the fourth one? Don't blame. Don't gossip, don't blame, don't be defensive, and don't complain. Do those four things this week. Come on back next week. We'll share how we did. You'll see your need for Christ. The poor in spirit are those who are in touch with their hearts. Last question. How will I know if I am poor in spirit? How will I know? When I see my need for Christ, and I mean on a gut level. At the men's retreat. I don't even know if I shared this last week. Men's Retreat, Bob Haywood was talking about something, and it really caught me and I went out to pray. And as I went out to pray, I was talking I was talking to the Lord about the frustrations of my life and And you know, Lord, why am I not like and I began to realize more and more deeply, Lord Jesus, I need you. I need you. And I thought finally, like I think at other times I don't. It's only when I'm really in touch with my heart that, to the same degree, I realize I need you. And the more you're in touch with your heart, the more you'll see that by knowing your need for Jesus. And the more you know your need for him, the more you will see his glory and sufficiency. Happy are the poor in spirit, for they have seen the sufficiency of Christ to gain them the kingdom of heaven How do I know when I'm poor in spirit? I know by how much I make of prayer You see, when I go through a day and I say, Lord, uh man, this one's really, really full. I I just I'm going from one thing to another. And Lord, I'm sorry, but I don't have 15 minutes to stop, be quiet before you, and seek your face to help me. I'm winging it. What am I saying? I'm saying I have the resources, sufficient resources in myself to get me through this day. That's the opposite of poor in spirit. When I'm poor in spirit, I say, Lord, I don't care if get up 15 minutes earlier or what it is, I have to have the time. You know, Jesus modeled every one of the Beatitudes. You look and you say, yeah, but not this one. He wasn't poor in spirit. Oh yeah? He was God. But Mark 1 tells us that he got up before dawn to meet with his father because he needed to meet with him. Mark also tells us there were times he took a whole night in prayer. Luke tells us that he was often in Gethsemane praying. Why? Because he needed his father. He lived as a man of faith. And when you and I don't pray, It shows that we are not really poor in spirit. We need to ask God to give us an awareness of our heart and our lack of resources, our spiritual and moral bankruptcy. So that we fly to him. Lord, Jesus, help me through this day. It also is revealed not just by our actions, but by our reactions. I give two examples there. I know that I'm becoming more poor in spirit When I need less to hear how good I am and how I have accomplished something on my own. Or when I bristle less at criticism. First blank, when I am praised. Or when I'm successful, but either one. What I'm thinking of here is a time when you are feeling very inadequate and you're saying, Lord, I'm up against I don't know what I'm gonna do, I don't even have a plan, how am I gonna get through this? Lord help me, you know, and you know it could be a test you've got to take, or it could be something, and you know, crying out, Lord help me. And then You pass. You get through it. You're successful. People said, you did a great job. And what does your heart say? Yeah. I did it. Or, thank you, Lord. You are so merciful to me. Reminds me of the woman who was driving in downtown. She was late for an appointment. She needed a parking space. You know, the the number one downtown prayer parking spaces. So she prayed, Lord, Lord I'm late, Lord Please, I need you. Give me a parking space. If you give me a parking space, I will serve in the nursery for a year. Help me, Lord. Miraculously, immediately, a parking space appeared. And what did she say? Oh, no thanks, Lord, I found one myself. Cancel that. Yeah, that reveals our hearts. Or how about when you're criticized? You bristle, I'm not like that. You caught me off guard. I'm not really like that. You know, or do you think, pfft, boy, if you only knew. A person who's poor in spirit is able to say those three most difficult words of all. You know what they are? Maybe you're right. Man, that hard to say. Maybe you're right. I didn't say you were right. Maybe. Poverty of spirit. Last summer I had an experience that really brought home to me what poverty of spirit was. I will probably remember this the rest of my life. Dean and I, my son, were uh traveling through Nova Scotia. Beautiful place. We had a couple weeks, we were just driving through the whole place. And on this particular day we were up along the Bay of Fundy where the tides rise over 60 feet from low tide to high tide, so when they come in, it is an awesome I mean they come in as a wave, literally, when they come up rivers. We were up at Paul's Harbor, and uh the tide was coming in, and I pulled out onto a strip of gravel. So that we could look out over the ocean and this harbor and this beautiful spot. And so we're looking at it and look for a little bit. You decide, okay, well it's time to go, it's raining, so let's pull out of here. Put the car in reverse and the wheels just went right down into the gravel. So I thought, oh, I got a little more traction here. I moved a little closer to the water, thinking back and wheels went straight down. So well I gotta I gotta get a turn here because I don't wanna be driving into this upcoming tide. So I kinda turn around, finally, Dean, get out, push. He pushed so hard he put a dent in the trunk. You know, then I found this tourist and somebody else over there and I said could you please give me some hands? So he pushed a little bit and grumbles something and walked off. Great, I am in trouble. And I mean, and I have a picture of this. The car is sunk all the way down, all four wheels, in the gravel, and the tie is coming right up toward the back of the car. I have these these pictures in my mind of the car totally submerged under the Bay of Fundy You know, one other uh example of the power of these ties. This guy lost his whole car in there, you know. And I'm here, Lord, help me. I'm helpless. There's nothing I can do. There's no way I can get myself out of this. I got myself into it. I can't get out of it And suddenly an angel appeared. I'm not kidding. He was an angel in the form of a fisherman in a Ford F-250 4x4 with a tow rope. He had seen me from his boat. Across the harbor, came around, he said, here mate, take this boat, tie it, take this court, tie it to your car. I'll pull you out He says I'm not touching their car. You tie it, I'll pull you up. Alright. I tied it on. I was so panicked because of the tide coming in on the back of the car, I forgot to take the brake off So his buddies yelling something from the boat over there, which was, and I couldn't hear it, take the breeze off! It didn't matter. He towed the car up with the wheels still, just dragged them through the gravel, all the way up the hill When I finally got up and out, I said, oh man, thank you so much. I said, here, take $20. I mean, I just, you know, I'm just so grateful. Thank you. He said, no, thank you. I said, no, come on, you know, get a meal or something. And he backed off, bristled a little, and he said, I have ways to make a living. And I realized I had offended him. It was grace. There I was. I was helpless. Helpless and hopeless, apart from someone to rescue me. And so I had nothing but grace and happiness. And I thought that's what my Savior is like. Let's pray. Lord our God, help us to see your face, to see That you are sufficient only for those who realize their bankruptcy. That you would help us to see our hearts, to see what we're really like, so that, Lord Jesus, we come to you, we run to you. And we find you there, ready to rescue and to receive us day by day, that you are sufficient Open our hearts and minds to see and to come. In Jesus' name. Amen.