Thank you, Lydia and Anna. What a precious truth that we uh celebrate as we take the Lord's Supper this morning, the blood of Christ. Causes you to be innocent before his throne. In our study of Matthew, last week we began a study of the Lord's Prayer. And I mentioned at that time that we tend to think of prayer as primarily a way to get things that we want from God. And um We don't generally tend to think of prayer as a way to get to know him better. And I liken that to my relationship with the ice cream man in my neighborhood as a kid growing up And you see on the screen now a second example of the kind of thing I'm talking about. In four months you're going to see kids everywhere doing this, sitting in Santa's lap with their lists. Now, if you've ever been in the mall and watched this, have you ever heard a kid who is sitting on Santa's lap say, so Santa, how's your life going? Um how do you manage the pressure of all of us kids? Um do you find that the stress is putting too much pressure on your marriage, maybe and You know, um I mean I I just can't imagine how you can remember all of us and our names and our lists and You certainly are an unusual and kind and amazing person to us. You know hear that, you know, you hear, give me this and give me this and I'd like a couple of these and make sure mine's bigger than my sisters and you know and on and on Because we tend to think that it's his job to fulfill our lists. That's what he's there for And a lot of people look at God in the same kind of way. What he's there for is to provide the things that you want and the things that you need. And so whether it's a broken heart or whether it's a desire, I just bring my list to God. And see what he'll do. It's kinda like I hope for the best. And I pointed out that we don't do it with a great confidence. Oftentimes it's kinda I don't know how prayer works You know, he knows it all anyway and he's sovereign, so if he's gonna do whatever he's gonna do, who knows what difference my praying makes and but you know, it might make a difference, and so just because maybe it will, why not? And so I bring the request to him, but there's not much of a relationship. And oftentimes not a whole lot of faith. Now Jesus gives to us here a whole new way of thinking about prayer. Jesus is showing us that prayer is really a microcosm of the gospel. You and I come to God, and we have no right to come and expect his mercy. But the Bible says that because of God's great love, he sent his own son to bear the curse that you and I deserved as those alienated from him. so that that cleared the way for him to adopt you and me as his children. And so he invites you to come and call him Father. And as we look at the Lord's Prayer, we said there are two parts to it, the address and then the six petitions. But the address is not just something to slip over, our Father in heaven. Now let's get to the meat of the thing. The address is as important as the rest of the prayer. So foundational to understanding the Lord's Prayer is this first phrase, and in particular these first two words, our Father. That is the summation of the gospel. God has called us as the infinite, perfect, holy God, as sinners, to be able to call him by grace Father. And we want to explore that as we begin to understand the Lord's Prayer. Six observations. You see that prayer up there, our Father, six observations and questions in order to understand this briefly this morning. And the first one is, notice that it is our Father. It is not my Father. It is our Father. The whole prayer is in the plural. Give us our daily bread, forgive us our debts, the whole thing. So prayer is in the context of community. It is not simply a solo activity, even though he invites us to come in our prayer closet alone. So it's a balance. Both those things are true. It's easy when we pray the Lord's Prayer to simply translate, you know, my, my, our, me, my, my, and, you know, leave out the plurals. And I do that, and there's nothing wrong with your saying, my Father, forgive me. But we need to remember when we do that that Jesus taught us to pray in community. And when we say our father, what we are saying is we have brothers and sisters. He isn't just your father. He is our father together. Therefore, you are not alone. And when you come to church, if you come alone or as a family alone Uh some may be tempted to come in and slip out then right after the benediction and avoid talking to other people And if you do that, you're not only cheating yourself, you're denying your identity if you are a Christian. Because a Christian, by their very identity, lives in community. We are taught to pray in community. We're taught to live in community. We'll talk about that more next month. But I want you to see just another example through the New Testament, that the New Testament always is presuming that we are living in community. So feel the force of that when you pray, our Father, that we are coming as brothers and sisters in the family of God. To pray that and therefore when you when we finish, hang around for a few minutes. Get to know somebody, talk to somebody. Let yourself be open to making friends and getting to know people in the community here. Our Father. Second point I want to call attention to is, or the second question is, does this mean that we should only ever pray to the Father? The only true biblical prayer is to the Father. You don't ever pray to the Son or to the Spirit. A number of Christians teach that. And I disagree. I think that this does not mean we only ever address the Father. Jesus and the Spirit are fully God. They minister to us in unique ways, and I think it is entirely appropriate and biblical for us to pray to them as unique. Parts of the Godhead, we are taught that in Scripture, for instance, in Acts 7. 59, when Stephen was being stoned. In his dying breath, while they were stoning him, Stephen prayed, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. He didn't pray at that moment to the Father. He prayed, cried out to the Lord Jesus. When Paul writes to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 in his greeting, verse 2, to the church of God in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus called to be holy together with those everywhere everywhere who call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours. We don't call on Him just for salvation. We call on Him in our needs, we recognize He is our Savior, that He is with us. I sometimes picture that the Lord Jesus is with me as I am praying that He is there, his presence is palpable to me, and I can address him. I don't have to ignore him and only pray to the Father. The Spirit is also, we're told, ministers to us in many ways. He shows us Christ. Sometimes I ask, Holy Spirit, show me more of Christ. Praying more love to thee. Give me more love to the Lord Jesus. It's the Spirit who produces the fruits in us. Love, joy, peace, patience. Lord. Holy Spirit, give me more patience. Give me more joy. There are a lot of ways that we can address and enjoy the particular fullness of the Godhead. The normal pattern, however, is to pray to the Father by means of the ministration of the Son, his intercession and the teaching of the Spirit as He shows us how to pray, but it does not have to be exclusive. the normal pattern, but not the exclusive pattern. But a much more question is the third one. Who can address God this way? Who can address God as Father? And the answer of Scripture is absolutely clear. Only Christians who belong to Jesus Christ by faith. You see some references there to that fact. And um it it causes me to to pause and observe in this room, everybody sitting here is in one of two categories. Everybody Either you are in the first category, one of God's creatures, who has continued to live your life on your own. Who have renounced his claims upon your life, and you are, according to Ephesians 2 verse 3, under his wrath. Objects of his wrath, Paul says, you have no right to call him Father. The Bible, the New Testament, never says that we are all children of God. It never says that you and I have some innate right to call God the Father. And that's why I personally am against Saying the Lord's Prayer in public schools. Because if kids who are have no interest in Christ are taught to pray our Father, who in heaven, who is in heaven, Hallowed be your name and all, then you know there's this idea that, well, you know, we're all children of God. He's all He's our Father, all of us, makes no difference. And that's that's a disastrous misleading. So the Bible teaches that there is a second category. The second category is that you are here as his children by adoption. And that that is because of the Son who is cast away and cursed in your place, and you are trusting him. You have your faith in Jesus Christ. And God has therefore adopted you. You are his child by adoption. That is the only way that you can call him father, because you are trusting in Jesus Christ. In John chapter 1. We read in verse 11 that he, Jesus, came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him, and yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right The authority, the privilege to become children of God. Children born not of natural descent or of human decision or a husband's will, but born of God. That is the way that you call God Father. No other way. Galatians chapter 3 Paul makes it absolutely clear, it is by faith alone. You are all sons of God through faith in Jesus Christ. So the question for every one of you, right at this moment, is, do you have faith in Jesus Christ? Are you living by faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ? To take your sin, to put that sin away by his own sacrifice, so that you could be adopted by God the Father, and you would be able to therefore call him Father. In just a few minutes we're going to be celebrating the Lord's Supper together. And as you hold those elements in your hand This is the privilege to realize God has sealed to you the promise that through the finished work of Jesus Christ You are able to call him Father. No other way. If you don't know him, do not take those elements. That's presumption. But if you do, it is a ceiling to your heart. You have the right. To say father to daddy. Isn't that amazing? It's a wonderful thing. Father He says to us in Galatians chapter 4, For when the time had fully come, God sent his son, born of a woman, born under law. To redeem those under the law, that is to purchase by his blood you and me, so that we might receive the full rights of sons Because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, the Spirit who calls out, Abba, Father, Daddy. So you are no longer a slave but a son, and since you are a son, God has made you also an heir. So, what is the significance of that term? Abba, Daddy. What does it mean when we call him that? Fourth point then, what is the significance of the word Abba? This word Jesus says in Matthew 6, if you look at the Greek, it's poter. And we know from a passage like Galatians 4, Jesus of course spoke Aramaic, and the term he was using was Abba. This is a term that is used, father, he uses father 12 times in this short chapter, chapter 6. That's better than one out of every three verses. The Aramaic word behind it, Abba, is a word that was used by the Jews. Uh it was a word, uh this term was used in the Old Testament fourteen times, but it is not used in the way that Jesus used it. It's generally used as God is the father of the nation, he's the originator. You have a couple of references like Psalm 103 where there's the comparison as a father, so this is the way God is in compassion or something, but not an invitation to call him Father. This was a radically new idea to Jesus. God was remote, exalted, high, lifted up. not someone that you could draw close to personally. Jesus brings a radical new idea when he says, you can personally call God your Father. In fact, Jesus uses this term, Father, sixty times in the four Gospels. Um so, you know, four times what it's used in the entire Old Testament. In fact, this uh term father Is really the new covenant name for God. Of all the names, over 20 names we studied one time years and years ago of God in the Old Testament, this is the distinctive new covenant name for God, Father. He is your father, and that is central to New Testament prayer. That's why Jesus, in the model he gives us, starts off. This is how you address him Our Father. It's central to New Testament prayer. It is unique to biblical Christianity. Just contrast the view of God that Jesus teaches here with the with the Islamic view of God, high, exalted, sovereign, removed. Christianity, he is both exalted. We'll look at that next week. But he is also intimate and approachable. We can call him daddy. The Aramaic term was a term of endearment. used by children even into adulthood for their f for their fathers. It's kind of like daddy or dad. It's not something just babies or children would use. It combines the idea of endearment with respect. But it's a shocking intimacy that Jesus is teaching here. Imagine a throne room where you have Brilliant walls and floors of solid gold encrusted with precious jewels And there in the center of that there is a throne that is so majestic you can barely look at it for all its brilliance. And all gathered around that throne are hundreds and thousands of people prostrate. Angels are there prostrate. Beings in heaven and on earth are all lying prostrate before this one who's on the throne. And you dash down the center aisle, you run up to that throne, you come up onto the lap of the one who's on that throne, and you say, Oh Daddy, that's how shocking it was what Jesus was teaching to his disciples. You have the privilege to run through the crowd, come up to him and say, Daddy Doesn't mean you ever lose the respect. It doesn't mean you don't revere him. Again, we'll talk about that next week. But you don't look at him simply as remote. You have the covenantal privilege of beginning your prayers, Daddy, and knowing he invites you to come to him on those terms. Isn't that amazing? Amazing. So, I realize also that when I say this, that there's a number of you out there that say this term daddy, father, is not particularly a positive term to me It's not a term of endearment that gives me fond memories. So the fifth point is what do you do if that term is not precious to you? Let me offer to you three thoughts. First of all, I would encourage you to grieve what you have longed for. To honestly grieve it. Some have never known their father. He died when, maybe before you were born or in infancy, so you never got to know him. Uh there's probably more of you who your father lived as you grew up, perhaps into adulthood, perhaps still alive, and you felt like you still never knew him Or don't really know him now. Would never think of crawling up onto his lap and just entrusting yourself to his tender care. He was unpredictable. You never knew what you would get. I remember when my father died, I didn't ever really know him. And I remember being shocked at his funeral when a total stranger came up. to pay respects. And he told me about some conversation he had had with my father. In fact this was a conversation that had been repeated a number of times and how strongly my father felt about something. And I had no idea about that. I simply never knew him. For years in my life I kind of thought that was no big deal. He was basically a good man, provided for me, did a lot of very kind things for my mother and me. And I thought, you know, I'm nobody's perfect and okay, so I never knew my father, never had a relationship with my father. I would have never thought of sharing some deep personal thing of my heart with my father. I would have felt very foolish, it would have been very awkward and embarrassing. Um, I remember when he was dying. I just couldn't talk to him about it. He just would not talk about something like that. And for years I thought, you know, it's no big deal, you go on And I came to realize that there was a hole in my heart, that it wasn't something. It hadn't crippled me, but it wasn't something I could deny and pretend that it wasn't so. And I had to come to a place of grieving the loss of that relationship, the fact that I never had that relationship And so I say to you, when the Bible says that you can call God your father, it may be that you say, I honestly need to grieve. That I don't see a comparison there that helps me to understand God better. In fact, the second point is then to contrast it. You know, I I must say that after the first service, somebody came to me, a man, and he said, uh my heart was really touched at that point in the service because he said, the day that I realized That I needed God as the Father I never had was a day that my relationship with Jesus Christ radically changed. When I could say, Father, I need your love to me as your son that I have never known. It may be that for some of you, men or women, that that's the case in your life. So what do you do? Secondly, here you contrast your earthly father and your heavenly one. Sure, there are many ways for some of us that we can compare God as our Heavenly Father with our earthly Father. But God be thanked, there are many ways that were intended to contrast him. You see, the Bible teaches that it's not that God is like our earthly fathers Rather, the Bible teaches that God is the Father, and earthly fathers are to be like Him. He's the pattern, not the copy. And so you contrast your understanding of your Father. No earthly Father is perfect. He is the perfect Father that none of us have ever had. And when we pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, that means also forgive our fathers. Forgive their failings, even as we who are fathers realize we need forgiveness from our children. In the ways that we have failed them. None of us is perfect, but God has given Himself as the perfect Father to understand both by comparison and contrast. with our earthly fathers, what he is like. It was a professor that taught a course on theology, and uh he was going into a semester where he was teaching on the nature of God He started the course by the first day handing out a questionnaire, and in this questionnaire he had the students put down all the ways that they perceived and related to their earthly fathers. and um went through a number of questions, collected them, put them away, never said a thing about them. Taught the course through the semester, what God is like. Came to the end of the semester, he handed out another questionnaire on the last day. In this questionnaire, he asked them to describe what they saw God as like and their relationship with Him. Then he compared the two questionnaires, and he and the students were astounded to see that the second questionnaire was almost identical to the first questionnaire. No matter what they had been taught through the semester, they still viewed God the way they viewed their earthly fathers. So for some of you, it may take a lot of work and a conscious realization that I need to distinguish how God is different from my earthly Father. I need to go through that exercise in order for me to free myself up to come to God and cry out to him, My Father, our Father, and enter into prayer with him on that basis. You see, we come to him as a father through the finished work of Jesus Christ, who has removed all the alienation. He is not a father looking for us to slip up, to judge us, to condemn us. In Jesus Christ he is a God who as Father receives us because he was his father by right, he is our father by grace, and the gospel says That relationship with you and me is unique. You see, New Testament adoption is based on the Roman custom of adoption, and that custom had very particular legal proceedings. But the way that the Romans adopted was that a childless couple who did not have somebody to continue their name or their inheritance would pick some worthy young man who was worthy to bear their name. And they'd go through the legal proceeding to adopt him. But the Bible tells us that in the gospel, God picks you and me who are totally unworthy to bear his name. Now when parents look to adopt children, they'll often look for the cutest kid that they can see, the one that they develop some connection with. Uh but there are some parents who feel called to adopt special needs children. I think of a couple who many years ago paid ten thousand dollars to adopt twins who had Fetal alcohol syndrome taking on tremendous challenge and burden in that loving activity. What the gospel says, brothers and sisters, is that every time you pray, our Father, it is to remind you that you were adopted as a special needs child. You don't come because you were worthy to bear the name. You come as a special needs child by grace chosen by Him. In Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 5, Paul tells us, in love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will. In love he did it. It was his pleasure to do it. He decided a free choice to do it. And then he goes on to tell us how he had to pay for us, put away our sins, lavish us with grace in order to bring us into that family and to be able to begin to display the family likeness of his son. John Gersner used to tell a story about a British lieutenant who was in World War I in France. One of his men one day was out in no man's land and he was shot and wounded. And this lieutenant knew that he would die out there if he didn't go get him, so he crawled up over the parapet. Went out onto the field and dragged his body back over, and just as he was going over the parapet, a shot came and killed him instantly. The wounded man survived. The lieutenant was instantly killed. When they told his family, of course, they were devastated and heartbroken But after some months, they decided that they would like to meet the man for whom their son gave his life. And so they invited him. He was still convalescing, and they invited him to come to their home for dinner. They wondered what kind of a man their son would have chosen to give his life to save. Rather than meet someone that they could respect and Be glad that they got to know him. They found that he was vile, vulgar, profane, drunkard. Person of despicable character. And they asked, Our son gave his life for this one? But after praying and considering it for a number of more weeks, they decided to adopt this fellow. They brought him into their home and they raised him. continued him he's an adult, but they continued to treat him like their own son. And over the years, Gerstner says that amazingly this fella was transformed and became Like the character of their own son. You see, brothers and sisters, that's the gospel. God adopted you and he adopted me. In spite of what we were like, not because of what we were like, but he's brought us into his family so that you and I would begin to bear the likeness of his son. And every time you pray, our Father, my daddy, it's to remind you, I was adopted by grace, and I am brought into the family to more and more bear the likeness of his son. And so rejoice in the contrast. Let's see. Rejoice in the contrast that you have been adopted. And he has not only adopted you legally, but he also gives his spirit to create that bond within you. Because both adoption involves both the legal proceedings but also the bonding. And so in Romans chapter 8, we read in verse 15, You did not receive the spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. But you've received the spirit of sonship, and by him we cry, Abba, Father, Daddy. The Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. And some of us more than others need the Spirit to continually be testifying. You are God's child. You can call him daddy. You have the right, the privilege. He offers himself to you. Come and take him at his word. Call him daddy. A lawyer that is involved in many cases of adoption said one day he was in a court where a father was adopting the seven-year-old daughter of his new wife. The judge looked down in the adoption proceedings at one point to the little girl and he said, Do you have anything that you would like to say about this adoption? She looked down shyly and then she looked up and she said, Just that I love him You see, adoption is not just some legal proceeding. Jesus isn't just saying you have the right to call God Father in your prayer. The purpose is that God is bringing a bond in your heart to his heart. He's saying, I am here for you. I am here for you to pour out every need and to get to know me and to know my heart. And the more you know my heart, as we said last week, the more your heart then blends into my heart and my desires. And so, brothers and sisters, come and rejoice. Finally, the sixth thing. This is the basis for all real prayer. Knowing God is your Father. Tell me how much you make in your daily identity of God as your Father, and I will tell you about the quality of your prayer life. The new covenant term Father is the basis of all real prayer. How much you understand of God as your father is how much you enjoy prayer. Your heart is drawn to prayer. Your heart is drawn to the God who invites you to come through the finished work of His Son to say, Daddy, I love you. I want to know you better. And so, whether it is that you become promoted in your job to fame and wide recognition Or whether you're fired. Whether you're in a marriage of daily delight, or whether you are single and wish you were married, or you're in a marriage of daily misery and rejection. Whether your kids are leading Bible studies or selling drugs, whether your life seems to be flowing along with God hearing you and meeting your answers. We're seeming to reject your requests, and all is confusion and chaos. It is sufficient to know that God is your Father. That his pardon and his provision and his protection are perfectly sufficient for you. I talked this week with a Christian brother who has found out just recently that through nothing that he has done, his business has lost 40% of its clientele. But he says, God's my Father. I don't know what the future holds, but I can be at peace. And so as you hold these elements, realize what it costs God to adopt you as his child. It cost the shed blood and the body of his own son. And therefore think as you hold those elements. How precious you must be to him. And let them seal that relationship again to your heart. Let's pray, and at the beginning, at the end of this prayer, we'll once again pray as you see it there in your bulletin outline, the Lord's Prayer. Not just say it, but pray it together. Let's pray. We delight to say our Father What a privilege that we come to you as special needs children, who are adopted by your grace and your mercy, in love you predestined us to be adopted. To be not only your children, but to become like your own begotten Son. To have all the privileges of sonship. To be able to come to you as the one who listens to us, who never turns a deaf ear to us. And to know that we can cry out to you and know that we are precious to you. Lord, seal that to our hearts. Seal it to our hearts through these elements. Seal it to our hearts through your word as we meditate on that week. Lord, cause that truth to go deeper and deeper. Lord, help us to grieve what we wish we had had with relationships with our earthly fathers. Some of us as women deeply scarred. Some of us as men with a hole in our hearts and come to know that you are the perfect Father who invites us to come for healing and for sufficiency. And so we come. We come in the name of the one who taught us to pray together, our Father. In heaven. Hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread. Forgive us our debts, as we have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen.