Finally, after twenty-four messages on Matthew five, we move on to chapter six. It's a new section and a new emphasis. So let me begin by saying a few things about chapter 6, especially as it's compared to chapter 5. First, uh, an observation on our view of Jesus. Um chapter 5, we have been looking at the six mirrors that Jesus has been holding up to show us what our hearts are like, that um we are not as good as we like to think that we are, and that we need him more than we realize. But let's be honest, he does that by making us feel bad. I mean, it makes you feel bad about yourself when you look and see um what your heart's really like. And we don't tend to like to spend time with people who make us feel bad, do we? I mean if you were with a man or a woman that said uh you know you've really been sort of neglecting your body, I kinda like to tell you you need to watch your weight more, your diet, your exercise Probably wouldn't immediately make another appointment to get together, you know, especially for lunch. But uh suppose this person was a doctor And uh they said, uh, well, um, but you know, I have a prescription for you that will uh Get rid of the ill effects of your neglect and um will help you to feel a lot better, look better and do better Well, then you'd probably uh be glad that you listened to the bad news so that you would get the cure. Now, Jesus wants you to have a rich life full of joy. But he's saying only he can give that to you. And he's not sure that you want to give up running your life and turn it over to him. so that he can take it and he can change it and that he can give you what you need. So he needs to show you why you're inadequate in yourself. He wants to show you why you are wrong about almost everything about skillful living. And when you realize that, then you and I will come to him. Because we'll realize only He provides the healing and the fullness. So we observe that the first word of the Sermon on the Mount in chapter 5 is the word happy. Blessed. And he says eight times, blessed, happy are, and he characterizes particular characteristics of the people who are his disciples and follow him. Now in the first verse of chapter 6, we see the word reward. That word is repeated, it's used eight uh seven times in eighteen verses of chap first eighteen verses of chapter six. Be careful not to do your acts of righteousness. The Jews talked about um Three kinds of acts of piety or righteousness, the demonstration of your religious life, your walk with God. And he says, be careful not to do these acts of righteousness before men, to be seen by them, because if you do, you will have no reward. From your Father in heaven. He's concerned that you have the reward. He wants that for you. Now I remember back in the early 80s. When uh Kathy and I had served with Intervarsity for ten years, and um one day, totally unsolicited, there was a manuscript that came in the mail from Intervarsity Press. And turned out that it was a pre-publication manuscript of a book by an author that I hadn't heard of and practically nobody had heard of by the name of John Piper. It was a book that was called Desiring God. That was the tent, Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist. And they said, we don't know where this guy's coming from or what this is all about, but we know it's heresy. And the reason we know that is because wherever this thing is getting circulated, people were circulating this manuscript. Hadn't been published. But he said, uh wherever this thing's being circulated, we find that uh it tends to divide the Christians on campus because those that have read it say that the ones that haven't read it really don't understand the gospel. They said that's not too good. And then they said the second reason we know there's a problem is because it's about Christian hedonism. Now, anything that's about hedonism, you stick Christian on it, that doesn't sound too good. So I grabbed my red pen and I started reading this book. And the more I read it, the more excited I got, the more I noticed he was delving deeply into the writings of Jonathan Edwards and C. S. Lewis, a couple of my favorite authors. And as he um went through this thing, I I I finally finished and I wrote him back and it said, sorry, I think it's a great book, can't wait for it to get published. And uh it actually did get published in 1986, and I was so glad when I saw J. I. Packer gave it a very good review. Now, what was Paper saying? He was saying that contrary to what we as Christians think, that Jesus has no place for rewards. That he was saying Jesus is actually very into rewards. The Bible realizes and is built on the fact that God has wired us to desire pleasure. And that the gospel is designed for our pleasure. But that pleasure Is a pleasure lifted beyond the normal way we look at pleasure, self-centered in this world to a God-centered pleasure that transcends this world, a pure higher joy that finds its delight in Him, desiring God. Christian Hedonism. Now, Matthew chapter 6 is about Christian hedonism. What Jesus does is that he elevates the way we normally think about what we want and desire and puts it on a different plane. Another way of looking at chapter 6 of Matthew is to see that Jesus has a razor-sharp mind that is always very consistent. He follows things to their logical conclusion. And he's saying in this chapter that you and I do not live consistently with what we say that we believe Because if you're a Christian here this morning, you've given your life to Jesus Christ, you're trusting him and his word, you believe in two things that you cannot see. You first of all believe in an unseen eternal kingdom of God, which is your home. It's your hope, and it is your goal. It is more important to you than the home in this life, in the things in this life, and uh you can't see it, so you hold it by faith. Second thing that you hold dearly is to the fact that you have an unseen heavenly father who is the center of your affections and your help. Now, the word Father appears three times in Matthew 5, in 48 verses, about one time in every 15 verses. In chapter 6, the term father appears twelve times in 34 verses, or about once in every three verses. So there is a tremendous emphasis in chapter 6 on the fact that God is our Father. But Jesus is saying that in many ways you and I live as practical atheists, as if we do not have an unseen eternal kingdom or a heavenly father. In fact, these two basic ways that we live as practical atheists divide chapter 6 into its two main divisions. You see it in your bulletin outline there. The first division is verses 1 to 18, whose favor we seek. That's the first inconsistency, whose favor we seek. Now, as I said, the Jews talked about three kinds of acts of righteousness. Be careful that you do not do your acts of righteousness or your acts of piety before men to be seen by them. And there were three kinds that the Jews talked about, giving, praying, and fasting. Giving, Jesus deals with in verses 2 to 4. Praying in verses 5 to 15 and fasting in verses 16 to 18. It's in your outline. Don't need to get it down. But that's the division. He uses three examples To make these points. And in each of these examples, he makes the same four points. And you see it there, W A C P. First of all, there is the warning. Don't Do this thing, the giving, the praying, the fasting, the way that the Pharisees do it to be seen, just of people, to get credit. of pe from people to impress people. That's the warning. The assurance, A, assurance is that's their reward. They've gotten the plaudits of people, they've impressed them. That's all they get out of it. Thirdly, there is the command, you do it secretly, quietly, privately, so that, fourthly, the promise your Father who sees will reward you. And he's concerned that you get that reward. He doesn't want you to miss out on it. And so he spends this whole section talking about how to get the superior reward. This is so contemporary. Some of you who have read uh some of Jack Miller's writings know that in a number of places he talks about the problem of being an approval suck An approval suck is the person that just is always trying to suck approval out of people, trying to impress you so that you will like me, so that you'll think I'm important or I'm something and Just all kinds of ways. I mean it's appalling. I see it in myself and it disgusts me even as I see myself doing it. In a group and we're having a discussion and rather than just listening and trying to make a point that is valid to the glory of God. You know, I'm thinking, how can I impress you with what I know, or I'll top your story, or what you know. And we're always trying to impress people. It's really it's disgusting, isn't it? But we do it. So, this is a very contemporary issue. Whose favor you seek The second way that we're inconsistent and act as practical atheists is in terms of what treasures we seek. We believe that we have an unseen eternal kingdom, where all our riches are laid up and waiting. But what do we do? We seek the treasures of this earth. In two ways he's concerned, two kinds of concerns. Verses 19 to 24, the problem of acquisition. In verses 25 to 34, the problem of anxiety. Getting more and more or concerned that I don't have enough. Each one cries, more, more, more. I've got to have a little bit more. How much do you have? I don't know, but just a little bit more. How much do you need? Just a little bit more When we were during time we've been in Colombia, at one point we lived next door to a a fellow who had come from a um a rural community where he had inherited a a quite large farm and he was he had kept the farm, was renting it out and using proceeds and profits from it. And he began to acquire houses in Howard County. At last count we had with him, he owned 32 houses in Howard County He owned three cars, he was single, he owned three cars, he only drove one, was an old rattle trap, because he kept the other two for investments. Never drove them, just waiting for them to gain in their value. And yet Rarely have I ever talked to somebody who complained so much about not having enough. Always complaining about money and somebody's ripping them off This guy, even in the house he lived in next door to us, rented out two-thirds of it to get income and lived in a corner of his own house just to get more money. Never had enough. And Jesus is saying to you that he wants to free you from that kind of bondage. You see, if this whole thing in chapter 6 is really about faith. In fact, if chapter 5 was about righteousness, chapter 6 is about faith. That's the basic distinction in the two chapters. Chapter 6 is about faith. Jesus wants to show you how a conscious sense of living in the presence of your Heavenly Father, that is, how faith in the reality of that frees you from the bondage of one what people think of you and two the insatiable need to acquire more stuff Let me ask you, would you like to be free of those two things? Free of the bondage of what people are thinking of you, free from the insatiable need to acquire more stuff. Would you? I mean part of that's exciting, isn't it? It's to me as I've been looking and saying, oh yeah, Lord, we're we're getting into this. But part of it's scary. Because I'm not sure I want you to press me on how much I live by faith versus how much I live by what I see and can control. So this chapter has some exciting but scary material for you and me to move into Do you want that freedom? That's a question you've got to answer honestly It's a very searching question. It is not trivial. Jesus alone provides that kind of freedom. And so it's teaching us as chapter five in a different way how we need to come to him So today we begin with the first example. And the first example is of the difference that living in the presence of God makes. Verses 2 to 4 Example number one, giving to the needy. The way we give, particularly to the needy. Look what he says. So when you give to the needy, do not announce it with trumpets as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets to be honored by men. I tell you the truth, they've received their reward in full. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret. And then your father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you. Now you notice, first of all, that verse 2 says, so when you give to the needy. He doesn't say if you give to the needy. Basic part of being a disciple of the Lord Jesus is giving. He assumes that his disciples give. And he talks about here giving to the needy. We give partly to the budget of Columbia Presbyterian, the church, because we believe that laying our gifts before the elders to dispense elders and the deacons, uh, discharges the kingdom giving. I mean, for for the ministries of this church, for the facility, for the missions, for the deacons. Report just came in, heard about it after the first service, that our congregation here has given $57,000 to deaconal needs, the needy. in the first six months of this year. Now, uh, you could look at that and say, you know, we got a $100,000 deficit. Half of that would have been reduced if we just hadn't given to the needy. But you see, as a Christian, what do you do? You trust him. Yesterday we had a building executive committee meeting, and we, you know, this architect, he just impresses everybody. He gives three plans and everybody say, Well, I don't know which one to pick, they're all so great. And he said, Well no, I got a better one. So I get a fourth plan. And he you know you say, Oh man, that's all this and what you know, the lobby and how we could gather and you know, it'd be a library off of the place to gather and and nursery would be right at the entrance and bathrooms and a community room and more classrooms and all that. We say, but you know, with a hundred thousand dollar that's we can't we can't talk about that. We gotta Trust God, Lord. So Lord, show us about our giving. And it's not just for that. It's missions. It's team going to Japan. It's team going to Ukraine. It's the team that went to Tex-Mex. All these things. But what Jesus is talking about here is not how much you give. It is how you give. And he tells you how not to give, and then he tells you how to give. Notice how not to give, he says, as you pray about your giving, make sure that you don't give just to get attention and admiration. Verse 2. When you give to the needy, do not announce it with trumpets as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets to be honored by men. I tell you, they have received their reward in full. Now there's the obvious ways to do that, the trumpets. You know, you kind of have to smile, you know, because obviously you think Jesus isn't saying when you basket comes around, you you know, get somebody, get John back there to play the trumpet when you put your offering in. Drop my check in. Come on, John, let's hear it. The same kind of thing, right? You can do it in obvious ways or you can do it in subtle ways. I remember being in a church service of a gospel church. was having it happened to be at that time a um a building fund drive that was going on and during the service the pastor called a woman up from the congregation to come forward and she stood beside the pastor And he said, This dear lady's given ten thousand dollars to the building fund. And he said a few glorious things about her. And then everybody applauded. And they said they were going to engrave her name on a plaque and put it in the lobby. Everybody would see it. And my heart just sank. I thought, she's lost her reward. I mean, isn't that what Jesus says? They have their reward if if what you do it for is so people see and they all applaud. You've lost the real reward of the Father. You see, that's why there is a family in the church that has set up a fund to give a hundred dollars for every one of you kids that memorizes the children's catechism. And you don't know who it is Why? Because they're all kinds of humble? Well, maybe. But I'll tell you this, they're smart investors. Because they haven't lost their reward And that's a searching thing for you and me, because we want people to know that we're generous or that we're good. It can be a very subtle thing, you see. Let's say that one of your neighbors has a need. Maybe it's money or maybe it's meals. And so you initiate getting the neighbors together and you take a collection or you organize meals over the next week. And at the end of the week, one of your neighbors comes up to you and says, Well, I think it was really great that we all got together to do this. Now, it's evident that they don't know who initiated it So what are you going to say? You could say, yes, I hope it helps them. That's great. I'm glad we did. Or you could say Well, I thought that we should do something and it really wasn't hard to organize. It's a very humble statement. It's got the word I. See, you're you're you're making sure that in just a little subtle way, you know. I thought that we should do it. I initiated it to get credit for yourself. You see, there's so many times that I am not generous that when I am, I want you to know there's times I'm generous. I don't want to pass that up, you know? One of the things that amazes me is that my wife, who's not in this service, my wife is a sneaky giver. Sometimes I catch her and I admire her faith because there are times she had no intention of my knowing that. Now When I say that we have to be careful of this, I'm not saying that you should keep secret necessarily from your spouse your giving, because most giving should be done jointly as a couple, husband and wife. So it's not something that You say, Oh, somebody's told me this after the service, oh, so Harris is saying I can go right away on the checkbook and not tell my husband or wife and say, Well that's what the pastor said to do you know and then they find out that, you know, all your checks are bouncing and you say, Well, you know, I'm just kinda not telling my left hand and my right hand what's going on Uh no, I'm not advocating that. I'm saying there are times when we do it and it's simply between us and the Lord. It's not to glorify me by making sure That you know. And also some giving must be public. Somebody asked me that also after the first service. There are certain things that you do And um by the very nature of it, it's going to be known. A service, a generous thing that you do. So I'm not saying that any giving that is known is wrong. I'm simply saying if my purpose is That you will give me credit and I want in some subtle way to communicate that. Then I've lost my reward And that's why he says to do it. Because in doing it, you lose the reward. That's as far as it goes, and you've lost out. How does he say then to do it? Give secretly. Give secretly, sometimes, even not letting your spouse know, or maybe something that you did. Um, so you don't come home and say Well, sorry, Han, I was almost late for dinner, but it's because I stopped and helped a lady to change her tire. Well, you know, I wasn't late, didn't need to Let it be known. But I want to make sure that my wife, who thinks that I'm selfish and thoughtless most of the time, knows that there are some times that I'm not. You see, it's what I need. It's to glorify me And so um I think that's what Jesus is talking about. Not your left, don't even let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. See how it's a question of faith. Somebody asked me a number of questions about this and I had to keep going back. It's a matter of the heart. It's a matter of the heart. It's why am I doing it? What is my motive? Why do I give? Sometimes it's even a matter of not letting yourself know. You say, well, come on, that's impossible. How can you do that? Jesus says, don't even let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. What does he mean by that? I think he means don't build your record of self-righteousness on that by remembering that and saying, I got this to my account. You know, the Pharisee that prayed, I thank you God, I'm not like other people. I thank you that when the meeting's over, I help to put the chairs away, not like those people that just stand around and talk. I thank you, God, that I'm staying after this second service to decorate for vacation Bible school, not like those people going home to just satisfy their fat stomachs and eat. I'm gonna be here until it's all done, Lord. And I'm gonna serve in the nursery and I'm gonna do whatever it takes. You see, it's I am better because I do this. Building my record. Now, Jesus actually gives us an example. Of people who did what he's talking about. Remember in Matthew chapter 25, you can see that up there now, that uh Jesus was talking about the final judgment where he separates the sheep from the goats. And the goats he judges because of their lack of compassion. And then he comes to the sheep and he tells them that they are welcome into his kingdom because of what they had done for him. You remember their response, verse 37. Then the righteous will answer him, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty, and give you something to drink? When do we see a stranger and invite you in or needing clothes and clothing you? When did we see you sick or in prison and go to visit you? Do you remember his response? When you did it to the least of these, my brethren, you did it to me. You don't even remember it. But I remember it. I saw it. The things that you do for Jesus Christ, kind things, generous things, sacrificial things. And when you do it and you say, ah, you know, that's just Lord, I just did it because I love you. They needed it, whatever. That's not letting your left hand left hand know what your right hand's doing. You're not keeping a record to say See, I did that. And even if nobody else knows it, I know that I did that, and I'm better than the people who didn't. And so Jesus is talking here how to gain the reward. Um He says, verse 4, if you do it to him, then your Father, who sees what is done in secret, Will reward you. Nothing misses his eye. We as Christians often talk about that in terms of sin. And that's our focus. Yeah, he doesn't see your evil thoughts, your selfish deeds, your lusts, all the rest. But he also doesn't see, doesn't miss seeing the things that you may not particularly notice. But you did them out of gratitude to him in kindness to please him And he notices. Now what is this infinitely better reward? He will reward you, Jesus says. It's interesting that Jesus does not define the reward. He doesn't characterize it. He doesn't describe it. So what is that reward? Well, I could only kind of guess based on my understanding of Scripture and the character of God. Let me suggest to you three elements that I think are included in that infinitely better reward. The first I would suggest is an awareness, an increased awareness and intimacy. with him as father. You notice he says, your father will reward you. Do you remember the time that Abram In Genesis 15 had been given promise by God of a an heir. And he was sitting out under the stars and he's kind of struggling with trusting God and what that means and he doesn't have a son, he's getting older and older, and God appears to him and he says, Abram. I am your shield and your exceeding great reward. God comes in the quiet of that night and he reminds Abram, I am real, I am here, I am all you need. And I am your reward. There is something about giving when nobody else knows it. And you know, Lord, only you know. That I did this and why I did it, that draws you close to him and draws him to you in a precious fellowship In a realization that anything else, anybody else's recognition would be cheap compared to the fact that you know And your reality is more tangible to me in that fellowship. That's closely related to the second element of the reward, which I call a deeper awareness of grace. It was a sacrifice. It might have been a trivial sacrifice, it might have been a substantial sacrifice, but whatever you did And nobody else knew. You didn't do it so that people would applaud. You didn't do it so people would think you're great. And when you draw into that fellowship with Jesus Christ, you recognize in a deeper way that He sacrificed for you. In fact, at that time you realize, Lord, what I did for this person, group, whatever, this really was nothing. Really nothing. Compared to what you have done for me. When you left the thrones of glory with infinite presence throughout the universe and beyond in all the glory ruling the angels, and you came into a human finite body. Lived under the law, and then lived under the curse of that law, to be spat upon, to be judged, cursed by your father, to Suffer the indignities and the hideous torment of the cross in crucifixion for me You realize that even though Jesus sacrifice, you say, hmm, well, that certainly was public. He didn't do that private. Everybody knows Jesus died on the cross and rose again. But you know what? You and I have no idea how much it really cost him. Only the Father and the Spirit know the extent of that sacrifice. You and I will never know as creatures what it cost. And when you sacrifice some little thing and draw into the fellowship of Jesus Christ, then you appreciate just a little bit more that you don't know what that sacrifice was, but it becomes more precious to you. And that's a great reward. Then finally, thirdly, there is what I believe will be an immense surprise. There will be something that will last for all eternity. And God says that whoever has forsaken this or that for You know, brothers, sisters, family will receive a hundredfold in this life and in the world to come. And there will be, in chapter 25, verse 34, Jesus says, Come into eternal life with me. There will be something that you and I cannot begin to guess at in terms of the infinite superiority of the display of the riches of Christ that you and I will enter into in that time when that kingdom brings about the renewal of all the brokenness of this fallen world. And his kingdom comes in its glory and in its power and its blessing and in its riches that infinitely trans goes beyond anything that was known in Eden. And I thought of that woman Who was applauded for her $10,000 gift in the plaque. And I thought, that's like trading $10,000 for a subway token. What is it going to mean? I don't know. But I know that the God of eternity and of infinity will give you a reward and me a reward in those smallest sacrifices. That if we were to understand the dimensions of it now, we would say, Lord, Lord, give me more opportunities. Oh, Lord. How much more I want to do because of what it means, the inheritance, and the building of that inheritance. And the building of the entering into the delight and the glory of Jesus Christ to see He is my precious treasure, the pearl of great price, and to know that will be infinite. Really searches you, doesn't it? Searches me. Searches me as I think, what am I willing to do just for him? To see again your need for Christ, to forgive you and me, our addiction to approval and the admiration of people. Mere people. What we do for people. And Jesus says, come, do it for me. Free yourself from the tawdry desire. So that I might give you something infinitely richer. Be willing to step out on faith this week. Because I guarantee you will have an opportunity. Let's pray. So, our Father, help us, even as we go from here, to see the need. To see a need that the Lord would provide us an opportunity to give, to do something, simply because we love you. And we want to know that closer fellowship with you. We want to enter into the nature of that reward that comes from the Father of Heaven. Lord deliver us from our tawdry aspirations, our grasping and clamoring over things of such short duration, the admiration of mere people. That we might enter into the reward of our Father by faith to trust you. Grant to us that vision of Christ and that faith That will step out this week to experience what this means in Jesus' name. Amen.