Well, this morning I begin a major new series. The Gospel of Matthew. I've only really done a handful of major series in the 26 years since Columbia Presbyterian began. Some were topics such as a year, year and a half study on forgiveness, divine and human, or the study on the names of God Or um what may ultimately turn out to be the longest of all the series, the messianic prophecies. Some were Old Testament books such as Amos, Nehemiah, and the most controversial one, the Song of Solomon. Some were New Testament books, such as James and of course Ephesians. Um but I've never done a gospel. So I am looking forward immensely. Uh I actually began studying this in uh nineteen seventy eight, the year that uh we began Columbia Presbyterian. Put it aside. Wanted to come back to it. Put it aside. So finally, after twenty-six years, I get to begin this. And I'm looking forward to it particularly because it gives us an opportunity to look at Jesus up close and personal, to understand his heart to see some things about him, help us to get to know him better, love him more, trust him more. So uh I hope you're looking forward to that too. Uh ge uh Matthew is uh the most Jewish of the four gospels. Some people think that's why it appears first, that it's the bridge between the Old Testament and the New Testament. Matthew's purpose is by and large to demonstrate that Jesus is the long-awaited Messiah. the one that the Jews had looked for. Matthew, for instance, quotes sixty-one times from the Old Testament. In comparison with Mark just 31 times, Luke 26, and John just 16 times, Matthew 61. Matthew refers to Jesus as Messiah, calls him Messiah 17 times. Three of those in the passage that was read to you that we consider this morning. Mark just seven times, Luke twelve and John nineteen times. Matthew is the most revered, the most quoted of all the uh four gospels in the first three centuries. So it's not surprising that Matthew begins his gospel in a very Jewish way with a genealogy. Um now some of you may be thinking uh well first of all you're thinking How's he gonna preach on this? My wife in the first service when she heard Tim preaching on it looked over at me and said, Boy, you got your work cut out for ya She said, Don't be surprised if you hear some snoring. Uh what a challenge. This is my wife, you know. And I know there's some of you that are thinking, um, well, okay, it took them 125 messages to get through six chapters in Ephesians How long is it going to take him to get through twenty-eight chapters of the Gospel of Matthew? And then you think, okay, well the good news is he's covering seventeen verses in just one message. Okay, that's a good start. And then others of you are thinking, yeah, he's taking one whole message just to preach on the genealogies. So what's he going to do when he gets down to the dense stuff, you know? So anyway, um I I I would suggest there's a n a number of worthy lessons in the genealogies. For instance, um They do help us to see things in a broader perspective. It shows you, you know, Jesus rooted in Abraham and God is the God of the ages and the generations, so that when you and I get kind of focused in on my life today, this problem is never gonna go away. You know you get a little broader perspective to see that God is at work with a much bigger picture. Um it also roots Jesus in history Which is very important. I remember a number of years ago reading about a missionary who had um spent ten years of her life translating um the New Testament into a tribal language that had never been reduced to writing. In her haste to get Matthew into print so that she could show it to the tribe, she uh left out the first 17 verses of Matthew and got this thing, kind of an abridged version. into print and put it in uh their hands and uh was somewhat disappointed when there wasn't much of a response. And then uh after some more time she finally finished all of Matthew and included the first seventeen verses and put that version in their hands. And that very evening the chief uh burst into her room in a fit of astonishment and excitement. And he said Do you mean to tell me this Jesus is real? And she said, Well, yeah, I've been trying to tell you it but it had never dawned on him until he saw the genealogy that Jesus was rooted in history. He was a real person. He had assumed until that time. This was a religious story that you brought to us. And uh as a result, uh in the next couple of days, he and a number of the leaders in the tribe became Christians So uh it's very important that we root Jesus in history. It's not just a story, it's not something that we just talk about at Christmas because we like to think about religious things and after all it's got some nice sentimental and uh ideas that are uplifting but The fact is that it's true, it's rooted in history, and Matthew begins by making that very point. However, um one of the ironies of the genealogies is that if you read it And then you read Luke's genealogy, it may occur to you that in fact the genealogy seemed to undermine the historicity of the Gospels. Why is that? Well, because if you read the two genealogies, you see a number of very obvious contradictions. And you say, hmm. Now Matthew says this and Luke says this, they can't both be right So what do you do with that? Do we as Christians just kind of file that away and say, mm, who knows, you know, I can never tell and And so that, you know, has this subtle way of undermining our faith. You really can't know whether this stuff is true. Maybe it was just things that somehow came from people's minds and can't really reconcile it. Um, like a lot of biblical problems that seem to be a contradiction, if you look deeper into the matter You find that there is in fact a solution that is so ingenious, so remarkable to reveal God's nature that It in fact has the effect of greatly building your faith rather than undermining it. And I pray that God will be doing that to you this morning as we look at the problems and the solutions. What I want to do is, in fact, in my one message on the genealogies, reduce all that I can say about genealogies to just one message And uh deal with just the problems and the purpose. What are the problems and the genealogies? What was the purpose, Matthew's purpose for the genealogies? So uh first of all, look at the problems. And there's two kinds of problems. The first seems that uh Matthew maybe can't count, which is Again, a little ironic since he worked for the IRS, but maybe some of you'd say that's not ironic at all. I perfectly understand that. Makes sense to me. But uh it seems like he can't count, um, because you notice he says that um The generations were fourteen from Abram, Abraham down to David, and then fourteen from David to the exile, fourteen from the exile down to Joseph. Um but of course uh all you have to do is look back in the Old Testament and you see that there's more than fourteen generations from Abraham to David, David to exile, exile to Jacob, Uh so you know, g Matthew, why is he saying fourteen? Um what's the solution to that? Well the solution really is just a matter of understanding the culture. Um people would uh often round off something like this in order to make a point. If any Jew was reading this at that time, they would not have any problem with that and say, Matthew's missed, you know, number of the generations here in these different categories, I would simply say, Now why is he saying fourteen? He's making a point about fourteen. And so I have to understand what is his purpose in that. Um it wa it wasn't for mathematical precision. But then you got another problem, and is that, you know, it's not even fourteen, fourteen, fourteen, 'cause if you count 'em up it's fourteen, fourteen, thirteen, and he says fourteen, fo 14. So come on, Matthew. Give us a break here. I mean you're just getting started. We're not off to a real great start here. Why is a fourteen, fourteen, fourteen when I all I do is count them up and I get thirteen? Somebody leave one out or And then you look and you say, well, you know, you can get fourteen out of it if you if you recognize that uh Jechaniah in verse eleven uh fits in that section and then you count him again in the last section because verse 12 says after the after the exile uh to babylon, Jechaniah mentioned again, was the father of Shaltial and on the rest of that. So that's calling attention to Jeconiah. Something about Jekoniah here seems like Matthew's trying to focus us in. What is that? And that has to do with his purpose. And uh it's it's in fact uh very, very significant that he mentions Jechaniah twice and puts him in two groups. So we'll look at that in just a minute when we get to the purpose. Let me look at the other problem. Because this one's even more intriguing and seems more insurmountable, and that's the conflict between Matthew's genealogy and Luke's genealogy. If you read Luke chapter 3, you see a genealogy And uh you look at the two, and the first thing that that uh catches your attention is that Matthew moves forward, that's the next blank in your outline, Matthew moves forward from Abraham down to Jacob, or down to Joseph. Joseph, Jacob's father, down to Joseph. Luke moves backward from Joseph, back all the way to Adam. Well, no problem with that. In fact, there's no problem in the genealogies. In either case, until you get down to David. Once you get down to David, King David, then you got some problems because Matthew's account traces David then through Solomon and those that came after him. Solomon, Luke traces David to Nathan and those that followed after Nathan. Now they can't both be true, you know. I mean Joseph could not have his ancestry both through Solomon and through Nathan. So which is it? And why would the two put two different ones there? Um Solomon was, of course, the king that followed David, but Solomon, it turns out, was not the firstborn. David's firstborn son, the legal heir to the throne, was Nathan. And so what you see here, and I because I don't have time to develop this, you know, and I can't give you the suspenseful unfolding of the solution, let me just cut to the chase and give it to you. What Matthew is doing is tracing through uh Solomon the uh s the royal Legal line of the kings. This is what in fact actually happened. What Luke does, is that you know if you if you read carefully you'll notice that Matthew uses the word and we always translate begat, you know, he begat, begat, begat, and he's the father of And that's a that's kind of a you know that's a special term. I mean he was the father of this one. Luke does not say that. Luke says was of or you know of or uh from it's a looser term So what Luke is doing is he is saying you know that uh Joseph was from, and it and you notice he says uh in Luke 3, that's right there, uh he was the son, so it was thought of Joseph. And then goes on back. So what Luke is doing is he's actually tracing Mary's ancestry, because Luke wasn't the descendant, wasn't the father And Mary's ancestry was actually the biological, spiritual right, those who had the right to the throne. So that um the clue to that, I mean why do you why do I say that? You say, well you can just say it, but that's uh sounds like a guess to me. Oh yeah. Matthew was doing the legal and Mary is doing the actual biological spiritual. Uh why do I say that? Well it's because of Jechaniah. You know, Matthew's making a point about Jechaniah. Well, what about Jeconiah? Well, it turns out that when you look go back to see Jeconiah you find out some things are very interesting. Jeconiah, who was called in the Old Testament Jehoiakim, and that's distinguished from Jehoiakim, who was his father One of the problems is you go back to these kings why people really have struggled. I'm very sympathetic with studying a lot of the Old Testament kings. They all have like, you know, two or three names You know, now is this one the same as this one? And you know what are you on? All right. So Jeconiah is Jehoiakim. Now Jehoiakim uh was after Josiah and some of the good kings in Judah. Israel's long gone. During the time of Jeremiah the prophet, Jehoiakin only reigned for about three months. His father and he were pretty despicable characters. They were arrogant, and Jeremiah in fact said, You guys are worse than Israel that God wiped from the face of the earth, scattered among the nations, because you saw What God did when they went to their idols and they forsook him, and you still do it. So you guys are even more inexcusable Jeconiah only lived for three months. Now, Jeremiah records what God says about him in Jeremiah chapter 22. And it's very significant what he says in how it applies to this prophecy. In Jeremiah chapter 22, pick it up at verse 24. As surely as I live, declares the Lord, even if you, Jehoiakim, Jeconiah, Matthew 1, even if you, son of Jehoiakim Saint King of Is of Judah, were a signet ring on my right hand, I would still pull you off. I will hand you over to those who seek your life, those that you fear, to Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and to the Babylonians. Jehoiakin or Jechaniah was the last king in the Davidic line before the exile. Now actually That's not actually true because after he died, killed b after just three months, his uncle was put in the kingship and he was his name was changed to Zedekiah and he reigned as a puppet king until Nebuchadnezzar finally got sick of him and wiped out Jerusalem, took Zedekiah off Slew his uh his sons right before his eyes, and then put out his eyes so that the last thing he would ever remember seeing was the slaughter of his own sons. Now Jehoiakim or Jeconiah from Matthew 1 was the king, the last in the in the line of David before that And he also had sons. But what does God say? I will hurl you and the mother who gave you birth into another country Where neither of you was born, and there both of you will die. You can take off to Babylon in exile. You will never come back to the land that you long to return to Is this man Jehoiakim or Jekaniah a despised, broken pot, an object no one wants? Why will he and his children be hurled out, cast into a land that they do not know? Oh land, land, land. Hear the word of the Lord. This is what the Lord says. Record this man, Jechaniah. Record him as if childless. Now he actually had seven sons, but record him as if childless, a man who will not prosper in his lifetime. For none of his offspring will prosper. None will sit on the throne of David or rule anymore in Judah. This line is cut off and cursed. Well, the rabbis have a problem. How is Messiah going to come from a line that's cut off and cursed? God says that's the end. Write him off. He's done. That is it. Gone. And you think about it, you realize, oh, but wait a minute, David had another son, Nathan. He didn't get on the throne. What about his line? And you trace down that line, and you find something that is so remarkable, it's actually staggering. Give me a I feel shivers running up my spine when I tell you this. God took Joseph, who was of the line of Jechaniah, who had the legal right to the throne. He took Mary, whose ancestry was traced from Nathan Who had the spiritual right to the throne, brought the two of them together in marriage so that Jesus who was actually the son of Mary, not Joseph, was spiritually qualified as Messiah. But because the Jews traced lineage through the males, he also had to have the legal claim to the throne, and that he had through Joseph. I mean, isn't that amazing what God did? And you see that by comparing the two genealogies. I mean, that's how precise Scripture is in putting together even something like The genealogies. But now what's the purpose of it? Why does Matthew give us this? Well, I would suggest that it is to do two things. First of all, Matthew fulfills two expectations, and he then contradicts two expectations. First of all, he fulfills the expectation of Messiah being son of David and demonstrating that in his ancestry. So that's what he does in this genealogy, as we just went through. He's established that. But then the second thing that he does, so Here's where we go back to the 314s, is he shows that this Jesus is going to inaugurate a new age. If you take 314s, that's the same as 6 7s, right? Okay? 14 times 2. 3 14s, the same as 6 7s. 6 times 7 is 42. If you take six sevens, the seventh seven, in the way Old Testament reckoned time, the seventh seven was the prelude to what? The year of Jubilee. the year of the Lord's favor, Isaiah 61. So what must what Matthew is saying is, now there's there's all these ages of captivity The Messiah is going to come. Jesus is going to come as the seventh seven in God's salvation. And he is the one who is going to then set the captives free. Proclaim the year of the Lord's favor that is coming, that 50th, you know, the seven sevens plus one. Jesus is the one that's going to bring us freedom. That's what he you see, he's kinda he's kind of hinting at the gospel This is what Jesus is going to do. And any Jew that would have read that would have would have understood. Okay, well that's what he's saying. He's saying that this is the year of Jubilee that he's leading up to. That was not a mystery. Nobody would have missed that. But then he contradicts two expectations in a way that they would have totally missed. Notice That uh Matthew's genealogy shows, this is C, that it is that this Messiah is for the whole world. The next two blanks. This is for the whole world Not just for the Jews. They thought Messiah was just for the Jews. How do you see that? Notice that five women are mentioned in the genealogy. That's very unusual for a Jewish genealogy. Back in verse 3, Judah the father of Perez and Zerah whose mother was Tamar. Verse 5, Sammon the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab, Boaz the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth. Verse 6, David was the father of Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah's wife, that's Bathsheba. And then of course down to Mary. who was the husband, the wife of uh Jacob, of Joseph. So if you look at the first four of these women, they're all Gentiles. So it's not only enough that Matthew includes four women before Mary in the genealogy But he really puts it in their face by these women being all from Gentile nations. Tamar was a Canaanitis and, you know, all down through the four of them. So that's saying that this Messiah is coming not just for the Jews, he's for the whole world. Then we say, well, yeah, we know that. But you know that's something very important for you and for me too. It's saying that Messiah has come not just for those of us who are in the religious covenant community. He's come for those outside of that community. And it's very easy, and I'm very concerned after this last election about the increasing division and separation. of Christians from secularists in this country. I mean, it is almost like we are assuming there is an insurmountable divide I mean we can't talk to each other over this. There is something here now that the um the way that each side perceives the other puts them in the outside of people that we're not comfortable interacting with. You know, it's because it's going to get tense pretty quick. I've been in those discussions. It gets tense quickly. But Matthew is saying we cannot succumb to just talking to ourselves. In the very line of Messiah are the nations. This past Sunday, Washington Post, Opus I always maintain some of the best insights to culture from the cartoons, right? Opus this last Sunday He's walking along the stream and uh he says, uh, Steve Dallas, back after ten years. Say, don't I recall you coming out of the clo and you know, and this guy grabs him and chokes him and says, Shh. There was an election pudge bucket and values won. And so he's Opus is kind of looking at him. He says, I'm enrolled in the Reverend Dougal DePompta program. Oh, I've heard of reversal therapy. Does it work? Yep. He's sitting on a bench and he says, yeah, unnatural thoughts, hey, they just meld them gone. And then you see zap and this guy's connected to a wire. And you know, and he's you know, he sort of jumps. Uh and then this little guy from the side who's holding the trigger on the zapper says, Oh, sorry, I thought you said Elton John. Is it Meldham gone? I thought you said Elton John. So he gives him a zap. See tells, see? Negative stimulus with moral shocks. Another couple zaps. He jumps again. You know, yow! Oh, I thought you said floral smocks And there's a picture of this guy that's doing the zapping. And he's a real obnoxious looking character. This guy doesn't have any chin. He looks like, you know, he's got this bow tie around his neck. And he's got a t-shirt on that says, stop that. That's you and me, you know? I mean don't miss it. You know, that's what uh Breathit is saying. These are the morals' values, people. And so Opus finishes up last panel saying Oh man, this is a drag. And he's oh no, don't say that. And he gets another five zaps, you know. You see, I mean I mean that's the picture. There's these people going around. All they want to do is say stop that. Don't do that. Don't say that. Don't think that. And so we separate. And Matthew's saying, no, no, no. Messiah came for the world. Messiah came so that you and I would work to overcome those hurdles and say, hey, you know what? That's I'm I'm not I don't have any right there's no inherent right in me to have salvation And so you and I pray and humble ourselves to to have those conversations with the people are outside But Matthew says something here even more striking. He says that Messiah has come for broken sinners, not just those outside. The pale of the covenant community. He's come D there for broken sinners, not just good people. See, Jews expected Messiah to come for those who were worthy and were trying to serve him. That was the whole thought. Messiah comes for those of us looking for him and those that are trying to love God and serve him and so he comes to help us. Matthew puts it in their face and he sticks in four women there, and two of them are immoral and unclean, and the other two are abused and shame-filled. The first two, immoral and unclean, Tamar verse three, Judah, the father of Teres and Zerah, whose mother was Tamar. Remember Tamar? She was a Canaanite You did remember the son of Israel had three sons. And he went and found a Canaanite woman as the wife of the first son. That son was wicked. God took his life. And the law of the land at that time, the Jewish law was that if a woman was widowed, it was the obligation if the son had a brother, for that brother to become the husband of that widow to give her children. He was obligated to do that So Judah gave his second son, Onan, to Tamar, and Onan refused to give her children. And so God slew Onan And Judah thought, you know, it's not a real good idea to give your sons to this woman. Um I got one son left. And so she says, You know, you owe me that son And Judas says, he's a little young. How about we wait till he grows up a little bit? I mean, I can give him a few more years to live before he marries you. So he holds off and and Tamar becomes incensed because he refuses to give her her right. And what does she do? You remember the story how she dresses up as a prostitute, and as he comes along the road one day She comes and she seduces him and he says, Okay, you know, how about you and me? And she says, What are you going to give me? And she says he says, I'll give you some sheep and he she says, Well, what are you going to give me as a guarantee that I'll get the sheep? And so he says, Well, here, take my signet ring and my staff. And she says, Good enough. And she becomes pregnant. And when Judah hears that his daughter in law has become pregnant, he's very self-righteously outraged and he says, Burn her to death. She's brought shame and disgrace in the community. And she says, Okay, take me out and burn me. But would you tell Judah that I'm pregnant by the fellow who has this ring and this staff. And Judah is struck to the heart. He says, She's more righteous than I am. She's immoral. But she becomes the father in the line the mother within the line of the Messiah, God's grace and mercy. Rahab, on the other hand, is a professional prostitute. Rahab a prostitute in Jericho. believed that God was coming and he was the true God who was going to take the land of Canaan, and so she helps the spies And Rahab is brought into the messianic line. Not just simply that she's saved and, well, okay, Rahab, you believed, and so she's going to get in by the skin of your teeth. God brings her right into the line of Messiah. And then beyond that, you've got the other two women here. You've got Ruth and you've got Bathsheba, two women who are hopeless and abused. Ruth, remember, Ruth was a Moabitus, the very nation of Moab was a stench, was a an opprobrium to God's people. Moab, you remember, only was in existence because Lot, after uh escaping from Sodom and Gomorrah, one of his sisters got him drunk and and had incest with him, and out of that issuing came the nation of Moab and Naomi takes off with her son and her son marries a Moabitus in Moab and that son dies And Naomi wants to go back home. Ruth says, let me go with you. And Naomi says, don't call me Naomi. Call me Mara. Bitter. Don't come with me. Just stay here. But Ruth won't be put off. Luth goes back and even though she comes back into the land, she is back without any rights. She She's disenfranchised. She has to glean in the field to get food. That means that whatever was left over, you weren't supposed to, you know, take everything out of the field. You left some some for the poor to scrape and get by and so. She gleans in the field. And Boaz comes and sets his heart's affection on her. He loves her And even though her kinsman Redeemer won't take her because of the death of her husband, Boaz says, I'll step forward. I will take you. I will shelter you. I will protect you. And Ruth is not just brought into the covenant community. Ruth is the grandmother of King David. God brings from shame to honor. He takes an abused woman, he brings her and places her in a high place of glory. And then there's Bathsheba. Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah. One day she's taking a bath, and David should be out with his men. at war, but he doesn't. He stays home and there's nothing said in scripture that was anything wrong about her taking a bath where and when she did. But bab David shouldn't have been standing there watching David, in a despicable abuse of power, has her called and brought to him as a plaything. And so when he has his way with her showing the abuse of his manhood rather than to protect, to use, and to show the abuse of his kingship rather than to shepherd, but to disgrace Bathsheba becomes the mother of Solomon, Israel's greatest king. And so Matthew is saying, God is the God Of the immoral and the unclean who see that and recognize that and repent of it. He's the God of abused and shame-filled women Who comes to show mercy and to lift them up out of that abuse. This Messiah, whose mother was thought to be immoral thought that she had been unfaithful to Joseph, by which she even had him. This this mother who was so pierced by seeing the death of her own son, vividly portrayed in that movie, The Passion of the Christ. having her heart pierced by watching him suffer and die. This Messiah is for immoral, unclean, abused, shamefilled people Like you and like me. This is what Matthew just does as kind of a prelude to say, look at this Jesus that's coming. Look and see how God sovereignly brought together the legal and spiritual lines. Look at how God brought together these Gentile women, immoral, abused. And brought these into the line of Messiah and realized he is here for your shame, your uncleanness. The things that you look at that you did this last week, the things that you look at in your life and you say, I will never forget that. I am so filled with shame. And Jesus Christ paid with his own perfect life to die on the cross so that you would be forgiven and cleansed. And made new through this Messiah who comes for people like you and like me. Let's pray. And to our God, how we thank you for these words, the words of a tax collector The words of a man who was also seen as the off-scouring of society, whose life was changed by Jesus. And begins his record, and he can't help but to begin to put the gospel in there and to say this is this is the Messiah, Jesus, who is full of grace and mercy. Do you see him? Look at him. Lord, open our eyes that we might see him. Open our eyes that we might see out of uncleanness, out of our own immorality. Out of our own shame, out of our own abuse, that we might look to Jesus. Look to him now. Look to him and see how perfectly sufficient he is to take away all that sin. To take away all that shame, to heal us of the abuse, because he is sufficient. Lord Jesus, you are sufficient. And one day you will usher in that fiftieth week, the year of the Lord's favor, the day when all the captives are finally set free, and we will be with you in that land of glory and hope and sinless perfection. Thank you. Thank you for the gospel. Thank you for the good news. And Lord, may we not keep that to ourselves this holiday season. May we realize it's for those who are outside of the circle. It's for those that you give us relationships with that we might out of glad hearts willingly cross the barriers of the misunderstanding and the stereotypes. And all the things that are being built up in our own culture to isolate Christians and to associate us with those who are legalistics, self-righteous people. That we might, Lord, show that we represent a Messiah who is anything but that. That we might be ministers of the gospel Lord, we pray that you would do that in us and through us, that we would love you and that we would trust you more as a result of this. In Jesus' name. Amen.