A little over fifty years ago, 1955, Billy Graham wrote a book on the Beatitudes, which he called The Secret of Happiness. He started off by some quotes about happiness. The Texas millionaire confided, I thought money could buy happiness. I have been miserably disillusioned. The famous film star broke down, I have money, beauty, glamour, popularity. I should be the happiest woman in the world. But I am miserable. Why? One of Britain's top social leaders said, I have lost all desire to live. Yet I have everything to live for. What's the matter? A man went to see a psychiatrist. He said, Doctor, I am lonely, despondent, miserable. Can you help me? The psychiatrist suggested that he go to the circus and see a famous clown who was said to make even the most despondent laugh and with merriment. His patient said, I am that clown. The college senior said, I'm twenty-three. I've lived through enough experience to be old, and I'm already fed up with life. The famous Grecian dancer of yesteryear once said, I have never been alone, but what my hands have trembled, my eyes filled with tears. And my heart ached for a peace and happiness that I had never known. I said at the beginning of this summary of Jesus' definitive sermon preached on the hill side by the Lake of Galilee, that the first word sets the tone. The word is happy. It's repeated eight times because Jesus wants you to be happy. That's good news. Jesus longs for your happiness. He wants to fill you with happiness. I also said at the beginning of the series that I believe that these beatitudes could change our lives. Even if you had been a Christian for a number of years and had heard hundreds or thousands of sermons, That the Spirit of God could break through in a new way to you and to me, to show us Christ in new ways through examining honestly our hearts in the light of this description of a heart of happiness, of a disciple of Jesus. And I've been very encouraged. A number of you have written or told me that God has been breaking through to your heart. A number of you have talked about how God has been working through the series. To show you more of Christ, to show you more of your heart, your need of Him, and to give you more joy through it. He's been speaking to my heart through it, and so I'm glad He's been speaking to your heart. But you know, I'm not so naive as to think because some of you have said that God has been working in your heart through it, that that that's true for all of you. Let me ask you, what has this series been meaning for you? Has it been speaking to your heart? You know, you can't go through the series unchanged. Either you will be softened You'll be honest about your heart. You'll see Christ in new and richer and fuller ways. Or you'll be hardened You will find yourself more cynical, more unbelieving, more resistant to the promises of the gospel. And this morning in particular, his promise is fullness. He promises that you will be filled. So let me ask you, is your heart full this morning? Or do you feel empty? Do you say, I know a lot about Christianity, I know all about the Christian life, I have lived as a Christian for some years. But I still feel empty. My heart is half full at best. There's still a longing, an ache, a void. I'm ashamed that I can identify too much, not totally, but too much, with the quotes at the beginning. Or maybe you're here as one who has known about Christianity and you've never given your life to Jesus Christ, and you're saying, I understand that emptiness. My heart is empty. Jesus promises to you this morning fullness. How is it that you can obtain that? He says, happy are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. They're the ones that are going to be filled. Those are the ones who will know fullness. Now let's look at that again See it uh up there, that's the promise. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled. You If you hunger and thirst for righteousness, Jesus' promise to you is that you will be filled. You see that in the context. Blessed are those who are poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek. For they are the ones that are going to inherit the earth, and then blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. For they are the ones who will be filled. Now what does this mean, this hungering and thirsting for righteousness? Why does he use that image, hunger and thirst? It's a very visceral image. Picture yourself again on that hillside looking down at Jesus and what's behind him. the Lake of Galilee. All that cool water out there, it's maybe it's a hot day, you're thirsty, maybe you're hungry. And hunger and thirst are images we all can identify with. In fact I would say that they are a vivid picture of a deep longing that won't be denied. Hunger and thirst is the picture of a deep longing in your soul that will not be denied. It must have its needs met. You don't say I am really hungry. I haven't eaten since yesterday, and I haven't had a drink since yesterday. But that's okay. I'll take care of that lady. You want to go to a movie? Just don't do it. You say, I'm thirsty. I must get a drink. And that becomes a consuming passion. I need to have something to eat. I must have something to drink. Now take a look at this picture. You've probably all eaten, you know, sometime this morning, maybe second server's been a little while. And there, you know, you see these steaks on the grill and some chicken and hamburgers and some vegetables and onions, you know, and you can smell the onions. grilling on the grill, you know. Now, does that make you hungry? Do you salivate as you see that? Well you might say, you know, it's it's kind of an interesting picture. And I can imagine it tastes good, but I'm not really that hungry right now. Let me tell you, I showed you that same picture, 6 o'clock tonight, and you hadn't eaten between now and then. That'd have a different effect on you, wouldn't it? He'd say, hey, don't tease me. Either give me the hamburger, but don't show me a picture of it, because I'm hungry. Hunger and thirst are visceral responses, a desire that will not be denied. It's something that we long for, that we must have. And of course, in Jesus' day, this was much more poignant They didn't just go to the supermarket and pick up the specials at the giant, anything they want, from any kind of soda and the rest of this. Hot parched area. Water was very precious. Often were thirsty. A time where there were famines, there were shortages of food, often went hungry. And so when Jesus uses these images, he's talking to people who probably have known real hunger and real thirst. James Boyce in his commentary on the Sermon on the Mount talks about a book that was written by a Major V. Gilbert after World War I called The Last Crusade. It was about the war between Britain and the Turks in that area. And he writes of a time when they were driving up from Beersheba A combined force of British, Australian, and New Zealanders pressing on the rear of the Turkish retreat over the arid desert. The attack outdistanced its water-carrying camel train. Water bottles were empty. The sun blazed piteously out of a sky where the vultures wheeled expectantly. Our heads ate, and our eyes became bloodshot and dim in the blinding glare. Our tongues began to swell, our lips turned a purplish-black and burst. Those who dropped out of the column were never seen again. But the desperate force battled on to Sharia. There were wells at Sharia And had they been unable to take that place by nightfall, thousands were doomed to die of thirst. We fought that day as men fight for their lives. And we entered Sharia station on the heels of the retreating Turks. The first objects which met our view were the great stone cisterns full of cold, clear, drinking water. In the still night air, the sound of water running into the tanks could be distinctly heard, maddening in its nearness. Yet not a man murmured when orders were given for the battalions to fall in too deep, facing the cisterns. First the wounded, those on guard duty, then company by company It took four hours before the last man had his drink of water, and in all that time they had been standing twenty feet from a low stone wall on the other side of which were thousands of gallons of water. I believe, Major Gilbert concludes, that we all learned our first real Bible lesson on that march from Beersheba to Sharia. If such were our thirst for God, for righteousness, for his will in our life, a consuming, all-embracing, preoccupying desire. How rich in the fruits of the Spirit would we be? Hunger and thirst. for righteousness. You notice what it is that Jesus says that we hunger and thirst for? Righteousness. Now what does that mean? What does it mean to hunger and thirst for righteousness? The root idea of that word righteousness means conformity to a norm. The way things ought to be, there is some standard. And if it meets the standard, then that word is used. It's righteous. It's a longing, therefore. For Christ's kingdom. His kingdom sets things to be the way they ought to be. So in chapter 6, in verse 33, he's going to teach us. Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. And all these things will be given to you as well. His kingdom is connected, you see, with his righteousness. It's the standard. It's the way things ought to be. But of course, righteousness, the hunger and thirst for righteousness, is ultimately a hunger and thirst for God Himself. Because his character defines righteousness. He is the norm. He is righteousness itself. So Jesus is saying here, those who hunger and thirst after God, after me, the righteous one. And I can believe you can break that hunger and thirst down into four elements that you see there in your outline. First of all, I think it's a hunger and thirst to be righteous. Blessed, happy are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. You and I are all aware that we don't meet the standard. Whatever we know about the way God says we ought to live, we know we don't meet our own standard. We condemn others for things that we ourselves don't keep and do. And so we know that we lack the meeting of that standard. And we long to be righteous. We don't want to just look righteous. We wish that God Himself would declare you're righteous, acceptable, you meet the standard. And we struggle with that. We look for ways to cope with guilt and the sense of lacking in that. But we don't just long to be righteous. There's a longing to do righteousness. That's the second thing, to act righteously. It was an old nursery rhyme that included the line, when she is good, she's very, very good, and when she is bad, she is horrid. I heard a modern version of that. When she is good, she's very, very good. And when she's bad, she's better. And what's that say? No, it's it's that ambivalence we all have. It's righteousness, isn't it? When she's good, she's very, very good. It's nice. It's good to be a good person. Nice person, a a person that meets the standard. But when she's bad, she's better. Sin's really more fun Righteousness is okay in its place until it intrudes on my fun, on my desires, the things that I want to do. But there's that ambivalence that we feel. We want to look righteous. We want to have a reputation as a good person. But we're ambivalent about actually doing righteousness. Yeah, we want to, but we'd rather look good than be good. That's the essence of Phariseais. that he goes into in chapter 6, the desire simply to look good among other people. Let me ask you a question. If you could sin and nobody would know it, Would you do it? Is there something that is a particular desire that you have that you play around with And you know that a lot of what keeps you from indulging in that is getting caught, being exposed, the consequences But you could know that there would be no consequences, there would be no exposure. You could do it and nobody would ever know. Would you say, then it's a no-brainer? Jesus is talking about hungering and thirsting for righteousness when nobody knows The hunger and thirst for righteousness, the desire to do what is right, to please God in that, simply because it is right. Not because of what you get from it or the positive or negative consequences to you. But I believe there's a third element here too. It's not just wanting to be declared right, to be right in God's sight or before people or to do what is right with the ambivalence that we have in that. There's also the hunger and thirst to have things set right, to have the world set right. We long to see an end to all the evil, the things that violate what his kingdom is to be. And that's why he says, when he teaches us to pray, that we pray, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. When that happens, when his kingdom comes, and all of this is about his kingdom, when his kingdom comes, then his will will be done perfectly. There will be no resistance, there won't even be a rebellious thought. And there's a longing, Jesus says, in the person who is happy and filled to see that day, to see things set right. There is a desire for that that is like hunger and thirst. Not only is then there that desire for that to eventually occur, but it affects what you see now. And so the fourth element is to work for righteousness here. To say that I long for seeing things changed here. This world is so distorted and Everything is corrupt and I see the things that ought not to be the way they are. Now, let me tell you about a movie that I'm not going to recommend. uh deficient in a lot of ways. I don't recommend particularly that you see it, but it's a a movie is out recently called The Constant Gardener. I can ask who saw it. But I mention it because it's the story of a woman who is not a Christian, Tessa Quayle, who has a passion for righteousness. It's a limited passion and a limited righteousness. But she goes to Kenya and her heart burns to see pharmaceutical companies Using the Kenyans for cheap guinea pigs to test their medications so they can rush them to market, beat their competitors, and make a huge profit. And so people are dying from this. And this infuriates her. In fact, she's willing to sacrifice her life to save just a few people. That's a hunger and a thirst for righteousness. And frankly, few of us have. Would I do that? Would I say, but I can save a few people, whatever it costs. I cannot see them die and not do something about it. Jesus is talking here about a desire that will not be denied. A hunger and a thirst for righteousness. Now I said before that key to understanding these Beatitudes is to see their relationship So how is this related to the three that go before? Jesus says, blessed are those who are poor in spirit, those who recognize that your life doesn't meet the standard. That you are bankrupt spiritually, that you don't simply acknowledge that, but that you mourn that, that that grieves you. There is a visceral response to that lack of conformity, that lack of righteousness. And so that gentles you. When you understand that, it it Cuts through your arrogance and my arrogance, and we become gentle as people, particularly when we see the grace of God come in to work in us the forgiveness that we so need and long for. Now what Jesus is doing here is he's broadening that and he's saying not only does it gentle you But your whole life, now rather than being simply this ambivalent, on the one hand, righteousness is nice, but when it's not convenient, but he says. Your life has changed. My people hunger and thirst for righteousness. And so you see the promise that Jesus gives, and how is that fulfilled? What's the meaning of this promise? Those who hunger and thirst for righteousness are going to be happy because they're going to be filled. Your hunger and thirst for other things, you're not going to be filled. Your hunger and thirst for righteousness, I guarantee you, Jesus says, you will be satisfied. Again, related to the four elements, remember that the Beatitudes are descriptions of Jesus ultimately. He is the embodiment of the Beatitudes. He is the one who hungered and thirsted for righteousness as no other person. In fact, one of the things that makes Matthew's picture of Jesus so fascinating is that it's the picture of a perfect person. Give ever stop to think what it would be like to sit down and write a picture of a perfect life Very, very hard, particularly writing about a perfect life in the midst of a very imperfect world and how this perfect person interacts. without being you know, kind of holier than thou or living out of touch and all these things I heard recently that Anne Rand despised writers who wrote about weak and deficient characters, particularly if they were presented as heroes. But you have a contrast. Look at Anne Rand's heroes, in contrast to Jesus Christ. You have here a picture of a perfect life. And Jesus' life, fascinating as it is, because of its perfection, is not just a righteousness for himself. The gospel is that Jesus' hunger and thirst for righteousness is for you to have righteousness. Jesus hungered and thirsted so that you would have his righteousness. He says to the woman in Samaria at the well, Who's full of shame and regrets about her life and her relationships with men? If you knew who it was that was talking to you, you would ask him and he would give to you living water. so that you'd never thirst again. A couple chapters later, he says to his disciples, I'm the bread of life. You're hungering for this physical bread, but I'll tell you there is a deeper hunger, and it's for the bread of life. I'm that bread of life. Come. Come to me. Feed on me. And so Jesus gives to you the gift of his righteousness. He satisfies your longing to be righteous by making you righteous. As you see in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, in verse 21, God made him who had no sin. To be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. That you could become the righteousness of God. What does that mean? It means that when Jesus went to the cross He carried out what is called double imputation. Now what is that? Hallelujah, brother. Waiting for that. Double imputation is something that prompts hallelujah. Because the word impute, I remind you again, means to treat somebody as if something is true of them. And so in double imputation, God treated Jesus as if he had sinned all your sins. And he paid for every sin with his blood and his suffering. Now that's a tremendous relief But it's like you have been in the triathlon here this morning, and when you gurgled your way across the lake and you jumped on your bike, you stumbled and you fell. And you said, hey, give me another chance. You know, it's like the preakness yesterday. Let's start it over again. Give me another chance. But you know what? You're going to stumble and fall again. What Jesus does is that through him God treats you. He imputes to you how Jesus lived. He imputes to you his perfect righteousness. So God, through him that we might become the righteousness of God, we might become the life of Christ. A righteousness you can never lose. Now I don't know what's going on in your heart now. I don't know if, like Mike, you're saying, hallelujah, or whether you're saying, Ho hum. You know why it is that that's not precious to us? Because we don't hunger and thirst for righteousness the way, for instance, Martin Luther did. Do you remember the story of Martin Luther? He was a man who was like a lot of other men in his time, and God worked in him Scaring, scaring him spitless in a thunderstorm. And he went into the monastery to live a life for God. And he wanted to be what God required. He wanted his life to meet the standard. He hungered and he thirsted for righteousness. But the harder he tried, the more he saw he fell short. And the angrier he got. God, how much do you demand? And then he read Romans 1, where it says, the righteousness of God is revealed in the gospel. Now in his translation in the German The word was justice. The justice of God is revealed in the gospel. And Luther, knowing the holiness and the sovereignty and the power of God, was terrified because he's he thought that what that means is God's justice is revealed in the gospel. He is perfect, and he will judge those who don't meet his standard. And so Luther was caught in a terrible dilemma because he was terrified, but because he was terrified, and it seemed like he was in a no-win situation, he hated God. And when he hated God, he became more terrified because now he thought, now I'm surely lost because I've hungered and I've thirsted for this righteousness, I can't get to it, God is going to judge me. God hates me, I hate him, I am lost and miserable. And then he said, I understood from Romans 1. That the righteousness of God revealed in the gospel was not his judgment, but it was the gift of his righteousness given to me through his son. And he wrote, it was as if the gate of paradise opened to me. It transformed his life. His life was so transformed, so consumed by the gift of the righteousness of Christ, that he transformed Western culture. When you and I grasp the gift of the righteousness of Christ because we hunger and thirst To try and meet the standard we can never meet, and then we realize we can relax and rest in the righteousness of Christ. It transforms you. It changes your life. It makes you happy. Happy are those who hunger and thirst for the righteousness I give to you. You will be satisfied. You see that? But it doesn't just end there. That hunger and that thirst for righteousness is the hunger and thirst that out of the gospel causes us to want to obey and to live righteously. And so you see secondly, Romans chapter six, where Paul talks about that. He talks about that whether you're slaves to sin which leads to death or to obedience, which leads to righteousness, this is talking about an experiential living now. more and more and a desire to be in conformity because you have that righteousness. Now you want to be more like the Jesus you love. And so you have been set free from sin, and you become slaves, slaves to righteousness. I am consumed thy hunger and thirst. Lord, yes, it's ambivalent. Yes, Lord, I understand that there's a few steps forward and a few steps back, but he is changing your heart. It seems like it's so slow, too slow. I understand that. I sometimes get concerned that through this series you come each week to find out Harris's latest sins. And why is it that some of you said, Man, I really love this series. I love hearing about your sin. Because we're also aware of our own sin. We love to hear about somebody else's sin, don't we? I don't want to disappoint you today, but I want to tell you, you and I are both being changed. My heart's corrupt, your heart's corrupt, but it's not like it was. Our hearts will always remain As they are in opposition to God, the righteousness of Christ is our hope, but he is changing your life. He is producing a deeper hunger and thirst for righteousness. And then thirdly. There is that longing for the hope. When that day will come and you will have no more conflict with sin His kingdom will come and everything will be set right. You hunger and thirst for that righteousness completed, fulfilled, for the kingdom comes. And so we long for it. And because we long for it, finally we see that what we do now is not in vain. You and I are ready to say, Lord, help me to establish little pilot projects of righteousness. I can't change everything. Lord, I read the news and I see what's going on in our country and my heart sinks. When I realize the very institution of marriage is in jeopardy, when I realize that there is more and more of a groundswell to marginalize marriages between one man and one woman, And it seems like the onslaught is so strong that it's irreversible, and I say, Lord, what can we do? You don't give up and say, well, it seems hopeless, so why even bother? You don't despair. As a Christian, you say, Lord, in the end, righteousness is going to prevail. In the end, you're going to come back. And whether you do it in our history, turning things around, renewal, revival, reformation, whether it waits until you come, Lord, you will come and prevail. And so I can work, I can labor with others that are concerned for that, for the hope. And I can see the abuse of power in our government that is going to be paid for by future generations. And I can say, Lord, I can't change that. But I can use whatever little influence you give me so I can do something toward the kingdom values you've given. Lord, I can't change everything in Baltimore But I can be involved in Sand Town, whether on the team or giving toward the financial need to help build one more house. Because it's part of what you're doing. I hunger and I thirst for the righteousness. And there's the satisfaction, you see, of simply being part of what God is doing. In extending that righteousness, that kingdom, even in a world where it seems like sometimes it's waning and we seem like we're on the losing side. So, again, finally, keep the balance, just like I said before, about the mourning, the comforting, about the gentleness, the inheritance. Don't just focus on the hunger and thirst, hunger and thirst, but also realize there is the promise of blessing. Cultivate the ape, the longing in your heart for things to be different, in your life, in the world. But also Cultivate the promise, the satisfaction. Enjoy the satisfaction. Enter into the satisfaction of the righteousness of Christ that you have that nobody and nothing could ever take away. And that longing grows more and more as you know him and his character to see his kingdom established. I want you again to pray, to bow your head, close your eyes, and as we come before the Lord, to ask yourself a couple of questions. This is just between you and the Lord now. What is it that you hunger and thirst for more than anything else? Honestly, look at your heart. Is it just that your life would go smoothly? That your life would be comfortable and fun? That you would gain more recognition and respect? Did you be vindicated? That you'd be loved and protected for yourself just as you are. These things will never be filled. There will always be a longing. But Jesus comes and he speaks to you these words to your heart right now. Come, all you who are thirsty, come to the waters. And you who have no money, come buy, and eat. Come, buy wine and milk without money and without cost. Why spend money on what is not bread? And your labor on what does not satisfy? Listen. Listen to me and eat what is good, and your soul will delight in the richest affair. Lord, we come hungry and thirsting. And we pray that you would show us those areas where we're our appetite is so tepid. You would increase our hunger and our thirst for righteousness, which is really a hunger and a thirst for you. That you would satisfy us with Christ. Satisfy us with his righteousness given to us Satisfy us that you are working in us and satisfy us with that hope when you will set all things right. And that day that we live for, that even in our conflicts we would be not so concerned to win, but that righteousness would prevail. Lord, we come to you. We come to you, Lord Jesus. Show us more of yourself, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.