You ever seen those uh motivational posters that were put into offices, businesses, you know, to kind of promote, uh, inspire greater productivity? There is a group called Demotivators, produces these with a little different twist. Here's one that's up here now I thought was kind of interesting. It's about success. It says there for those that can't read it. Some people dream of success. Well, other people live to crush those dreams. Now, what I want to ask you is do you ever feel like the guy holding the ball? You know, and and you kind of feel like, Lord, I believe you gave me this dream And uh there's people that are just kind of out to crush it, or maybe sometimes you even feel like God's the one that's tackling it. He's the one that's crushing your dream Well, um life is full of mysteries and whys. Okay, thank you. Something I believe that's often forgotten, especially in contemporary evangelicalism, is that Christianity is full of both sense and mystery. For instance, last week I talked to you about how Jesus had predicted before his death and resurrection on a number of occasions. He said Son of man is going to go up and his enemies are going to arrest him. They're going to beat him. They're going to spit on him. And then they're going to crucify him. And while the disciples were deeply distraught at that news, it made sense to them. They could at least understand what he meant by that. They had categories to place that in. But when he added, and on the third day he will rise again, didn't have any categories for that. In fact, that was so foreign to them, it was such a mystery That remember, not only did they not believe it, but even after the resurrection, they forgot all about it. They didn't remember his words. Since in mystery, I really believe that peace and intimacy with Jesus requires that you and I hold on to both what makes sense in the gospel and in the Bible and also to hold on just as much to the mysteries, the things that we don't understand, the things that we don't have categories for. Sense and mystery. Let me put it to you this way. Friday night, uh Kathy and I were watching a video and kind of relaxed and uh All of a sudden there's a there's a ring and on our answer machine is Tim Flora weeping, saying, I'm out here in your driveway Huh. You know, we race for the pause button, run upstairs, open the front door, and practically fall into the arms of nearly 50 middle schoolers out there on our front lawn singing, we wish you a Merry Christmas. Now I should have had some clue knowing what date Friday was I mean it wasn't like I hadn't been warned, you know. I started the morning with vinegar in my orange juice and then coming home from the office found out that somebody had taken the fuel pump fuse out of my car. So I was you know, it was a little bit of warning, but then the kids all dumped off their shoes and they all came into the house. And for the next fifteen minutes it was kinda like Day of the Locust, you know. We went through 14 liters of sodas, three half gallons of ice cream, and about five bags of chips. And then they were gone. Just took off again to the next house, back on the bus. Well what's my point? My point is every one of you middle schoolers, by the way, my camera jammed, so you gotta come back. Next week we've got to replay it so I can get some pictures, you know. But every one of you crazy middle schoolers Can understand the gospel. A middle schooler can understand that God made you, that you haven't lived the way he intended for you to live That Jesus is your only substitute to take your sin, to die for that, to give you new life, forgiveness, and a new heart. And you can understand why you need Jesus, and you can understand enough to trust him. Every one of you middle schoolers, you elementary kids, teens, high school, beyond. But that same gospel tells you that this Jesus who came for your sin is God in the flesh That this one who upholds the universe, who created this universe, for you became a dot within the universe. How can you understand that? You can't. See, I can't. Sense and mystery Where how can you understand suffering in the light of a loving Heavenly Father who cares for you? How do you explain the fact that one of the great Christian leaders of our generation at least in the last 20 or so years was Dr. Everett Koop, who was at one point Surgeon General in the United States. Worked with Francis Schaefer in the pro-life movement, very early days of it. Gave his life to working with kids to relieve suffering and to spread the gospel of Jesus. Though his own son was out climbing a mountain in New Hampshire and a freak random rock fell on him and killed him instantly. Hey, explain that. God, where were you? Or you think of uh Jerry and Mary White. Jerry White was president of Navigators for a number of years. He and Mary had given their lives to love and to serve the Lord. How do you explain that their son, who is a taxi driver earning money to be able to go to school, get into Christian broadcasting? One night picked up a man who had called for a taxi. That man was a convicted felon who had decided whatever taxi driver picked him up he was going to murder in cold blood. Random violence and he did it. Took the life of their son. And it makes sense out of that. Last December I began the series on the Gospel of Matthew. Only got through chapter one before we moved on to the month of missions and then the Easter series. And now there's a chance to go back for just a bit, pick up where we left off. And what I want to do this morning is revisit chapter one and look at Joseph's experience as an example of this need for A balance of sense and mystery, to walk in the light of that faithfully. Joseph's a helpful example to me, and I hope he will be to you also Again, remember their situation. You don't think of it any other month in December, but you know, kind of work at your brain and remember their situation in April. Still just as much scripture. Joseph and Mary were betrothed. They were engaged, but it was much more serious thing than engagement in our day was uh called a kidishem. They had taken vows. And um those vows could only be broken by divorce. But after those vows, um they still wouldn't uh live together or be married for Perhaps about another year, during which time Joseph would be preparing a place for them to live in their home. And it's during that time between the betrothal, the Kidishim, and The wedding, the hoppa, that Mary comes to Joseph and tells him that she's pregnant. Oh, not by another man, but by, don't laugh, the Holy Spirit. Sure. You know, whenever I read that, I think of the kind of bee science fiction films, you know, where this woman comes to the police and says she's seen this alien from some monster from another planet, you know. And of course, you know, you're you've seen the monster and so you're saying, you know, how are you gonna persuade him? I mean, we we know it doesn't sound possible, but it's true, we saw it, and you know, what are you gonna do, lady? And of course they don't believe her. And neither did Joseph. And that rocks his world in at least two ways. First of all, he's rocked by the grief and the agony of betrayal. His precious, pure Mary, in bed with another man. Any of you who have experienced betrayal from someone that you loved can begin to understand the twisting of your heart, the wrenching. The torment of such a realization. Your mind pictures and speculates and runs over and over and swings from grief to anger to sorrow. But over and over goes through your mind the thought nothing will ever be the same again. And I can't pretend that it will be. Besides that, Joseph uh add the confusion and the disorientation of uh deception I mean, not only is Mary pregnant and adulterous But she's got the audacity to blaspheme and to blame the Holy Spirit for it. This woman is either deranged or depraved. And so in either case, Joseph realizes he has but three options open to him. He can't marry such a woman So he has to choose. Option number one, Deuteronomy 20, verses 20 and 21. It says, when a man who's engaged to a woman finds that she is not a virgin, he can take her to the door of her father's house, and there the men of the city will stone her to death. God doesn't take sexual sin lightly. But for those of you who continue to fight the shame Of your own sexual sin. Jesus, Paul, Hebrews are absolutely clear that in the gospel there is absolute forgiveness. Purity of a washed conscience and a clean body that is available in Jesus Christ for you. The gospel restores and purifies. But God doesn't take that sin lightly. His second option was a public trial, in which Mary would be publicly humiliated. We'd bring witnesses and there'd be public shame and a divorce would take place There was, in fact, the third option, and that was of a private trial. A trial that involved only two or three witnesses. Just enough to testify and to annul the betrothal And the Bible is quite clear which of those three options Joseph chose. You read verse 19. Joseph, being a righteous man, He was righteous. He couldn't marry someone who was a deranged blasphemer, unfaithful. Not just a matter of forgiveness, remember. She is not admitting any wrong. He did not want to expose her to public disgrace, so he had in mind to divorce her quietly, privately. While he's grieving and in turmoil over this, Matthew tells us that an angel of the Lord came to him in a dream with a message. Now what I want for us to notice this morning in looking at this is that the massif involves both sense and mystery. The angel comes and the angel says, Mary's telling the truth. She's not lying. She's not an adulteress. Joseph, you can marry her. Do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what's conceived in her really is from the Holy Spirit. Don't be afraid. She's going to have a son. You'll call him Jesus. All that makes sense. And so Joseph must have experienced overwhelming relief. What seemed absolutely impossible a few minutes ago has become possible. He can go on. He can trust her. He can marry her. Life can continue. But mixed with that that makes sense. And you see, take a look at the next slide. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him. What the angel said made sense, and you could obey it. There was something he could grasp and do. But mixed with that, notice, go back to the other slide, please, thank you, is that he says the real Father is the Holy Spirit. She's telling the truth. Now I mean what's Joseph, what category is he going to put that in? You know? Oh, the Holy Spirit's the Father. Okay, well, that makes sense. Why would the Holy Spirit be the Father? How would the Holy Spirit be the Father? Why is that necessary? What does this mean? No categories, CC. And then go back to the next one again. You see, uh this is the fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy. The virgin is going to be the child, all right, so she's telling the truth But that child is going to be the fulfillment of the prophecy of the name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Somehow this child is going to be God with us. What's Joseph do with that? How does he wrap his mind around that? What must have Joseph thought My guess is he might have thought something like, you know, my life was going okay. I was trying to serve the Lord, and I just love this Simple girl here from hometown Nazareth just wanted to be a carpenter here get married have a few kids you know I mean wasn't looking for too much and God absolutely disrupts my plans God just moves in. It's kind of like, you know, why me? What you know, what did I do to have all this turmoil You know, we we so want to think that we can understand God, don't we? And that's kind of the a little bit of a plague of evangelicalism today, I think. We need to have the answers. Maybe it's a little bit of a reaction to postmodern relativism where there are no answers and there are no absolutes that evangelicals sometimes feel like we need to have all the answers. We need to know what God's doing. You know, we need to know. I know he was leading in this, and I saw his hand in that, and I understood. And a mark of Christian maturity to us is to be able to say, I know what God's doing. Doing. I understand him. But let me tell you, there's a lot of times in my life I am clueless what God's doing. I don't understand at all at certain times in my life. Lord, why are you where is this going? What did I miss? What's happening I remember speaking to a teenager one time who had rejected her faith. And we were talking about uh what was involved in all of that. She said that part of Her struggle and why she couldn't go on with Christianity was because she saw her parents and her church needing to have all the answers. Everything was tied up So she said, I figured I knew they didn't have all the answers, so they must be bluffing. And I didn't know how much they were bluffing. And I didn't know where to draw the line between what would be true and what wasn't, so I just bagged the whole thing Because, and here was the insightful comment, because I know a true faith would have mystery, and there was no mystery. The Christian faith has mystery. The Christian faith says that the Niagara Falls of God's reality will never fit into our Dixiecups of comprehension. And that you can I and I can believe what God says as Joseph. We can obey what God says to do as Joseph And we can embrace the mystery, as Joseph, without understanding all it's about. God disrupts our lives, and he doesn't consult us for our permission. Joseph had no idea how much this announcement was going to change his life. How much it was going to introduce pain. He soon would be leaving Nazareth. with Mary under a cloud of shame. Then not long after that, after the birth of their son, they would be fleeing for their lives out of Bethlehem. From a deranged king seeking to kill his son. His son would grow up to be rejected. Arrested, beaten, crucified. But then he would rise from the dead. Joseph didn't live to see that. And he couldn't have understood it if somebody had told him what was going to happen. Hey, we hope our kids will go on in the faith. His son was going to be the object of our faith. God was going to do through this son that he promised so much more than Joseph could have ever imagined He needed to rest in God's bigger plan and obey what he knew to do. And so it is with you and me. I spoke a few weeks ago about Pilate. How do we understand the tension between Pilate being absolutely responsible for all that he did? In keeping Jesus at a distance and making decisions that led step by step to Jesus' crucifixion and his own destruction. While on the other hand, the Bible teaches quite clearly that all of this was according to the predetermined plan of God, that it must happen. Sense. Pilate knew right from wrong. Mystery. Let me give it to you in a more general way. In John chapter 6, let's see that. In John chapter 6, we see Jesus giving an invitation. An invitation to you and to me. Whoever comes to me, I will never drive away. That's an invitation, it's a command offered to you, whoever comes. He had said earlier, do not work for food that spoils after you had fed the people. 5,000, but for food that endures to eternal life. And then he goes on, the work of God is this. Believe in the one he has sent That's something you do. The Holy Spirit doesn't believe, you believe. For my Father's will is that everyone who looks to the Son and believes in him will have eternal life, and I'll raise him up at the last day. Invitations, commands. That makes sense? You know what it means to trust Jesus rather than yourself, to give your life to him, to turn from running your life and trusting yourself to trusting him But woven in that, now let's see the other slide, these other things are just parts of the same verses. All that the Father gives me will come to me. Whoever comes to me I'll never drive away. It goes further than that. No one can come to me unless the Father who has sent me draws him. And I'll raise him up at the last day. No one can come to me except the Father draws him He went on to say, why is this this is why I told you that no one can come to me unless the Father has enabled him How can I call on you, middle schoolers, teenagers, adults, younger, older, to come to him when God says you can't come unless I draw you? Remember, it's the two groups. You don't cut them, you don't try to tie them together. The mystery is that in God's mind, those are perfectly true, both of those things. And you obey what makes sense. You obey and you hold on to the mystery. Do you believe the mystery? See, I didn't say, do you understand the mystery? Rick Belleville and I were talking after the last time I said this, and about how you don't have to understand something to believe it The question is, do you believe that God is sovereign and you are responsible? That Joseph knew what to do while he didn't understand anything about why it was going on or where it would lead to But he could as a child be led step by step. Take this step and then take this step and then do this. And trust me Many of us don't pray, very much at least, because prayer forces you to wrestle with these tensions and these mysteries. If you just pray in vague general ways, you won't have to grapple with that. But if you start trying to claim God's promises and start wrestling with unanswered prayer, it gets pretty uncomfortable, I'll tell you. Why didn't God answer that? And some of us have had three or four or five or ten unanswered prayers and we've all but given up and said, you know, this prayer thing doesn't work. I don't understand it, but I want to give up on my faith, so maybe I'll just kind of give up on praying and let God just do his business because I don't know what it means to lay hold of his promises. And that's why we have a conference on prayer. That's this Saturday, you know. I'm not going to tell you about it next Sunday, because I want you to feel bad about what you missed. Use your last chance. There'll be a table back there. You want to sign up to come this Saturday. I know it's a Saturday in April, but it's supposed to rain next Saturday just like all the rest of them. Don't worry about it. I got that word from John Isaac. It's gonna ring. Okay? So find out. Let's lay what does it mean to lay hold of the promises of a heavenly father? Well we can understand in the light of what happens to the Coop family or the Bridges family or others what he's doing But you know what? Joseph's life was disruptive. But God had in mind to do through Joseph and what he was doing in that child infinitely beyond the very best that Joseph could have ever imagined. And so it is with you. And so it is with me. God wants to teach us, to learn as little children, to trust Him. To ask for things and to accept what he does, but to learn to grow in faith and confidence in his power. in his good purposes. Because as we do, we love him more. And we learn to embrace the mysteries. Because we have seen the wonder that He has done in us. Joseph could embrace in simple faith the mystery of a God he couldn't understand because he had seen his grace to transform his life. in things that he could understand. And I'm reminded of an incident during the Welsh revival during the Wesleyan revivals in Wales. One particular minor gave his life to Jesus Christ. He was mocked by his fellow miners and one of them asked him, huh, so do you believe Jesus actually changed the water into wine And he said, brother, I don't know if Jesus changed the water into wine, but I'll tell you in my house he's changed beer into furniture. You see, we can embrace the mysteries because we know that Jesus has embraced us. Let's pray. Lord, we want to come to you this morning and in the quiet of these couple minutes, Lord, we want to bring before you our confusion We want to bring before you, Lord, the fact that we so crave answers. We want to get you predictable. We want to get you in a way that we can control We've tried to control you through prayer, and you have been uncontrollable, and so some of us have all but given up. And you're distant from us But Lord, we come this morning in Holy Spirit, we believe you're nudging us to embrace you again. To come and to lay hold of those things which you tell us that we can understand. To believe you, to pray with faith, to claim your promises, and to embrace the mysteries Lord, teach us from Joseph how to walk in that simple faith. And right now we want to bring to you those obstacles. Right now we want to bring those things that have been driving a wedge. Between our simple trust, that consuming need to know and control, to let go. And to embrace you in all your majestic mystery Lord, teach us to trust you in those things that we've brought to you right now. Lord, I believe. Holy Spirit. And you want to take those thoughts. You want to show your reality to people who have dimmed in their faith and expectation. To show that you are deeply and intimately involved in their lives. Lord, we're embarking on a major campaign that involves trust, faith, commitment. And we pray that you would build our faith. Build our weak faith. Build my weak faith. It means taking you at your word and embracing the mysteries. But not just backing off into the easy way, but to wrestle with you, to strive to know you, to pursue you. Lord, show yourself to each of us in the way that will increase our faith and our love for you. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ. our faithful Redeemer. Amen. And as you listen to the words that the song of the youth choir is going to sing, make the connections.