Last week, I was trying to show us how Jesus is different from me, how he's different from you. How when Jesus was told that again and again that he was a failure, he responded by praying and thanking God. Thanking him that he reveals his truth to the humble, but hides it from those who think that they know it. They're self-sufficient. so that he is secure in his identity, in his unique relationship with the Father. And that enables Jesus to persist even all the way to the cross, where he goes to suffer to pay for your sin and my sin so that he could give us rest. And in chapter 11, you see three groups of people telling Jesus that he is a failure. You have what I call the partners, the petulant, and the passive. John the Baptist and his disciples should have been partners. the critical crowd that were petulant and then the stubbornly resistant, passive crowd that simply Refused to follow him. In each of these three cases, in each of the three you come upon something that to me is astounding, something that's surprising, something that catches you off guard. At least it did me when I went through chapter eleven. You can judge whether it'll do it for you or not. But Jesus is full of surprises, and you know I want you to watch for that as we go through these three examples. of people who are critical of him. The first example is those who should have been partners, his cousin, John the Baptist, and his disciples. Very briefly, look at the scene. Remember, chapter 10 has been his commencement address to the disciples as they're headed out for their first short-term mission. And then right after that you read in 11. 1 after Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples They go out now in pairs of two to preach, to heal, to um minister as he had uh told them to. He, Jesus, went on from there to teach and preach in the towns of Galilee. He goes on to do this alone. He has no wife, he has no family. He's all alone doing this. And as you see him going through Galilee, doesn't take any time off, not just waiting for the disciples to come back, he's continuing to minister. Verse 2 is what happens next. When John heard in prison what Christ was doing, he sent his disciples to ask him, Are you the one who was to come? Or should we expect someone else? Now that certainly must have stung the Lord Jesus. Here is the one who he's known since childhood, who has understood better than almost anyone else is Messianic Cole, who was his messenger. And John is saying, Mm I don't know. Maybe you're really not the one after all. Maybe we should look for someone else. Lack of confidence. But you notice that Jesus does not retaliate. He doesn't respond as someone who has been stung to be defensive. But rather, verse 4, Jesus replied, Go back and report to John what you hear and see. And then he takes the Maiah. thirty-five verses five and six and Isaiah sixty-one verses one in the beginning of verse two, and he paraphrases those in his response. So he says The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosy are cured, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the good news is preached to the poor. He takes from verses 5 and 6 of Isaiah 35 a number of things and adds to. He adds, the lepers are healed and the dead are raised. In other words, Isaiah said When Messiah comes, these amazing things, you know, the deaf are going to hear, the blind are going to see, the lame are going to walk. And Jesus says, And I'm exceeding what Isaiah said. I'm also healing lepers and I'm raising the dead. Then it combines with that Isaiah 61, 1 and 2, where Isaiah says that the Spirit was upon him to preach the good news to the poor, and stops at the beginning, the first clause of chapter of verse two. Isaiah sixty-one, verse two goes on to say, and to proclaim the day of vengeance of our God. Jesus purposely leaves that out because his purpose in his first coming was to announce and implement the mercy. What John didn't see, John in prison, full of doubts, wondering, Jesus, are you really you don't seem like the Messiah I was talking about that's gonna Burn up the wicked and the chaff unquenchable. You know, here I am telling Herod and Herodias that you ought not to be doing what you say, and they You should have vindicated me. I would expect you to have brought judgment on them. They would have seen that you are Messiah, who's not going to be able to just uh turn your eye away from sinners and their sin. What's going on here? Why am I rotting in prison? What John didn't see was that Messiah was going to come twice. That in his first coming, the mission would be for mercy and to announce the judgment. In his second coming, he will come to bring the judgment and to fulfill the mercy. From that, there's something very important for you and for me to learn. Every single person in this room who knows Jesus Christ, if you have doubts, If you're saying, Lord, why is it that I have been praying for years for my kids and they're not walking with you? Why do I see things seem to be getting worse rather than better? Why is my marriage in shambles? And I have done everything that I can think of, and I have prayed, and I have sought you, and things seem to be getting worse rather than better. Why are there areas of my life that make no sense? It's because you only see a portion of the picture. It's like going downstairs in the nursery, picking up a couple puzzle pieces. And I hold them up and I say, Here, here's the picture. He's saying, Well, I can't tell what the picture is from that. Just a couple of pieces. And Jesus is saying to John Verse 6, blessed is he who does not fall away, turn away, give up on account of me. In other words, John, trust me. I know what I'm doing. You only see a little portion of the picture. If you could see the big picture of who I am and what I'm doing. You would understand why I am not rescuing you in prison. Why soon you will lose your head And that fits into my purpose and my scheme. So for you and for me, when you realize this doesn't make sense Then go to God, go to His Word to say, Lord, give me a bigger picture of who you are, what you're doing, your global purpose that's totally outside of me, your eternal purpose that's totally beyond me. And then rest, that he knows what he's doing. John, I know what I'm doing. Now it's interesting that Jesus does two things here. The first is that he gives words to John to comfort him. But the second thing that he does is he gives some words about John to the crowd that's before him And what he does is he exalts John. He basically is saying, I know John has some doubts about me, but don't think less of John because of that. And so as Rick read, you see him talking about how great John the Baptist was in his ministry. And then he finishes with this climax. Look in verse 11. I tell you the truth, among those born of women, there has not risen anyone greater than John the Baptist. And yet he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. Now verses eleven and twelve are two very d difficult verses. And I think if you understand them They are verses with powerful insight and impact on your life and on mine. So I want to unpack specifically the two difficult things about these verses. In verse 11, Jesus says, John was greater than all the Old Testament prophets. But he who is the very least in the kingdom is greater than John. Now, why? How can that be? You're telling me that the most vacillating, weakest Christian who doubts, who sins, who's unstable, that person is greater than John the Baptist? Yes. How? The clue is his saying John was greater than the Old Testament prophets. How is he greater than the Old Testament prophets? How is he greater than Isaiah or Jeremiah? Because Isaiah and Jeremiah figuratively pointed to the Messiah to come. John literally pointed to the Messiah and said, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. In other words, John more clearly pointed to Jesus and magnified him. And when you understand that, you see that the one who is great, who is the very least in the kingdom is able to talk about the cross, the resurrection, the forgiveness of sins in what Jesus has done. The very least in the kingdom can point more clearly to Jesus than even John the Baptist or the Old Testament prophets. So, what determines greatness is not about you and your accomplishments. What accomplishes greatness is how clearly you point to Jesus. So I want to share something with you. I I discovered that. That hit me like a thunderbolt. In a dorm room at Kuiper College in May of this year at the General Assembly of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. After the first few days of the General Assembly, I was realizing I was vaguely depressed. And the reason for that I realized was that I was as I was sitting in the assembly, I was hearing some very articulate speeches and some brilliant motions that cut through to solve You know, untie Gordian knots as they say, you know, just get to and you know and these guys are doing so well that I'm thinking, what am I contributing here you know, and I made a motion and it failed, you know, and I'm trying to do something. And I'm thinking if anybody looks at who's really contributing to this assembly, it's certainly not Al Harris And you know, and I'm thinking, you know what, I just don't seem to be contributing anything, and I'm feeling inferior in this situation. Yeah, if you can relate to that in situations. And um so then I read this verse. And all of a sudden it hits me sitting there at my desk. Greatness is not about me being articulate or drawing attention to myself or people saying, Oh, that was pretty clever, El Greatness can come in any conversation standing in the line for the food, if my concern is to not think about myself, but simply think, how can from this conversation I lift up your view of Jesus to see that he is good He is faithful. He is kind. He is wise. And at the end of this conversation, you'll think a little more about him. That's Jesus That's what Jesus is saying determines greatness. How clearly you point to me. And every one of you here, every one of you can do that. If you belong to Jesus Christ. Every one of you can be greater than John the Baptist because you can more clearly point to the cross, to the resurrection, and its implications. And cause people to think more about Jesus. I'll tell you, when that hit me, I had to repent. I had to sit there and I was late for the next session because God's Spirit was dealing with me in my selfish, self-centered attitude. I don't know if there's anybody here that can relate to that to see. Yes, God speaks to me. He's speaking to me right now at this moment about that. But I pray that he will. Because it's a very freeing thing to realize that's the kind of greatness Jesus is talking about. It's something everybody here is capable of doing. And it brings honor to him. Okay, well, I'd like to talk about it more, but gotta move on. Notice then that the next thing is um Verse 12, which is one of the most difficult verses to translate in all of Matthew or even in the New Testament. And it's because he says from the days of John the Baptist till now the kingdom of heaven, and then he talks about, he uses the word violence twice. And translators and commentators are sharply divided over how that should be translated. And because I don't have much time. I gotta cut right to the chase and tell you what I think is how it should be translated and why that's important. So if you see it there, the the question is, you see, you the kingdom of heaven And you could translate it, the first would be either suffers violence, or the alternate translation is forcefully advancing. Violently forcefully advancing. Then the second use of the word is that it is that he's saying the kingdom of heaven uh is forcibly advancing or suffering violence and either forceful men lay hold of it, seize it to enter it. People are pressing to get into the kingdom, or violent men are seizing it to oppose it. Which is it? Now for those of you who are saying that you know the ESV is better than the NIV or the NIV is better than ESV, and you want to keep record The NIV translation is better in the first part, the ESV is better in the second part. So it's a draw. But even in the second part, the ESV doesn't quite get it right, in my opinion. What I think he is saying here, because it fits the context as well as the words, which you see on the slide there The kingdom of heaven has been forcefully advancing, not suffering violence, it's forcefully advancing. This is what Jesus has been doing in casting out demons. In chapter 12 and verse 29, he's going to say that. The strong man comes to, I mean Jesus comes to bind Satan the strongman and plunder his house. That's forceful. That's violent. That demonstrates that the kingdom has come. So the kingdom of heaven has been forcefully advancing in his ministry. And the second part is not that forceful, violent people are trying to get into it and lay hold of it. No, it's the opposite. Jesus is saying, and violent men seize it, literally that's what the Greek says, seize it. To oppose it. That's what Herod, the first Herod the Great, did. When Jesus was born, he violently destroyed the infants of Bethlehem so that he could snuff out the life of this one who was going to be his rival. That's what the second heritage Antipas is doing to John the Baptist. He has him in prison. He is violently opposing John's ministry. Soon will take his head because he's resisting violently the kingdom of God. That's what the Pharisees will be doing. Chapter 12. They will plot to destroy Jesus. What Jesus is saying here is the same thing that he that he was saying in chapter 10. Do you remember where I said the the The words you could put over this age are progress plus persecution till the paroissea. Paroissea is Jesus returned. Progress of the gospel forcefully advancing, going forth among the nations, plus violent people opposing it, resistance, persecution Take comfort, John. This is the basic theme in the kingdom. It's forcefully advancing. You are being persecuted. But I'm gonna win in the end. The last chapter hasn't been written, John. Take heart. See the big picture. See? It fits It's the same thing for you and for me. You don't see the big picture. I don't see the big picture. But if you see what Scripture says, you realize I'm living within this spiritual conflict, and I can expect there to be conflict, but Jesus will win in the end. Go on a lot more in that. Take heart from it. Your purpose and my purpose in that is in the midst of the conflict. Point people to Jesus and his faithfulness. Okay, second point, gotta move on. This is about the petulant, the petulant playmates criticisms. Petulant means peevish, critical, rude. Look what Jesus says beginning in verse 16. He turns now and he's looking at the crowd and he says, Now to what can I compare this generation? They're like children sitting in the marketplace calling out to others. We played the flute for you and you didn't dance. We sang a dirge and you didn't mourn. We want to call the shots. You're supposed to follow us. For John came neither eating or drinking, and they said he has a demon. Too strict. Guy eats grasshoppers. You wouldn't ever want to go to lunch with him. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, ah, he's a glutton, a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Not pleased with either one? Criticize the one, criticize the other. He says, but wisdom is proved right by her actions. We don't play to your call. Basic problem of crowds If they want to call the shots of their religious leaders. It's the same exact thing today, isn't it? Some of you sitting here have been part of Columbia Presbyterian for years. Some for many years. You've made a commitment to this body, and you say, It's not perfect. Ow certainly not perfect. Things aren't perfect around here. But it's my body. It's where God has placed me in my spiritual family. I am here as part of this family. And I'm here to stay because I'm growing as a Christian. I see Jesus better. There's some of you here that may, this may be your first week, second week, third week, sixth or seventh week, and you're kind of deciding, should I become part of this body or not? Now there's two ways you can try to s answer that question. The one way would be to say Is God's word being faithfully taught? Do I understand Jesus better? Am I thriving and growing in my understanding of Christ and the gospel? and how to love him and serve him because I'm here. The other way is the way so often is done today, you evaluate by how's the parking, how clean's the nursery. How entertaining is the worship and does the guy say stuff that I like to hear? Do I go out of here feeling pumped up and better for the week? You know, I had a couple of clever jokes and it was a few good things and there was something here that appealed to me. Now I'm not saying that we should never appeal to you. You know, we try to be as curmudgeon as we can and make it difficult to like being here. But I am saying that the crowd was saying, we determine what a religious leader looks like. And Jesus says, you are like a bunch of petulant children that can never be pleased. So there's a lot more we could say about that, but let me just offer it to you, brothers and sisters. What is the criteria by which you evaluate a church? Jesus says it is to look at the person who draws you to God and represents him faithfully. Not the things that so often are clamored after in a consumer culture Again, gotta move on. Probably think I've dwelled on that too long. Anyway, third point, finally. are the passive. Passive. Third point is the stubborn refusal to repent. These are people that are not necessarily critical, but they are people who have seen Jesus do miracles, they have heard his teaching. And as you read again and again as Jesus does the miracles, they said, Well, the people were amazed and they said, Could this be the Son of David? Oh, could this be the Messiah? They ask all these questions and they say, well get get back to you later on that. You know, we've got to go home and think about that. But they never come to the place of commitment They never come to the place of following him. So read what he says about them. Verse 20. Then Jesus began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles had been performed, because they did not repent. Woe to you, Corazon. Woe to you, Bethsaida. Now remember Jesus had his home base in Capernaum. Carazan and Bethsaida are just a few miles from Capernaum, so this is the area where he was hanging out and doing most of his teaching and miracles. If the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Tyre and Pidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. But I tell you, it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you. And you, Capernaum, will you be lifted up to the skies? Exalted. Capernaum thought it was hot stuff. No, you will go down to the depths. If the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Sodom, it would have remained to this day But I tell you, it will be more bearable for Sodom on the day of judgment than for you. Jesus is warning them in the severest terms about the final judgment, and he says four things about it that are worth noting, immensely important. In fact, I b I believe that this is one of the most important texts. in all of Scripture about the final judgment, four insights that he offers. Number one, notice that it is certain Verses 22, 23, 24, 3 times. Will. It will be. You will go. It will be. Jesus says again and again. He speaks more frequently about hell than any other biblical speaker or author. And he speaks with absolute certainty the judgment is coming, that final day of reckoning. Secondly, notice, it will be worse for some unbelievers than for others. Notice that he says twice, verse 22 and 24 more bearable. I tell you it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you. I tell you it will be more bearable for Sodom, Sodom and Gomorrah on the day of judgment than for you. Torment of unbelievers is in various degrees. Remember the message where I said from Matthew 10, 28 Hell is ultimately God's answer to the sinner's cry, Leave me alone. But there are some people who cry, Leave me alone, more arrogantly than others. So there are degrees of justice and the punishment that is deserved because of that, because of the level of arrogance. Thirdly, these each get more counterintuitive Thirdly, the rejection of the gospel is worse than idolatry or even perversion, let alone immorality. Sodom and Gomorrah will endure less punishment than the nice moral religious people of Capernaum. They were very religious Jews in Capernaum. So which people would you look at if you look at the current cities? Which people will endure it worse? you know, as a whole, New Orleans or Provincetown, San Francisco, or Colorado Springs and Wheaton and Grand Rapids. See, we we think we know. Jesus says no. No. Where the gospel has been clear and people have ignored it and resisted it and arrogantly said, I don't need that. That's worse. Than the immorality and the perversion that's rampant in many places. We live in an arrogant culture But occasionally I hear something that even shocks me in how arrogant we are becoming. Recently I heard about a bar mitzvah In which a 13-year-old Hebrew boy for his bar mitzvah read from Hebrew on the sin offerings And then he said this. The sin offerings were to depict God's people saying, we are sorry for the things that we've done wrong. But the bad things happen to us, not to God. Therefore, the sin offerings ought to be God saying He's sorry to us for all the bad things he allows to happen to us. The rabbi approved that statement. The next day, I said to my next door neighbor, my Jewish buddy Fellow who studied to be a rabbi, I described that and I said, How could that happen? He said, What do you mean? He said, I agree with him. Of course that could happen. He said, I'm an agnostic, but if there is a God, he's going to have to account for me For some of the crummy things that He has allowed to happen. We live in atrocities and tragedies, and God has a lot to answer for to me in that day. That's arrogance. And Jesus is saying That kind of attitude, which is becoming more and more pervasive, God has to answer to us, not we to him. Is worse than perversion and immorality because it is a direct insult to God. Nice religious people. The fourth point that he makes is the most astonishing of all. Jesus says that this judgment will be based not only on all your actions, your thoughts, and your motives. But also on what you would have done in every other circumstance. Notice verse 21. Woe to you, Karez, and woe to you, Bethsea, that if the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented. Long ago, in sackcloth and ashes. They didn't repent. But Jesus is here saying, given this situation, they would have That's how precisely he knows their hearts. Let aside all the thing about God's sovereign work in people's lives to repent, he says they would have You, Capernaum, will you be lifted up to the skies? No, you will go down to the depths, because if the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Sodom, it would have remained. To this day. Brothers and sisters, I don't understand a lot of what is behind that. There's a lot of mystery there. But what I do understand is that Jesus is saying, in that day of judgment, when you stand there, God will not simply judge you based on what you have done or what you have that thoroughly, that completely, and that is perfect justice that will take your breath away Anytime you're talking to somebody, an unbeliever, about God and his ways and you begin to get a little embarrassed about, well, is God really fair and just and well I don't know maybe kind of in general, but well I don't know if I can push this. You know, understand, you and I do not begin to understand the precision of justice with which God will judge the nations. When you stand there in that day, you will be in awe of the precision and the justice of his verdict in every single life. And when you understand that degree of justice, all you are left with is to cry, mercy. I could never stand before that kind of justice. And that's why, in a couple of verses, it is so astounding that Jesus says You who are weary and burdened, who understand the weight of sin under perfect justice, you come to me. And I will give you rest. Because Jesus stood before that perfect bar of justice. and was cursed as the vilest blasphemer, the most arrogant unbeliever, the most perverse the most despicable person who ever walked the face of the earth, so that he could give you rest. And promise that you will be safe before the piercing, perfect gaze of God in that day. And he gives us these elements, the bread and the juice, to take, to hold. And to say, This is the pledge to me, I will be safe in that day. He will be tender to me as he was to John. He understands my doubts. He understands how I'm always trying to get credit and look like a big shot and look great. And all that he has forgiven, so that I might see more of his greatness. I might this week want to call more attention to him and think less about myself. Because I'm safe. And he's tender toward me. And he offers me this rest But these elements are not for any of you who are still putting off the repenting, who are still saying, Well, I hear it, but I'm not ready to give my life to Jesus Christ. I don't know that I'm really ready to make that commitment. If that's your case, do not take the elements, but pray that Christ will show you your need of Him Twice in his statement of the warnings, he says, woe, woe to you, woe to you. Woe is a warning to stop and turn around. And you know what? Capernaum answered that. They heard that. They did repent. And the records show this that in 50 to 55 A. D. Capernaum was one of the centers of New Testament Christianity. So the offer is to you. Stop. Turn around. Receive these elements either as the picture and the pledge of his love and of his grace and his tenderness and the hope that you had that in that day you will be saved. Or to warn you to turn now before it's too late. Let's pray Lord, we come now before these elements to taste and to receive. We who are weary and burdened come to you for rest. Did you promise that? We who see just a little part of the picture and like John have doubts and Lord Things don't make sense and why is this happening and why is that not happening? And you come to us with these elements to say, trust me. Trust me, my beloved. I love you, and I know what I'm doing. Cling to me. And so Lord, feed us. Feed us to show us that perfect justice means that we are safe because Jesus endured 100% of your wrath. And only the love and tenderness that you showed to John is left for us. We come to rest in you now, Holy Spirit. Minister these elements to show us Christ. Amen