Well thank you. On behalf of the pastoral staff and church administrator, Eric, I want to thank you for sending us to Louisville, Kentucky for three days this week. the privilege of being able to attend the gospel together for the gospel conference, um, where we heard speakers like John Piper, R. C. Sprohl, John MacArthur, C. J. Mahaney, and a number of others talking about some of the great riches of the gospel, warning us about some of the contemporary drift of the gospel. And being able to praise Jesus along with 7,000 or so other people, it was it was so powerful. I just wanted to call my wife from my cell phone and just let her listen. To all those people singing praise. It was a wonderful, powerful time, and um so I am particularly aware of the privilege of preaching the gospel to you this morning. And um I also approach this message with some mixed emotions because it is the last message on the Gospel of Matthew. After about five and a half years, this morning is the conclusion. 110 messages. Ephesians was only 125. But uh we've got to bring it to an end because I didn't want to walk out the door next year just finishing Matthew Barely and not saying a bunch of other things that I think would be good for us to be able to consider. So this is the end. I have tried particularly to show in my preaching that this is the same gospel that Paul preaches to us in his letters, salvation. is through Jesus Christ alone, by faith alone. And so we come to the last three verses of that Wonderful book. I I there was so much more here we could have explored together. I just would have loved to have gotten into some of this other stuff. But uh read it on your own, you know, go on somewhere else. But uh Anyway, the last three verses as Dan just read, let me just read the last three verses again and see them up on the screen and just leave them up there through the message. We only have one slide this morning. But I want that to sink in so you're able to look at it while I'm preaching. Jesus came to them and said, All authority In heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. And teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age. All authority has been given to Jesus. As we saw last week, He has perfectly completed the work of Messiah. And so now his mission to continue that to the whole world until he comes back is given to you and to me. Not just to missionaries, not just to professionals, is to everyone who is his disciple. So once again, we have some books that Jessica has put out from our mission section in the library. right back there behind Ian. And you can take a look back there and sign out one. Take a look at and help you to be able, as we see, we're talking about think like a missionary. Jesus is saying here, as you're going, make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them. In to a local church, and Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey everything that I've commanded. And make sure you know I am with you. Every day, always, until the end of the age when he comes back. Um because this Commission is not just to professionals, it's not just to the missionaries that go abroad, it is really to a mindset. It's not a matter of those who move, it's a matter of those who have the mindset that Jesus is talking about here, uh, that is set forth for every single disciple. Great commission was not tacked on. to the Gospel of Matthew as some surprise at the end. Oh, by the way, something you might not have thought about is you're supposed to go out and share this message. But if you know Jesus' heart, you can see this coming all the way through almost every chapter of the book of Matthew. Jesus, of course, didn't come out of the blue as Messiah. He came in the context of the Old Testament. And so as far back as Genesis 12, God had said to Abraham, Through you and your seed, all the nations will be blessed, not just the Jews. In fact, I don't think that there is anybody here from Palestine. So it is a good thing that Jesus came for all the nations. Because that message went from Palestine to Asia, Europe, to America, because the blessing is for all the nations. That's how you heard of Jesus Christ. When you come to Psalm 110, he's described as the one who's going to sit on the throne, ruling all the nations. In Isaiah, Isaiah says, it's too small a thing for you to come simply for the chosen people Israel. You are to come for all the nations. In Daniel chapter 7, he's pictured as the Son of Man who's come to rule all the nations. So it should be no surprise when Jesus comes and says, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go make disciples of all the nations. You see him through the Gospel of Matthew as the missionary Messiah. And in conclusion of this book, let me remind you, take a quick bicycle tour. to see Jesus' heart for the nations as you see it displayed through Matthew. You see them there in your bulletin outline, but let me call attention as we Feel this momentum. Be able to see his heart and what it was like as he came Um you remember that even from the very beginning, chapter one, the genealogy opens uh from talking about Jesus, the son of Abraham, son of David. But you see in that somebody like Rahab, the harlot from Jericho, a Canaanite. Or you see Ruth, the Moabitus, enemies of Israel, is gathered in that group And so there is that that little clue that God's heart is for the nations. The very first worshipers that come to Jesus as he's a very young child are the Magi They're almost certainly from Babylon, the enemies again of Israel. When chapter 4, when Jesus is tempted as the second Adam to be tempted by Satan. What does Satan say? Come, fall down, worship me, and I'll give you all the kingdoms, all the nations of the earth, because he knows it's the nations that are on Jesus' heart It is not simply that he's come as Messiah for the Jews. And then in end of chapter 4, Jesus begins his ministry. Where? Not in Judea. But it's in Galilee of the Gentiles. Galilee, that place of darkness that Isaiah speaks of. The people in darkness have seen a great light. Chapter 5, the disciples are called salt and light of the world that they are to live in and to display Jesus to. In chapter 8 or chapter 6 you have the Lord's Prayer where you pray, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, and that kingdom is a multi-ethnic, multinational kingdom. You see in chapter 8 that when Jesus is healing, a Roman centurion comes to him. He says, I understand authority. I know you don't need to come to my house. You can just say the word, and my servant will be healed. And so Jesus speaks the word at a distance. And then he says, this man is a picture, a type. of all that will be coming from the east and the west to sit down at that feast in the last day with Abraham. And at that feast There will be those who are of all the nations, but those who are of the kingdom, Israel, the bulk of them are going to be cast out into Outer darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. The gospel is for all the nations. Do you see that? And then in chapter eleven, Jesus pronounces, Woe to the Jewish cities, because in their self righteousness they had said, We don't need you. We don't need a Messiah that's showing us our hearts are spiritually bankrupt. And so he, then chapter 15. Goes on to Canaan, to Phoenicia, and there he and his disciples are approached by a Canaanite woman, again the enemies of Israel. And this woman comes and begs for Jesus to heal her daughter. The disciples are irritated by it. They're annoyed. And they say, send this woman away. She's trash. Jesus listens to her and he responds to her and he says, Great is your faith, and he heals her daughter. And the disciples are startled by that kind of openness. Then you see in chapter 19 he says there's rewards that are going to be given for those who are willing to leave their homes and follow me on my mission. In chapter 21, he comes with a whip to cleanse those who are defiling the temple. And he says, This temple is my father's house, which has been called a house of prayer. And he's quoting from there Isaiah chapter 56, verse 7, it goes on to say, which shall be for all the nations. So it's not simply for those who are like us, it's for all the nations. Then in chapter 21, he talks about the kingdom being taken from you Jews and given to nations that will bear fruit. The Jewish leaders understood exactly what he was saying. They were so incensed that they wanted to have him arrested, but they were afraid of the crowds during the feast time. And then you see that Jesus in chapter twenty-two talks about the wedding feast where all of his people are invited, and most of them say they're not interested. So he says, Go out in the highways and the byways and invite all those that are unlikely. those who are not the religious people, so that they might come and they might feast and have me as their messiah And then you see him in chapter uh twenty-two. By the way, wherever you see that n Gentiles, he talks about the Gentiles, uh, that's equivalent to the word nations in Scripture. So you must always understand that he's not just talking about Gentiles versus Jews. He's talking about all the nations. That's what's on his heart in this In chapter 22, he also then goes on to quote Psalm 110, describing himself as the one who's on the throne ruling all the nations. In chapter twenty-four, he gives the signs of the times, the times of his return, he says quite specifically in verse 14. This gospel will be preached to all the nations, and then the end will come. Chapter 25. All the nations are to be gathered before him as the judge. The one who determines the sheep from the goats, the one who determines our eternal destiny. All nations appear before the throne of Jesus Christ for that. In chapter 26, when he's arrested and seems utterly powerless, being condemned by the Jewish leaders, he says, the next time you're going to see me It's going to be in the fulfillment of Daniel 7, the Son of Man who comes in the clouds to reign and to rule over all the nations. Even at his death, the sign that was above the cross was a sign. King of the Jews, this one, not just in Hebrew, but also in Greek and Latin, to show that this is the one who is the king of the nations At his death, after the Jews have been mocking him, scorning him, deriding him, who is it that at the cross says, this one? Was truly the Son of God. It's a Roman centurion as a first fruit of those who beyond the Jewish local Group of people will see that Jesus is the Messiah of the nations. And so in chapter 28 When he says that through this resurrection I have been given all authority. It's the declaration that I have perfectly fulfilled the work of coming to establish a kingdom and bring people out of death and darkness into light and life. All authority has been given to me. Therefore go make disciples of all the nations. It's just kind of the logical conclusion of what's been on his heart from the very beginning. He can't miss it. And again, this command is given not just to missionaries. It's not given just to professionals, but rather he's saying that all who are my disciples are those who are to take this. Mandate this commission that I have given to go to all the nations with this gospel. Therefore, you and I. Who are his disciples are to think like missionaries. Let me say that again. If you belong to Jesus Christ here this morning Jesus' last words in Matthew are to you to think like a missionary. Get that? One more time. It's so basic. Jesus says that all of you who are my disciples learn to think like missionaries. You say, yeah, oh, what's the big deal? Because so often we don't. So often we put in our minds a dichotomy between those who are full-time workers or the professionals or the missionaries. And those who are people like us that feel that we're exempt to have that kind of an uh privilege as well as obligation If you were to sum up the Gospel of Matthew, it would be that Jesus is simply saying, I want you to see four or five things. The first thing the Gospel of Matthew tells you is to see your heart. Sermon on the Mount, right from the beginning of Jesus' ministries, always the emphasis on your heart. What is your heart like? To see the spiritual poverty of your heart. To see that you and I are not able to live the lives that we know we ought to live, that the Bible says we should live, that we feel incapable of living. He says, recognize that, see that, admit that. See the contrast between yourself and me. See Jesus who is able to live with perfect omnipotent compassion and authority. And then see the cross. See that this one who has lived in fulfillment of God's covenant and therefore is able to inherit heaven, instead he takes your sin My record of sin, and you look at the cross, and you see there Jesus dying in your place as a substitute, the one who has taken all of our sin upon himself. And then you look and you see, thirdly, the resurrection. You see Jesus out of the tomb. You see that death could not hold him because he made that payment in full. There is no more curse for those who belong to him. And so Jesus says, because of this, I am Messiah over all the nations. My authority is over all the nations of the world. Simply go and represent me. And fourthly, then you see that commission. You see the privilege, as we talked about last week. The larger your vision of Christ, the more you're compelled to say, I want to give my whole life. I want to set aside my petty ambitions to belong to Jesus and to make him known. The missionary mindset is simply looking for opportunities for the gospel. Wherever, however you live, whatever you're doing, caught up in Him, looking for opportunities in your daily life to talk about Jesus. Again, it means, contrary to what a lot of people think, the church does not exist to service you as a consumer. CPC is not here to simply make your life more comfortable, to carry out programs for you and your kids that you say, well this this just what we're looking at seems like a pretty good deal, it's worth the investment. I'll hang around as long as you guys are serving me. Columbia Presbyterian exists for worship, that we can all worship together as we've been doing. The one true God who is deserving of our worship. It exists for our community because we know that as Christians we need to live in community, and so we want to live in community, and we provide the community and facilitate the community. It exists so that we can help you to become more like Jesus and grow to become like him and like him in his character, get to know him better, love him more, trust him more. But it also exists to mobilize all of us and to equip us to go out as missionaries and to represent Jesus, to have the mindset of a missionary. to realize that our primary strategy at Columbia Presbyterian is not to attract people in to our worship and our programs and the various things, but it is to send you out equipped. To be able to have Jesus so on your mind and on your heart that the slightest provocation, you actually look for opportunities to want to talk about him, how great he is and all that he's done for you. It takes new eyes for us to see the world in a way that without this opening from the scriptures, this commission given to you, that we would never see. We're like children that are playing in this large English house and it's raining and so we're bored and we play hide and seek and as we play hide and seek one of us hides in a wardrobe. And then the others chase that person through the wardrobe to the other side, and they find another whole world, a world they didn't know existed. A world where there's a battle going on between the witch and Aslan. And we see in that, by the way, I know, granite's coming up, you know, take a look and see Aslan and Lion Witch in the wardrobe this week That's a little free plug. I wasn't told to say that. But as you go and you see that uh this is a dangerous place to live. But it's also a more exciting place to live Because now you're involved in something that is a rescue operation. Aslan's on the move. And you're caught up in that. It's more difficult. But it's exciting. Yes, it's more difficult. It's not a place where our message is welcome so often. Think of Britt Hume, TV journalist He was asked a couple months ago, uh back in December or January, he was asked, uh, do you think that Tiger Woods will recover as a golfer? And so Britt Hume said, yes, I think he'll recover as a golfer. But Brit Hume is also a disciple of Jesus Christ. And so Brit Hume didn't stop there. He said, however, the question is, will he recover as a person? He's lost his family. His future relationship with his kids is an open question. And I would advise Tiger Woods. To consider Christianity, because in Christianity there is redemption. The response, of course, was outrage from the commentators. One commentator that I read said, the response of most people went between outrage and disgust. That probably put a big dent in Brithume's day, don't you think? You know, people aren't going to welcome that always. But Britt Hume knew that's part of being a disciple. That's just part of the cost. It's what happens. But there will be some people who would hear that and they might consider Jesus. Considering Jesus, they would hear the message of life and their whole life would be changed. You and I never know when we'll be asked a question, given an opportunity, and at that point, either you're faithful. And you say, I'm going to say what I really believe, or you'll hide. The mindset of a missionary is that I will not hide. I will look at whatever opportunity the Lord gives me, and I will simply take that opportunity to be faithful to Him. You know, I still remember back in 1994 when Kathy and I and our son Dean went to Japan and The first couple of weeks I was noticing as the missionaries were talking there that they would always be talking about the things they were doing is how can we Take this opportunity to get to know people, contacts with the unbelievers, and and in that to be able to share Jesus Christ. And they were very creative, you know, teaching English and having parties, particularly American event parties that the Japanese would be interested in various things. Uh, you know, it was about the second or third week it finally dawned on me. Why don't we think that way? Why is it that somebody has to go to Japan to be paid as a missionary to think like that? Then I began to think about that. I thought, you know, I think there's really only two differences between missionaries and us. One is they live in a foreign country. The second is, they're paid to make disciples so they feel more responsible to do it. Other than that, what's the difference? You and I should have the same mindset. How can I take the opportunities, the relationships that I have, and the Jesus that I know, the treasure of the gospel? And simply be able to take those opportunities that God gives and be faithful to them I have thought from time to time since then that I wish that I could pay each of you to be a missionary. I figured if I gave you five or ten bucks a week You know, you'd feel sort of like, well, it's not much, but they're paying me, so I probably ought to be making disciples. Maybe if we had you write weekly reports and prayer letters or monthly reports, you know then you would take more seriously. Oh, I'm a missionary to Howard County, Maryland, USA. Foreign culture. Get to know this culture. Get to know the people in here. And talk about Jesus. Take the opportunities. Do you remember back in February when we had Dempse and his wife Christy? I still remember. She said, I went to Brazil as a missionary. But as a mother of three kids, I realized I simply had to share Christ as I lived life. I simply had to share Christ as I lived life, and I thought, yeah? How's that different from any of us? How's that different from you moms? How is it different? It's a mindset, you see. It's a mindset that says, I don't live for myself in this world, which is all there is. I believe that I'm going to heaven because of Jesus. I believe he's changed my life. And I believe he's still at work calling people to himself. Not all. Some will respond like they did to Britt Hume, but there are some that God will call. And so I wish you could see your baptism as a commissioning service. Jesus said, going as you go in your daily routine, Make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Your baptism Is the sign you are a disciple maker. It is God's call to you. Every single person in this room. Either needs to receive Jesus Christ or take Jesus Christ to those who do need to receive him It's as simple as that. What does that kind of thing look like? Let me give you just a few simple, simple examples. Back in February, after the blizzard. I noticed that neighbors that I never see, you know, we we have neighbors that we just don't see. Car goes in, garage door goes up, goes in, garage door goes down. There's some people on our street. If I saw them, I wouldn't recognize them, because I don't see them But he said, you know, with the blizzard, people gotta come out. They gotta shovel their walk. So he said, I wait until I see my neighbors out. Then I go out to shovel. Get into conversations. I mean I was shoveling our drive, my my wife calls an impromptu Super Bowl party. She comes out She wasn't shoveling. She just comes out and calls the party, you know. Says to everybody, hey, come on over tonight, you know, it was Super Bowl night. Come on over. And a number of neighbors came over, they brought food, those that plowed their way through, and we had this impromptu party, get to know each other some. You know, or it I think of Josie on our street who who th thinks at Christmas time, like a missionary. Her school has a little thing where you can talk about celebrating Christmas in other cultures. So she goes and says, here's how we celebrate Christmas in India. Talks about the incarnation in the public school, the gospel. You know, I think of Lorna, who has teas for the neighbors. Just to people to get to know each other. And not too long ago, she and my wife Kathy were walking along a street, met one of women who had been to one of her tees and got into a spiritual conversation. We do things together, you know. My buddy Phil back there was aerating his lawn and my lawn together and we get together and we talk. You know, we're just simply living with one another. And as Christians we live and we bring the presence of Christ and we talk about what it is that God has done in our lives. You look at our new facility that we're designing and you say, okay, uh it's going to have a nice large lobby, three coffee stations. It's gonna be comfortable furniture. I'm glad for that. Boy, it's finally nice that we have comfortable place around here. You know, this lobby stinks and gonna be nice that we can hang it. Listen guys, it's not about that The reason that's designed that way is so that after the services, we can sit down with people and have gospel conversations. We can talk to people that we care about, get to know them. And talk about the good news that God has given to us, thinking like missionaries. Everything that we do as a congregation, we should be thinking not about programs, but about relationships How can I think like a missionary, bringing Jesus with me in my life? Caught up with Jesus and what he is doing. I mean, the message of Matthew, you could boil it down to saying, God could have left you and me to perish in our sin. That would have been perfectly just. He could say, I'm simply going to treat you like the fallen angels, and I'm going to judge you justly according to how you've lived. We'd all perish. And then he could have simply called by the word of his power a new race of people, perfect, into existence. How much would that have cost him? The word of his power. Matthew's telling us what God did was infinitely more costly and difficult. He sent his son in the flesh to live the life you and I could never live. To die on the cross, we cost God the blood of his own son. And that son grows up in victory from the grave. Conquer death. He calls you and me to take this message wherever we are. Some of us to go among the nations, some of us simply where we are here, thinking with the same exact mindset. How do I bear Jesus in my life? How do I bring him? Knowing, knowing. That his presence is with me every day. It's only by his presence and his power that you or I will not be cowards. That we will talk about Jesus, that we'll speak of him like a Brit Hume and be faithful rather than hide. Living as we wait on tiptoe for that return when he will come back and bring us to himself forever. And that, dear friends, is what Matthew is all about. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, forgive us for being self-centered, seeing the church as a place to serve me as a consumer for my needs, my desires. Lord Jesus, open our eyes to see you, to see our own needs, to see that you have met every one of those needs. You've died for our sins. He rose to conquer death and to give us life. And you are calling a people to yourself. And you're working that mission to continue through us, every single one of us here who know you. And so, Lord, we pray that you would show yourself to any who need to know you, and that you will show us yourself who do know you. That you are using people just like us, people who are willing to simply say, Lord, I'm available to you. Help me to think like a missionary. Help me to be available. And we want to pray, Lord, just in this moment. I just want to give a moment of silence. For each of you to pray, Lord, what are you calling me to do? Lord, here I am. Take me. Offer yourself to Him now Lord, you hear us. You do hear us because you are here And we pray, Lord, that you will remind us through this week that you are with us. And that you will soon come to receive us. In Jesus' name. Amen.