Well, you remember that in our study of chapter 6 of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is focusing on living by faith. He is saying to you that if you really believe that you have a heavenly father, that though you cannot see him, he is real. that you will be more aware of him and you will be more focused on him in the things that you do than on the effect that it has on other people or what they think of you. And he gives three examples of this. First of all, in giving. And you could extend that to other acts of kindness and charity. You won't need to get credit from other people. It'll be enough that your Heavenly Father knows that you gave. In your praying, the second example, he says you'll pray not to impress others so that people think that you're spiritual because of the phrases you use and the piety that you express. You won't be focused on superstitiously figuring out what works in praying. What is it that seems to get answers, but you'll be focused on your Heavenly Father? And then he gives the Lord's Prayer as a way of showing that prayer shouldn't be self-centered But it begins by addressing him and thinking about him and then focusing on him and then in that context bringing your own needs to him. Now I hope that after our weeks of studying the Lord's Prayer, that you're actually using it. Because now that you have perhaps gained some understanding about what it's about, now is the time to each day. Last week, this week, be using that prayer not only as a format, as a framework for fitting your own prayers, but remember as a conversation initiator. To be focusing on those particular items, to have some good quality conversations with your Heavenly Father. But now this morning, we come to the third example of what Jesus is using to show us What a difference it makes to believe that we have a heavenly Father and living by faith in him. The third example, of course, is about fasting. And if you're honest, that probably surprises you when you think about it, because you all give and you all pray. But when's the last time you fasted? I'm not talking about in connection with weight loss or for medical reasons. I'm talking about just for spiritual discipline in connection with prayer. When's the last time that you fasted when you prayed? And also, I mean, I've got to admit that this uh topic is a confusing one for Christians because um A lot of us aren't sure. We had a good discussion in the middle hour about fasting as we talked about some of the implications practical of this. Because we have questions about it, don't we? You know, and Why should a Christian fast? Should a Christian fast? What are the benefits of fasting? Isn't fasting just for the Old Testament? And if you get into fasting, can't that become legalistic and superstitious and So why would we do it? And if we do it, how should we do it? For what reason? On and on. So what I want to do is look at those questions this morning. And it's a good time to look at fasting because Next Sunday we're talking about feasting. So I figure it's a good message to give before Thanksgiving, but not too close to Thanksgiving, right? All right. Well, three points want to look at. First of all, notice that Jesus assumes that we will be fasting. First point is when you fast. You notice that twice Jesus says in these three verses When you fast, do not look somber as the hypocrites do. Verse 17, but when you fast, put oil on your head. So Jesus is assuming That you will fast. He doesn't talk about how frequent, he doesn't talk about the when's or the particulars, but he does assume That you will fast as a Christian. This is to his disciples. So he's endorsing it along with giving and praying. Now, I think it is significant that this teaching comes right after the Lord's Prayer, because in the Lord's Prayer, he was dealing with our thoughts in prayer. What I want to argue in this message is that he is dealing now with our feelings in prayer. And I want to try to demonstrate that. What does the Bible teach about fasting? Well, I look at first point there, fasting. In the Old Testament, it's significant, I believe, that there is only one time that the Bible commands fasting. It's in conjunction with the Day of Atonement. Every year, God's people in the Old Testament were to fast during that period uh of the Day of Atonement. Number of references to that, but take a look at Leviticus chapter 23. You see it up there. Use this one because it mentions fasting three times. You see there on the tenth day of the seventh month is the Day of Atonement, hold a sacred assembly, and the NIV is more literal here, it says, and deny yourselves, we would say, and fast. And present an offering made to the Lord by fire. Don't do any work on that day, because it's the day of atonement, when atonement is made for you before the Lord your God. Anyone who does not deny himself or fast on that day must be cut off from his people. Serious consequences. This is not a suggestion. I will destroy from among his people anyone who does any work on that day. You shall not do any work at all. It's be a lasting ordinance. Verse 32, it's a Sabbath of rest for you, and you must deny yourselves or fast. The Hebrew word that is used there means literally to afflict yourself. So you should afflict yourself or literally humble your soul. It's a vivid way of communicating humbling before God. That's the blank, because that is the essence of it. Fasting is humbling before God. God commands it. He says, you shall not eat. You shall fast. Why? Because when you fast, it catches your attention. And as you are hungry, you begin to think about life isn't just the material. You focus more on the spiritual. It gets your attention. And as you begin to engage in the repentance and the understanding of the meaning of atonement, the need for atonement, then there's kind of a spiral effect Uh you start by fasting, but then the more you think about why you're fasting, the more that becomes more important to you than simply getting food. You have a deeper hunger for God, a hunger to have your sins forgiven and taken away, the hunger for a Savior. So fasting is intended to be both an expression and an inducement toward The recognition that you and I are empty and hunger for God who alone can satisfy and feed us. Now, it is done a number of other times in the Old Testament, not just in conjunction with the Day of Atonement, not commanded, but it simply is something prompted from within. For instance, when David Here's about the death of Saul. He and his men fast in their grief for the death of Saul, and what a tragic life. uh in 2 Samuel 12 after the his sin with Bathsheba. David uh Bathsheba has the child and the child is born very sickly David fasts and prays for a week in anxiety, pouring out his heart before God. The baby dies and he gets up and he eats. The fasting, the the anxiety, the urgency of the prayer has passed, but it's it's you see um prompted by this kind of urgent necessity In Zechariah 8, 19, you have fast instituted during the exile to remember God's judgment upon Jerusalem, a time of memorial mourning. And so again, it's the idea of sorrow. Um in Daniel nine it's an interesting example, and so I'm putting that one up there because uh in Daniel nine Toward the end of the exile, Daniel realizes that the seventy years are about expired It says in the first year of Darius, son of Ahashuerus, Meed by descent, who was made ruler over the Babylonian kingdom in the first year of his reign, I Daniel Understood from the scriptures, according to the word of the Lord given to Jeremiah the prophet, that the desolation of Jerusalem would last seventy years. Next verse three, so I turned to the Lord God. And there you have three words about prayer. I pleaded with him in prayer and petition. Interesting that in connection with that, you have three words about humbling. In fasting and in sackcloth and in ashes. So it wasn't that I just prayed, but there was a humbling There was a fasting that accompanied that. That is, it's not simply thoughts that are conveyed, but it's there's a feeling, a feeling of need, a feeling of uh repentance for what brought on the exile, the humbling of sackcloth and ashes, so that fasting has this idea of a broken heart in connection with prayer. In Esther 4, You have fasting to indicate desperation. That's the time when you remember that there would come an edict to slaughter all the Jews. Esther determined that she was going to break the law and risk her life to go unbidden to the king, but before she does, she says to the Jewish people, Fast for me for three days. Pray your hearts out, guys, because I'm going to go and my life is on the line. So go with urgency, fasting and praying before I take my life in my hands to go before the King. Bottom line, see there in your bulletin outline, what is in common with all these things? It is always because of deep feelings of sorrow or repentance joined with prayer in seeking God earnestly. That's the essence. That's what prayer that fasting is about. Fasting is always because of deep feelings of sorrow or repentance joined with prayer in seeking God earnestly. It expresses deep feeling, not just words. Come to the New Testament. Now, what's the difference with Jesus? Three things about Jesus in fasting. First of all, notice that in Matthew 4, Jesus fasted, began his ministry Before he preached the gospel of the kingdom, how did he start? He started by after being baptized with the Spirit, he goes out into the wilderness Not for 40 years as Israel, but for 40 days. And he fasts. Fast for 40 days. Now Jesus clearly isn't fasting out of repentance. Jesus isn't fasting in grief. Why is Jesus fasting? He's fasting for you and for me. He's fasting with us on his hearts. He is going as the Messiah to engage battle with Satan. And in preparation for that onslaught, for that conflict that he will engage in, Jesus prepares himself By afflicting himself, humbling himself, getting beyond simply the material to get an eternal spiritual perspective, fasting for you and for me. So that fasting is a fasting because of us on his heart. Then in chapter 6, Jesus corrects the abuse of fasting. Do you see what had happened? Go down to C now. The Pharisees had taken that which in the Old Testament was always a matter of the heart. It was an expression of a broken heart, a repentant heart, a needy heart, an empty heart. A desperate heart seeking God. And they turned it into a ritual for self-righteousness and the demonstration of piety. In fact, pious Pharisees fasted twice a week on a regular basis. And so they did this, Jesus says here, in order to impress other people. He says there that they uh disfigure their faces. They uh try to look all uh gaunt, you know, and here I am suffering for the Lord. No, don't give me any chocolate cake, I I'm fasting, I'm just Then it's Leah to impress people with how you are seeking after God. And he says, that's ridiculous. Uh it's distorting the whole purpose of it. It's not an empty seeking God is a self-righteousness that's full of one's pride. But secondly, they try to impress God by fasting. It's a superstitious way of trying to gain control over him. If you look in uh Luke chapter 18 in verse 12, you remember the Pharisee and the publican come before the Lord, and the Pharisee Praise. I fast twice a week, every Sunday and every Thursday, and I give a tenth of all that I get. So God yew me Here I come. I'm coming with a request now, and uh I've done what I need to do. I have fasted, I have given, so God, you owe me on this request. And Jesus says that this is an entire distortion of the whole meaning of fasting. Fasting comes empty. It comes seeking God, uh, not coming to offer something as a meritorious action Third thing to notice about Jesus in fasting, I find to be particularly significant, and that is that Jesus taught that his presence precluded fasting. You remember back in Matthew 9, you have it up there, then John's disciples came and they asked him, How is it that we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? What gives? Jesus answered, How can the guest of the bridegroom mourn while he's with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, then they will fast. Notice he uses mourn and fast as parallel ideas. Again, it's the expression of mourning, it's the expression of a feeling. So Jesus is saying, when I'm here, you can't fast. Now just think about that admin. It's just one of those little insights about Jesus that is not the main point, not the main point of the passage or the sermon or anything, but it's it's so significant that we dare not miss it. Suppose I were to say to you guys, you know, when I'm here on Sunday morning, nobody should be sad because Al Harris is in your midst. And when Al Harris is with you, man, nobody should be frowning or sad. You guys ought to be singing and dancing 'cause I'm here. You know. You'd say, ha, get over it, Al, you know. Unless Jesus is God and Messiah, that is not a very humble statement. But it is so natural for Jesus to say. My disciples can't fast because it's like having a wedding and you invite the bridegrooms and they're all gathered around and say, okay, we're going to have the feast. Now you guys can't eat anything. Why not? We're celebrating the bridegrooms here. Unless Jesus is God That's an arrogant statement. Just one of those little things that you see in Scripture that show the deity of Christ in just an inferential kind of way. So Jesus is saying here There is a time that is coming, the bridegroom will be taken away, and then my disciples will fast Once again, he's indicating that that will be a normal practice. It's something that you and I will do, which leads to the second question. Why do we fast then? Why should you fast? Well, first of all, a couple of reasons not to fast. First of all, clearly it is not to gain God's favor. It is not a superstitious activity like Luke 18, 12, to get God to owe you. Jesus has gained us the access to God as the Father by His death and His resurrection. So your Father sees your heart's cry, he responds to your heart, because Jesus is the fulfillment of the Day of Atonement. That was the one time God's people were commanded to fast. Jesus says, I have come, I have completed the atonement, therefore there is not the command to fast. Hebrews chapter ten, for instance, says that year after year those sacrifices were offered. If they had accomplished forgiveness, you wouldn't have had to offer them again. They're a continual reminder of sin. But when this priest comes, he offers himself once for all for the sacrifice for sin to make perfect those who are being made perfect in their experience So, therefore, verse 19, he says, we can come through a new way, the body of Jesus Christ. to the temple, the holy place. And we can come with confidence, having our bodies washed with pure water and our consciences cleansed, with confidence to come to the Father with our needs. We don't come groveling. We come knowing that Jesus has gained the access You don't fast in order to gain access. Now, you wonder maybe why I'm belaboring this. It's because there are Christians still that teach. that somehow fasting is a meritorious way of getting from God something you wouldn't otherwise get if all you did was to pray. Let me give you an example Back in the early 90s, 1994, I believe it was, Bill Bright, respected leader of the church, the late Bill Bright, decided to fast for 40 days for revival and uh awakening in America. He said it was a life-changing experience He became convinced during that period of fasting that if he could get enough Christian leaders to fast and to pray that that would bring necessarily revival and awakening to the United States. So the next year he called a conference called Fasting and Prayer 95 The brochure from that conference I still have, and it says this, Bill Bright's words, I am confident that he is going to send a great spiritual awakening to North America and the world. before the end of the year 2000. Because we have all these people that are fasting and praying. So it's gotta happen. Here it is 2007, and I don't know about you, but I don't think I've seen the awakening and the revival that Bill Bright was expecting. We don't get a revival insured by something that we do, even whether it is fasting and praying. In fact, he goes on in this to say that many discovered that the Christian discipline of fasting is a spiritual atomic bomb given by God to help destroy the strongholds of the enemy. In other words, there is an inherent power in fasting that somehow gets God to do things that he wouldn't otherwise do. Now, is Jesus teaching here that God will reward you as your heart is broken before him to seek him? I believe there are things he will do that he wouldn't otherwise do without our seeking him. It's part of the means that he designs for us to draw into a closeness with him. But there is no inherent meritorious value. to fasting. Michael Horton, in his critique of Bill Bright back in the nineties on this, said remarkably, Mr. Bright seems to believe that his own fast serves as some sort of a meratorial, mediatorial sacrifice that as surely as the law of gravity is predictable in its results. If one does X, God must do Y. He credits his fast with the salvation of human beings And then he goes on talking about how he sees all necessarily various blessings coming from the practice of a 40-day fast. So we do not fast thinking that somehow, if we fast, if we said as a congregation, we're all going to fast next Sunday and pray for the deficit in our budget to be eliminated by the end of the year. And if we can get 50% of you to show up and we will fast and pray, then we are assured that God will do that. No. No If we plead with Him and come broken before Him to ask Him to provide for our needs Provide for us to be able to build the facility that we believe that God wants us to have that will help ministry. Will He respond to our prayers? I believe that it will make a difference But the fasting doesn't have in itself some sort of meritorious effect. It is an expression Of a desperate, broken heart. And as always, what Jesus is speaking to you and to me here about is our hearts, not the activity. That's what he's focusing on. So fasting is not to impress God, it's not to impress people. What is it for then? Why do we fast? Well, the New Testament gives us two examples and two reasons First is to seek the Lord in some personal crisis. It's a way of coming before him, broken. Do you remember when God met Saul on the road to Damascus? And he showed himself to be that Jesus was truly the Messiah. Paul was struck with blindness. In Acts chapter 9, we read that he was led blind into the city of Damascus. In Acts 9. 9, for three days he was blind and did not eat or drink anything. When you are trying to persecute the church and to destroy it, and you find out that the king of the church is God, you lose your appetite. Paul all of a sudden realized, I have been persecuting the Messiah's people. There are things that will happen in your life and in my life that will get your attention in such a way that food means nothing. You lose your appetite. And Jesus is saying, when those times come and your heart is broken, it's a good thing to just set aside the time and seek me. That's my spirit working in you to draw you to myself in a new way, a breakthrough. There's been times in my life where I've sought the Lord Because of some crisis, something that happened, and I didn't design to fast It just happened because I wasn't interested in food. I just came before the Lord. There are times when you will do that. Pay attention to those promptings of the Spirit. We are so focused on immediate gratification and the satisfying of material needs in our culture that we don't think about fasting. Which is to help us to get in touch more with the spiritual. And it's an expression of our brokenness before God. The other reason that we may fast is corporately, the church may at times come together. for a particular time of fasting and seeking God. Now in putting together this message, I decided that even though there are a number of historical examples of this and you One prominent that comes immediately to mind is as we approach Thanksgiving, thinking of the pilgrims in sixteen twenty-three when after they had had their harvest and they were going through there was a particular drought that hit their area and their crops were languishing in the fields. It hadn't rained for weeks. Everything was dying. And the pastors of the Plymouth colony called the people corporately to fasting and prayer to seek God in humbling and confession of sin. They did that, and a couple of days later it began to rain, gentle rains that saved the crop. The problem with the example is If I tell you that, our minds and the flesh begin to think, ah, the fasting did it. What do I need to get? Maybe fasting will work. It never can be that way. Brothers and sisters, it has to be. There is a corporate sense. We must seek our God. The leaders say God is laying this upon us. It is not, should we do it? We can't not do it. We seek his face. And it's the seeking of his face that is expressed in a broken heart that sets aside food and comes together for that purpose that God honors and hears and Jesus says rewards. That does promise in verse 18. So finally, and you see that as an example, by the way, of a corporate in Acts chapter 13. Where the church at Antioch is worshiping and fasting, and in that time the Holy Spirit says, Set aside for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. So afterward they had fasted and they prayed. They placed their hands on them and sent them off. The Church of Antioch is saying, Where do you want us to go, Lord? We don't know your will for us, your purpose for us. So they fast and they pray and they worship, and God changes history as a result of that. He sends out the first New Testament missionaries, one of whom goes to Europe with the gospel, and that changed the course of history. But it wasn't simply because they fasted, it was in conjunction with the brokenness of their hearts and saying, God, we need you to show us and meet us. Hopefully it's getting through. Fasting is about your heart being moved by the Spirit of God to say, I need Him. more than food. I need to set aside everything else. They didn't call that prayer meeting in the church of Antioch and then say, okay, now we've got to schedule in. Who's going to bring in the pizza in a couple hours? You see, it's very simple. When you have a corporate prayer meeting and you're fasting, nobody's got to prepare for all the food. You just pray, and it's when that's all you can do, and you're not looking at the clock to see how long until we get to eat. It is the Spirit prompting a fast with prayer. Finally, a few words. How to fast. How to fast. First thing is Jesus says, look normal. Look normal. You don't do it to look somber as the hypocrites do, for they disfigure their faces to show men that they are fasting. I tell you the truth, they've received their reward in full They wanted people's admiration. They got it. That's as far as it went. Do not try to impress anyone. Show that you're suffering. Show up to the Sunday potluck and say, nope, sorry, I've got to pass up the banquet. I'm fasting today. you know, or all the rest of that kind of stuff. You just before the Lord, you fast. Led to a number of discussions about particulars in the middle hour, um not addressing particulars purposefully uh how much we're talking about drink and liquids and all the that's between you and the Lord. It it is what is the setting aside in your health and electrolytes and all the rest of this kind of stuff. What it is for you to be able to set those things aside simply to seek Christ. So look normal, function, it's a heart matter. It is not a matter of some legalistic setting aside of certain things and letting people know about it. Secondly, D. Look to God. Look to God. Look to Him secretly, the one whose face alone you're seeking with a broken heart and deep urgency. Knowing, verse 18, so it will not be obvious that men to men that you're fasting, but only to your father who is unseen. And your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. He's the one. We are so casual about prayer. We even talk about saying the Lord's Prayer. I am convicted by this, brothers and sisters, how casual I am in the things that I pray for. What is it that you simply can't live without, where you're like Jacob, God, I will not let you go unless you bless me. What is it that God's placed in your life that He would speak to you about this morning saying, why are you so half-hearted with wimpy prayers about this? When is your heart going to be broken over this as my heart is broken? When are you going to join me in a brokenness, in a desperation to say, God, I don't know what you want to do. I know what the longing of my heart is. Best I can understand when I pray your kingdom come and your will be done. This is what comes to my mind, but Lord, I haven't seen it. I don't know. And I'm going to instead of just complaining to you off and on, be miserable, I want to set a period of time here, now, this week, this afternoon, some period, where I'm going to come before you and I'm going to sell set everything else aside. Because this is more important to me. There are times when I have done that and God has answered, and I thought, why is it that I am only desperate for a few things? Why can't you generate desperation? But we can cultivate seeking God more earnestly And Jesus is expecting that that's part of our life with him when you fast. Because there are those times when his spirit is prompting you in your emptiness. To know that you must have his face and the promises that he will answer and reward. So, see, look expectantly. Always remember that the fasting is joined with prayer. It's no merit in itself, but He will hear, and He will answer with infinite wisdom. For your good and his glory. What does that mean? You'll get the answer to the prayer? Nope, not necessarily. There's times when I've sought him in that kind of desperation, and God has met me, and nothing changed in the circumstances, but I was changed because I knew he had met me. Your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. In other words, it will be worth it. You will be satisfied. Don't know what'll change in the circumstances, but you will know he has met you. Let's pray. Lord, we want to come before you now as those who confess we are so casual. About things that we say we really care about. And I'm convicted, Lord, of the casualness of my praying. When do I weep for where our culture is headed? Where do I weep to you and cry out to you for those close to me who don't know you, who aren't walking with you, who are walking in sin and unrepentance? For this the needs in our congregation, the needs in our community, needs in my own family. Lord, we thank you, Lord Jesus, that you opened the way of access. We never have to do something to gain your favor. You invite us to come confidently to the throne of grace. But confidently is not casually. And we've abused that. And so we pray, Lord, that you would teach us, teach us the discipline of fasting individually, as families, as a congregation. That we would have hearts that are broken before you, hearts that seek you, hearts that come and say, perhaps today, perhaps sometime this week we're setting aside time to seek your face. And that's really all that matters. So Lord, come and show us, show us the reward that you intend for your people. Lord, I covet that for every man and woman, boy and girl here. The reward of a God who reveals Himself to those who desperately seek you. That you would teach us, teach us, Lord, how to pray not just with words. But with earnest, broken, seeking hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.