Thank you, Nicole, again and band and I was thinking as I was listening to you sing that this time about God's gracious healing of Colleen and the joy through the trials of what he's been doing in your family. So praise God for that. Let me tell you that the office has been pressing me this week on my choice of sermon topics. They pointed out that on Mother's Day I preached on lessons from the losers, which was about the twelve disciples, and that on Father's Day I'm preaching on hell. I assure you there is no connection that is intended whatsoever Um being a dad um has had its moments, but I must say that for the most part it's been a great blessing, continues to be, and uh I assure you for you dads it's a high calling. Hope you have a good day. But it's simply I'm trying to get through Matthew 10 and 11 before vacation time. And so I was actually going to move right on to verses 32 to 39 after last week's message, but a few weeks ago in our staff meeting, we got into a discussion about how contemporary churches are not always doing a great job at funerals. in uh serving the people who come. Because it seems like today, no matter who has died or what we know of their relationship with Christ or how they died, everybody is given the assurance that this person is in heaven enjoying their favorite sport or hobby. Hell is always for other people if it exists and possibly it's empty. Hell has become a dirty word, almost true in the evangelical community. In fact, a one person in our congregation said they were at a funeral last week. It was a very tragic situation where a 22-year-old Died in very nasty circumstances involved in drugs and among num number of other things. No indication this person had a relationship with Christ, but everybody was assured that he was in heaven that they could hope go home feeling a little better about it. It was not real long ago that a sociologist by the name of uh James Davidson Hunter from the University of Virginia did a survey. And in the survey he asked evangelical students, those who claim to believe the Bible is God's Word. If Mahatma Gandhi did not change his opinion of Jesus and died without believing in him as Savior, could you assert that he is in hell? Majority would not be definite on that. So I thought that probably before we just move on, it was good for us to consider for one message some difficult sayings from Matthew chapter 10 in verse 28 because they're the words of the Lord Jesus. Let me tell you, it's probably only the third or fourth time in 31 years that I have preached on hell or eternal punishment. It's not something I gravitate to. But there's also tremendous good news in this. So I thought I would spend this message thinking of the reality, but also to correct some misunderstandings. that I think we commonly hold. There was discussion in the middle hour, and we're done middle hour discussions till September But uh hopefully I'll make five things sufficiently clear to you from verse 28 about hell Five things for us to affirm and to get our feet grounded in from Jesus' words here Remember, he says, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Rather, be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Five things to note. Number one, hell is physical. Hell is physical. You notice he says, the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Daniel 12, 2 speaks of people. awaking from the dead, the resurrection of the body, some to everlasting glory and others to torment. But it's the bodies that are raised. Now here is uh where I want to begin to address what I think is the first misperception that we have about the Bible's teaching on eternal punishment in hell. And it is demonstrated by these two pictures. Look at the first picture here. Maybe you can't see it real clearly, but it is people, these men that are all writhing in their bodies in flames on hot coals. uh and it's just a picture of exquisite torment. They're not doing anything but suffering. And of course the suffering generally is depicted as suffering of the body. But it is not within the context of any larger activity that's going on except pure suffering Or take a look at this second picture, classic medieval picture, where you see the flames and you see the people under various kinds of torment. Uh, you know, down here a demon sort of sadistically enjoying tormenting somebody, some guys in a cauldron of hot liquid being boiled, you know, all these kind of things. Just the the most you can think of to say, how can I invent exquisite torture and that's hell I would like to offer that if the scriptures speak about heaven and hell as somewhat parallel antiphanal uh existences. In heaven there is a society. We live and and we do things as a society. And I would like to suggest, I'll say a little more about this later, that hell may also be the existence of society. People who are continuing to exist and going on in their lives. It is a physical existence of life. The second thing I want to say about hell, I'll deal with that a little bit later if you don't understand. But the second thing that I see from verse 28 is that hell is necessary. Notice that Jesus says, rather be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. And I think that's one of the good news parts for the believer about hell is that uh as Tim read a couple of those verses Hell is the destruction of all evil and impurity. For instance, as we saw in Revelation 21, verse 27, about heaven, nothing impure about the new heavens and the new earth, nothing impure will ever enter it. Nor will any one who does what is shameful or deceitful, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life. One of the main features of the new heavens and the new earth is that there is no evil there. There are no threats from a Kim Jong-il. There is nothing to fear. There is nothing hidden, as we talked about last week. But because humans are eternal, they don't disappear. They're not annihilated They continue in an existence that is separate, a place separate from for evil, from the place of God's people. Judgment is necessary to rid The new heavens and the new earth of all evil. Problem is we think that hell is always for other people In fact, in one recent survey, only eight percent of the people surveyed thought they had any chance of ending up in hell. And personally I'm not convinced that ninety-two percent of the human race is going to heaven, but uh we think that hell is just for other people. It's for really evil people, not like us and our friends. I think that's another dangerous misperception. Pick that up again in just a few minutes. But the third thing I want to say about hell is that it is important. It's very important to Jesus. Jesus taught more about hell than all other biblical authors put together. That's something I ought to give you pause. I give you a dozen examples listed there in your bulletin outline, and those don't even include John the Baptist, who starts off the gospel talking about the warning of hell. But you see there in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus talks about if you despise someone, you're in danger of hellfire. He talks about it's better to cut off your hand than end up with all of your limbs in hell. John in Matthew 7, verse 13, narrow is the way that leads to life, wide the way that leads to destruction. Depart from you. from me, you evildoers. Many passages. Look at chapter 13, verses 40 to 42, for instance, Jesus says, as the weeds are pulled up and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will weed out of his kingdom everything that causes sin and all who do evil. They will throw them into the fiery furnace, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Intense suffering. We're in chapter 25, the classic passage where he separates in the final judgment the sheep from the goats. Verse 41, then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you who are cursed into the eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. Verse 46, then they will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. Interesting. Nobody ever wants to posit that eternal life may not mean eternal. And yet people say, but eternal punishment may not be eternal. It may be just temporary and then there's annihilation. The word, the same word is used. That punishment is just as eternal as life in heaven. So it's eternal, it's it's unending. And as we hear those verses, some of us may be sitting here kind of turned off or embarrassed. You're thinking, oh Jesus, you know, it's a a lot of good things you say that I tell my friends. I don't tell 'em about that very much. It's it just um it's actually frankly a little embarrassing and You find yourself dismissing hell? Well, before you do that, realize that for you and for me to dismiss the idea of hell Is to say that we are wiser and more compassionate than Jesus. Jesus healed lepers, touched them. He healed demoniacs. He went fearlessly into any situation to heal and save hurting people. His message in the Sermon on the Mount concerning love was the most exalted message of love that anyone has ever declared. And he saw no inconsistency with what he did and what he taught and his focus on hell. So before you and I try to downplay, to dismiss or to ignore the teaching on hell, Realize that if you are doing that, you're saying, I know better than Jesus. I'm more compassionate than Jesus is. I'm wiser than Jesus. And that, brother and sister, should give you a pause. Jesus taught more about hell than all other biblical authors put together, and he saw it entirely compatible. with what he did and what he taught about love. The fourth thing to notice about hell is that it is dreadful It is dreadful. He says, Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul, but rather be afraid. Of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. He says, be afraid. Now, if I were to warn you to not travel in North Korea You might call me an alarmist, or you might say that's an appropriate fear given what happened to two American journalists recently who were sentenced to 12 years. of hard labor in a prison camp. Some fears are wise and appropriate Jesus is doing you and me a wonderful favor when he is reminding us that there is a God who is just and holy And who must, in fact, judge and destroy sin to maintain his own character as well as to rid it from the place where he will bring his people to enjoy his presence forever. Hell is a reality And Jesus is saying in this verse, you fear the wrong thing. You're afraid of other people. The worst they can do to you is kill you. But there is one before whom you will stand at the end of your life who is able to destroy both soul and body for eternity. Jesus is saying, rather than being so obsessed with other people's opinions of you, you should be concerned with God's opinion of you and your life. What does he think? Now it's true that some people can make your life difficult if they don't like you. Miss California Carrie Prijeen made a moral absolute statement in the Miss America contest. And she suffered consequences. She was deprived of the thing she set her heart on there. Now she's become a rather controversial character, so I'm not speaking about her and her life. I'm simply using her as an illustration that if you make a moral statement People may react to that, any kind of moral absolute, and particularly if you're identified with Jesus Christ There may be people who will seek to make your life more difficult because of your identification with Jesus Christ. But Jesus is saying that is nothing compared to what God thinks of your life and what He will do, how He will respond. Get your eyes off of the human judges. Onto the one just judge of your eternal destiny. The alternative to heaven is hell. There are degrees. It's not simply hell or heaven. There are degrees of hell, there are degrees of heaven. But there's no third alternative. Every single person in this room. When you die, will either be declared invited into heaven or consigned to eternal hell Jesus is saying that is something to reckon with. Do not dismiss or ignore it Now, hell is described in the Bible primarily by two images, fire and darkness. Most scholars agree that those are not necessarily to be taken literally, but rather describe the effects in the feelings that are conveyed through it. For instance, in fire, there is the idea of torment, longing for release, thirst uh i it it is a an intense sense of suffering. In darkness there is the sense of isolation disorientation, loneliness, and that these ideas are conveyed through the images. But if you are to search for what is the essence of hell I think the Bible's fairly clear. The essence of hell is separation from God. Do you remember in chapter 7 when Jesus spoke about, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, we knew you and served you and did all these religious things. And for some of those who did not follow him, he says, I will say, Depart from me, away from me, you evildoers, separation from him and his presence. Paul puts it as clear as it can be in 2 Thessalonians 1 and verse 9, where he says, they will be punished with everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the of the Lord and from the majesty of his power. Hell, in other words, is God, as he says three times in Romans 1, giving us up to our own way. Three times he says in Romans 1, God gave them over to their own desires, God gave them over to their own lusts, he gave them over to their own will and their own way. You see, if you ask the question, what is in common with every unbeliever Who rejects Jesus Christ and doesn't want to follow God, what is the bottom line thing they all have in common is saying, God, leave me alone. And hell is God's answer to that request. Hell is God saying, You want me to leave you alone? I will leave you alone. Hell then is God's answer to the person who wants to be left alone without his presence. Talking to somebody just recently, sharing the gospel with them, and a man and his wife, and she said, he's really a very moral good person So we don't feel like we have a lot to worry about, you know, if there's order in the universe. He's a very kind person to other people. Just one little detail. He leaves God out See, and that's the way people think today. God's a detail. If you're nice to other people, that's really what matters. But the fact that he ignores God says to God basically, leave me alone. I just want to live my life the way I want to live it. I'm going to live it nice. I'm going to be per. But just leave me alone. Hell is exactly that Tim Keller, um often quoted by people today. I think he has something worth referring to and quoting on this in something he wrote about hell. And I'll give it to you. He says, I have found that only stressing the symbols of hell, fire and darkness, in preaching, rather than going into what the symbols refer to, eternal spiritual decomposition. actually prevents modern people from finding hell a deterrent. Some years ago I remember a man who said that talk about the fires of hell simply didn't scare them. It seemed too far-fetched and even silly. So I read to him these lines from C. S. Lewis, quote, Hell begins with a grumbling mood, always complaining, always blaming others. But you are still distinct from it. You may even criticize it in yourself and wish you could stop it. But there may come a day when you can no longer Then there will be no you left to criticize the mood or even to enjoy it, but just the grumble itself, going on forever like a machine. It is not a question of God sending us to hell. In each of us there is something growing which will be hell unless it is nipped in the bud. End of quote. Keller goes on, to my surprise, he got very quiet and said, now that scares me to death. He almost immediately began to see that hell was A, perfectly fair and just, and B, something that he realized he might be headed for if he didn't change. Kathy and I, this past week, were talking about what hell might be like and how different it is from the common ideas of fire and brimstone. Possibly a daily society, kind of like now, with one great exception. God's total absence. No grace, no mercy, as Paul says in Thessalonians, shut out from the glory and the presence of God. So there's no kindness. You go up to the cash register, you know, and the person says, oh, well, you know, you're five cents short. And somebody behind you says, here, I'll throw in a nickel. Nobody will give you a nickel in hell because you don't deserve it. No kindness. No enjoyment. All complaining and grumbling, unending work and no satisfaction No rest or delight. As we began to think about what life is like Totally void of God's presence, we began to get a feeling of suffocation. The utter abandonment of such a life. You see how different that is from the kind of caricature that we like to present, that hell is somehow an arbitrary display of torture. But rather simply the natural consequence of the shout, God, leave me alone, and what it's like. When he does. You can also understand why there are degrees of punishment in hell Because the Bible, as we'll see in chapter 11, places great stress on the greatest sin is the rejection of the gospel. And so you picture this person living totally in the void of God's presence. And it's a little bit like a woman who was courted by a poor man who wanted to lavish his love on her And he she rejected him for this rich fellow who she thought would give her everything she wanted and would make her happy, and then found out he only wanted to use her and dump her after a short time. And she has lost the love of the one who really cherished her. The regrets of saying, I heard the gospel. I heard of the love of Christ. I heard of this God who judges sin but has made a provision for it, and I rejected it. God forbid that there would be some of you who would look back one June of 2009 and say, why? Why when I heard that? Did I treat it lightly? Did I put it off? Did I spurn it? Did I despise it? The regrets added. To the life apart from any grace and mercy will be not only suffocating, it will be unbearable And that leads me to the last point. Hell is avoidable. Hell is avoidable. Verse 28 is a warning that Jesus gives. It is not a fait accompli. It is not simply saying, that's the way it is. He says Do not be afraid of those who can only kill the body, but rather be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell because there is something you can do about that You see, in chapter 9, we read about Jesus going through the towns, and it says he went through all the towns in verse 35, and the villages teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom. And healing every disease and sickness. Verse 36, when he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. The fact is that Jesus did not leave us alone. Jesus came into this cursed world. And Jesus Christ came to experience hell so that you would not have to. The very essence of hell, as I said, is separation from God. And when you come to Matthew chapter 27, Matthew tells us that when Jesus hung on the cross, among his last words about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out in a loud voice, Eloy, Eloy, Lama Sabakani, which means, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That was hell, and Jesus Christ experienced hell. Not hell that is always for other people. But that when you look at the Sermon on the Mount and you look at his teaching, you say, I deserve hell. I deserve to have my life continue without God's presence in it. Because I have chosen to live apart from him. Maybe religious, maybe irreligious, but I want my life on my own terms You can continue in a self-chosen hell. J. I. Packer says, Hell is self-chosen. Or you can turn to Jesus, recognize your need of Him. Ask him who suffered the abandonment and the separation by God for his sacrifice to cover your sin. And receive the free gift of heaven. And that is the gospel in a nutshell. So you see, if you trivialize hell, you trivialize the sacrifice of Christ. If you trivialize and dismiss hell, you trivialize and dismiss the love of God in Christ. It's time for us to get away from the drift that we're in in the church and the culture that looks at hell as an embarrassment. And to see rather that hell is the necessary consequence reality of life saying, Leave me alone, Don. And to realize that hell displays the dimensions of the love of Jesus Christ for you and for me. Do not put off running to Jesus to hide in him to escape the one Who can destroy both soul and body in hell? What will the preacher at your funeral be able to honestly say? About where you are, the best we know. Only you know. Bring your honesty before the Lord now. Let's pray. So Lord Jesus, we come to you and we fight off all the mocking, trivializing of hell as flames and fire and brimstone of another age, and recognize that hell is the necessary reality without which there cannot really be a heaven. That hell is simply the consequence of your holy justice in which you display That justice against sinners who have trivialized you and have set you aside. Lord, help us to see the truth that hell is in fact the answer to our lifelong shout, God, leave me alone. But Jesus in his great compassion is the answer to the humble cry of the one who fears the great judge. Lord Jesus, save me. Lord Jesus, let your sacrifice be for me. You endured hell so that I could receive heaven. So, Lord, may every person in this room go out either with the terror that will not be put off to say, I need to come to Jesus. Or to go out singing and dancing. I have been given heaven. Hell is not a threat to me because of Jesus Christ and him alone. Hallelujah! Hear us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen