Well, we are already to the seventh of the Eight Beatitudes. We've been visiting each week this hillside. by the Lake of Galilee, right at or very near, probably the place where Jesus originally spoke the words of the Sermon on the Mount To hear his words of wisdom that search your heart and my heart, that humble us That show us our need of Christ for Him to change our hearts and to give us the blessings that He promises in each of these Beatitudes. So let me ask you again, uh, have you memorized them yet? Now I hope that it has occurred to you that the kids have memorized them. So if you're still having trouble, ask one of the kids in the children's choir. If they'll teach you their song and that'll help you to get through the the attitudes. P M M H M P P P, remember? first letter of each of the words characterizing the Christian, that you might have that in your mind and in your heart. But I'll tell you, nothing Searches our hearts more than this seventh Beatitude. Blessed are the peacemakers. For they will be called the children, the sons of God. Now, we hear that verse and um probably don't have any great reaction to it. Sounds rather natural, somewhat expected. But I'll tell you that would not have been the reaction of a lot of the people that heard Jesus when he first said those words. Some would have been offended, some would have been surprised. Because they thought that when Messiah came, that he was going to establish a military regime that would overthrow the Romans. And uh would deliver Israel from their oppression by armed conflict So to hear Jesus say, blessed are the peacemakers would have been not only surprising, but offending to some of them. And you and I, if we're honest, find these words hard. Unwelcome. Because we all have conflict. I had conflict with my wife this week, and uh the problem is when I'm preaching on something like this, uh you know, I can't escape it And so I want to stay mad at her, and then I'm reading, blessed are the peacemakers, and they'll be called the sons of God. It wasn't a verse that I wanted to be preaching on or that I wanted to be reading. It cuts across us, doesn't it? It cuts across those grudges that we feel so privileged and have uh rightfully to possess and nourish. And yet it comes to cut across all of that. See, we want peace as long as it's on our own terms And so we live in a world of conflict. And that's the first blank, first point. We live in a world of conflict right from the beginning. Right from the very fall when God came to Adam and He said, That woman that you gave me, she's the one that gave me the fruit. And he blames her. Their first two children, Cain and Abel. They both offer a sacrifice, an offering to God. God accepts Abel's blood sacrifice. He does not accept Cain's vegetable sacrifice. And Cain is jealous and resentful. Why does Abel's sacrifice get accepted? And he attacks him. He's so mad. Now, it may be that he didn't know that he was going to kill him. He had never seen human death. And so when he attacked him, he just went at him with rage. And then he sees his brother bloody lying still on the ground. The horror of death. And the book of Genesis continues on as one lamentable record of conflict after another. It's not long after that that Lamech brags. Cain was avenged seven times. You mess with me. I avenged 77 times. I am a tough guy. And then you have Ishmael and Isaac, the very beginning of the conflict down to today between Arab and Jew. That began with those two brothers. And then you have uh Jacob and Esau. Jacob cheats Esau out of his birthright. Esau wants to kill him. Jacob has to flee. Joseph's brothers want to kill him, and they sell him into slavery, and on and on and on it goes. Until you finally come down to the New Testament, from Adam to the zealots, A to Z, human history. The zealots hear Jesus' words and they think, oh What a wimpy teaching. We want to get those Romans, and I'll tell you, when we get a hold of them, we're not going to be peacemakers until they leave the land. Right down on to today, it's the very same thing. Last two weeks, Time magazine, cover stories. We're on conflict, war. The last week before last was about the world's secret war, Congo Describes how few people even talk about the war in Congo, but four million people have died in that war since 1998. This week, of course, this week the uh cover story about Iraq, the tragic killings in the village of Haditha. What's going on there, but the the frustration, the rage. This week also the story about um Zimbabwe. Not a war going on right now, but it's expected that at any time there will be a frustrated rage and civil war against an oppressive and corrupt government that has been destroying that country. U. S. News and World Report this week, two-page picture of Afghans stoning an American Humvee that was involved in a traffic accident where one Afghan was killed. And on and on and on it goes in Iraq and everybody hears of the death of Al-Zaqari and nobody thinks, well that's the end of the operations of Al Qaeda. It's just a matter of who will succeed in. British generals said some years ago The Arab people will only respect force. And so the killing goes on and on and on. We live in a world of conflict. We live in a world of conflict because that's our natures. So the second point is that peacemaking is supernatural It's just not natural to us to make peace. In fact, a historian has written that of the last 4,000 years of human history, only 300 have enjoyed peace. In fact, if you look at the expenditure of resources, materials, and human lives It seems like war is Earth's greatest industry. Peacekeeping is supernatural. Peacemaking It's supernatural because our natures are vindictive and cruel. And it's not just those guys. It's just not out there, you know, the leaders of the world. Why can't the leaders of the world just Learn to live at peace. I mean, kids beat up on kids. Kids bully other kids. Meanness. I remember going to a basketball game when I was in seventh grade. And when I was at the game, I heard that Kenny Sites was out to get me. I didn't even know Kenny Sipes. I mean I knew who he was. He was an eighth grader. Tough guy. What did you have to get me for? I never did anything to him. Next thing I knew I'm out in the North X, there's this ring of guys bloodthirsty, and they got Kenny Sipes and me in the circle, and they want them to go at me and beat the stuffing out of me. And I was scared. I had never been taught to fight, to defend myself. That punched me. That got me mad. So I attacked and I got him down. When I got him down, all his friends surrounded him, got him up, and I realized all of a sudden I'm not fighting one guy, I'm fighting the whole gang here. And it began to have visions of a very short life. Fortunately, a teacher came in about that point, broke it up. And I lived in some terror over the next few days, thinking that this gang was going to get me and my body would be found in an alley somewhere. So we live in a world that seems to desire conflict, being tough. And even if we as adults live in a civilized way and we don't physically attack each other, peacemaking is still supernatural because I want peace on my terms. There's times when I want my way more than I want peace. There are times when my wife does something, and I know that I am going to disrupt the peace of our household by saying what I want to say, but I'm going to say it anyway. Now there's times when we need to disrupt the peace to say something constructive. It's not always loving to just have peace I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about I want to say what I want to say, and she's going to hear it, even though I know that it's going to be destructive. That's my heart. That's your heart. And we see two other people who are at odds and they're in conflict and they're talking against each other. Do we want to get involved and help to make peace? No. You say, you know, what do I want to get involved in that for? You kidding? I'm not gonna Go get into something that I'll probably be sorry for and then they'll won't like me and take sides. Forget it. Or if there's somebody that perturbs me, irritates me, or I just don't like 'em for some reason, you know, and there's been some conflict and you just kind of think, well, you know, why don't we just avoid each other? We'll just, you know. Because we don't want to get involved in all the hassle of who's right, how are we going to reconcile? Our natures are not peacekeeping They're not peacemaking, right? Isn't that your heart? My heart? God looks at your heart and you look at your heart now. Isn't that the case? Peacemaking is supernatural. But the good news of the Bible is that our God is a God of peace. At point B, the next blank. Our God is a God of peace. Let me just give you a few scriptures. There's many that you could look at that would say this, but for instance, in the ironic blessing of number six The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you, be gracious to you. The Lord turn his face toward you and give you peace. That is, give you his peace. He's the God of peace. For Psalm 29 that John read at the beginning, the Lord gives strength to his people, the Lord blesses his people with peace. For Romans 15, may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in Him, so that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit, the God of peace. Be with you all. Amen. He's the God of peace. For Hebrews chapter 13, may the God of peace Through the blood of the eternal covenant brought back from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep. May he equip you with everything good to do his will. To establish peace, to make peace, to live in peace. Even the Messiah And the prophets as they spoke of the one who was to come in his kingdom, Isaiah chapter nine describes Messiah as the prince. Of peace, for unto us a child is born, to us a son is given. The government will be on his shoulders. He will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Jesus came to earth from heaven. Talk about inconvenience In order to make peace, he took on a physical, limited, earthly body for eternity To make peace between you and me and the Father whose enemies we were. He taught peace, and then he made peace. You remember Ephesians chapter two Where it describes how after saying we were dead in sins and God raised us up. It talks about how we were Far from him. We were removed. We were alienated without God, without hope. And then Paul says, Jesus came, verse 11, He Himself is our peace. It's a declarative statement. It simply says, He is our peace. He is the one. He's the one who he goes on to say destroyed the barrier, dividing wall of hostility by abolishing in his flesh the law with its Commandments and regulations. Jesus lived as God's Son in perfect harmony and peace with the Father. And Jesus took upon himself all your rebellion and disobedience, and he established peace between you and the Father. But Paul goes on to say it's not just a vertical peace between us reconciled to God, but He says he made the two one as a destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility. What's that referring to? referring to the enity and hostility between two people groups who have hated each other more than perhaps any other people groups in history. The first century Jew and Gentile. The hostility, the despising of the Jew for the Gentile, and the Gentiles despising the Jew. The rancor was so great that on any feast days the Roman army had to call in extra troops because they expected rioting and bloodshed because of the hatred of one for the other. If you were a Jew and you had a cask of wine and a Gentile just opened it up and stuck his nose in your cask of wine, you had to throw the whole cask away because he had polluted it with his nose. Good way to get a free cask of wine, I guess, if you're a Gentile, but you know that's how much you hated the Gentiles. Around the temple, there was the court of Gentiles, and then there was a barrier, a wall, and a sign that said, if you trespass this wall, You have only yourself to blame for your imminent death. Hatred. Paul says, Jesus broke that barrier. He made the two one He destroyed the dividing wall of hostility. His purpose was to create in himself one new man, one new humanity out of the two, Jew and Gentile, thus making peace. And it is one bo this one body to reconcile both of them to God through the cross, by which he put to death their hostility. He came and he preached peace. That means he announced peace. Doesn't mean he said, be peaceful. The word preach there is the word to announce good news. He preached peace. He's brought peace. He's established peace to you who were far away and peace to you to those who were near. For through him we both have access to the Father by one Spirit. So that's the fact. He has established peace You remember that pattern in the book of Ephesians. You see it other places in the Bible, most notably in the book of Ephesians. Every command is based on the fact, you know, indicatives and imperatives. All the imperatives are based on indicatives. You guys remember some of that stuff Every command, chapters 4, 5, and 6 is based on a statement of fact of your new identity, what Christ has done, chapters 1, 2, and 3. Chapter 2, he has established peace. So the very first thing that Paul says in chapter 4, after he says, live out of that, is, verse 3, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. He's established peace, but you and I need to work for peace. We don't automatically get along. Well aware of that. You don't automatically get along with your husband, with your wife, just because you're both Christians You make effort, every effort. You work at it. You don't give up when it seems like You just can't try one more time, he says, make every effort, because you are not working for peace, you are working from peace that already exists. in your relationship in Christ. So you and I know already we can have peace. Doesn't seem like it. But the demonstration of our peace is a demonstration of the power of the gospel. Blessed are those who are peacemakers, for they'll be called children, sons of God. You see, the gospel says that only Jesus can bring peace. That's the next blank there. And because you see, you and I cannot go to the cross We cannot, as Jesus says in the beginning of this list, you cannot see your spiritual bankruptcy See that you're an enemy of God, mourn that, and have no way, no recourse to make it right. And at the foot of the cross, you see that he has been merciful to you. He's forgiven your sin. He has made peace. He's reconciled you to God. That gentles you. You can't go there and have another believer go there and say, but I'm better than you. All of us are racists at heart. All of us feel that we have certain superiorities until we come to the cross. And at the cross, there is no superiority. At the cross, you are gentle. At the cross, you hunger and thirst for a righteousness you don't have and is given to you, and so you're merciful. At the cross, you become a peacemaker because you have received peace. So a group of over thirty of you in two weeks will be going down to El Paso and Juarez, Mexico. To help credibility for the churches there, that in cultures that live in tension Establish and honor peace, show the power of the peace of the gospel. And so it is that for years we have sought and prayed that God would help us as a church to live at peace with other churches. black churches, Asian churches, Hispanic churches, and demonstrate to Howard County that in the gospel there's peace and only in the gospel can people live. in a peace that honors one another without inf superiority or inferiority. It's a gospel issue. It's not a sociological issue. Jesus says, blessed are the peacemakers, for they'll be called sons of God. Peacemaking is a gospel issue at his very heart. Regine King is a peacemaker with her husband in Rwanda. She barely survived the genocide of 1994, lost many members of her family. For months she scavenged, was in hiding, trying to exist to stay alive. And now she is back in that same country to be a peacemaker, in a country that's been torn with hatred. In a country where teachers teach in schools the children of people who came at them with machetes to kill them. Back when the genocide was taking place, one of the few possessions that she had was her sister's Bible. And so she read it. And in reading that Bible, she came to know Jesus, the Prince of Peace. And he changed her life. He took away her bitterness and her hatred. He gave her a desire to Get a degree to go back and to serve as a peacemaker in your own country. Listen to one of her stories told in her words. A woman's only son was killed. She was consumed with grief, hate, bitterness. God, she prayed, revealed the killer. One night she dreamed she was going to heaven. But there was a complication. In order to get to heaven, she had to pass through a certain house. She had to walk down the street, enter the house through the front door, go through its rooms, up the stairs, and exit through the back door. She asked God whose house this was It's the house, he told her, of the man who killed your son. The road to heaven passed through the house of her enemy. Two nights later, a knock at her door. She opens it, and there stands a man about her son's age. He identifies himself. I am the one who killed your son Since that day, I have had no life, no peace. Here I am, my life is in your hands. Kill me. I am dead already. Have me thrown in jail. I am in prison already. Have me tortured. I'm in torment already. Do with me as you wish. The woman had prayed so long for this day, but now she finds that she cannot kill him. She doesn't want him thrown in jail or tortured. She asks only one thing. Come into my home and live with me. Eat the food I would have prepared for my son. Wear the clothes I would have made for my son. Become the son I lost. And so he did. You see, peacemakers do what God Himself has done, making sons and daughters out of bitter enemies. feeding and clothing them, blazing a trail to heaven straight through their houses. No wonder they will be called sons of God. D. A. Carson thinks that Jesus says here they will be called sons of God rather than children of God. Because the Semitic expression, son of someone, expressed likeness to that person. We still have that idea crudely down in our own day. We recall somebody son of, and it means you are like that. Jesus takes that and transforms it into a positive statement. You will be called, you're a son of God. Because you act like him when you make peace in conflict But you know, if I stopped at this point, we'd probably think, yeah, that's nice. Appreciate that. Great what God has done. I need to pray that God will help me to be a peacemaker. Without making the painful connections to the areas of our own world where we would rather keep them sealed off. So let me mention a couple. It means that you are a peacemaker in your home. How many of us sit here worshiping as families? Looking like we're at peace when we were bickering in the car on the way to church, when this past week we have said cutting, hurtful things to one another. We have not apologized. We have not sought peace. Our attitude has been, you started it, you first. Kids see moms and dads who never ask for forgiveness. Never grant forgiveness. Never say, I'm sorry. I'm sorry that I hurt you. Or maybe you're right. Never pray together. Stubbornly say, if you come and say you're sorry, then I'll forgive you. And the kids say, they talk about the gospel. I don't see the power of the gospel. Why should I serve this Jesus? Peacemaking demonstrates the power of the gospel. Peacemakers are what God's children, his sons, those like him, are called. You know, it was so wonderful yesterday to celebrate Bill and Barb Polding's 50th wedding anniversary to see two sinners who still hold hands, have their arms around each other, smile Because that says they have learned a lot of peacemaking. You better believe it hasn't been fifty years of unrelenting peace. But they've learned by the gospel to give and grant and receive forgiveness. That must be true in our homes. There's no excuse for saying you first. And so you and I need to examine our hearts before the Lord this morning. Lord, you say, Blessed are the peacemakers. Am I at peace with my spouse? Am I at peace with my kids? Do I ever say to my kids, I'm sorry I lost my temper? I was wrong, forgive me. Peacemakers Bear God's likeness because it's a gospel issue. It begins in our homes. See Bill and Barb back there. Amen on the learning to make peace. He's waving. Extends from the chur from the home to the church. Churches should be places of peace. Doesn't mean that everybody always agrees, that we all are able to affirm what the other one says. But it means that we live at peace because of the gospel. Because He's the one who is able to establish peace between us. Now let me just mention, suppose I announce we're going to do something fun this week. We're going to divide up the congregation and we're going to randomly assign you to five other people for dinner. Now, putting aside your schedule, what's your first response to that? Is it, oh, that'll be fun. I'll I'll uh you know get to know some new people? Or is it, man, I sure hope that so-and-so is not in that group. What a miserable evening that will be. Now, we all have preferences, okay? No question. But are there people that you would dread being in that group that you are alienated from? You know, Jesus said before you go to worship, verses 23-24, coming up not long after this, he says, if you know somebody That you suspect that person has something against you even before you go to worship, you need to go and be reconciled, make peace with that person. It's three weeks until the next Lord's Supper Are there some people that you need to go to? To at least attempt As much as it lies within you, Paul says, live at peace with all people, doesn't mean that you are guaranteed to be able to But at least that you make the attempt out of the gospel and the way God has gentled you and given you a merciful heart that hungers and thirst for righteousness. The church should live at peace. It means we don't criticize one another to another person willing to hear it, and they're not there. Both the person who gossips and cuts down the other person and the person who hears it are both sinning. There's times when I do it and I'm wrong, and there's times when I hear it and I'm wrong, and we need to say, you know, I'm uncomfortable. With where this conversation's going now. Maybe we could stop and pray for that person. If you want to continue the conversation with that person, I'd be willing to be with you. We don't, do we? We find it so easy to hear what we need to pray for that brother or sister about We destroy peace. Brothers and sisters, that's got to stop. We need to simply repent and come before God today and say, I will not do that. I will not listen to that. Jesus said, blessed are the peacemakers. I want to be blessed. I want to know the blessing of somebody that seeks to bring and establish peace within his body. But you know, I can't go on without saying we have to be careful that we see within the church and the church at large that it's not peace at any price. One of the saddest things about the history of the Presbyterian Church was in the 1920s, where there was tremendous conflict over the gospel. And during those times, there were some men, gospel pastors, one man in particular. who was known and regarded by people around the country. His name was Dr. Robert Speer. He was a committed Christian, a committed evangelical. But on at least a couple of occasions, Dr. Speer was so concerned that Christians live at peace that he did not make an issue of the gospel where he could have and shouldn't. And so those backing the gospel lost places of leadership And the peace at any price costs dearly to the witness of Christ in the Presbyterian Church. When there is conflict, there are times we need to stand for truth, and it's with tears that there will be the conflict, and we can't back down because we long for peace. But we will not insist on peace at any price. And this goes throughout the rest of our lives. Things like our extended family with your parents perhaps I know of one mother who hasn't spoken to her children for over a year, waiting for them to come and beg her forgiveness. Tragic situation. Brothers, sisters, others. Or at work. Are you part of the gossip sessions that get together and talk about The inept leadership and all the rest of it, you seek to make peace. Peace in our community. Peace in the world. You say, oh come on, now I'm responsible for the world. Well, do you pray for peace? Do we say, Lord, we pray for our president and the cabinet? Or do we just say, what's my prayer? It doesn't matter. It's the attitude, praying, longing, hungering and thirsting for righteousness, peace. Peacemaking is supernatural. It's a gospel issue. Last thing to say, need to close. Best thing I can recommend is this book by Ken Sandy, The Peacemaker. If you don't have it, you're looking for help in making peace, get it. It's in our library. We can order copies if you want to buy them. Every two years we offer a course that is based on largely on this book. Unfortunately, the course ended last hour Won't be for another two years, but uh you can get the book, you can get some of the materials. Steve Green has some of these materials, Ken Williams. Uh if you want, you know, give me some practical help. I know of nothing better than this book. It's based on four principles. Glorify God. That is, it's not about winning and losing. That's the first blank. To glorify God, that's your aim. Second, get the log out of your own eye, look at yourself first, not at the other person's sin. Thirdly, go and show your brother his fault. Gently go, tentatively go Talks about how to do that. And then fourthly, go and be reconciled to give and receive forgiveness. He talks about the steps of how to do that. Very, very helpful book. Because when you do that, you are blessed. There's great satisfaction. Ken Sandy talks in that book about a time when he invited somebody to go to his church who wasn't a Christian. She came in the first day that he brought her to church, the pastor stood up, and before they began worship, he said, I want to tell you something. Last Sunday in Sunday school, you saw, many of you, that my brother here, Kent, and I got into an argument. And we said some harsh things to each other. We lost our temper. And I want you to know that we got together that afternoon. And he's thinking, you know, how great of all the Sundays to invite somebody to church, here the pastor's talking about arguing with one of the elders and blowing up, you know, why in the world did this have to happen when I bring an unbeliever? He said that last Sunday afternoon we got together, we reconciled, we were able to restore our fellowship, confess to one another, and we want to confess to you right now that we ask your forgiveness for disrupting the peace, the fellowship of our body, and giving you such a poor testimony. And then they prayed together. And Ken said he mumbled a couple of excuses to his guest, Cindy, and they went on. But after the service she said I can't believe your pastor did that. I've never seen anybody do that. You see, it modeled Peace, the peace of the gospel. She came back again and again, became a Christian. And what he thought was an embarrassment, God used to show the power of Christ. You may be called this week to get yourself in a messy situation. You say, I don't see anything good coming out of this. But you know what? If we make peace, Jesus says, you will be blessed. What's God saying to you about that? Let's pray. Father, we come in just this brief moment. To give you our hearts and ask you, Lord, that we will, you will give us a love for you that is greater than our dread of conflict. Some of us avoid conflict at any cost. That you have called us to be peacemakers, and that's out of the gospel. That's out of a Christ who can change our hearts And we ask, Lord, that you would, whether it's because of resentments and grudges that we're holding on to, or the unwillingness to get involved, to take the step to say you first, on and on, whatever it is, Lord, would you Would you break our hearts before you now that we'll see Christ and see your power work in us to be peacemakers? That we might reflect you, the God of peace, in Jesus' name. Amen.