Last week I began a study of the Gospel of Matthew, and uh we saw at that time that uh perhaps the greatest distinctive of this gospel is that uh Matthew seeks to portray that Jesus is the Jewish Messiah. He is the fulfillment of all the Old Testament hope. We saw that Matthew quotes the Old Testament 61 times. That's almost as much as the other three Gospels put together. Matthew refers to Jesus as Messiah seventeen times. Five of those times are in the birth narratives that we're looking at. You have uh chapter one in verse one, the record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, that is Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Verse 16 Jacob, the father of Joseph, husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who was called Christ or Messiah. Fourteen generations, from Abram to David, from David to exile, from the bab uh exile of Babylon. to Christ, Messiah. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ, Messiah, came about four times in chapter one, chapter two When the Magi come, they ask, where is the Messiah to be born? Verse 4, Christ. Because the word Christ is simply the Greek for the Hebrew word messiah. So, what we want to do this morning is to examine as we start Matthew's Gospel uh to see that his focus, his emphasis, particularly in the birth narratives, is to show that Jesus is the Messiah and he fulfills all that Messiah is to be and to do is to ask ourselves, why is Matthew so excited about the fact the Messiah has come? What is it that's essentially at the root of this idea of Messiah? It's a term that we hear, and yet um sometimes we can lose hold of just exactly what it is that Messiah is about. So you see in your bulletin outlines there, first thing, what does it mean? Word Christ, Christos is Greek, and it's the uh simply the translation of the Hebrew Messiah, Mishiach. And that simply means that the basic meaning is the anointed one. A Messiah is one who is anointed. The Messiah is a distinctively Jewish concept, and it's rooted in the Old Testament, the Old Testament view of the world. Messiah doesn't make any sense apart from the Bible because it pictures that God, the infinite, personal creator, made at a point of time creation. That creation was perfect. There was nothing essentially wrong with it. It was not marred or defaced in any way. The garden in paradise was absolutely perfect in all its beauty, its loveliness, its peace, its glory. Then at a point in time, Adam and Eve both decided to disobey God, to sin. And that brought what we call the fall, the fall from that perfection, the garden. Where everything became marred, defaced, scarred because of that. And ever since that nothing has been right. Not a single thing. No thought, no motive, no action, nothing in creation is as it should be. The very creation itself cries out and longs to be made right. In the very beginning, at the time of the curse, God says to Adam and to Eve, I'm going to give a hero who is going to crush the head of the serpent. And he's going to make things right. And so if there's anything, somebody asked me after the first service, you know, so what again could you boil it all down to? What is Messiah about? Messiah is the one who makes everything right. And every time you see something in your life and you're in touch with your heart enough to know that this is wrong This is shameful. This is disturbing. This is tense. It's disappointing. It's hurtful. Whatever it is that you can look and you say there's a Messiah that's going to set everything right. Everything right. Now what I want to do this morning is look at just some of the basic ideas that are wrapped up in that idea of Messiah. The word, the verb from which we have the word Messiah, is a word which, as I said, means to anoint, and more specifically it means to rub something, to smear something. If you paint your house, you could use that term. to r to rub the paint, to apply the paint on the house. If you take baby oil and rub it on a baby, it's that same term that was used. If you were to give a back rub with some lotion, it would be the same term that would be used to stroke, to rub. The word can also be translated to sprinkle or to pour. First Samuel ten one, Samuel anoints Saul by pouring some oil on him. So that's the idea. It's uh Oil that is sprinkled or poured can be smeared or rubbed, but generally sprinkled or poured in order to anoint. Now, secondly What does this anointing do? It does a number of things as you look in the Old Testament. First of all, anointing designates a person, marks them out, is separate, special. That's the first point. If you remember when Saul was set aside out of God's favor because of his disobedience as king, and Samuel is sent to Jesse's home. Jesse has eight sons And God says, I'm going to reveal to you which one is to be the king. And so he goes in, and first seven sons come before him, and the Spirit of God is quiet. And uh Samuel says, Uh is this all the sons you got? I mean just seven? He says, Well, you know, no, there's there's actually an eighth when he's out taking care of the sheep, but he didn't think he was worth bringing in. And Samuel says, Well, I can't do anything until he comes in. So they bring in David and immediately the Spirit of God says, that's the one. And so he anoints him. This is the one. This is the chosen one. And so when Matthew comes at the end of chapter one, or verse seventeen, the end of his genealogy, he says, Now these are all the generations leading up to From the exile to the anointed one. He is the one of God's choice. He's the designated one It means not only to choose or to designate, but it means also to consecrate, that is to set apart for special holy use. Twenty-nine times in the book of Exodus, you have this word used about objects in the temple or tabernacle for worship. Pots and basins and cups and candlesticks and utensils that are used not for common use Chins couldn't have any old meal out of these things. These were consecrated because they had been anointed with this oil. To set them aside for worship. J They were holy. They were consecrated. The priest who performed that went through a special ritual of anointing with oil to consecrate them. Set them apart as special for this. Not only did it consecrate them, but also with that was the idea of God's protection that came along. This is still under B now. That God would protect them. They were set apart for his holy use. So do you remember that when David, who didn't seem to have many compunctions about running his sword through his enemies, uh on a couple of occasions had the opportunity to run his sword through Saul. Saul, who was his greatest enemy, David said, I will not touch What? The Lord's anointed. He's under God's protection. So it doesn't matter what his heart's like. He's under God's protection. So do you see how Matthew picks up on this and he talks about the Magi coming and they say, where is the anointed one to be born? And Herod wants to destroy him, but he can't, you see. God delivers him. He removes him to Egypt because he's the anointed one. He can't be taken until God's time. He's protected because he's anointed. You have also the idea of bestowing authority. That's C. Anointing bestows authority. It means that the ones who are anointed have God's authority to discharge their office. And that's a critical matter. Give you some scriptures there. We'll come back to that in a couple of minutes. So just hold that. Finally, anointing empowers the person who is anointed to be able to accomplish God's mission. Oil is symbolic of the Holy Spirit. And so the Holy Spirit When a person is anointed, comes upon that person in order to accomplish the mission. Remember Isaiah sixty one. When the Messiah speaks, the Spirit of the Sovereign Lord is on me because the Lord has anointed me. Same word, that's the word from which the verb from which we get Messiah. The Lord has anointed me. to preach the good news to the poor. He's empowered me. And so you sum up what Messiah is, means, it's it's a holy power residing in a man for a special mission. That's the essential root idea of Messiah. Now before we get on to the heart of the matter, who it is that is Messiah and what his basic function is I threw in some material just for your own study, your interest. We don't have time to unpack this, but uh the third point there, what was used to anoint and why? I think it's very interesting, it's fascinating. uh to look at this because uh it wasn't just any old olive oil. What God used was this uh very fragrant perfumed oil was an it was a recipe for it and uh so this was what was used and you have reference to oil uh and sometimes this particular kind of oil in a number of places in scripture which uh fill out some of the meaning. So I just encourage you to take a look at those. For instance the idea of prosperity and abundance In Psalm 104, you have wine to gladden the heart of man and oil to make his face shine. It's a feasting thing, you know, it's party time, put on the oil. Oil is associated with power and ability. The horn of oil. He's lifted up my horn and anointed me, Psalm ninety-two. So you had that idea of oil, the um The oil that was used uh that was carried in a horn, horn symbolizing power. Uh oil, of course, was used for light, and so it speaks of light rather than darkness uh used in the lampstands in the temple. The oil was used for to make bread cakes, uh the special cakes that were used at party time, uh used olive oil uh to make them, used in food. Uh was used in health and beauty devices. It's kind of like that uh Avon oil. I mean I saw it years ago. It's you know it's an oil that you can do everything from uh lubricating your door locks to smoothing your skin and making yourself beautiful, you know. It's you know, just a lot of stuff associated with perfume, Song of Solomon. It was oil made uh to soften the skin, uh particularly in a dry climate, to moisten. It was all these ideas of luxury, beauty, fragrance, life Psalm of twenty-three, you have anointed my head with oil, my cup runs over. You see, the whole idea is that the life Messiah brings is rich and full and delightful It's not thin. It's this this caricature of Christianity. Christians are people that that are always trying to stop fun and are always trying to prohibit. It's very different. It's a vastly rich full expression of God's goodness in life. That's the idea. And that's the idea that Matthew, I would say, pours into this whole meaning of Messiah pun intended there. to see how Jesus fulfills all that. But now it's so sad if you read through the Gospels and understand something of the history and the culture is to read of the literature at that time how the rabbis were constantly debating and discussing when's Messiah going to come and what's he going to do? What's Messiah going to accomplish That's what they were always talking about. When Jesus came, when he was born, there was an intense longing for Messiah to come out of the Jewish culture. What was so tragic is they would speculate what is he to do, and they they focused for the most part on that he is going to be a king to rule. And they would speculate based on whatever scraps of evidence of Messiah they could see in the Old Testament. And it was just a classic illustration of missing the forest for the trees There were three offices in the Old Testament that all required anointing. And these three offices, everyone who filled any of these offices was called a Messiah. was the clear demonstration of the work of Messiah. And yet the rabbis missed it, totally missed it. Makes you sort of wonder as we look at prophecy now, you know, and say, what are some of the obvious things we may be missing? There were three offices, prophet, priest, and king. All of those were messiahs. And all of those offices Deal with the deepest, deepest needs of your heart and my heart this very morning These are not offices, they're religious things for religious people to kind of get into and study and think, well that and that that's kind of interesting if you're you know if you happen to be religious and you're into Jewish lore and all that No, no, no, no. These are things that are at the very heart of the questions and the longings of every human being, you and me included. The first was the office of prophet. The office of prophet, prophet was a messiah. Psalm 105, verse 15 refers to the prophets as the anointed ones, the messiahs of the Lord. Every prophet who spoke for the Lord with authority had to have been anointed with this oil. so that he could speak, thus says the Lord. And what was the essence of his function? He was to reveal God and his will It was to address the basic function, the basic concern of your life and my life, knowing God. That's the most basic thing. Who is God? What is he about? What is life about? And so you see that Matthew portrays when Jesus gives his first talk in the Sermon on the Mountain. section we'll probably look at most intensely in the whole book. After three chapters of Jesus saying, You've heard it said, but I say to you, you've heard it said, but I say to you, let me tell you What characterizes people who are happy and blessed in life? Let me tell you how to live. Let me tell you what to avoid, what to do. Let me tell you how to pray. Let me tell you how to know God. Let me tell you how to reflect God. And on and on and on. He finishes at the end of chapter seven, verse twenty eight When Jesus had finished saying these things, the crowds were amazed at his teaching because he taught as one who had authority, not as their teachers of the law. That's the essence of Messiah, you see. He came and he spoke with authority. Now imagine for just a moment Imagine that your Bible is taken out of your hands if you have one. I hope you bring one still, even though stuff's up here on the screen. If you have a Bible, any Bible you have in your home, they're all gone, disappear, gone, and everything you have read from them is erased from your mind. How does that change your life? You go to the mall and you look at the season, you see TV and you say, Well, what's Christmas about? Tim said after the first service, it's about family. That's what you hear It's about getting together. It's about your close ones, your relationships. Is there anything more? How are we to live? Is there a God to know? Why was I made? What do I exist for? Is the universe ultimately personal or impersonal? Are we simply groping around in the dark, speculating? You know, scientists now say, well, this is a really curious thing. We find that in our universe, in this solar system, there's one planet that has the six magic numbers that sustain life. You know, just change any of those numbers, you can't sustain life. Isn't it amazing? It's just, you know, by pure chance that that happened. Is that the way it is? You see, if there's no revelation, if God doesn't speak, we're clueless. Why you don't speculate? Now think how your life is different because there's a prophet Because God has come and he has spoken. Not to give you full, complete knowledge of everything. We're still confused. We still wonder much mystery. But enough information, knowledge, to know God, to know about Him, and how He would have us to live. What a blessing, what a treasure, isn't that this morning? Now imagine that only the New Testament was taken away. So you get the Old Testament. All right, well, that's terrific. You got 39 books. There they are What do you have? You have longing. That's what you have. You have a God who's revealed Himself as a holy God who speaks truth. You know about creation. You know about the fall, you know about a hope, but you really don't know how to approach God. You know that God in his holiness also invites a people to himself. But you don't know about God as Father. You don't know the God that is revealed in Jesus Christ in his fullness. So Jesus came as Messiah. Now here's here's the part that you know I get I gotta watch I don't kick over a poinsettia. Jesus, when he came as Messiah, did not simply come to speak about God. Jesus comes to reflect God not simply in his words but in his works and in his life in his character he is Messiah you see his whole life reveals God So when you look at Jesus, that's what God's like. And when you see Jesus deal with people in his gentle honesty When you see him uncompromising in his holiness, but so tender in his grace, that is the prophetic revelation of God-likeness. That's God in his fullness. Matthew is saying, here comes Jesus the Messiah to fully reveal God. Now, you see, I mean, you know, just that part. But if you look at just that, You're still left alienated. Because now you know enough about God to know that He can have nothing to do with you in what you're like, and what I'm like. I see that I am so So shameful in my motives, I am so incapable Of really loving and serving and centering myself on him. I see how distorted are my views about him and my desires for him. And so God established the office of priest, the second messianic office. The essential nature of a priest Priests were every single priest had to be instituted in his office through the anointing of the holy oil. Every priest was a Messiah. Priests, Exodus 29, Leviticus 4, talks about the function of their consecration through the anointing oil. Had essentially as their job to mediate approaching God. So if the first need that we have is knowing God, the second is approaching God. How do I come near to this God without fear and trembling? How do I approach this God in my sin and my brokenness? And so the priests were given herds of animals, sheep and goats, and bulls and lambs and rams. And the priest would come and after having been sacked sanctified and set apart himself, he would take that animal, and the person would confess their sins, or the congregation would confess And then the throat would be cut of that animal and its blood would be poured out upon the altar. And that blood would be to cleanse the sin so that you could now approach this holy, living God, this righteous God. Who could not look upon sin. The priest enabled us to approach him. But as Hebrews says, every time you did that, you were reminded of your sin. You were reminded through the activity. That this wasn't sufficient, that you had to do it again, you had to come next Sabbath day, you had to come next Day of Atonement, John Kippoor, you had to come again and again and again And Matthew says, here comes Messiah, the Messiah, the Messiah priest. And what does he say? See in Matthew chapter 20 and verse 28. Just as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many The night before Jesus died on the cross, the very night he was betrayed, what does he do? He meets with his disciples in an upper room and he. celebrates Passover with them, the angel of death coming to bring out his people into freedom. He holds that cup, the cup of thanksgiving, and he says, This Blood is the blood of the covenant. This is my blood of the covenant, which is shed for you, for the forgiveness of your sins. Every messianic priest in the Old Testament came and offered an animal that could never take away sin. Matthew says, here comes Messiah, and this priest is going to offer himself to take away the sin. You see, he's the prophet who doesn't just convey information about God, he incarnates God. Here's the priest who doesn't simply offer another sacrifice that could never fully take away sin. He offers himself once for all. To take away your sin and my sin and your shame and my shame. So then all the things I look at in my life of all of my inabilities and all of my inadequacies I look at Jesus and I say, when Satan accuses me, because he's accused me many times this week, and he's accused you, how do you call yourself a Christian? How dare you think that you can approach God, that God can be for you, that God would hear your prayers, that God would care for you, that God would bless you And you don't answer, yes, but I. You simply answer, yes, but Jesus. He's the Messiah who offered himself. The perfect, sufficient sacrifice for your sin. You believe that Do you rest in that this morning? Do you see him as the anointed priest whose sacrifice is sufficient for every sin you ever have or will commit? And rest in that so Satan cannot accuse you and rob you of that clear conscience that Jesus paid for with his own blood. That's the meaning, essential meaning of Messiah, knowing God, approaching God. And thirdly, the kings were messiahs. You have eighteen times in 1 and 2 Samuel the mention of anointing a king with this holy anointing oil. Kings who were then authorized and empowered to rule for God and to establish his kingdom. The kings all ruled, uh the Bible says in the Old Testament as shepherds. The Bible calls kings shepherds. Well, you ever read about shepherds in the Old Testament? It's a picture of the king But the shepherds were unfaithful, and the shepherds were inadequate. The shepherds' kingdoms never lasted. And he makes that quite clear in the genealogy after Jeconiah, the exile, the end of Jechoniah, the line of David, through Solomon. But here comes Messiah. And he's an altogether different king. And so in Matthew chapter 12, you have Jesus after he has cast out the demon from someone And the paraphise say, Oh, well, you're able to do that because you're in league with the demons. And Jesus says, Now just think about that for a moment. See, the kingdom, the house is divided against itself is never going to stand. But If I, through the Spirit of God, cast out these demons, then the kingdom of God has come. And I'm the king, you see, I brought the kingdom In order to drive out Satan, to defeat him in his kingdom, and to rob him of his prey, to take you, whether demoniacs or sinners of every stripe and kind like you and I are, and I have brought you out of that kingdom. And so he says on later, the Queen of Sheba came from the south to listen to Solomon and all his wisdom, but I tell you. You better listen to me because greater than the Solomon is here. Solomon in all his glory's kingdom could not last because Solomon was corrupt in his heart. And in the end of his days, he defamed his name, disgraced himself in his poor judgments. But here comes a greater than Solomon, who comes and after his death, in order to defeat Satan and his resurrection to establish his new kingdom, says in Matthew 28, All authority in heaven and earth has been given unto me. Therefore, go make disciples of all the nations. I have established a new kingdom. And in that kingdom I have delivered you and I protect you. See, there were two ideas in the Old Testament King. The one was that he delivered and he protected you, and the other idea was that he ruled you. So the third blank is that we come to serve God. Approaching God, knowing God, approaching God, serving God, free to serve, hearts free liberated out of the bondage to ourselves and the tininess of our self-concerns to be enlarged to Jesus. And so we serve him with hearts that are freed. We serve him who has come to not rule as one designated over God's kingdom, but the one who comes to establish his kingdom, who is the essential king, who, as Isaiah 9 says, whose kingdom and dominion will last forever. Whose kingdom is a kingdom of peace. The rabbis thought that Messiah was going to come to be a king over an earthly kingdom for the worthy. Matthew says, oh no, Messiah comes to rule a heavenly, eternal, perfect kingdom for the unworthy. A kingdom where a gunman will never stand on a stage and murder those who are in the audience. A kingdom where A cabby will not come to pick up a fair in Baltimore as happened this week, and the man comes in his car and shoots and kills him. A kingdom where violence will not occur at sports events. Will there be sports events? A lot of us hope so, right? No reason why I wouldn't. But there won't be violence between the sports players and the fans Where if you leave your purse on a chair and forget to come right back, you won't be taken. Where your house won't be broken into and you will no longer need codes and keys to protect. A kingdom where you will not need a United Nations to try and keep fragile pieces operating, and where the head of the coalition will not be scandalized and disgraced by an oil for food program where one of the worst despots skims off twenty billion dollars to prop up his Hussein's corrupt government. But there will be an abiding peace, a ruling peace, not a peace like Iraq, where we think what's going to happen after January 30th? Will there still be chaos? Can we ever get out of it? But a peace that's stable and secure, in which there is no tension, violence, in which our hearts are joined together as those who minister to one another and serve the king together gladly and joyfully because our hearts are secure. simply wired that way. The kingdom in which there is feasting with no calories and joy with no regrets No funerals, no death, but life, deep, powerful life under the king, knowing God intimately, coming shamelessly Serving him joyfully. That's the nature of Messiah. Amen. Now finally, is there any way that you and I are called Messiahs? The answer is yes. If you look at the passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 1, Fascinating passage. I hope you don't just see it there, but you mark it and check it out in your own Bible. Paul says, speaking to the church at Corinth. Now it is God who makes both us and you to stand firm in Christ. Christ means what? Messiah. Messiah means what? The anointed one. He makes you and me to stand firm in the anointed one. And he anointed us. Do you see the connection? Don't see it in the normal Greek normal English translations, but it's the same word. He made a stand in the anointed one and he anointed us. Set his seal of ownership, you know, consecration on us. Put his spirit in our hearts to empower us, to give us a deposit guaranteeing what is to come. So you and I have been made prophets and priests and kings. In Messiah. You and I are prophets to declare the gospel and to reveal God, to invite people to come this Friday to talk to them about what Christmas means to us To be able to declare gently to the world that scorns us. And that, brothers and sisters, I must stop and say, was the intention of my use of that cartoon opus last week. I understand I did a poor job and misconveyed what I was trying to communicate to you in that. I was deeply offended by that cartoon. I was in no way sympathetic to that cartoon. I was simply trying to point out that's the way that the secularized world more and more looks at Christians as people with t-shirts on them saying, stop that. That's the only thing I really wanted to point out from that cartoon. The rest of it was just distracting and confusing. I simply wanted to say to you and to me. We can so easily be intimidated by a world that wants to marginalize us because it despises us. And the more we reflect Jesus as Messiah in our messianic functions, the more it will. But we dare not be intimidated by that kind of scorn. For we have the Spirit of God in us that we can go to the world in gentle power to say, I know what you think about religious people. But let me tell you about Jesus. I just want to show you something about him and what he's meant in my life. That's prophetic messianic functioning of the body. We're also messianic priests because the priest interceded And so we intercede for this world. We intercede in our private times, our family times, ourselves, Thursday mornings as we gather together in other occasions. To believe that God can change hearts through our prayers, that God could even change history, that God could change what happens in Iraq, that God could change what happens in American history. Because priests anointed by him, by his spirit, dare to claim his promises in large scale And pray that God would even use the program this Friday for people that come and hear to thirst for Jesus. And he's made you and me to be messianic kings, to rule under his authority, to reclaim the culture, and to be able to, with the Spirit of God upon us, to say, here is one little area That I'm going to seek to change, that I'm going to have influence. I thank God for Ezekiel Milner Mercer. I got it right in the first service. Ezekiel Mercer, who on a Sunday evening, I mean if you missed the s the part after the service That was the really good part. He went on for an hour talking about a vision of changing how guys through the prison system are released, transformed by Christians, supported by local churches to be able to move into society successfully. And here's a guy that says, I just want to give my life to that. And is God calling you, uh, you know, whether it's sand town or whether it's one thing or another to say, here's a little area. And and he has anointed me to function. As a king, under King Jesus, to be able to make a difference. You see, Matthew is coming with explosive force right at the very beginning of his gospel, and he says, I'm going to tell you about this Jesus The one who is Messiah, the one who's come, the definitive prophet to show you God, the one who comes as the priest to bring you to God, the one who comes as the king to protect you and to rule you and to change your heart. To bring thy kingdom in so that we'll serve Him forever and ever. And Christmas is the order by which we celebrate. Let's pray. Lord our God, we come and we thank you for the hope of Messiah. We hear that term, and yet Lord, we think how even those who studied day and night the scriptures in Jesus' day totally missed what it was about Lord forbid that any of us would come through this Christmas season and miss what your work is essentially about. You have come to set all things right. And you've begun to do that by your spirit through the church. And in that day you will come again. You will establish everything right. Fully beyond even the Garden of Eden. Lord, may we celebrate in our hearts and may we walk in faith, believing that you can even use us in that Thank you, Lord. We praise you and thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.