Last week we saw that Jesus is full of surprises. Someone told me afterwards that my sermon was full of confusion. What I was trying to portray is a couple of things. First, that um as you read the book of Matthew, um There are things that are not what appear, for instance, between verse eleven and twelve in Matthew 4. You would just read that and on the face of it you'd think uh that Jesus began his ministry in Galilee after the temptation. And you'd be absolutely wrong because there's probably about a year and a half of ministry that goes on. between verse eleven and verse twelve, which we're only told about in John chapter one to four, and that that ministry is something that Matthew omits because he is focused on where Jesus settled In an area that was totally unexpected to anyone of his contemporaries at that time. Jesus in John 1-4 you see uh began his ministry actually in the regions of Jerusalem, then went up to Canaan, and then went back down to Jerusalem for Passover, went back up to Cana. uh to Galilee, uh Nazareth, and then settled in Capernaum, and nobody would have thought that Messiah would ever live in Capernaum Uh everybody would expect that when Messiah would come, Messiah would set up his seat of government in Jerusalem, the capital of the country. where the temple was, where all the religious leaders were, at least somewhere in Judea, but certainly not up along the border near Syria. In some town that had no distinction, was kind of semi-pagan, in uh an area Zebulun and Naphtali, where um The the tribes themselves in their history were the most despised, disgraced, depressed. They were the ones first invaded, the most dispersed just not a strategic place, not religiously a respected place. And then Matthew says, and and I want you to know he didn't just kind of do this as a fluke, he just wanted to kind of surprise people. This was in fulfillment of prophecy, the totally unexpected prophecy of Isaiah chapter 9. saying that these people who had lived in disgrace and humility have seen a great light that Messiah was going to come And dwell in their midst. And that you read it in Isaiah 9, and it's that's quite clear. That's where Messiah is coming. But nobody expected that. Now this morning I want to continue. Matthew gives us another surprise. And you see, what I'm trying to promote here is that you and I have certain expectations about Jesus. And they may be things that we've come to think about him, and that the way you get to know Jesus' heart is to see how he's different from what you expect. And what Matthew's trying to do is to say, let me show you, Jesus is really different from what you think he is. And he's always so much better than you and I think he is. So Matthew, after the first punch about where he settled down in his ministry, comes with a second punch and he says, Now let me tell you about his strategy for bringing in the kingdom. If you think about it, you know, Jesus' name is the Aramaic for Joshua. And so here comes the true Joshua. And he comes as the one to bring conquest because he's the king of the kingdom. And Matthew says, this Joshua doesn't come to conquer with an army But with disciples. He doesn't come to curse the nations. He comes to heal them. And his power is not in arms, it's in words. And those are the three points that he makes in the text today, Matthew chapter 4, verses 18 to 25. I call it the three T's of his strategy, training, teaching, and touching. Let's take a look at them and see how different Jesus is in his heart and his methods. And then what that means for us as a church and as individuals First of all, you notice this his strategy is training. You see there in verse 18, as Jesus was walking beside the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon called Peter, and his brother Andrew. They were casting a net into the lake, for they were fishermen. Come follow me, Jesus said, and I will make you fishers of men. At once they left their nets and they followed him. Now, if you were to just read that, and most people I think do, we kind of had this idea that Jesus was walking along the lake one day, and here's this guy Simon and Andrew and they're fishing and they've never seen each other before and Jesus just says, You guys, come follow me. And they just, you know, drop their nets and Take off and follow, like you know, in this trance or something, you know, they just hypnotize, they just get up and follow. Really wasn't like that. If you look in John chapter 1, you see, as I mentioned before, that they had had previous interaction. When John the Baptist said, Behold the Lamb of God takes away the sin of the world down there in Jerusalem, this was after his temptation, his baptism. Uh then um Andrew said, you know, I I think as I've heard Jesus teach, I I think this is Messiah. He goes and he gets his brother, Simon, who became Peter And the two of them listen. And then they go up to Cana. Jesus is invited to a wedding and his disciples, yeah, you can bring them too. So he comes up and and he sees them turn the water into wine Sees him come back down and he cleanses the temple, takes out the money changers, and comes in with great authority and power, destroy this temple in three days I'm going to raise it up. He hears them teach, sees him do some healings, comes back up to Cana again, uh up to uh well Nazareth in Galilee, and sees him uh dis declare from Isaiah 61 uh About the Messiah, this day it's fulfilled in your ears, but you're going to say, Heal yourself, and I'm going to tell you a prophet's not without honor, save in his own country. And so you're not gonna believe me and they try to kill him and Jesus takes off to Capernaum and they say, Boy, that's really nice. Good to hear you, man. You got some amazing things. We believe that you have great power. And you know what? We're going back to fishing. Now, understand that going back to fishing, this was not a menial thing. Fishing was very respected. Fishing business was kinda you know, I was you like like professional in our day. So they had a pretty good income, they had a pretty good business. The other thing is you notice there's two sets of brothers here. There's Peter, or Simon at that point, and Andrew, and there's James and John. And these two sets of brothers were uh partners in fishing. So they had this kind of fishing enterprise in Capernaum along the Lake of Galilee, and they were friends, all four of them. But there's two sets of brothers. Now, I think what actually happened was when Jesus came along to the Sea of Galilee, that's where you plug in Luke chapter 5 to get the whole story Now let me tell you what happened there, in case you not remember real clearly. Remember Luke 5, Jesus is walking along the Lake of Galilee, and it says that uh the crowds were beginning to grow. His teaching and his healing was attracting a lot of attention. In fact, so much attention that he's trying to teach and he's kind of on the edge of the shore. And people keep crowding forward. And so what happens? Jesus keeps backing up and pretty soon he's getting in the water. You know, it's getting a little deeper. And he sees Simon's boat off there a few yards And and Jesus says, Simon, can I borrow your boat? You know, before they push me under here, you know. And so Jesus gets in the boat and uses the boat for a pulpit. And he teaches. And as Jesus is teaching, he's talking about the kingdom of God, he's talking about who God is, he's talking about their need. And as he's doing this, you know, the crowds are all pressing in. He finishes this. It's morning. Peter and Andrew have been cleaning their nets because you fish at night and then in the morning you clean all the seaweed and get all the breaks and all that tears. You clean the nets. And so Peter and Andrew and James and John. some yards down the shore are doing this. Now it's at that point that after Jesus finishes that he says to Peter, Now Peter, take the boat, let's go out and go fishing. And Peter's thinking, you know, Rabbi, you know a lot about the kingdom of God. You don't know a squat about fishing. You don't fish in the morning. And not only that, but we fished all night. We didn't catch anything Now the last thing we're expected to do is to go out in the morning and catch something. But Peter catches himself, you know, he says, Oh, he probably sees a look in Jesus' eye, you know? And he says, Oh, hmm. Nevertheless, Lord, whatever you say, we'll do it. So they take the boat and they cast off and they go out. They throw the nets down and they can't even pull the nets up because it's so heavy with fish And at that point, Jesus, I mean Peter gets the point. He falls down before Jesus and he says, Go away from me, Lord. I'm a sinful man. I don't deserve to be near you. You either produced those fish there or you knew they were there. And in either case, you know my heart. And I'm nervous being near you. Now, we've talked about a little resource around here from time to time called the Daily Bible And some of you may have it. We got a whole pile of these things some years back. Let me just tell you again, is it a really helpful resource? Because what it does is not only divides the Bible into 365 days of readings, it does it chronologically. And when you get to the Gospels, it's very helpful because it'll take passages like this and bring the scriptures together to show you What happened, probably in the the best way we can piece together the sequence. So let me read this section and see how what Matthew says, what Mark says, and how what Luke says all tie together. When Simon Peter saw this, the great catch of fish, he fell at Jesus' knees and he said, Go away from me, Lord. I'm a sinful man. For he and all his companions were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken. So were James and John, the sons of Zebedee, Simon's partners. That's all from Luke. Now, continuing in Luke, Jesus said to Simon, Don't be afraid. From now on, you will catch men. Now from Matthew, come, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And at once they left their nets and they followed him. You see, it's not out of the blue. It's nothing like out of the blue. It's, whoa, not only have you put it all together, but now it's become very personal. Jesus is saying, I want to lift your horizons. You're giving your life to catching fish. I want you to follow me. And I want to expand what you're doing to catching men, catching people. Then it goes on. Going on from there, he saw two other brothers. This is further, you know, a few yards down the shore. James, son of Zebedee, and his brother John, they've been watching what's been going on. They were in a boat with their father Zebedee, preparing their nets. Jesus called them, and immediately they left their boat and their father and they followed him. Now Mark 1. 20 adds a tiny detail that's very instructive here. It says, and he left them with the hired men. You see, again, Peter and Andrew and James and John were not guys that were just trying to scrape together a living ignorant peasants that just kind of caught fish and, you know, lived hand to mouth. These guys had a pretty good business. And they had a team of people that they hired. So when Jesus calls and James and John say, okay, we'll leave, they say, okay, Dad, we're going to leave these guys that we've hired, the team of fishermen, with the business to take care of business with you for a while. And they took off with Jesus. Now let me make some observations about that that I think are instructive to you and to me. You see them in your bulletin outline. First thing to notice is that Jesus issues a sovereign call, follow me. Again, we don't appreciate how different that is, but back in those days, rabbis didn't do that. It was kind of like today, you know, you got Columbia Presbyterian, you got all the churches around, and people would visit various churches. And they would hang around various rabbis, and they'd listen to Rabbi A and Rabbi Z, and all the different, and then the disciples would choose which one they wanted to hang around. You know, I kind of like this rabbit. I think he makes sense and he helps put things in. I'm going to follow him. And so, in contrast to that Jesus exposes himself to these men. He shows them what his heart is like. He teaches. He heals. He's doing miracles. And then at a point, Jesus decides and says, now's the time. You follow me. A sovereign call. And it's a call to obedience and to trust. It's a call to obedience because you see, they left their nets and they followed them. They didn't negotiate. They didn't say, well, you know, we're kind of in the middle of this. You know, could we get back to you? How about next week? Maybe we could wrap some things up. There's an immediate response of obedience Because he's Lord. That's what Matthew wants us to see. When Jesus calls, there's nothing to do but to obey. You follow him. And there's trust that's involved in this because they don't say, well, wait a minute, um, how are we going to eat? And how long are we going to be gone? What are we going to do? I need to make arrangements. Jesus says, trust me. Just come, just follow me. And there's some of you here this morning that have been finding things out about Jesus. You've read the Bible, you're acquainted with this or that. And there comes a point when Jesus puts his finger on you and he says, Come, follow me. And maybe for some of you this morning it's time to respond in that obedience, to follow him You see, today we have this notion that to be a Christian is to say, Well I I believe, I assert assent to certain things, that Jesus is Savior in some sense and he died on the cross for our sins. I agree with that. But that's not what this is talking about. Yes, there are things you need to believe about Jesus. But a disciple is one who follows him. Who responds in obedience and trust to say, yes, yes, Master, where we go? That's okay. I follow you. I trust you. Secondly, notice that Jesus' strategy in his ministry for disciple making is multiplication rather than addition. If Jesus had said to Simon, now Simon, I want to equip you that you can win three people a day. And you know, I'm gonna give you the means that uh you can just keep evangelizing and talking about me and my kingdom, and three people a day will come. To believe the message and follow me. In fifteen years, he would have over fifteen thousand converts. Jesus doesn't do that. Jesus takes twelve men and he invests himself in those twelve men for three years. But he has poured himself so into those men that each of them is able to invest himself in another group of disciples. Who can reproduce themselves, as Paul says in Timothy, faithful men who are able to entrust good things to faithful men who entrust to others to others. If twelve people were able to reproduce themselves in another twelve people in three years. Who would reproduce themselves in another twelve people in three years? In the same fifteen years, instead of fifteen thousand, you'd have three hundred and seventy-one thousand And exactly 292. And by the time he got to another three years, he'd be over four and a half million. Jesus' strategy is multiplication, not addition. That's the way it's always been. For us to invest in other people, to be equipped, that they can reproduce ministry in the lives of others. Thirdly, notice that he made fishers, not followers. His comment there in verse 19 is Come follow me. And I will make you fishers of men. In other words, if you follow me, you inevitably will become a fisher of people. You inevitably will take on my heart for people. And that's a searching statement because when you and I look at our lives and we say Am I a fisher of people? Do I look day to day about how to catch people for Jesus? Do I think about what kind of bait will attract and what are the means? Where do I go to find hungry fish? And where do I go to Be able to see how to win people for Christ. And if I don't, if those kind of questions are never on my mind, then the question is uh am I following Jesus? Because he says to you, as he says to me, if you follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. So if you're not a fisher, Are you a follower? Because you see, to follow Jesus is to catch his heart. And that leads to the fourth observation. He trained by life-to-life influence, not just head-to-head information. It wasn't that he taught you and me certain things to believe so that we would give the right answers on tests. He invested himself in these guys 24-7 for three years. And in doing that, he imparted his lifestyle, his priorities, the way he thought. So that he influenced them by his life. They have to spend time with people in order to make disciples. Not something to be done by just imparting some information. Now, for a few weeks, Linda Corner is living with Kathy and me in our house. The effect of that is that Linda Carner sees what we're like when we wake up in the morning. I don't just talk to Linda about living out of grace. She sees whether I live out of grace. She sees whether Kathy and I pray together. She sees how we talk to each other when we're eating. She sees what we do in frustrations in pastimes. She sees how I react the last couple of weeks when my computer goes down and the software doesn't mesh and the support people are. let's say less than helpful. And you have to begin to try and figure out whether you're ever going to get a life back besides dealing with computers. And and you see You you you interact in real life situations. That's what Jesus did. He had these guys live with him. Probably Linda and I are gonna have to need some conversations after this, you know. Hey, let's get this thing together about the rest of our time here. But you know, that's the way that that's why in cells we meet in homes. Yeah, it's so we can be in the places where we live, so that we can see each other's lives, so that even though we don't live together There's at least some means of imparting some of the struggles, some of the real life situations we're going through, so what we hear on Sunday morning, what we talk about in our seminars The things that we talk about, we say, you know, here's how that works, or it's not working for me now, or I'm struggling with this, or I don't understand it, because discipleship is about life-to-life influence. Not simply head-to-head information. And then fifthly, let me just briefly notice that Jesus works in natural relationships. I mean, I don't know if it had ever occurred to you that when you think about Peter, Andrew, James, and John, you're talking about two sets of brothers who are business partners altogether. They weren't just random four guys picked out somewhere. These were guys who knew each other. And Jesus chose them together. He chose them, they were friends, they were brothers, and so Jesus generally works in families and in relationships. And when you look at the network of your relationships, be encouraged. There's a greater than average chance that Jesus intends within the relationships of your family or your friends to bring other disciples through the influence of your life. He works in networks of natural relationships. Now, so much for the training. Let me say a couple things about the teaching and the touching. And that's what we're going to open up in the rest of the gospel. But I just want to say a couple things about it right now. Notice secondly that in verse 23 That Matthew goes on after this, and he says, Jesus went throughout Galilee, teaching in all their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom. He had said back in verse 17 From that time on, Jesus began to preach. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is here. It's near, it's here, it's dawning because I'm here. This is his ministry of words and proclamation. Concerning the gospel of the kingdom. He teaches, opening up people's sense of need, who they are, what they need, and then preaching. The word actually refers to heralding, announcing good news, you know, it's it's the kind of uh the six o'clock news and here's some good news for change. But it's the announcing of something good that has happened. It's not telling them to do something. It's announcing something that's happened. God is bringing in his kingdom of salvation. Here it is. The promises of the prophets are about to come to pass. Good news. Then he demonstrates that by his touching. You see that Matthew goes on, and healing every disease and sickness among the people. Now you notice every disease. He didn't divide them into cases he could handle and those that he referred out. He dealt with them all. Every kind of healing, every kind of sickness, every disease and sickness among the people. News spread all over Syria. The people brought to him all who were ill with various diseases, those suffering severe pain. the demon-possessed, those having seizures, the paralyzed, and he healed them. No exceptions. It doesn't even talk about their faith. It says he went and he healed them. He had compassion upon every one of them. Nothing was too hard for them. Now, notice the effect of that. Matthew says, verse 24, news about him spread, and then he gives you some geography. Now, let's see the map again. Here he is. This is Capernaum. Alright? Now, this is Galilee, remember, and but here's where he's centering his ministry. And what Matthew is saying, if you look at verse 24 He's saying the news spread all about him, north to Syria, Syria, the enemy of Israel, Galilean area. So people from Syria were coming down and they were getting healed. North, west to Galilee, east to the Decapolis. The Decapolis refers to ten cities, nine of which were east of the Jordan, only one was to the west of the Jordan. So this whole pagan area. And then it's almost like with a bit of humor. Oh yeah, by the way, down to Jerusalem and Judea too. Yeah, he you know, some of those people were getting healed. So here it is, his ministry, not centered down here in Jerusalem, the religious center, the political center, the center of influence, but up here in Capernaum Syria, Galilee, Decapolis, and also some people from Jerusalem and Judea. In other words, Jesus is getting famous all over. Because he is a man of power, and his influence is irresistible. That's the picture. Now, that is launching a distinctive way of looking at Jesus' ministry that's unique to Matthew. Because what Matthew does from here on out is he divides his gospel into chunks of words and chunks of works. And I gave you the outline right there so you have it. You can just take a look at it. Not everybody agrees that this is the best way, but this is a way of outlining the book of Matthew in addition to what I talked about last week. So the very next verse, you see, right after this, is what we're going to take up after the holidays. Now, when he saw the crowds, he went up to a mountainside, sat down, and began to teach. And so you get three chapters, the longest discourse of Jesus anywhere in Scripture, the Sermon on the Mount, the most famous sermon ever preached. We're going to look at it verse by verse It'll be the most intense study that we do in the whole book of Matthew. Then after that, there's two chapters of works, healing and miracles. Then another chapter, 10 Words, charge to the laborers to go out, then more works, chapters 11-12, back to the words, parables of the kingdoms, then on to the works, chapters 14 to 17, more healing and miracles. Then back to the words, ways of the kingdom, back to the works, chapters 19 to 22. These aren't all isolated. There's some teaching in the works, there's some action in the words, but These are you you look at it, it's pretty clear that that's where they orient. Then you have the final words in chapters 23 to 25, the final warnings and the final predictions, the final prophecies, the statements. Concluding, then you come to chapters 26 to 28, the definitive work of healing. At that point, Jesus comes to nail the root problem. Anything else without this would have been woefully insufficient. He has identified that you and I have I have hearts that cannot follow his teaching. And so what Jesus does at that point is he puts himself forward as the perfect lamb, the Passover lamb, the ransom. And he exposes himself to the full wrath of God to take upon himself what you and I deserve for not following his teaching. He at that point finally defeats Satan. Now it's not simply resisting its temptations. Jesus goes on the offensive, a passive offensive, by receiving the full weight of God's wrath, so that Satan's kingdom is once and for all defeated, Jesus rises again and says to his disciples, Go make disciples of all the nations. That's the climax. That's the big picture of Matthew. The three T's Training the disciples, teaching about the kingdom, but then bringing the kingdom by his own death and resurrection. Now, what does all that mean for you and me? A couple last words of application for us as we kind of see the overview. First of all, Becoming a disciple, that is a Christian, the word disciple is simply believer. It means following Jesus, not just going along with some basic facts about him, as I said. That's so important because we live in a world of cafeteria religion. We live in a world where people have adopted a certain lifestyle and then they look for teachings That they believe will help them to live in the lifestyle that they've chosen. Christianity could not be further from that Jesus does not say, let me offer to you some ideas that may help you to live the way you've chosen to live. Jesus comes to men along the shore and he says, Leave your toys. Follow me. I'm calling you to a whole new life. I'm calling you to the kingdom of God. I'm calling you to live with a vision of reality that you haven't guessed at. But it is indistinguishable from following me. You won't get it by just studying. You don't get it by simply memorizing facts. And as good as Bible memory is, when you know I'm a big proponent of that, you won't get it even from just memorization. It is knowing me, so it means The question to you and to me this morning is, are you following Jesus? I'm not asking what do you believe about Jesus? I'm saying, are you following Jesus? That means that this week you spend time in his word to hear him. And as you seek to understand what his heart is like and how he's full of surprises, You learn to trust him. He showed himself to Peter and Andrew and James and John. I'm trustworthy. See what I did with the. water when they needed wine? Do you see how I went into the temple that was being disgraced and corrupted? Do you see what I did for that fellow that was lame and the guy that was demon possessed? Do you see And as you get to know Jesus more, your faith grows. And you begin to accumulate experiences in your own life where you trust Him just a little bit. About paying a tithe and not backing off and saying, I trust you, Lord, with providing for me. And you see him faithful and your faith grows and it grows and you begin to shape your lifestyle and your priorities and your passions. Around the heart of Jesus. That's following him. Are you following Jesus? We long to be a church of followers of Jesus, not just believers in Jesus. So secondly, you notice that our strategy as a church is to make disciples. And uh You know, I just I need to remind you in case it hasn't been clear to you, you haven't been around for a while or anything, you know, that is the way we shape what we do. We have celebration, seminars, and cells. Celebration, you get information to see Jesus The seminars, we go into more depth about how to live a life that seeks to follow Jesus, and then the cells are working that out in as close-as-we-can one-to-one relationships, and the relationships that flow out of the cells. in following Jesus. I mean that's why a couple of Fridays ago the men's ministry said, let's get together from four in the afternoon till two o'clock in the morning. Guys are dropping off their chairs, you know to to spend time together, you know, throwing dodgeballs and scarfing down burgers and chicken. Because in the midst of that, we're connecting with guys, we're talking, and we're building relationships. And in those relationships, we disciple one another. And discipling in that context means that you're walking the same path, and if you're a few steps further down the path than your brother, you offer him something because you both know that Every failure you and I have is because we have forgotten the nature of God and who he is, or the nature of our own identity and who we are in our relationship to him. And we need brothers and sisters to remind us, this is what God is like. This is what it means to be his son, his daughter. This is what it means to live out of the gospel. That's discipling. Showing each other, encouraging each other. That's why we had last spring marriage seminars for young married. You know, is really kind of a sneaky thing 'cause you all get together and you say, Well, you know, I want to know how do I build a marriage and say, Okay, let's get together and talk about that and so we talk about what it means to have Jesus as the head of the home. Because we know that whatever problem you have and you bring in, you say, well let's talk about parenting, let's talk about finances, let's talk about you know marriage. But the bigger issue is just learning how to follow Jesus Just learning basic life principles, and you say, yeah, well, here's where I'm feeling the pinch. I don't know how to live skillfully in this area. Well, let's just talk about that. Making disciples, you see, that's what it's all about. Now when we talk about reaching out, the third point, we are transformed to mobilize, to make disciples in our community. We call it the four S's. That's our points of contact. Four S's that are four points of contact with the community. Socials, seminars, sports, and service. You know, the socials that we have like Fall Harvest Festival or other things, we just bring people in to have a good time. Seminars. Whether it's financial seminar, parenting, uh, the one coming up on middle hour, November 13th, everyday talk. You know, just ways that we begin to see how conflict resolution, things that we talk about, how can we put those, offer them to the community? So the people who are interested in managing finances, getting out of debt, conflict resolution, parenting, come and they hear the gospel in the context of these things. Or services. Why do we build homes in Sandtown? Why do we do these things? So we can talk to people. This is why we're doing it. This is what motivates us to serve the community. transformed by the gospel in order to mobilize so that we can transform the community through the power of that gospel. In conclusion, let me direct your attention back to Jesus. Don't ever want to end with it just looking at ourselves. You look back to Jesus and see how perfectly he did this. Jesus who called the disciples, who won their affections and their trust, and then commanded their allegiance. He does the same to you this morning. He says, follow me, just this week, follow me, follow me. As you leave here As you go home, as you get up tomorrow morning, as you go to work, as you interact with various people in various situations. Learn about my heart. Learn what I want for you to do. Obey me. Trust me. For all that He does is perfect. Matthew shows us that. Everything he did. He did it perfectly. And he wants to spend time with you to show you himself. And if you ask, is it really worth it? Is it worth giving my life and leaving my nets and all the things that I have and just follow Jesus where he takes me and how he wants me to live within the calling that he's given to me? Just ask Peter whether it was worth it. Or James, or John, or Matthew For the myriads of saints down through the ages that cry out, He is worthy. He is worthy. He is worthy. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you are so worthy to give our whole lives to you. Not just to give a corner of our life, not to give just certain religious areas, Sundays. or other bits and pieces, but to respond to that call. Come, follow me. Learn of my heart, learn of my kingdom. Learn what it means to be a fisher of people. Learn what it means to be part of my kingdom. And as we look in these next three chapters, we'll see mind-blowing characterizations that are so different from the way our world thinks. About what it means to follow you and to know your power in our lives. We thirst for that, we long for that, we pray, teach us, even this week, to learn the heart of Jesus and to follow you, Lord Jesus.