One of the great blessings that I have in my job are the opportunities to be able to dig in deeper to Scripture than I probably would otherwise. And one of the things that I have discovered recently in this preparing this series on the book of Matthew is how Matthew focuses on the theme of authority, the authority of Jesus, as a major development in his angle on Jesus life. Never noticed that as I have going through this chapters that we've been looking at so far. He presents Jesus as teaching with authority. You need to listen to him. You need to obey him. He speaks with absolute authority. And then Instances of his healing with authority. Leprosy is an incurable disease. Jesus heals a leper. People that may be able to heal someone that's before them cannot heal somebody that they can't see, somebody that's at a distance. Jesus heals the servant of the Roman centurion. Jesus heals all diseases, no exceptions. Nobody is beyond hope. Everyone who comes to him, he heals them. Then Matthew portrays him and the disciples going out for some rest to go across the lake. A big storm comes up. Jesus speaks to the wind and the waves. He has authority over nature, authority over the wind, authority over the waves. Even more than that, Matthew's leading up to a climax, even more than that, he says. He has authority over hundreds of demons, conscious beings, supernatural beings that are arrayed against him. He has authority to cast them out. Then we come to Matthew chapter 9, and we see the climax of that authority. The climax of the authority is that Matthew presents Jesus has having authority over sin. Authority to forgive sin. Now we know that this is Matthew's intention, that it's not that, you know, I'm just kind of reading into that. Because This incident that we're going to look at, the healing of the paralytic, in Matthew, in Mark and Luke. It is presented in a different chronological order, and we are almost certainly sure that Mark and Luke's order is the actual order. Jesus healed the paralytic. Before he went across the lake and healed the demon-possessed men. But Matthew is bringing this thing to a climax Why is forgiving sin and healing a paralytic the most climactic exercise of authority? Because it is taking upon himself the prerogatives of God Only God can forgive sin. So when Jesus declares your sins are forgiven you, That is the ultimate statement of authority, God's own authority, to be able to state that. So as we look at this week, this fall, the ups and downs of the Dow, the longest presidential campaign in history. Some Christians rejoicing at the outcome, others, others muttering. The thing that is infinitely more important for you and for me this morning is the question of whether you know your sins are forgiven. What I want to do is, as I did before, I want to take a look at the story first. Again, Matthew's accounts, the shortest. So Mark and Luke supplement this story with a lot of other details. So I want to just give you the story, and then I want to look with you at five lessons that we can glean from that story for our lives. First of all, then the story. We don't know when it took place. It took place before he had gone across the lake and back, but we do know where it was. It was in Capernaum, that was his hometown. And Matthew tells us it took place in his town. Jesus on this occasion, someday, we don't know when, but someday, Jesus was starting to teach. And he he went into a house and he was teaching in this house. He's becoming rather popular. And so when Jesus starts teaching, crowds start to gather, people all gather in the house. Pretty soon the house is overflowing, people are out in the street, and they're all around and they're trying to hear what Jesus is saying. Four guys have heard about this, they know about Jesus, that he is able to heal. They have a friend who is a paralytic, probably paramlegic. That is, he couldn't walk from this. Waist down, he's paralyzed. He's on a mat. They bring him to be able to have Jesus heal him. But they can't get this Matt and their friend through the crowds. In fact they're probably irritating people, you know, like come on, back off, you know, I I can get through But these guys aren't going to give up, so they find a way up onto the roof of the house, which wasn't hard to do in eastern homes. They get up onto the roof and it's not like you have trusses and beams and all that back there There's some tiles. They remove the tiles and they let the pallet down, probably on four ropes, right down in front of Jesus while he's teaching. So Jesus is teaching. People see some dust and see some tiles, and pretty soon here's this pallet coming down, and there's this guy plopped down in front of Jesus. He doesn't say anything, but Jesus says, take courage, son. Your sins are forgiving. Your sins are forgiven you. He might have said, I didn't ask for that. The need is rather obvious. This guy is paralyzed from the waist down. And the Pharisees, some of the Bible scholars of that day, are sitting there and they're sort of muttering and scowling and saying, What in the world is he talking about? Your sins are forgiven you? Only God can forgive sins. That's blasphemy. What does he think he is? Who does he think he is? What does he think he's doing? Jesus knows their thoughts. And he says, now listen, which is easier to say to somebody, your sins are forgiven, or to say to a paralytic, get up and walk? But so that you might know that the Son of Man, uses that distinctive term again, so that you might know that the Son of Man has authority. To forgive sins, I say to you, get up, take up your mat, and go home. This guy who's been laying there, paralyzed, whose legs simply don't work, whose spinal cord might have been atrophied. All of a sudden, leaps to his feet, picks up his mat, and dances out the door. The people see this, and Matthew says, they are astounded. They are awestruck that God has given such authority. The words used twice, so that you might know he has authority. God has given such authority to men. says to men, because the people, of course, assume Jesus is simply a man and that that's what God has done. Now, what are some lessons to get from this? Five lessons. that I see that are helpful to me and I hope to you also, much more than anything else that's going on in your life right now. First lesson. Find this very interesting personally. To see that Jesus is not disturbed by interruptions. Jesus is not disturbed by interruptions. How do you feel when you got your day planned out, got things going, and you're working on it, and all of a sudden, something totally unexpected comes bursting in on you and you think, well, there goes that project. Now, Jesus is teaching. Very interesting. This is one of the few times we know that Jesus is teaching. We have no idea what he's teaching. Not a word of it's recorded. But we do know this. That it was infinitely wise, that it was very important. It would have been great to have heard what he taught. Jesus is developing some ideas, talking about the kingdom, something about God, something about his ministry. Who knows what it is? He's talking about And as I say, people begin to see commotion. They hear something up there, some dust starts to fall, a couple of tiles start to fall. There's this guy who comes down on a mat and he's plopped in front of Jesus Now, I don't know about you, but I think if that was me, I might have said something like, excuse me, I'm trying to make a point here I mean, you just took all the attention. Nobody's listening to me anymore. They're watching you drop down from the ceiling. Could we make an appointment and maybe do this later? It is precisely not what Jesus does. What Jesus does is to take the opportunity because of his flexibility and ability to love people and simply focus on that guy. We don't know two thousand years what Jesus taught that day, but we sure do know what he did. And I think about that in my own life and in my ministry. So many times, the things that I'm doing that have to get done, this is so important, I have to get through this. Because I've determined this is what God's will is for me today, and something comes crashing in. And it could very well be nobody will ever know what I was going to do that day. But to stop and minister to somebody at that moment might be infinitely more important. That's convicting to me I had to read that and repent and think about my own life and my schedule and what I want to do. Reflect on that. Jesus was doing something he was focused on, and it got totally blown away. But he seized the opportunity to redirect himself to minister to that man. Second lesson you see from this is that Jesus is able to read hearts. Jesus knows hearts. Verse 2. Have it up there. You see that some men brought to him a paralytic lying on a mat when Jesus saw their faith. How'd he see their faith? Well he saw what they were doing, they dropped this mat down, they had gone to a lot of trouble, but he was able to detect that this was faith, not just we're determined to get our way. He says to the paralytic, take heart, son, your sins are forgiven you. Second way we see that in this passage is in verse 4. The Pharisees are thinking This is blasphemy, who's he think he is, on this and all. But the Bible doesn't say that they said anything. In fact, Matthew says, knowing their thoughts Jesus said, Why do you entertain evil thoughts in your heart? Of course he could see the scowl. He could see their critical look. But it says that he knew their thoughts. The other instance of that in this passage is, again, go back to verse 2, where Jesus is speaking to the paralytic. And he saw their faith. We don't know if that's the foreman or includes the paralytic, but he says to the paralytic, Take heart, son, your sins are forgiven. That's unique. He doesn't do that on any other occasion. Why did he do that in this occasion? I imagine that when he looked at the young fella calls him son. Literally his child, but it's just a kind of a term of endearment. When he saw him, probably the guy looked kind of scared It may be kind of like if you had gone to some lecture and somebody was speaking up on the stage and there's thousands of people and you decide I've got to get this guy's attention, you go down and interrupt his lecture And he turns to you, excuse me, and you know, you're now you've got his attention. Uh you're very aware that everybody in the crowd is thinking, Who do you think you are? We're listening to him, we don't want to see you. And this guy's just been dropped down there right in the middle. So he doesn't know what Jesus is going to do, he doesn't know what the crown is going to do. So he probably looks scared. But I think there's something more than that because Jesus doesn't just simply say, take courage. Pick up your mat and walk. He does something absolutely unique. Doesn't do this any other time in the book of Matthew. He says, Take courage, son, your sins are forgiven you. Now, Bible commentators discuss at great length this whole question here: what is the connection between sin and this fellow's paralysis? Was his paralysis the result of some sin? And Jesus sees that, and so he addresses that as the prior issue. Is it a matter of this guy was literally paralyzed by guilt physically Guilt can have power, powerful physical effects on people. You can have a breakdown from guilt. Totally stressed out. We have no bodily mechanism to deal with the stress of guilt. We can deal with all kinds of other stresses, disease stresses. All kinds of other things. But we can't deal with the stress of guilt. God has not built into the body any way to do that. In Psalm 32, the psalmist talks about physical effects of guilt Blessed is he whose transgressions are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord does not count against him, and whose spirit there is no deceit. When I kept silent, when I refused to acknowledge my guilt, didn't want to admit it, didn't want to face it, he says, my bones wasted away. Through my groaning all day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was sapped As in the heat of summer. Physical effects of guilt I imagine that there was a connection in this fellow's life between something he had done And he became so focused and obsessed on the guilt of that that paralysis set in. And Jesus sees his heart. You know what? Jesus sees your heart this morning. He who saw their faith Who saw the evil thoughts of the Pharisees? Who saw the guilt, the torment, the torture of this young man, sees your heart. He sees my heart. He sees for some of you whether you are pretending that you're a Christian when you're around Christians, but that your heart is really far from them and you don't love them. He sees some of the torment and the shame and the guilt in your life. He sees whether you have ever brought yourself to him for forgiveness. Or he sees in some cases where you may be a Christian and you may be walking with him, but there are areas of your life that you still carry and feel like you need to do penance for. And those areas are torturing you. You're in torment over them. And he sees your heart and its struggles. But thank God that the Jesus that's portrayed here by Matthew is a Jesus of great compassion. He's a Jesus who says to this man, take heart, son. Take heart. Phrase there is a word that it's a phrase that it's actually one word in the Greek. It's a word that always addresses fear. Fear not. It's that kind of idea. It's used in verse 22, just a You know, to a few verses later where remember the woman who'd been bleeding for twelve years said to herself, If only I could touch just the ham of his garment, I would be healed. And he touches Jesus' cloak. And she's healed. And Jesus senses that and he turns into all the crowd, once again a large crowd, they're all there. And he stops and he looks at this woman. And she's terrified. What are they going to do? Have I violated something? I've crossed the line. What's going to happen? And he says the same exact thing to her. Take heart. Woman, your faith has saved you. Take courage, take heart. It's okay. It's a calming word In a situation of tension and fear. Take heart, take courage, son. Your sins are forgiven you. So the third lesson, by the way, one other thing about that second lesson is that notice that he says, your sins, plural, are forgiven He could have said your sin is forgiven. That would deal with the root issue of sin. But I believe because he is dealing with a guilty conscience here, he says your sins That is, every particular sin you've ever committed, every single one is forgiven you. You may think your sin is forgiven, but there are some sins you can't believe that Jesus does not hold against you. So his word to you, who knows your heart, is the same thing this morning. If you are trusting in Jesus Christ, your sins, every single one. No exceptions, no matter how vile, how inexcusable, whatever hurt they have done to other people. Your sins, Jesus says, are forgiven you because of him Third lesson to see from this is that Jesus has the authority to do that. He has the authority to declare your sins are forgiven when he says that in verse 2. And that is your priority need and mine more than anything about the outcome of the election. Or where the Dow is going to go between now and the end of this year, or the security of your retirement, Or your job? Or anything else? The issue is: does Jesus have the authority to forgive my sins and has he done so? Have you heard him say to you, with your name plugged in? Take courage, Bob, Sue, Ruth, Anne, whoever, take courage. Your sins are forgiving. It's all the difference of whether you walk out of this room with a light heart Dancing, singing in your heart, looking forward to the week to come, or whether you continue to carry a burden and drag through day by day. Jesus has the authority to declare your sins are forgiven. The Jewish leaders were shocked They could not believe that he had such authority. And they get it half right. They say only God can forgive sins. And as Tim pointed out, only God can forgive sins because sins are ultimately against God. They knew that from all the teaching of the Old Testament The whole mechanism of the Old Testament sacrificial system was to take away the barrier of sin between the sinner and God. And applying what Tim read from C. S. Lewis, if Tim steps on my toe and I forgive him, that's grace. But if Tim steps on somebody else's toe, and I forgive him, that's silly, and it's probably going to irritate the other guy. Sin can only be forgiven by the person who was sinned against. And when Jesus says to this fellow, your sins are forgiven you. That is saying it's me that you've sinned against. The only thing that makes sense He has the authority, he has the prerogative, because it is he who has been sinned against. Fourth lesson is that this authority is seen in the physical healing. The authority is seen in the physical healing. You go to verse 4. Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said, Why do you let's see the whole thing there. Here you go. Thanks. Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said, Why do you entertain evil thoughts in your hearts? Which is easier to say? Which is easier? To say, your sins are forgiven? Can't see that, can you? Don't know. Or to say, get up and walk to a paralytic. But so that you may know, so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, then he said to the paralytic, Get up. Take your mat and go home. And the man got up and he went home. And when the crowd saw this, they were filled with awe. They praised God who had given such authority to men. I wonder, as I read that story of that fellow, the former paralytic, what he was more joyful about as he ran out the door. That he could run or that his sins were forgiven. Both those things happened, but they could see him running. And so it is with you and for me. You can't see your sins forgiven. But you see the manifestations of a heart that is freed in a changed life. Now The Bible talks about the close connection. Back in chapter 8 and verse 17, he took up our infirmities and carried our diseases. There is a close connection between the spiritual and the physical. Healing this man's, forgiving this man's sins did not automatically heal him. That was a separate act on Jesus' part. When you are forgiven your sins, that does not guarantee you full physical healing in this life. But there are observable, verifiable differences in the lives of people whose sins have been forgiven. So when you ask yourself, are my sins forgiven? You ought to be able to see things in your life that Jesus has changed. Things that you say, nothing can account for my being that way other than Jesus Christ in my life. And when you and I read church history and read about the contemporary church, we ought to be able to see observable differences. In people's lives, in the difference that Jesus Christ makes when people are forgiven. I'll give you just one example. Eighteenth century Europe, England and France. Very similar. Both were riddled with escalating crime rates. You could not walk out on the streets of Paris or London at night. Drunkenness was epidemic, illegitimate births, on and on and on. The societies were fragmenting and deteriorating. In England, God sent Wesley Whitfield and others to bring the gospel of Jesus Christ. People believed their sins were forgiven. And the society was transformed, social revolution of the best possible kind. The lowering of crime social institutions, prison reform, all the rest of it that we know. France, no gospel Resistance to spiritual things, things continue to go downhill, the end of the eighteenth century, the French Revolution, and a bloodbath. Forgiveness of sin has observable differences that are seen either in an individual or in a church. Or in the Church of Jesus Christ in a nation. Right now, what America most needs is Christians who know their sins are forgiven and therefore with the light heart and the joy that that produces seek to go out and to serve and to minister. Because Jesus has changed your life. Amen? That's what ought to happen And then finally, the um fifth lesson of all of this Is that forgiveness, forgiving sins is the climax of all the miracles so far For two reasons. First of all, because it is the most powerful work, because it requires a substitute to make it happen. Matthew is leading up now, gradually laying his case. And he comes to this place, he says, this is more than storms, this is more than casting out demons, because at this point When Jesus says to this man, your sins are forgiven, the Pharisees understood That that requires someone taking those sins. Again, the heart of the Old Testament sacrificial system was you came as a sinner, and you confessed your sins, and you laid your hands upon the head of an innocent victim, and that innocent victim bore your sin. He had said back in verse 17 of chapter 8, He took up our infirmities and carried our diseases. Jesus is saying, when he says to this young man, your sins are forgiven, Jesus knows that is because I am going to bear those sins now. I am going to take those sins. I am going to pay the penalty so that God's justice is satisfied. And you go free. Your sins are forgiven because I bear them And secondly, it's because the forgiveness of sins is the key to every other healing and blessing of God's kingdom. It unlocks the very gate of heaven. Why were Adam and Eve cast out of Eden? Because of sin. Their sins separated them from God, and they were cast out. So when Jesus forgives sin, he is removing the barrier between you and God and all of his blessings. When Jesus says to this man, your sins are forgiven you He is saying, you now are being restored as his son, woman, as his daughter. You now have entrance into the kingdom where all physical healing ultimately will take place. You are being brought into his presence, heaven, forever and ever, were all of his richest blessings promised, not only in the creation, but in the renewed creation. Will be ushered forth and you will enter into them and delight in them. You will be brought into the place of his greatest happiness. Where there will be nothing, there will be a barrier between you and God's richest imagination poured out in the wealth of happiness and delights that are given to his people. Your sins are forgiven. Take heart. Take courage. Let me ask you. Have you ever heard Jesus? Do you picture him saying to you, you personally, with your name, take courage? Take heart. It's okay. Don't have anything to fear. I've taken care of the root problem in your life. Your sins. Have all been forgiven. You really believe that? If you do It'll put a song in your heart, and you will dance out the door with a paralytic. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we want to see that. We want in our hearts to see Jesus standing before us. Looking in his kindness and his gentleness, saying to us in our torment, our fear, our guilt We try to blame shift, minimize, rationalize, do anything that we can because we can't stand living with guilt. But you become dim and removed from us. We forget the gospel. Its power does not grip us. And we need this morning afresh to hear you say to each of us, take courage, take heart. In all the things that you're fretting about in this life, the most important thing has been all taken care of. Your sins are forgiven. There is no barrier between you and the Heavenly Father. And for any here, Lord, that have never heard that, we pray that you had placed in them right now a thirst that refuses to be distracted. And will focus upon Jesus to confess and seek him until they hear those words. Take courage. Your sins are forgiven. In Jesus' name we pray that. Amen.