One of the things that I have learned in my study of the Gospel of Matthew is to connect the dots. I've mentioned that Matthew arranges his material topically, and so many times there is a connection between the stories that he presents. For instance, we saw in chapter fourteen the three stories there, the first two were in utter contrast. The contrast between the feast in the palace of King Herod that led to death, and the feast of life of King Jesus in the desert. So you come to chapter 15, again, three more stories. First two, once again, in contrast. The contrast between the Pharisees, respectable men who live by the rules, and a Canaanite woman whose only hope is her faith in Jesus. I realized as I was looking at these two stories and began to see the contrasts, that the contrasts were actually extremely significant. In fact, they were the basic contrast between religion and the gospel. Now, most of us here would probably consider ourselves, not all, but probably most would consider ourselves to be religious people. And you might think that in this sermon what I'm going to do is to present the contrast between the converted and the unconverted the gospel that we believe as Christians versus um the works kind of religious orientation of people that don't know Christ. And that would be a mistake. Because I am convinced that we all, however long we've been Christians, have a gravitational pull back to living by the law and by the rules of religion. On the other hand, it may be that there's someone here this morning for whom the gospel has never been really clear. You still live by hoping that you'll be good enough, that God will accept you. because you've never really understood the pure message of grace in contrast to a mixture of grace and your own effort. And I pray that God will make the gospel crystal clear to you through this means of contrast. Because that's what Matthew intends in these two stories. I'm looking at the two stories of Matthew 15 that Rick read before next week we concentrate on simply the first story. But as I looked at these contrasts, as I looked at these stories, um I realized that That there are not just it's not just one contrast. Uh I found eight contrasts. You might find more But let's look at them as we go through. Now, first of all, consider the stories. Very briefly The first story we see from verse 1 of Matthew 15 that what is coming here now is the most significant exchange between Jesus and the Pharisees to date. And you know that because this is a delegation from Jerusalem. These are the heavies that have come up to correct Jesus. They're concerned about what in the world he is thinking by ignoring certain ceremonial rules of ritual cleansing And so they confront him. And you might be taken back a little bit when you read that Jesus seems to lash back at them with a counter charge. It it sort of sounds like well, you think this is bad. Let me tell you. And he charges them not only with breaking God's law, but with uh hypocrisy And then he goes on to tell the crowds that it's not what goes into a person that makes them unclean, it's what comes out of the person. And the disciples, as usual, are fairly clueless So they ask, well, you know, what are you talking about? So he explains, gives seven examples of things that come out of our hearts that make us unclean. Matthew moves right from that to Jesus taking off to pagan land. He goes to the lands of the Canaanites, Tyre and Sidon. uh place you would not choose to go as a Jew. And there there is this uh howling Canaanite woman badgering him about healing her daughter And there is a rather strange exchange between the two, which results in his actually granting a request to heal her, though it seemed like at first he was not inclined to do so. What is this all about? Well again, let's look at these contrasts between the two stories and see that basically they are the contrast between Jesus' kingdom and all Jewish religion, or even more than that, the contrast between Jesus' understanding of the good news of the gospel and every other human alternative. to see the clarity of what his message and gospel is about. Eight contrasts. First one that leaps out at you is the contrast between pride and humility in these two stories. As I said, this delegation comes from Jerusalem. These are the heavies. They've traveled maybe 80 to 100 miles. Um because this is important stuff. Like you're being called into the principal's office now. I mean we're not messing around with just some local confrontations These are the big guys. You see that in verses 1 and 2. Then some Pharisees and teachers of the law came, and you might even say, all the way um to to Jesus all the way from Jerusalem and they asked, Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? They don't wash their hands before they eat You know, he might have not been doing that regularly, but boy, they saw it big time when he fed, you know, eight to ten thousand people and I'll tell you they weren't out there washing our hands before they were eating. So they're saying, yeah, this is just unacceptable. What's going on? And clearly these guys are coming across as superiors to straighten Jesus out. Now contrast that with the attitude of the Canaanite woman. All this woman does is beg, shamelessly pleading as a beggar to Jesus. You look at verse 25. The woman came up, she kneels before him. Lord, help me! There is nothing in her attitude that sounds like she has anything to teach Jesus anything to bargain with him about. She's ignored, she's rebuffed, she seems to be refused, and all she does is continue to plead Please help me, have mercy. This woman has no pride. She's shameless. She's desperate. She is the picture of abject humility. Now, secondly, notice the issue. It is between clean and unclean. So you see in the first case that the Pharisees make it quite clear they're clean. Pharisees, teachers of the law, came from Jerusalem, and they asked, why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? They don't wash their hands before they clearly we know better than that. We wash our hands. hands before we eat. Now be absolutely clear on this. It has nothing to do with hygiene. They are not saying you guys aren't carrying around Pure L sanitizers and you're going to get in trouble. It has nothing to do with germs. They're not talking about soap. They are talking about religious ritual cleansing. They are talking about the kind of cleansing that if you in the course of the day happened to touch something that was dead, that makes you unclean. You know, you uh dead insect or anything. Something that's dead, you're unclean. Or particularly if you happen to touch a Canaanite, that would really make you unclean Well, you can't miss the contrast between that and this unclean Canaanite woman coming up to Jesus to beg his mercy of her. So she is the epitome of uncleanness. And Jesus even seems to acknowledge that distinction in verse 24. He looked where he says when she comes to him and he um um doesn't give grant her request immediately. He says, I was sent only to the lost sheep of Israel. You know, those who were within God's hold. The woman came and she knelt before him. Lord help me, she said And he replied, it's not right to take the children's bread and toss it to their dogs. So there's a distinction that Jesus is acknowledging in this It's maybe a little confusing at first to see that, but then you think back in verse 10, Jesus had not agreed with the Pharisees. He calls the crowd to him and he says, Listen and understand. What goes into a man's mouth does not make him unclean. It's not that's not a matter of uncleanness that you have not washed before you eat. It's what comes out of his mouth. That's what makes him unclean. So he's saying that genuine Cleanness is not a matter of the physical or the ritual, but it's a matter of the heart Unclean is what makes you unfit to come into God's presence. That's the whole notion of it And he says that is not a matter of the external, but of the internal, which leads to the third contrast. The contrast between what is seen versus what is not seen, that is the heart. The Pharisees basically say, we will show you that we are clean. You see us washed. You see what we do. This is what makes us clean. But Jesus says not only verse 10 and 11, it's not what a matter goes into your body that makes you unclean, it's a matter of what comes out. But then he elaborates on that in verses 17 to 20. Don't you see that whatever enters the mouth goes into the stomach, then out of the body? But the things that come out of the mouth come from the heart. These make a man unclean, for out of the heart, that which you don't see, come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false testimony, slander. These are what make a man unclean, but eating with unwashed hands does not make him unclean. We're going to go into that verse more next week. But right now just notice that Jesus is focusing on uncleanness is really a matter of what you don't see. It's in the heart Not something as simple as just being able to do some ritual cleansing with water. That leads to the fourth contrast. We're talking about the contrast here between works and faith. That's what Matthew's getting at in these two stories. You see, the Pharisees are showing that they are righteous because of what they do. uh he they say they don't wash their hands before thee. We wash our hands. We do what is required not only of from the Bible but from the traditions that surround to protect the things that God requires. The Canaanite woman is so far from that. It's the furthest thing from her mind. She's not thinking about washing her hands or anything else. She is simply desperate for Jesus to heal her daughter. All she has and all she can bring to Jesus is faith A desperate seeking heart. That's her only hope. And that gains her access. That gains her Jesus' heart because he cannot refuse helpless faith. What Jesus marvels at in verse 28 is her faith. That's what he focuses on. Nothing that she did to obligate him. See, works religion always seeks to put God in your debt because you say, well now this is what you require. I have kept the requirements. So now God you are obligated to bless me. That is the way religion works. I've kept my part of the bargain, you now keep your part of the bargain. That's why religion has no way of explaining suffering that ever satisfies. Because it is either saying, I must have screwed up somewhere and I'm not sure how, which is Job's struggle, or no, I've kept my part of the bargain. Why haven't you kept yours? Which was also Job's struggle. So, Matthew is presenting here a radically different view of the heart. Fifth contrast. Pharisees saw the heart as basically good, and their job was to guard it from evil. Jesus is saying the heart is basically evil and needs to be transformed. This is at the heart of the difference. The Pharisees, you see, had multitudes of regulations about ritual cleanness. They had whole tractates that went on into detail. About what could make you unclean. By the way, none of that was in the Old Testament. The only matters of cleanness and uncleanness were about the priests and making offerings. not about the people in general. They have expanded all this into long diatribes about what is clean and unclean and how you would be symbolically unclean to become ritually clean. Because we are basically good people Who need to just do a little better and protect our hearts from uncleanness. We need to guard our goodness so that we feel good about ourselves. All self-focused. The result was they could never look honestly at their hearts Look at verses 18 to 20 again. The things that come out of the mouth come from the heart. These make a man unclean. Jesus is saying, this is what you're like. Out of the heart comes evil thoughts, murderous, revengeful thoughts, adultery. Lustful thought, sexual immorality, theft and covetousness, false testimony Gossip, slander. These are the kind of things that come out of your heart and make you unclean. And what Jesus is saying is, you guys are in fact filthy and you don't even know it. You want to talk about cleanness? You want to talk about what keeps you from being fit to be in God's presence? The Psalm says, I present clean hands and a pure heart. Jesus is saying you guys are clueless about your hearts. I told you before about a woman that I had shared the gospel with for some years and um thought I was making incremental um advancement in this and one day we were out for lunch and she was talking about some of the things that she thought God showing her and said that she was coming to realize that there were certain things that she knew was not right in her life And then she talked about the fact that she knew there were some shameful things that she deeply regretted, but then quickly added, but those weren't the real me. And I stopped her right at that point and I said, oh no, no, those were the real you. In fact, until you own that as the real you. There is no good news from Jesus. And God by his mercy helped her to see that and broke through when she came to Christ. That was some years ago, and she's still walking with him today. Is somebody who now realizes moral bankruptcy, but the gospel of grace in her life Moving from works to faith. This is where the Pharisees were stuck. They could never own what their hearts were really like. And so that comes to even the more core matter, the sixth contrast between religion and the gospel. It's really about religion and the gospel. You see, religion is always focused on what do I do to gain or maintain access to God. He owes me because I have followed his rules. That is the essence of moralism. But religion will always lead to either pride or depression, and generally both, and sometimes rather rapidly oscillating between one back to the other. Pride and depression. Why? It's pride because it says I keep the rules better than you do. I find my sense of well-being in comparing myself with other people that I criticize. And feel like I can do better. Or I'm depressed because whenever I compare myself with somebody else, I see myself as inferior. I don't measure up. I'm more pathetic. I'm a loser. And so back and forth. Focus is simply on me, my performance. It becomes proud because all moralists are people who say you should be like me. Why aren't you like me? Criticize the other person because you see that's that's the only way I can survive and cope is to think that my way is better. It's how I live, it's what gains me access to God. Or it is by the depression that says, um, I compare myself with others and I'm hopeless. That's why God is so distant from me, because I don't measure up. I'm not good enough. I've made promises and pledges about devotional exercises or giving myself and helping people and doing things that I fail at again and again And of course what the gospel does is it comes and says, you think you're hopeless? You don't know the half of it. You don't know what your heart is really like. You're actually far worse than you can imagine. And it's not until you come to realize that you are morally and spiritually bankrupt that there's really any good news for you. But once you come to that realization Of moral, spiritual bankruptcy, poverty of spirit, then the gospel shows you Christ. You see, religion is always focused on what I have done or what I have not done or I haven't done enough. The gospel always focuses you on what Christ has done for you. It focuses you on the cross where you see that Jesus' heart was entirely pure. Out of his heart came worship and love and compassion and pity and goodness and kindness. And out of your heart comes these evil thoughts and adulteries and murder and slander and the rest of it. And Jesus has said, I offer you to trade the record of our hearts. And he gives you the record of his heart to present before God once and for all. Nothing to add to that. And he takes the record of your heart. And he went to the cross to endure the wrath and the punishment of God because of the record of your heart. And that was all done by grace None of it, not an ounce was done because of anything that you could bargain for, because of anything that you could present. Because of anything that y you could offer as some means of God looking to you with some sort of favor. And that's what the Canaanite woman is a picture of Do you notice that in every case in the interchange between her and Jesus, it is not yes, Lord, but I, but it is always yes, but you. Verse 22, she comes to him, crying out, Lord, Son of David. Two very honorific titles Have mercy on me. My daughter is suffering terribly from demon possession. The furk her focus is not on anything she does to gain his doing this. It is simply a plea for mercy When he responds that it's not right. He was sent uh only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, verse 25. She just simply comes and kneels and says, Lord, help me I'm not arguing. I'm just saying help me. That's all I can plead. Nobody says, well it's not right to take the children's bread and give it to the dogs She says, Yes, Lord, but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table. He said, yes, but you are merciful. Yes, but you, yes, but you. My only hope is your mercy, nothing that I've done. And that is purposely an intense contrast in Matthew's presentation here to the Pharisees orientation and I tell you again you and I have a gravitational pull to constantly move back to that orientation So you come to the seventh contrast, the contrast between rules versus relationship. In the Pharisees' minds, they had a list, six hundred and twelve commandments of the Old Testament, innumerable traditions of the elders surrounding the laws in order to preserve and keep us from transgressing. And the Pharisees said, our job is to keep the rules, God's job is to bless. It's an arrangement of mutual obligation, there's no relationship. In contrast to the Canaanite woman, She comes howling, badgering. The disciples are irritated with her. They're thinking, I'm not sure why we're over here in Tyran Sidon in the first place, why Jesus left the Holy Land to get over here. But this Canaanite woman really bugs us. And they're probably thinking about the curse upon the Canaanites. They're thinking, you know She's like Jezebel, that queen that introduced demon worship into Israel and was cursed, and all of her tribe are cursed. They're all cursed pagans. What's he doing not sending her away? Get rid of her, Lord. And then in verse twenty-four, he says, I've been sent only to the house of Israel, and it seems hopeless. But notice He does not send her away. And the woman recognizes this and seizes on it. They said send her away. He said he sent to the house of Israel, but he didn't send me away. And that's where she kneels and says, Lord help me. I'm not going to argue with you. I'm just saying, Lord help me. I throw myself at your feet and at your mercy. So then When he responds, but it's not right to take the bread of the children and give it to the dogs. Her response is to sees on that veiled invitation. She draws out her feisty creativity born of desperate faith. And she pleads, yeah But even the dogs. And by the way, the word that she uses there, the word Jesus uses is house dogs. It's not the word that the Pharisees used for the Canaanites, which was slum dogs But this was dogs which you showed affection to. And she says, but even those house dogs get to eat from the crumbs. And that Jesus responds to, oh woman, great is your faith. Your request is granted. Now think about this for a moment. Suppose the woman had come, howling and screaming, and said, Lord, have mercy on me, my daughter's demon-possessed, and Jesus simply said, Go home, your daughter's healed. There wouldn't have been any relationship. He was breaking new ground. This was going beyond healing a centurion servant, a Roman centurion. This was cursed Canaanites. And Jesus, in drawing her forth in that, breaking new ground of being, of showing mercy to someone who is under the curse. Jesus now in doing that is drawing her into a relationship. She engages him. And even in this brief exchange, a relationship is developed. And so it is with you and with me. Have you ever cried out to the Lord for something that you desperately wanted for your son, for your daughter, your mother, your father? Your wife, your husband, Lord, give me this. Lord, I ask you for this. Nothing happens. And you cry out again, Lord, didn't you hear me? Lord, I'm desperate. Bring them to faith. Stop them on this course. Do this. Heal them of this. Whatever it is, you're crying out to the Lord. And nothing happens. And so what do you do? Well, hopefully you go to Scripture and you ask yourself, well, you know, what's some promise I can claim? Where's something relevant to my need? What can I do? And you begin to engage him. In fact, you cry out to him day after day, night after night, until a rut is worn between your soul and God. A rut that is worn out of the incessant crying and the desperate pleading that goes day after day and night after night. And what's he doing? He's deepening the relationship with you. After some weeks of doing this, after some months, after perhaps years, you begin to notice you're not the same person. Your relationship with him is not what it was. Because even though perhaps he hasn't granted the request you originally asked He's beginning to do things in you or showing things about you and your heart and his relationship with you and how precious you are to him in other tokens of his mercies that you had never seen. So that when something finally culminates of that whole interchange, it's a whole different relationship. Because it's not based on rules, it's based on a relationship. The gospel is about relationship. And that leads us to the final contrast. The fascinating contrast between the ignorance of male Jewish leaders versus the insight Of a female Canaanite nobody. Don't miss it. The gospel turns the world's values on its head. Notice the contrast between the disciples' attitudes and Jesus in these two stories. Verse 12, the disciples are anxious that Jesus has offended the Pharisees. These are important people. You don't go around rebuffing, insulting, and offending these people because they're important. The woman comes pleading and begging and their attitude is she's annoying, get rid of her. Look at Jesus. They say, now don't offend these guys. They're important. And Jesus says what? Leave them. They're just blind guys, and they're going to lead other blind people into a pit. Leave them. So he dismisses the Pharisees They say, dismiss the woman, and what does he say? I've not been called to the house of Israel. And he draws her into a relationship which culminates in an extreme of praise. O woman, great is your faith, and, I think, implied, your insight. Your request is granted to you. Who are we concerned to value or to dismiss? The important people who know a lot about the Bible and maybe are in positions of authority and prestige. Or the person that comes in off the street knows nothing about the Bible. But they come with a desperate heart. Lord, I want to meet you. CBC is full of Bible experts, and that's a good thing. They had a lot of people that really, really know the Bible very well, and we can never know the Bible too well. I continue to look at myself as a beginner student of Bible study, still skimming some of the surface of the deep treasures of its wealth. But maybe you come to CPC and you notice all these people quoting scripture and referring to things back and forth and you don't even know if you're supposed to be in the Old Testament or the New Testament and you feel like this Canaanite woman. I'm an ignorant, unclean nobody. Well, guess what? Matthew says the gospel's for you. The gospel's for you because it does not matter how great your Bible knowledge is, your access to Jesus is gained by a desperate heart of faith. That simply sees that he has died for sinners. That he meets sinners who come with no other plea. But that you have died for sinners. I want to know you. I want to have you in my life. Maybe the Lord speaking to someone here of that new revelation. Lord, this is not for people who are just religious and know the Bible and are really into that kind of stuff. This is a Jesus who has come for the unclean. For the cursed, the shameful, the ignorant. Jesus is accessible to you right now. You don't have to do anything to gain access. You don't come to bargain. You come to beg. You come to plead simply what he has done as the little children that sang at the beginning of the service. Nothing to plead. Simple kids who come empty-handed. Here we are. And Jesus will meet you. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for these two stories. We thank you for how they show your heart, because we are incurable moralists. We are so arrogant that we think that we can impress you with things that we do, sacrifices we make, good intentions, whatever. And in those very things, we lose a grip on Jesus and the gospel. We move into pride and depression by comparison and focusing simply on ourselves. Lord, turn our eyes right now to see Jesus. To see Jesus meeting that Canaanite woman where she was. In simple faith that was desperate. Lord, give us that realization we are lost without you. Lord, we desperately need you. In every heart and every person that's in this room, there's different things, different reasons. That are going on right now, but there is that same cry, Lord, I am lost without you. I desperately need you now to meet me, to take me through this week. To grant me mercy. Lord Jesus, your heart is such that you can never deny such a plea. And we are so thankful and pray that you will show yourself to each one so seeking right now, in Jesus' name. Amen.