One of the most amazing things about the Bible is that it was written between two and three thousand years ago. To a very different culture. And yet, as you and I read it, it's as relevant to your situation and my situation as a book written in America with a 2006 copyright on it, and yet with far more depth and meaning and insight. That's especially amazing when you realize that Jesus spoke to a Mid Eastern culture 2,000 years ago. And today, one of our great problems in America is we still can't understand Israel and Palestine. And yet he spoke to them 2,000 years ago. And those words that come to them make sense to us. But we have to realize that they had a rather different worldview. Their understanding of the big questions of life. At their root were the same as ours, but there were a lot of ways that they were cast differently. Who God is and how you relate to him One of the most central was the fact that for a Jew, the law was absolutely foundational to life. I mean, what made them unique and privileged as a nation was they were given God's law. They were given God's law as the revelation of himself. How to know him, how to please him, how to live successfully, what God expects. For instance, when Israel was going into the land, And they're about to take the promised land under Joshua's leadership. What is the final word that they're given as they go in? Joshua chapter 1, verse 7. Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the law my servant Moses gave you. Do not turn from it to the right or to the left, that you may be successful wherever you go. Do not let this book of the law depart from your mouth. Meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do everything written in it. Then you will be prosperous and successful. So to them, how do you be prosperous and successful? You study the law, you do the law, you follow the law, you submit to the law Now Jesus comes, and in Matthew chapter 4, verse 17, we read, Jesus began to preach, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near. It's okay. Now where's the law fit? Then he goes on and he unpacks what that means in this sermon. Begins by talking about eight ways that his disciples are blessed, the Beatitudes. And those are all the outworking of Old Testament principles, but there's no reference to the law. Then it goes on and says, now to engage the culture you need to remember your salt and your light. engage it in order to transform it. And they're thinking, yeah, but what about the law that talks of separation from the nations? So when Jesus comes to this place, what he is doing is anticipating a question that's on most people's minds. Now that question probably wouldn't have been on our minds, but it was on their minds. And the question is, so where does the law figure in this teaching of yours In fact, they suspect that Jesus perhaps is not holding to the law in an adequate way. They're sort of suspicious for a number of reasons that Jesus has a low view of the law. So Jesus anticipates that by saying, now don't think that I've come in order to abolish the law. But I've come in fact to fulfill it. Now, why would they have thought that Jesus would have had this low view of the law? And by the way, I don't think it's a matter just of them. I think that that question of the place of the law is still a very important question for you and for me. And I illustrate that by saying that during and after the Salt and Light series, a number of you said, yeah, I really got into that series. It was very helpful to me, it was very relevant, I can see how that applied. My guess is that as Tim read the verses that you just heard, that there are at least some of you, if not a number of you, who thought as you went from Salton Light to the place of the law Huh. Okay. Um not sure I'm really gonna get into this series. Um I never did relate all that well to the Old Testament. I have a hard enough time trying to understand the New Testament, let alone get into all the laws and the Old Testament. So whereas to them the law was central, are you holding enough of a place of it? For some of us it's do we really need to deal with the place of the law? I mean, wasn't that Old Testament and we're beyond that now? But that question is an extremely important question. First of all, what Jesus is going to do now is he is setting in these four verses the foundation for all the rest of what he's going to teach in chapter 5. In fact It's the foundation for what goes from here all through to chapter 7. If you look at verse 17, he says, Do not think I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. You look at chapter 7, verse 12. So in everything do to others what you would have them do to you. For this sums up the law and the prophets. 517 and 712 are like bookends. For the body, the main body of the Sermon on the Mount. It's all about the law and the prophets. Not only that, but notice what Jesus said in verse 19. The one who disregards the law will be least in the kingdom. The person who practices and encourages others To follow the law is going to be great in my kingdom. So your position in Jesus' kingdom in terms of usefulness and whether you are least or great depends on your view of the law. Now have I got your attention? There's something here that probably we're not grasping that Jesus wants for us to understand. So, we're going to look at these verses, these four verses, for three weeks. And this morning I just want to look at three points. Focusing primarily on verses 17 and 19. First point to notice is that Jesus does not abolish the law and the prophets. He does not abolish it. Now, I say it because the term the law or the prophets is really a way of referring to the whole Old Testament as a unit. The law is the first five books, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. The prophets is the whole rest of the Old Testament, sometimes called the prophets in the writings, but Basically the law and the prophets are the Old Testament scriptures. Now why is it that uh Jesus had to kind of defend himself here. Why were the Jews suspicious that he maybe had a low view of the law? Well there's a number of reasons, but let me just mention three in order to satisfy at least uh uh some reason why he needed to address this. The first was because Jesus had never gone to a rabbinic school He didn't study at Jerusalem University, didn't have a degree from some recognized rabbi. So they suspected Because he is not always quoting the rabbis and arguing from Rabbi so-and-so says this and rabbi so-and-so says that, and on and on through this, that He's probably a lightweight theologically. Not sure he really understands the law. In fact, if you look through the Gospels, many times you'll see that a conversation is introduced by so trying to test him. Somebody went up and they said, for instance in Luke 10, you have a teacher of the law went up and testing Jesus, he said, So what do I do to inherit eternal life? Now this is a test to see, you know, are you going to answer by the law, keeping the law, or are you going to come up with something else? You have this other way that, you know, it's it's really not biblically sound So what are you going to come up with? And of course Jesus tells him, you know, keep the law. Oh, okay, fine. I've done all that. Then he tells him the story of the Good Samaritan. So he takes the law, but he always is putting this different twist on what it means. So there's this little bit of suspicion. Secondly, Jesus hung around notorious lawbreakers, and he seemed to be rather comfortable with them. And so what does that say? You know, you're kind of known by your friends in Matthew chapter 11, we read in verse 18, John came neither eating and drinking or drinking, and they say he has a demon. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, oh, he's a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. This guy hangs around tax collectors, sinners, people that disregard the law, and he seems comfortable with it. There's something suspicious here. Are you really into the law or are you trying to undermine it? Another reason was because specifically they noticed how Jesus seemed to them to break the Sabbath And that was a very important law to them. It was a distinguishing mark of Israel. And Jesus doesn't seem to have the same regard A few verses after the one I just read in Matthew 11, beginning of verse of chapter 12, at that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry and they began to pick the heads of grain and eat them. When the Pharisees saw this, they said to him, Look, your disciples are doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath. So we're not so sure about this guy. Seems like he's not biblically sound. And so Jesus, toward the beginning of his ministry, wants to establish. Now let's get one thing absolutely clear here, guys. I am in total harmony with the Old Testament, and I am in total disharmony with you guys. So Jesus is not in any conflict with the Old Testament or with the law. His conflict is at every point, which he will demonstrate in the rest of chapter 5. with their understanding and their teaching of the law. In fact, Jesus is basically saying, you guys have misled the people. You have misled them so much that when I come explaining the kingdom of heaven, it seems to you so novel that it's like a new religion. But it's because in every case Jesus aims at our hearts. They aimed at behavior. And those are two radically distinctive ways of understanding Christianity. Every one of us in this room continued to struggle with them. In the middle hour discussion, we got into a lengthy discussion. Of behavior versus heart, law versus grace. Is there an antithesis? What about all this? All these things, these are still very real issues for us. And Jesus is saying, when you understand my teaching, when you hear it at first, you are tempted to think that it is, it doesn't fit with the Old Testament. But I want to establish at the beginning, I am in no way contradicting, abolishing, or in any disharmony with the teaching of the Old Testament. Rather, he, second blank, fulfills it. He doesn't just simply say he agrees with it. He doesn't simply say he confirms it. He says he fulfills it. Now think about that for a moment. Do not think That I have come to abolish the law of the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. And we kind of go over that. Okay, next verse. You know what that's saying? Jesus is just almost casually saying, I haven't come to abolish the Old Testament. In fact, I am the completion of the fulfillment of all the hope of the Old Testament. You know, everything that God said about a Messiah to come to restore Eden, to save the world, that's me. Oh. I mean you talk about an astounding claim. If Jesus isn't God, the Messiah, Son of God, and all he claims to be, that is such an arrogant, misguided claim. He says, I have come to fulfill the Old Testament. Now we're going to go into that in some detail next week. That's the real focus next week. Verse 18. But let me just sum up very briefly three ways that Jesus fulfills the Old Testament. First of all, he fulfills all the commands. He keeps every single command, not simply the behavior, but the heart attitude, everything about it. Jesus fulfilled every single command of God's law. And secondly, the commands, the law, were not simply commands for how we should live, but there was a provision in the law, the sacrificial system. To restore us when we had disobeyed. The whole offering of guilt offerings and sin offerings and the rest of that, Jesus fulfills that part of the law. Jesus fulfills once for all in his death the sacrifice that would take away sin. So he is going beyond simply the commands for how to live. I fulfilled the Old Testament. I fulfilled taking the guilt. Of all the disobedience of every one of you who trust me, look to me, who do not keep the law, who are condemned by the law. And thirdly, Jesus is saying that he fulfills all the prophecies and the pictures of the law of the Old Testament. He fulfills all the prophecies. Matthew makes a point of that. He stresses that over and over more than any other gospel writer. Remember back in chapter 4, see on the screen there. that he goes out of his way to talk about when Jesus left Nazareth, going to into Galilee. He lives in Capernaum, which is by the lake of Galilee. In the area of Zebulun and Naphtali? Why? To fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah, chapter nine, land of Zebulun, land of Naphtali. The way to the sea along the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, the people living in darkness have seen a great light. On those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. I have come to fulfill the Old Testament. We'll look at it again that in more detail next week. But You notice that he not only fulfills explicit prophecies, but also the pictures. The picture of the perfect priest who would once for all offer sacrifice for the sins of God's people. The perfect prophet who would reveal God, his ways and his character to the people, the perfect king, who would rule a kingdom of peace in which his people would live forever. All these pictures Jesus fulfills. So he says, I haven't just come here to abolish the law. By no means. In fact, I've come to fulfill every part of the Old Testament. All of its longings, its hopes are fulfilled in me. Jesus is your one refuge this morning. Every hope and dream and desire of the Old Testament, every psalm, every prayer, every longing is fulfilled in Jesus Christ. That's what he's claiming. And that's what the Christian life is full of discovering. Now, the third point that I want to touch on this morning, as I say we'll come back to that one next week. But the third point Is how then does Jesus view the law in the life of the Christian? How does he view the law in the life of the Christian? Verse 19. You notice he says, everyone or anyone who breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever practices and teaches these commands will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. Now, there are three significant views of Christians, Bible Christians. I'm talking about all those that believe that Scripture is God's Word. There are three ways that Christians have looked at the place of the law in the life of the Christian. Now you can break these down into a lot of other categories, but three basic And uh this is where I really depend on for really getting into this stuff, the middle hour discussion. So we're able to talk about this a little more. And if you are interested, next week we're going to be continuing this discussion. So come if you want to get this in a little more detail. But I need to go over it very, very quickly. and somewhat superficially in the few minutes I have here now. The three bay basic ways you see in your bulletin outline And those are not quotes from anything, but they are statements that I have labored to try every word to be accurate in representing these three different views. The first view Is some Christians say we have no obligation to the law. The law was only for Israel. Only what is commanded in the New Testament is to be observed That comes out of a teaching that was called dispensationalism, much more popular last century in a good part of last century. Uh it's uh it's evolving and d different uh ideas now and most of them are improvements But because of that teaching and also for a number of reasons, a low ebb in in-depth Bible study in our culture, for many reasons, Christians are largely ignorant of the Old Testament. Studies recently have shown that if you ask the average Christian to name the Ten Commandments, they're not able to do so. If you were to list the different prophets from Isaiah to Malachi and say, now which of these were before the exile, during the exile, or after the exile, a typical Christian would say, what's the exile? uh you know it wouldn't be able to sort them out. Most people would have to stop and think if you said, who was first? Quick, Abraham or Moses? So we find that the Bible is getting less familiar to our culture and the Old Testament is pretty much foreign soil. Now, if you have a teaching that says, as dispensationalism did, that Israel lived under the law. The way of salvation was to keep the law. When Jesus came, he introduced a whole new way of salvation, and that's grace. Grace is antithetical to law. So if you are under grace, you are not under law, the law becomes irrelevant. In your life as a Christian. Now that teaching is clearly in contrast to what Jesus says in verse 19. He says the person who disregards the law is least of least less usefulness stature in my kingdom. The second view is kind of the opposite extreme of that. It's not a particular conscious reaction to it, but It is the view that says the Old Testament law, in its details, is still binding today, both the commands and the penalties. And should be the basis of civil legal codes unless explicitly altered or rescinded in the New Testament That view generally goes by the name of theonomy. Theonomy, theos, namas means God's law. As I say, this is kind of the other extreme. And this view takes as one of the most foundational supports for it these verses. The people who hold to this view would say that verse 17, do not think I've come to abolish the law or the prophets. I've not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them, the word fulfill would be better translated, confirm them. I've not come to abolish them, but to confirm them, to re-establish them. Now, you think about that That means that adultery should be punished by the state by death. Homosexuality should get the death penalty. False worship should get the death penalty. Now you think about that for a moment. Okay, so we are able to prevail by some means on the state of Maryland or our federal government To punish Muslims with death for not worshiping Jesus. Or how far do you take this? Do you also punish Jews by death? What about Roman Catholics? Is that true worship? What about Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, Methodists, other denominators? Where do you draw the line, you see? So you've got not only the problem with the state determining what is true worship, but you also totally undercut the gospel. Because now, whereas Jesus is saying, you aim at behavior, the law aims at the heart, what you do is establish a whole system that aims at behavior There's a lot of problems with this. That just helps you to see why I think trying to take that to the extreme is going down the wrong path. So where should we go? Third view, the Old Testament, is still binding on Christians, but care must be taken to understand what it means since Christ has come and brought it to fulfillment in the new age of the Spirit and freedom. The whole Old Testament still has force and meaning for us, but only as the shadows are seen in the fullness of Christ. I put that down as CPC, because that's my view. You want to know where I'm coming from? That's where I'm coming from. That is a more pervasive reform view of understanding the place of the law. Now, what that's saying is that there are some parts that are clearly still in force, like the Ten Commandments. Those are all reiterated in the New Testament. There is nothing in those that was set aside by Christ's work. A clear example of what is set aside are the dietary laws or the laws about the sacrifices. There is no more shedding of blood. So there are a number of things that Christ fulfilled and completed, and they are fulfilled in him. But that still leaves a whole bunch of laws. That we have to look at and say, but what about this? Example that we pursued a little bit more in the middle hour was take, for instance, Deuteronomy 19, 19. The beginning of that verse says, keep my commands, heads up, and then it says, do not sow two kinds of seed in your field. And do not wear two kinds of fabric in your clothes. Now, how many of you out there have cotton and polyester on? You are breaking the law. But what does it mean? You see, this view says it's not a question of whether the law is still binding, it's a question of what does it mean? What does that verse mean for us? And we talked about some ways to approach that in the middle hour, which I'm not going to go over again this this place, but it's just to establish that Understanding how to apply God's law in our lives takes work. Ephesians 5, 8 to 10 talks about keeping the things that are clear and then says Learning what is pleasing to the Lord. That's a process. It's a process whereby you don't disregard the law. Nor do you take some easy sort of mechanical application, but you look at the principles behind the law. And we use as an example James 5 talking about paying laborers. There are principles behind the specific laws about paying wages that are still pertinent for us. We need to follow those, but in summation, the question is not whether it is binding, but And it's never a grounds of our approaching God. It is always and only the reflection of God's nature in how we please Him. Verse 19 is very significantly followed by verse 20, where Jesus says, I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and teachers of the law, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. So you see what he is saying is you can ignore the law, not be keeping it. You may teach others to have a kind of disregard and still be in the kingdom. Because your salvation doesn't depend on that. You can have a very deficient view of the law and be a Christian. You shouldn't be content to rest with that To not disregard the law, because he says you will not be of much effect in the kingdom. But rather Jesus is saying the law is never the way to enter the kingdom. And he unpacks that in six examples that we'll look at in the rest of chapter 5. So obedience and influencing others makes you great in the kingdom, of more use to him. You want to be great in his kingdom for him. Well, then you've got to take the Old Testament into account. You can't disregard it. Now Jesus at the end of his ministry in the Great Commission says, Do two things after you've baptized the disciples you make. Number one, teach them all the things that I have commanded. Number two, though I'm with you always. to the end of the age. Those two things are the kind of the outline of the book of Matthew. Remember I said five blocks of Jesus' teaching. He teaches the law. Five blocks of narrative interspersed to see what Jesus is like. Your life, my life as a Christian is those two things together. Lord, what do you want me to do? Lord, what do you like? Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. So you learn what his heart is like, you learn what his presence is like in your life, and you're also seeking to follow him, to obey him. in the things that he tells you to do. So, finally, so why? Number one, question to you and to me, how much time do you personally spend in getting more acquainted with the Old Testament? That may be a whole new world to some of you, probably familiar with the Psalms, but read more of the unfamiliar Psalms. Or read through the book of Proverbs to understand ways of relating to people. Read through the book of Genesis. Book of Genesis is so wonderful because it's it's like C. S. Lewis or other good literature. You can read it in various levels. You can just read it for the story. And it'll carry along, and there's wonderful stories that reveal something of God's nature. You can go deeper and deeper into it. Same way with the rest of the histories, where the prophets Uh certain precious verses. You know, the wives of uh the staff here just came back from a conference this weekend. And each wife had to study a particular book. I think they were all from the Old Testament short books. And my wife was given the book of Jonah. And uh so for the last two months she's been looking at, thinking about, studying the book of Jonah. And one of the things that was really thrilling to me was to see how much the book of Jonah came to mean to her. In fact, she was so excited she started sharing some of this with a middle hour class. How Jonah opens up the nature of God in unique ways. The Old Testament isn't kind of, well, it's just there, but you know, you really don't need it because everything is worth anything was repeated in the New Testament and opened up clearer. No. There are things in the Old Testament to show you the nature of God and his character that you will not ever get by just restricting yourself to the New Testament. God didn't give us two-thirds of the Bible just to make them heavier. To make it longer for us to read so somebody can get degrees and study in this stuff. It's practical, helpful stuff. Therefore, two things. Number one, I challenge you to read one Old Testament book this fall. Just take one book. Wherever you're at, pick one book. Get into it on the level that you're at. Read anything you can. There's even commentaries online Um and you know if you go to a reliable website, get some good stuff. A lot of stuff in our library. And then when we offer the next time around the overview of the Old Testament course, take it just to give you some ideas of how that can be opened up to you. Your life with the Lord will be deeply enriched. The person who disregards the Old Testament Jesus says is a lightweight in the kingdom. You don't want to be that. Second thing. Grace is not antinomian. Antinomian means anti-law. The principle of law and grace are antithetical, the way we approach God. But the law and grace are not antithetical. We come to God through grace, the finished work of Jesus Christ. But in order to understand his nature, what he's like, and how to please him, we go to the law, which is the reflection of his character. Don't confuse those. Are you seeking to learn how to please him? Then go to his law in the questions that you ask. What does God say about this? There's surely something in the law that's relevant to each question of your life that you're asking. Thirdly, finally, obedience is never in your own strength. Obedience is never by trying harder to keep the law. It's never the basis of your coming to the Father. Jesus says in verse 20, if your unless your righteousness exceeds that of guys who morning, noon, and night, that's all they thought about, was how to keep the law, how to set up ways to protect me so that I didn't break the law, unless your righteousness exceeds that, you won't even enter the kingdom. He does that to crush any hope of behavioral salvation. Until you are crushed by the guilt of your deficiency in loving, loving God and loving other people, which is equivalent to keeping the law. Until you are crushed by your deficiency in that, which is what Jesus is going to do in the rest of chapter 5, you will not go to Christ. You and I will try anything of behavior in order to make us acceptable. And when I give up trying with my behavior, I lapse back to my intentions. Well at least I tried And when I lose it on the intentions, then I start comparing myself with somebody else, one at least I'm not like. Or I begin to blame shift or excuse-make or rationalize. All in order to avoid Christ. It is only when you and I are trapped in the hopelessness of behavior that we see the law for what it is. It is to bring us to Christ. So that we rest totally in Christ. And having rested in Christ, you then say, Lord, I love you so much. What can I do to please you? And he says, Let me tell you what I'm like. And you look at the law. And the law becomes freedom. Let's pray. Lord our God, how we want to escape the law. And how we want to rely on the little bits we know of what is right to do in order to excuse and justify ourselves. Lord, I do it all the time. Lord Jesus, you will not let us stay there. Some of us, even as Christians, lap back. Our hearts have a gravitational pull to the law. And so, Lord, as we go through this series, help us to see that the law is the law of freedom. Help us to see how the law takes its place in our lives so that we as your people rest completely in the finished work of Christ. Lord, show us. Forgive us for ignoring the law because we see it as simply a taskmaster, something that just reminds us of our hearts. And without Christ we have no way of going away with joy. So teach us, Lord, how to go to the law, how to see Christ, how to have joy, so that with the psalmist we say, Lord, how I love your law. It's my delight. Because that law not only tells me my deficiency, that same law tells me of a Savior who satisfied all of its demands and who loves me. Lord Jesus, give to us a greater desire to know your word, both Old Testament and New Testament, to love you better. In Jesus' name. Amen.