I thought I heard one little amen there. If your heart resounds with that message, say it. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Eric and Lisa. Not only is that song appropriate for the message this morning, but The group, mercy-me, is particularly appropriate because you take those two words, mercy-me And that kind of sums up the message this morning. Before I begin that message, let me tell you that my apologies if any of you showed up for the sermon Q<unk>A. And didn't know because you weren't in the first service that we didn't have it because I was teaching in Discover's class. I will also be teaching in the Discovering CPC class next Sunday. So we will not have the sermon discussion time in the middle hour until November 30th, at which time will we be discussing the first of the Christmas messages. Already up to that. So not next week. Well, uh I had said last week that that Matthew has been building to a climax of portraying Jesus' unique authority. That's true, but you could also say that really this week is the climax Because although last week he had portrayed that Jesus' authority extended not only upon incurable leprosy and all kinds of diseases and storms and demoniacs, even to the forgiving of sin and the healing of a paraplegic. But what Matthew does now is to say It pertains to me. It's personal. And that's really the climax. This morning we look at Matthew's personal testimony. And we see in that that the Bible never allows us to discuss Jesus as something out there, as an interesting topic to consider his authority and what he did, and isn't he fascinating? Jesus always places himself before you in your face. Who do you say that I am? Do you see yourself as needing my forgiveness? As I asked you last week, have you ever heard Jesus say to you, take heart, your sins are forgiven you? Or is it something that's out there and not personal to you? The gospel is always necessarily personal, powerfully personal. Now I also mentioned that the more I study this, the more I'm discovering myself the richness of this book that Matthew has written. And because we believe that it was not simply Matthew who wrote it in the first century, but that behind that the Holy Spirit was working to guide his thoughts and what he wrote, that we would expect that the book's not going to be superficial or haphazardly put together. But I am stunned and amazed at how intricate and how rich is the development of his writing. Let me tell you what I'm talking about that pertains to this message. Matthew, as I say, has been developing this climax, coming up to this climax of Jesus' unique authority. What he's also beginning to do, did it in this passage we looked at last week, he's beginning also now to develop the opposition to that authority. We saw that when Jesus taught the Sermon on the Mount, he distanced himself from the Jewish leaders, he criticized them, and now they are striking back. And we're going to see this increase, and it's going to come to a climax at the end of this chapter, and it's going to go on. We'll get back to that. But He now has these two ideas, Jesus authority and now growing opposition to that authority And with that he then weaves in Jesus' mercy, his compassion in contrast to his enemies. So you see these three themes interweaving in the story. Now, for those of you who want to make sure you get the bulletin blanks filled in, let me give them to you right now, and then you can sort of just relax. And listen to me as I develop the story and bring them in because it may not be as easy to do that this week as it is some other times, because I'm going to be jumping around on stuff. So those are the three themes, there are the three blanks. Authority, opposition, mercy. Those are the three things that we're going to be looking at. And once again, let me tell you the story. as I weed those in and supplement it with some of the material that you have also in Mark and Luke that Matthew doesn't give you. And I want to tell you why he doesn't give it to you. Okay, so it's sometime after Jesus has healed the parap paraplegic, probably the paralytic, forgave his sins, then healed him of his paralysis. Maybe days later, maybe a few weeks, Jesus is walking along Capernaum, he's walking along Lake Galilee, and Matthew tells us that he walks by his office. Now Matthew, he says, just throws it in there. Jesus was went on from there, saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector's booth. The tax collector's booth. You know, I I I doubt that anybody's pulse raised up when I read that tax collector's booth. But you better believe there was a strong visceral reaction of anybody at that time reading that. Because it meant that Matthew had sold out and worked for the Roman government. Herod was his boss. Matthew to the Jews, Matthew has another name, Levi. Luke and Mark called him Levi. He refers to himself as Matthew. Matthew was despicable to the Jews at that time. He was despicable not only because he consorted with the filthy Roman dogs He associated with them, they paid him, but also because He was an extortionist. The Roman government required that he collect a certain amount of taxes. Now, he was here in Capernaum. Jesus says when Mark or Luke says was coming along the shore, he probably had his office right near the shore because the west side of Lake Galilee was under Herod Antipas's jurisdiction. The right side, the east side of Lake Galilee, was under Herod Phillips' jurisdiction. So when a ship took off from Capernaum going east It had a customs tax levied on the goods. When it came into port from the east, it had customs levied to it coming in. So Matthew Was there near the shore in his office as one who had a certain amount of money he had to collect for the Roman government But they allowed him to collect whatever he could get away with and keep the rest for himself. So not only had he sold out to the Romans, he was an extortionist who robbed people. in a way that the government supported. Now, it's hard to give you some idea of a counterpart today of what that would have been like Let's say he was something like a Wall Street financier who had bundled a bunch of subprime mortgages and sold them off knowing that it was going to drive down the economy, but simply it was going to line his pockets. Maybe a better example is, imagine if we could only get our oil from Iran. And Matthew works with the Iranian government to drive up the price of oil helping to destroy our economy in order simply for him to get rich. That's the kind of guy they looked at. He was greedy, he sold out, he had no principles, he was despicable. The Bible tells us Jesus says, follow me, gets up and follows him. He said, whoa, wait, you know, I mean, I know Jesus has authority, but understand that Matthew had had some prior contact with Jesus. Matthew and Jesus lived in the same town, Capernaum. Matthew very likely would have heard Jesus preach the Sermon on the Mount. We don't know that, but he certainly gives the details. He might have seen some of the healings. He would have heard some of the teaching. We don't know all the contact. But certainly had some contact. Also, Matthew's brother Could have been James, the son of Alpheus, one of the twelve disciples, because Matthew is also called at one point the son of Alpheus. So one of his brothers may have been a disciple of Jesus, but he's had contact. Probably in that contact he's been conflicted He's heard Jesus teaching about the kingdom. He's heard Jesus teaching about laying up treasures in heaven, not just trying to grab it all for yourself here. He has seen Jesus heal people. There's probably part of him that says, I'm drawn to this man, I'm drawn to this kingdom, I'm drawn to his teaching, I would like to follow him. But I can't. I simply can't because I would lose my job. I would lose everything that I have as a visible means of support. So it would be nice to follow Jesus, but it's not an option for me. Maybe he's been wrestling with this for weeks, maybe months. And then he tells us one day Jesus came by his office Looked at him and he said, Follow me. And that settled it That settled it. Jesus doesn't give any reasons. Matthew, let me review for you here now four or five reasons why you should follow me. None of that. He simply says with divine authority, follow me. Now there's some of you that have been coming to church for years. Maybe you've been coming with your parents Maybe you only come because you're the son or daughter of your parents who come here. Or you've been visiting here, or whatever the reason, maybe you're fairly new here. And you're conflicted. You hear the gospel, but you think it would cost me this or that in my life. This relationship, that practice, that habit, that my life is centered around. Jesus is very attractive, but I don't see him as an option for me right now. We make things so very complicated, don't we? On the one hand, here are four or five reasons why I should follow Jesus. Well on the other hand, here are four or five reasons that would be, it seems, insurmountable obstacles. And Jesus makes it all so simple. Like to Matthew, he says to you this morning, follow me. And he says it compellingly. He doesn't say it as a suggestion. Jesus commands you this morning, follow me. Understand that when Matthew did that Matthew tells us, you read what he says there in verse 9, follow me, he told him, and Matthew got up and he followed him. What Matthew doesn't say is what Luke adds. Luke says, and he left everything and followed him. He didn't even clean out his desk. He just got up and left everything and followed him. Because you see, that was an irrevocable decision. Matthew did not have the option a day or two or a week or two later of deciding to go back to his job. The next day his job would have been filled by somebody else who paid to get it. When Matthew gave that job up, he gave it up permanently. He didn't know where he was going to live. You know, the the fishermen, Peter, James, John, they left their fishing and they followed Jesus. But they went back to their fishing. Matthew didn't have the option to go back to his job. And you tell me about all the things it's going to cost you to follow Jesus. Tell Matthew. He knows something about cost. But Matthew also knows that Jesus forgave the paralytic. And Matthew knows what a grimy character he is, that he needs Jesus, and he is overwhelmed with the fact that Jesus would choose to have him as a disciple. You see, it's clear from what happens next that Matthew didn't do this with any kind of second thoughts or grudging or any of the rest of that. Because you go on to verse 10 and it says, while Jesus was having dinner at Matthew's house, many tax collectors and sinners came and ate with him and his disciples. Very interesting. You know, we think we understand a little bit of Paul's character, a lot of biographical, autobiographical material. We understand something about John. We understand certainly a fair amount about Peter and what kind of character he was, can identify with him. But for many of us, Matthew is a very shadowy character. All we have is this gospel, there isn't anything in there personal, you know. So who was this Matthew? He's rarely mentioned anywhere else in the New Testament. So who is he and what he's like? I think there is a powerful insight to Matthew's character in these few words. Luke tells us the reason that Jesus was eating in Matthew's house. Luke tells us Matthew threw a big party. Matthew financed a banquet in Jesus' honor and invited all his friends to come and meet Jesus. Now, one thing you notice about Matthew is how different he is from me. If I had done that, I would have made sure you knew that I left everything and followed Jesus. And that I gave up a fair amount of income to throw a big party because I loved Jesus and I wanted my friends to meet him And Matthew purposely leaves that out out of simple humility to put the focus on Jesus. It's Luke that lets us know those details. So I see in Matthew a man who is overwhelmed with grace. A man who is overwhelmed with the fact that Jesus one day, when he was all conflicted, would look at him and say, You, follow me. And he wants all his friends to meet this Jesus. And a lot of his friends, of course, are tax collectors. Another group of them are sinners. You see sinners in the NIV in quotation marks because sinners was a kind of a technical term. that was used to refer to everybody who was outside of the Pharisaic evangelical community. These were the people who didn't fit within the evangelical subculture of that day. They were the unclean. They didn't keep the rules. They didn't fit. And so Matthew has all these people together. And the opposition comes. Why does your disciple notice the Pharisees don't confront Jesus directly, they go to the disciples, why does your master eat with these scum? And they don't give an answer, but Jesus overhears it. And Jesus responds to that criticism in what I consider to be a pretty gentle rebuke. He responds by explaining to them that he is eating with Matthew's friends because it's not the whole who need a physician. But the sick. Now, understand the significance of Jesus eating with Matthew's friends. It would have been entirely different if Matthew had said, I'm going to rent a hall, and I'm going to have Jesus give a lecture on the kingdom. I'm going to have Jesus talk to you guys about what he can do in your lives. He didn't do that. He did something much more radical in that culture. He threw a banquet and invited Jesus to sit with his friends. Because you see, in that culture, to eat with someone was to fellowship with them, which was to call them a friend, to not condemn them. But to say that you were with them didn't mean you approved of everything they did, but it said you were their friend. You were not standing in condemnatory stature against them. That the Pharisees could not abide. So think of it. That means that when you as a Christian Think about spending time with your unbelieving friends, your irreligious friends, that never go to church, that think that evangelicals are weird, but you're okay. When you spend time with those people, Jesus is with you enjoying your friends. You say, Oh no, no, I always feel a little guilty, you know, because I'm hanging out with these guys and I'm thinking, Oh no, you know, is Jesus over here and there? Because they do some stuff that I know he done approve of and I you know, and their lifestyle and some of their views of ethics and marriage and s you know, all kind I mean I just don't want to get into it. And you know, it's hard for me to put those together. Scripture is telling you, put it together. Jesus is with you enjoying your friends Not saying that if you're doing something sinful with them, I'm saying that when you are with them, because like Matthew, you're saying, I want you to know my Jesus. I just want to hang out with you guys. He's there. And so look at that third point, mercy. What Jesus does with the Pharisees is to quote Hosea 6. 6 to them. So on hearing this, Matthew says, Jesus said, it is not healthy, the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. But go and learn what this means. That was a rabbinic saying of that time. It meant, think about this. Go study this, and I don't think you got it, so think about it. Quotes Hosea 6:6, I desire mercy, not sacrifice, for I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners. I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners mercy. This week I was talking to our missionary to Southeast D. C. , Joshua Curl, trying to plant a church with our Presbytery in that area. It's a rough area. He works in the area. Stanton Park Project. If you know anything about that area, it's it's it's pretty rough. And he's currently discipling five teenage guys who meet with him And so I asked him this week, Josh, does that mean that you think once you build the relationships with these guys that the parents might be interested and might be interested in an invitation to go to church? He said, no, it doesn't work that way. Because he said, you see, the parents don't think they're good enough to go to church And so, oh, that's a little different from Howard County. I don't know how many people of my friends think, oh, I'm not good enough to go to Columbia Presbyterian. But do you catch the irony of it? In that culture, we're not good enough to go to church. And Jesus says I came for sinners. I came for the dirty, for the people full of shame, for the people who know they don't fit in the evangelical culture. The people with AIDS, the people who we look at as outside Jesus says, go learn what the God of mercy, who he likes to spend time with. And you see, Matthew got that. Because even though Matthew was wealthy Matthew was well educated. He had to be well educated for the job that he had. He certainly got a lot of money from it. From all apparent just looking at the situation, probably had a very nice house, good income. Matthew was a respectable looking guy. But Matthew knew his heart. And Matthew knew that he had a greedy Willing to sell out for his own benefit, no matter what it costs somebody else, kind of heart. And Matthew couldn't believe That Jesus would have mercy on him. When you came to Jesus, if you're a Christian, You were probably overwhelmed with a sense of his mercy on you. Has that deepened? Or has that grown rather cold? You see, Matthew's idea here in his gospel is the better you get to know Jesus The more amazed you are at his mercy. And the more amazed you are at his mercy, The more you want to find people to hang out with, to show them this Jesus, whose mercy is so amazing. Mercy for me Columbia Presbyterian has a Route 1 Homeless Project. Hang out with the people. Down along the Route 1, the place where there's now some shelter. A number of people have signed up and are part of this. That's wonderful. You hang out with some of those folks and you understand this is not the kind of folks that we hang out with at CPC. But you can see other things that are very similar in hearts and desires. And so Jesus calls you and me, in knowing his mercy, to spend time with people who so need that mercy. Matthew saw beyond the apparent respectability of his outward appearance to a despicable heart. I'm a greedy gossip. I'm a critical complainer. And I need mercy. So this morning, he makes it very simple for you. Follow me Follow me. I'm not asking you to understand all of the Westminster Confession. I'm not asking you to buy into the holy evangelical subculture. I'm not asking you to take all the things that you associate with evangelical Christianity at this point. The issue is simply follow Jesus. And he will lead you into understanding who he is and what the community is about and all the rest of it. But if your heart is shifted from simply following Jesus to the subculture's expectations, may Jesus call you back this morning It's about following me. It's about knowing mercy. It's about sharing my heart For people who need that mercy, like you do, and like I do. And it's about counting the cost Being willing to give up whatever is in the way, even in Matthew's case, his livelihood. And then to say, what cost? Let's throw a party. I'm just so happy. Read just this week about a group of parents who for ten years have been meeting before school at a public school to pray. They pray for the kids, they pray for the teachers, they pray for everybody that's associated with that public school system. Found out recently the school was being sued. One parent didn't like what they were doing and got the ACLU to sue them, named the parents And insisted that five things must immediately cease. And they were being taken to court over it. They must stop the morning prayer meetings. They must stop the National Day of Prayer activities. They must stop to see you at the poll activities. There could be no religious references to Thanksgiving or to Christmas It went to court. And the ACLU lost on all five cases, all five counts. Praise God. My point is, it costs them, and we're in a culture that is increasingly hostile to Christian practices and activities. I don't know what it will cost you. I don't know what it's going to cost me in the future. But Jesus' mercy, following him. is worth not only doing it, it's worth throwing a party to celebrate it. Let's pray. Lord, we want to see you. We want to see your mercy. Because we are people who so insist on trying to blame shift and minimize our sin And not see that we have the kind of hearts that Matthew was willing to look at. Of all the disciples in the list, he's the one that says Matthew the tax collector. Always refers him to himself as the tax collector. I can't but imagine that with that there was a smile. I'm the tax collector that Jesus loved. That Jesus called to be his disciple. Lord, renew in our own hearts the amazement. I am Alan Harris. And I knew the kinds of sins that would so alienate me from you And that you not only are willing to sit down and eat with me, but to call me to be your disciple. And for those here this morning, Lord, who have made it very complicated, we pray that you would bring them back to the simple basic. Follow me. Lord, there's somebody here perhaps that's struggling with that right now. I want to consider all the on the one hands and on the other hands. And right now you are speaking to their heart and you're speaking with With great insistence, follow me. I pray that you would break through in that person's heart to yield to you right this moment And to be willing to follow you. I didn't do this at the first service, but I Feel a leading now. If there's anyone who is saying, yes, there there is an area and I have been holding out and I want to this morning simply follow Jesus Just slip up your hand and I'll pray for you. If you want to talk to me, that's fine. But just be able to pray for you. That you decide now you want to follow Jesus. Lord, whatever the struggle is We pray that you will help us to see you, help each person wrestling with us to see you as the Savior Who loves unclean people, and who was hounded by the Pharisees even to the cross. And turned their apparent victory in having you crucified into the greatest display of mercy whereby you took our sin. May we see you and have our hearts drawn this week to follow you. In Jesus' name. Amen.