I had actually uh planned on uh speaking This passage last week. And those of you here last week remember that I uh switched that to speak on Psalm 86. The psalm when we're desperate because of uh Katrina, I considered switching this week also. because um there's probably as much concern and uh emotional absorption with Katrina this week as there was last week And uh so we thought about, you know, Tim have something to preach or should I preach? Steve wasn't an option, he's out of town. Uh thought about what we should do and um Prayed about it and asked the Spirit to lead, to guide, and believe that because this week is really kind of the beginning of a new year for us that um it was very appropriate for us to consider the work of the Spirit here now. So I'm very glad for what Tom said at the beginning because I know that many of us are thinking about this, but you know, in some ways This is more of a new year to us than beginning of January. Because our our lives run in the cycles. We've learned to do that, the cycles of summer. And then Labor Day is this big transition. And we moved from summer, whether you're on vacation or had something special going, or just some sort of transition. And now you feel like we're kicking off a new year, schedule's back to normal, you know, whatever normal is. You know, there's there's two things that you fear about normal One is things will never get back to normal. The second is that they already have. Uh so we're kind of back into whatever that is, but as we think about this new year I think it's especially appropriate for us to consider the work of the Spirit. When you read those verses, verse 16 That uh at the moment Jesus was baptized after he went out of the water, heaven was opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting on him. And then verse 11, John says, I baptize you with water for repentance, but after me will come one who's more powerful than I. Whose sandals I am not fit to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. What do you think? What goes through your mind? When you read those words, do you think I you know I I don't know what that's saying? I can't figure it out. I'm not gonna spend time, just gonna move on because I never understood that business about the Holy Spirit anyway. Don't really understand what that's about. Kind of afraid to get into it a little bit. Sometimes, you know, we Reformed and Presbyterian types are accused of being binitarians rather than Trinitarians, we believe in the Father and the Son, but we're not really sure about the Holy Spirit, who he is, what he does, and how that connects with us I mean, let me just ask you, how much this past week were you conscious of the Holy Spirit? You know, I mean, conscious that you were dependent on him, prayed to him? You know, I I know there was a time when I didn't pray to the Spirit. I I prayed to the Spirit now. I I know that there are things of his work uh and if you you know, just an example of those are the what we put in that prayer. Just look at the backside of that prayer, the various things the Spirit does. But do we consciously depend on a man? I mean This week, did did you ask him for anything? Were you aware of your need and his provision that you're not alone? That he's there to help you Or are you kind of afraid of getting into the spirit? Kind of wondering, you know, where's Harris going with this? You know, can people start getting caught up in that stuff, you know, they get into all this weird stuff. They Start talking about miracles and new revelations and focusing on experience rather than the cross. And you know, all those things can happen. But you know what? I think it's very significant that in Matthew's gospel, before Jesus has said a single word, before he has begun his ministry John, whose job is to introduce Jesus and his ministry, sums up Jesus' ministry by saying, He will baptize you with the Spirit and with fire. That's how John introduces him, and a few verses later you see Jesus coming at the very inauguration of his ministry to be baptized with the Spirit. So there's something here that's very important to us, and I think it's especially appropriate at the beginning of this year, as we kind of think about launching off. Here I am, Lord. You know, and I think we're especially susceptible and teachable on a Sunday like this to say, Lord, what is it that you have to say to me? And if there's one thing I want to say to you this morning, it's to call you and me to a new consciousness of our dependence upon the Spirit. And to rejoice in Christ's provision of His Spirit for you and for me. We're not alone. Two points. And they're simply the points from the text. Number one, to look at Jesus being baptized by the Spirit, and second, to look at his baptizing us. with his spirit. The remember scene, we talked about it when we looked at this chapter before. This is the last Message on chapter three, and we go on to chapter four. But you remember how we looked at uh John preparing and he was leading the people. They went, they confessed, he baptized them. Jesus comes And John is appalled that Jesus would want him to baptize Jesus. Lord, Lord, no, not you. I ought to be baptized by you. And you remember Jesus said. Well, permit this to fulfill all righteousness now. I tried to show at that point that what I think Jesus is saying is just as you and I need to be identified with Christ in order to receive the benefits of his work for salvation, so Jesus needs to be identified with us to accomplish that. And in his baptism, he is being identified with sinners. Baptism has the idea of new identification, of change, reorientation. And what Jesus is doing here now is that he, the eternal Son of God, is coming to take his place as a representative. So that all that he is going to do, his keeping of the law, all of his thoughts and his works and his deeds are going to be credited to you God will look at your life and say, I credit you just as if you had lived the life Jesus lived, because he identified with you and by faith you identify with him, and there is a union in that relationship. And because of that, he baptizes you with his spirit. There's three things I want for us to just briefly notice about Jesus' baptism with the Spirit. First of all, notice that two things happen in this. When he comes up from the water, next two blanks are that the Spirit comes on him. And notice the spirit comes as a dove. That's in contrast to what the people expected. They expected that when the Messiah came, the Spirit would come upon him as a thunderbolt. And John expected that But Matthew shows us that in contrast to that expectation, he is not coming at this point to bring judgment. The Spirit comes, gentle as a dove, to rest upon him for ministry. And then you notice the Spirit comes on him and the Father speaks about him. So the second blank, the Father speaks about him. And basically what the Father says there in verse 17 is that he is the fulfillment of all the Old Testament hope and expectation. This one is the true son and the true servant that Israel's been waiting for. The Father comes and speaks at that point and says A voice from heaven, the father, this is my son, whom I love. With him I am well pleased. And your mind goes back to Psalm chapter 2, verse 7, the second Psalm, where you remember the Father says, This is my Son. Today I have begotten you. You are my son, in the words of the Psalm. And so this one, the eternal Son of God, now the eternal second person of the Trinity is now taking the place as the son under the Father's authority. The one who is going to do the work that you and I desperately need. As the true Son to serve the Father, that you and I should do and never could on our own And so he is also the true servant. In the words of Isaiah 42 that Tom had us read responsively, this is my servant in whom I delight. That's the idea there. He's the one, God says, this is the one in whom I am well pleased. I delight in him. He's the perfect servant. You see the other contrast, all the other people come to be baptized and they confess sins. Jesus comes and there's no confession. He's done everything flawlessly. The first thirty years of his life never involved a moment of any thought Of any motive, of any action, any word that he spoke, that God was not thoroughly pleased with. So God puts his stamp of approval upon Jesus' life. This is the son that I love. This is the servant that I'm delighted in. And notice very briefly three things about that baptism. Number one, notice this inaugurates his messianic ministry He is now declared to be the Son. He is declared to be the servant who is going to fulfill all the Old Testament work of Messiah. Secondly, notice that Jesus did not begin his ministry until the Spirit came upon him. Sometimes I think we have a misconception that Jesus was self-sufficient. He was God. So he didn't need anybody else. Jesus was totally complete in himself. He could do everything that was needed. To do the work of Messiah himself. And Jesus goes out of his way to disabuse us of that. He says, I do nothing that I haven't seen my Father do. I'm copying him I say nothing that the Father hasn't told me to say. I'm simply saying what He has me say. I don't do my ministry on my own. The Spirit comes upon me He is the man of prayer, the man of faith. And so Jesus is the model for you and me that his ministry is done in the same spirit that comes upon us. And he is a model for you and me of dependence. That's really good news, isn't it? You have the same spirit that Jesus has. And so if Jesus couldn't do his ministry without the Spirit, why do you think that you and I don't have to pay attention and think, well, you know, if every once in a while I remember the Spirit there? How much more you and I should have moment by moment every day a sense of conscious dependence. Holy Spirit, I can't do a thing. This is going to be pleasing to my Heavenly Father, apart from you coming. I can't speak a word that is going to be used by you For eternal significance, if your spirit doesn't come and own and possess and control in what I do, but but you have him to do that Isn't that great? And notice it's a third thing, very briefly. You notice when the Spirit comes, another misconception. Is that the first thing that he does, and the next verse you see in chapter 4, we'll begin to look at next week, the very first thing that he does is he leads Jesus out into the wilderness to suffer and be tempted. You hear a lot of people talk about the Spirit and His work and being baptized and filled with the Spirit today. You have the idea that when you get the Holy Spirit, your life sort of soars above troubles and circumstances and trials and temptations. But you see, when Jesus was filled with the Spirit, the very first thing that happened was he was brought out to confront the unholy spirit. He was brought out to suffer, to be tempted. And so our brothers and sisters that are in the Gulf Coast this morning who may think, why is this happening to me? What did I do? And God must be far from me. It could be that in fact God is very close to them. They're exactly where he intends for them to be. He is leading them into the desert. Spiritual desert. They wish some things would dry out and be more desert-like, but they're being brought into a spiritual desert. in order to know his fullness and sufficiency in temptations and suffering. So that's Jesus' experience. Now John says this same Jesus comes and he baptizes you and me with that Spirit. And you see, that is verse 11. Look at it again. I baptize you with water for repentance. But after me will come one who is more powerful than I, whose sandals I'm not even fit to carry. The work of a slave. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. This one, Jesus, is going to baptize with the Spirit or with fire. You're either baptized with the Spirit who changes you and possesses you, or you are baptized with the fire in that last day of judgment. Now you say, but it doesn't say that. It says with the Spirit and with fire. And so a lot of people say that this fire really refers to a purifying kind of fire that comes when the Spirit comes upon us. I don't believe that's the case because the context tells us what is meant by fire. We look in verse 10. John had said to the Pharisees coming, the axe is already at the root of the trees. Every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire. The very next verse after 11, his winnowing fork is in his hand. He will clear his threshing floor, gathering his wheat into the barn and burning up the chaff with unquenchable fire. So Jesus immediately in that context tells us what he means by fire. He's talking about the unquenchable fire of judgment. It's an either-or situation. Jesus baptizes everybody. And either you recognize your spiritual poverty and need for his spirit. Or you say, I can be self-sufficient. I'll hold Jesus at arm's length. And you come at that last day and you find out you'll get exactly what you deserve. And it will be unquenchable fire. To burn up not only your works and all of your idolatry and all of your false sense of self-sufficiency But to come in judgment upon your life from a just and a holy God. So John is warning Come to this Jesus. And you see, what the Spirit comes to do is the fulfillment of Ezekiel chapter 36. Israel in all its sin and its need, what did God do? He came and he gave them the gospel. And the gospel is the same twofold idea that John's presenting here. The Spirit comes to cleanse and to change. Look back at Ezekiel chapter 36, and you see there that Ezekiel says these two ideas you see in different colors to help you track them. I'll sprinkle clean water on you. You will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities. Verse 29, I will save you from all your uncleanness. Now, how's that done? By the Spirit, who changes you. I will give you a new heart. I will put a new spirit in you. I will remove from you the heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit in you. And move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. I'm going to give you new desires. I'm going to change your heart That's what John's saying. This is what Jesus does. He sends his Spirit who cleanses you from all the filthiness and shame of all the things that you have done that you're ashamed to think about. And then he changes you. He changes your heart. So that like last week we talked about how our hearts are so divided. So that there is that desire. Beneath all the sin and all the things that you want to do to please and serve yourself and have the universe center around you, there is deeper within you that seed of the Spirit that says Jesus is the center of the universe, and to desire to serve him and to have him be the focus of your life and of your affections. It's interesting that when John comes to say this, John's Gospel elaborates on this a little bit more, this two-fold idea of the Spirit. the cleansing and the changing. If you look at John chapter 1, it's described in terms of removal and bestowal. In John chapter 1 in verse 29, John comes, he sees Jesus, is talking about the same period of time, sees Jesus coming toward him, and he says, Look The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. That's the removal. He cleanses you. He takes away your sin. Removes it once and for all, forever, gone. God Himself does not hold your sin against you if you belong to and have trusted Jesus Christ. Or you trust him this morning where you sit. But he also bestows on you the Spirit. Look at verse 30. Well, don't look, I don't have it. Just here, verse 33. In fact there it is. Verse 33. I would not have known him, John says, except the one who sent me to baptize with water told me the man on whom you see the Spirit come down And remain as the one who will baptize with the Holy Spirit. He does that to change you. That's the idea, the two-fold idea of removal and bestowal. And then you see this same idea offered that Paul refers to in Titus chapter 3. In Titus chapter 3, Paul talks about what our lives were like before Christ, before the Spirit. At one time we too were foolish, disobedient, deceived, enslaved by all kinds of passions and pleasures. We lived in malice and envy, being hated and hating one another. What a grim picture. Strife, tension, no peace. Just all kinds of turmoil in your life. Those are the things you grasp for, but you can't have, and the relationships that are broken. He goes on, but when the kindness and the love of God, our Savior, appeared, he saved us, he delivered us from that. Not because of righteous things we had done, but because Of his mercy. He saved us, here it is, through the washing of rebirth and the renewal by the Holy Spirit Same idea again. Cleansing and the changing. He cleanses you. It's the washing of rebirth and renewal, changing of your life. Whom he poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs, having the hope of eternal life. This is a trustworthy saying And I want to stress these things so that those who have trusted in God may be careful to devote themselves to doing what is good. Why? Because you have a heart now that wants to do what's good. He's changed your heart. He's washed you, he's changed you. He's cleansed you, he's changed you. Those are the two ideas. Those are the two ideas that you have in Matthew 3 Matthew is telling you that Jesus has come to baptize you with the Spirit, and he does that picturing it as washing, the baptism of water. And then he talks about the fact that he's going to change him, he's going to fulfill that longing to please him, to do him, to do, follow the servant. Whose life was perfectly pleasing to the Father, to learn what it means for you and I to please the Father as sons adopted by Him. You see how that all fits together? But you see, what's that all about? Maybe you're losing track here, losing focus. Well, get to the point. The gospel is about power. The gospel is about the Spirit who changes lives. It's not about signing a different creed and simply saying, well now, being a Christian, this is I have these set of beliefs, and that's changed. It involves a different set of beliefs. But it involves the Spirit coming in an experience of change. The fellow I was talking to yesterday, we were talking about his coming to follow Christ and know what it means. To be a Christian. And he said, I want to see not simply what it is that I believe that's different, but I want to experience the change that Christ makes. I thought, amen, brother. We talked about that. You see, this is not something where you say, well, have I been baptized in the Spirit or not? Well, I don't know. Maybe uh No, John said if you are baptized by the Spirit at that point of conversion when Jesus comes into your life You know that because you've seen whatever your emotions were, you've seen maybe immediately, dramatically, maybe gradually, you see your heart changing. You see new desires, you see something that's happening that can't be accounted for. By your personality. You see, it's hard for us because we live in a day of auto-salvation We live in a day where we're told believe in yourself, believe in what you can do. You know, whether you hear it from Oprah or Dr. Phil or a self-help book that you pick up and read, it's that same idea, you see Auto salvation. This struck me with some force when recently we uh were some friends and he invited us to watch his video and so we watched a movie with him uh which I had not particularly had on my list of must see's the um Boogeyman. Now I'm not gonna ask how many of you seen Boogeyman but and it it it you know don't worry I'm not gonna spoil it. The s the plot's not that deep. But it's about this kid who, when he was growing up, his father put him in a closet to toughen him up, lock the door. So he'd have to face his fears. You know, here's in this dark dark closet and the kids terrified and screaming, but you know, stay in there for a while, it'll toughen you up Well the result is that the kid grows up with his phobia of closets. You know, he just scared to death whenever he sees a closet. And it's not real clear in the movie but his father at some point disappears from his life, but the kids view is that the boogeyman came out of the closet and whisked his father off and took him away So he is sure that there are demons in closets. And it's a little hard on his relationships with women, you know, like every time he passes a closet he sort of freaks out, you know, and it d you know, it doesn't build much confidence in, you know, whether you can handle life or not. The climactic scene of this thing, he finally now has seen uh you know this this uh girl he really cared for has apparently been taken by the boogeyman, and so he's got to face this thing. And he's got to face these fears, face his demons. And what he does is, and it's real clear, you're on your own, buddy. You gotta face these demons. So he everything in him wants to run, but he musters up the courage and he says, I'll face these, and you see him there, you know, all these supernatural special effects. And it it implies, you know, that there is the supernatural. And he faces the supernatural. He faces the demons. And by his sheer courage, the demons back down and they flee. He's faced his demons. He has delivered. Himself. And you saw, and I saw this, I thought, that is so clear. That is the postmodern gospel. You can deliver yourself if you believe in yourself and you face your demons. Brothers and sisters, what John is saying is, you are in big trouble, if that's your hope. You need a savior to deliver you. You need a spirit who went out into the wilderness to combat the unholy spirit and who defeated him. Defeated him once and for all at the cross, and who can come into your life, and he will deliver you from your demons. He will deliver you from that bondage that has you enslaved. He will come into your life because he is the Spirit of power, the power of Jesus Christ. coming into your life. Now we've talked about that power. I talked to you about some months ago. Uh the fact that uh Ann Coulter was starting to go to church and she was going to um you know, Manhattan uh Redeemer Church there and I said, you know, it's very interesting. She's going and there's something that's drawing her, something that's attracting her. Remember I said at that time, I'm gonna pray the Holy Spirit will get a hold of her and change her. And uh she made some glib comments about the service, you know, to show a little bit of cynicism when the interviewer from Time magazine asked her what she was doing there. When I read his interview recently, just in the last month, that she she uh had another interview. This time she was at University of Texas. She was meeting with some students and one of the students asked her, how do you handle the terrible things that people say to you because of your stand on abortion? And the person that was uh witnessing this said uh she uncharacteristically paused, wasn't just fired back an answer, she stopped and she thought for a moment and messed with her hair, and then this is what she said. Well, it's the same way I don't care about anything else. Jesus Christ died for my sins, and nothing else matters. And a dozen jaws hit the floor. And Calder professed faith in Jesus Christ. Now, if that's true, we're going to see some changes. It's going to be a new and colder. You see, only the Spirit of God can take somebody like that. And be willing to stand publicly and say, you know, Jesus Christ died for me. Nothing else really matters. We're taking a book come out recently called Conversations with Bono from U2. And this fellow who uh wrote the book, I'm not familiar with him, but he's a uh secular uh interviewer. uh Miklais apparently doesn't know much about Christianity and starts interviewing uh Bono uh and gets into religion and says you know isn't religion just the cause of so much of world's evils. And Bodo doesn't answer that. He just talks about, you know, he said, well to me the amazing thing is that the God of heaven and earth would come and want to have a relationship with us, that's what's really amazing to me. And, you know, somebody pushes it a little more, you know, and tries to get him uh, you know, to Uh press. Oh, and Bono at that point says, you know, the the really intriguing thing to me is the difference between karma and grace. And so you go, well, what's that? He says, well, you know, we all operate by karma. That's the world. Whatever you do comes back to you. But he said, in Christianity, grace comes in and upsets that whole thing, so that what I do doesn't come back to me because someone else took it. And he said, that's really good news for me, because I've done some really stupid stuff. And the interviewer says, oh yeah, like what? He says, that's between me and God. But Jesus Christ died for my sin. That's how I get to heaven, and that's my hope. And you see the interviewer moving from cynicism to gradually being intrigued With this guy who he so respects, saying, you know what, Jesus Christ is my only hope. And he tries to get him finally to press with, you know, well that That's a nice hope, but you know, it sounds kind of far-fetched to me. I mean, you know, you're saying Jesus is the Son of God? And just calmly comes right back and says, Well, you know what If he isn't the Son of God, what is he? He's certainly not just a teacher. He's certainly not just a prophet. And to me, it's a little far-fetched to think the person who has changed the lives of so many millions of people is a nutcase. You gotta deal with that. Hey, what's happening in his life? I don't know, but the Holy Spirit is doing something in our day in situations where he's changing lives that you and I can't account for. Do you remember the last time I was talking about uh this in Matthew chapter three was July twenty-fourth and I was saying that I'm going to meet this afternoon with a fellow I haven't seen for thirty-five years. We grew up together, kindergarten, we'd lost track. And uh, you know, we had become Christians somewhere around the same time and and he and his wife and me and Kathy are gonna meet today. Well we met that afternoon and in our conversation it came up about well, so when did you actually become a Christian? And I asked him, and he said it was September 3rd, 1959. At that point, my jaw almost hit the floor. Because I said, you know what? That's the exact same night I became a Christian. It was the same conference, the same speaker, the same meeting. He said, I didn't see you in the counseling room. I said, that's right, because I went outside. And I was going to mess around, and I gave up on that, went back to my cabin and gave my life to Christ. Thirty-five years it took for us to find that out. Now, that's not my point. What's my point? Here's the point. That was a turning point in both of our lives. And we said to each other, who was that guy who spoke? Neither of us could remember. We didn't know his name I mean we went to a lot of meetings together. We couldn't think of the guy's name. He said, well what did he speak on? I haven't the foggiest. I don't know what he spoke on. Neither of us could remember We had heard at that point hundreds of messages. And the Spirit of God sovereignly came at that point. I mean, almost like removed from human inner f influence, and he decided to touch his life and touch my life. And he's now on staff at Willow Creek Church, and you know where I am Because the Spirit of God came on two kids messed up who he wanted to change. And that's the same spirit that is available to you this morning for this week. My challenge to you and to me as we begin this year to be conscious of Him. To recognize as that poem, that prayer that Tom had us read, I would encourage you to take that thing and go through that and pray that it speaks of so much of his work. Holy Spirit, teach me. Be the light, the one who changed it. Just pray that. But you know, I think that maybe it's not so much that we're afraid of the Spirit We're afraid that we're going to take the Spirit seriously and nothing's going to happen. Aren't you really kind of afraid that what if I really seek to yield to and cultivate a sensitivity to the promptings of the Spirit about what to do with my money when I read Scripture to act on it. to put myself in a situation where I'm willing to speak about Jesus and I'm willing to follow him and I'm willing to say, Lord, I want to abandon myself to your control. Holy Spirit, take me in this week, show me that you're real. I'm afraid nothing's going to happen. And I'm saying it's the beginning of the year. Why don't you and I this week act as if the Holy Spirit is real? A new awareness of our conscious dependence upon Him. To say, Lord, I'm going to take you at your word. I am going to trust. That you are the spirit of power who can come and to take my life to change me and to make me useful for your glory. To follow your promptings, to see you reveal Christ in a deeper way. You hunger for that. Do you hunger to know Him and to know His face and to know His power? I do. Let's seek them together. Let's pray. Lord our God, some of us uh kind of wonder, well, I've thought about this before, and I'm just afraid what's going to happen Holy Spirit, you have come by the work of Christ finished. We pray that you will come and to bring faith that we will believe that you are available to do in us what we simply cannot do in ourselves. To come and to give us boldness for Jesus, to give us a desire that you would be exalted. In our lives, to other people, in the things that we do, in resisting temptation to believe that it's worth resisting the temptation because you can enable us And we will be glad. That you will take our time and our possessions. We want to yield them to you right now. And Holy Spirit, come and take us, possess us. Give us a conscious sense of your presence in our lives and dependence upon you this week. And we might see you do. What will cause us to grow in our faith and love you more and more. Because we so need you. Oh, we so need you. Thank you that you are here, available to us, that spirit who is gentle. Cheerful and ready to help and apply the work of Christ. Oh Lord, we come to you and thank you that you are here in our midst. In Jesus' name. Amen.