Well how many of you uh ever sang that hymn before? Yeah, all the people that were in the first service, right? Yeah, that's when I sang it. Yeah, it's a new hymn, so thank you. Some of the thoughts from it and learn it. Well, we are in Matthew chapter 3, two weeks ago. I began In this uh story of John the Baptist. Notice he's John the Baptist. Couldn't be an Episcopalian and dressed the way he did You're too wild to be a Presbyterian, you're John the Baptist. Of course that's not why the Bible says that in those days John the Baptist came. He's called John the Baptist because he did this strange procedure of baptizing people. That was not something they were familiar with. And uh so we saw that uh in a lot of ways John was a pretty startling character. He's the first prophet to come speak God's word to Israel after 400 years of silence. Uh and he uh he comes, the Bible says, again, look at uh Matthew chapter three. In those days John the Baptist came Preaching in the desert of Judea, saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near. This is he who was spoken of through the prophet Isaiah A voice of one calling in the desert, prepare the way for the Lord and make straight paths for him. So we saw that uh John's primary ministry is to prepare the way for the Lord He prepares it in four different ways. And we're looking at one of these each week for four weeks. In the first message, I tried to sum up the first way By saying that his message was reduced simply to a what and a so-what. The what is the kingdom of heaven is near, the so what? Repent. Every Christian sermon ought to have those two parts. What? What has God done? What is God doing? So what? What's your response? Repent and believe. And so what John's doing firstly is to show people their need for a Savior by the fact that God's rule is coming in a new thoroughgoing way through Messiah, and you and I are not submitting to his rule. We need to repent as we look honestly at our hearts and see our need for a Savior. Now he continues on, verse 4: John's clothes were made of camel's hair. He had a leather belt around his waist, his food was locusts and wild honey. People went out to him from Jerusalem and all Judea and the whole region of the Jordan. Confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River. Here we see the second way that John is preparing people for the coming of Messiah. John's a very visual character. You notice uh people look at him, here he is kinda, and he's got this camel skin on him. camel haired, leather belt. Picture him his hair is kind of wild, hangs out, you know, and uh must have been an interesting character to uh to talk with. You know, yeah, come on, join me for lunch. Some locusts and wild honey. No thanks, I'll just take tea and talk to you. Um just a really just visually everything about him and then his his message Two very vivid images. Water, fire. And you see those that run through. You know, it talks about water and he talks about fire. And uh then he does this strange practice. He baptizes people calling down to the Jordan River and he pours water on them, he baptizes them. So what's he doing here? I think um What that's all about is the second way of preparing people is that John is creating a longing to be pure, to be washed. His ministry is baptizing. Now uh a lot has been written about why John baptized. And You know, that's that's understandable because Matthew doesn't tell us exactly why he baptizes. He doesn't say John baptized because or he this is what he was doing. So we have to think, well, why isn't that John baptized? Some people say, well, I think it was because he was part of the Qumran community and these were people that kind of like the sect that went off into the desert to wait for Messiah. This says I've preached four seconds so far. This is a great morning. Uh now it's now it's yelling at me. Wait a minute Oh, it won't go beyond four seconds. In fact now it's down to zero. Hang on guys. Okay, well, here we go. Where was I? So some people think, you know, it's because he's part of this Qumran community and they they practice these uh ritual washings that that's where he got the idea. Well others say, no, w what he was doing his baptism was a um proselyte baptism. Sometimes when uh Gentiles would turn from Gentile faith to become Jews, w they would baptize them. And uh so some people say, well, you know, what God's really doing is he's saying, uh, I'm I'm speaking to you Jews, uh, just like you're Gentiles, and you need to have your hearts turned and converted just like Gentiles do. Actually I think the reason uh is pretty apparent and it's not those. I think what John's doing, if you put yourself in the in the mindset of a Jew that's hearing him is he's connecting the washing of baptism to the Old Testament pictures of washing The Old Testament talks a lot about water and washing and purification, and we're not familiar with that so much, so we kind of hard find a hard time entering into it, but Uh let me give you a little bit of background of what I think the typical Jew standing there at the Jordan would have been thinking and what John would have Probably been trying to connect in their minds in preparing them by creating this longing to be clean, to be purified, to be washed. in his baptism. First of all, in the Old Testament, baptism, I mean the Old Testament speaks a lot about purification by water. That's the first blank. Purification. Um when a Jew would hear him, they probably would be thinking about Leviticus eleven to fifteen. Um, because there you have a lot of instances where God's law says that people needed to be washed under certain circumstances. For instance Uh if uh you touched a dead animal or touched something that a dead animal touched, you had to go and be sprinkled and washed and Be cleaned. If you had an infectious disease, take a look there. Leviticus 3013-34 And you see that on the seventh day the priest is to examine the itch, and if it has not spread in the skin and appears to be no more than skin deep, the priest shall pronounce him clean. But then you see he must wash his clothes and he will be clean. This is a ritual, ceremonial cleansing in order to be able to come back to the temple tabernacle to worship. Or you go on to Leviticus, you know, Leviticus um also in uh chapter um 13, there's um mildew. If you have mildew in a cloth, you've got to wash it all out, and there's a certain ceremony that you go through for purification. Chapter 15 talks about a number of instances. One of them talks about discharge, probably referring to diarrhea. And uh he says in verse 13, when a man is cleansed from his discharge, he He is to count off seven days for his ceremonial cleansing. It's not just a matter of physical, it's a ceremonial cleansing. He must wash his clothes, must bathe himself with fresh water And he will be clean. They have a lot of examples of this. Numbers 19, other places you should go. Notice just in passing that uh this is why we at Columbia Presbyterian, when we baptize, sprinkle. Uh it's it's not because we're too cheap to get a tub or a you know baptistry or something else. It's because we think, I believe, that the New Testament teaches that baptism has this idea of cleansing. It's pictured in these sprinklings and it is fulfilled in Jesus. Now why do I say that? Well, uh take a look, Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 10. Talks about these Old Testament Hebrews 9 talks about a number of Old Testament sprinklings. Verse 10 says, That's what the NIV says, washings. But if you look at the word in the Greek, the Greek word is baptis. These are ceremonial baptisms. It's the same idea that we've just been looking at. It's it's cleansing. Baptism is cleansing, it's washing, external regulations applying till the time of the New Order. Hebrews 9 goes on to talk about how their um the sprinkling was uh also by blood. In fact it says almost everything in the tabernacle had to be cleansed through the sprinkling of blood. And Jesus' blood it is that sprinkles and cleanses us. So that's why when we baptize, we sprinkle, because it's the picture of the cleansing that comes through Jesus Christ. And um that's unfortunate that the out of the last three weeks we've had two baptisms. Next week we'll have two more baptisms So now I'm talking about baptism. We don't have anybody to baptize. So just kind of store it away and keep it in mind. Um but at least if that helps you on why we do it the way we do, then that's what's behind it. But the Old Testament doesn't just speak of these washings as ceremonial. It also, second point there, baptism is related to moral cleansing. It's quite clear in the Old Testament. It's related to moral cleansing. For instance, in Isaiah 1, Isaiah tells the people: Wash your bloody hands to make them clean. And stop doing wrong. So the the thing that you need to wash is the wrongdoing, and you will be whiter than snow, he says there in verse 18. So you need to wash morally, wash your hearts, wash your deeds. Perhaps the most vivid statement of this is in uh Psalm 51. Remember, David prays there, wash away all my iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. Cleanse me, literally the Hebrew is unsin me with hyssop. Now a hyssop was kind of like a brush. And uh you would dip it into something and then you would sprinkle. That's that's the cleansing. So it was not a shower, it was uh symbolic cleansing and uh I will be clean. Wash me and I will be whiter than snow. What's interesting there is that um remember David had sinned with Bathsheba and Uriah probably months before this. And he wasn't particularly anxious to be cleansed, didn't see any great need for that, just moving along until Nathan confronted him with his sin. Then all of a sudden As he looks at his life, he sees I am dirty, I am filthy, I am polluted. And he turns to God and he says, Wash me. Oh God, make me clean. God, sprinkle me, wash me, make me whiter than snow. God, I come to you for cleansing. Now, you see, what John is doing is he's picking up on this idea of guilt and filthiness, the need to be cleansed. It's a very vivid visceral image. And it's one that you and I can relate to, can't we? I mean, you know, aren't there times when you've been filthy and you long to get a shower Sometimes you may be filthy and you don't even recognize how filthy you are until you come in contact with somebody else. I still can recall some years ago when my son Dean and I went on a backpack. We were in Dolly Sods, West Virginia, and we weren't having a great time and you know we were getting cruddy, filthy, and all this. And we're just, you know, having a great time out there. And um on the way back after three days, we were pretty ripe. And uh remember we stopped into I believe it was the Pizza Hut in Frederick on the way back And we were sitting there and, you know, and you you sit down and eat, you know, you kinda notice it a little bit more. You also notice that the booths in front of you and behind you are vacant. You know I mean And you know, but it's not bothering us very much. And I got home and uh when it really hit me was when we came in the door and I wanted to say hi to my wife and can you believe it? She didn't want to hug me and kiss me. I mean What's the deal, you know? But the desire to be close to her made me want to take a shower. So you see, David's saying, Yeah, I've been moving along, that's okay. But God, I want to get close to you. Wash me. I can't come to you filthy like I am. And John is taking that image. He's saying, repent. God's coming to rule, to rule in your heart and your life. Recognize it's not just a matter of, oh, well, you know, I haven't Haven't done everything the Bible says, but nobody's perfect. He wants a visceral sense in your heart. I am dirty. I need to be cleansed. That's what John's trying to create in you. And so the Old Testament's full of this idea of Jeremiah 4. 14, wash the evil from your heart. Zechariah 13. 1, in the day of Messiah, there's going to be a fountain to cleanse us from our sin. And so the people come confessing. See, he's linking. Look at verse six there. Confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River. These two things go together. If you weren't willing to confess your sins, John wouldn't baptize you. And so, and we'll get into that more next week. But you had to confess, you had to recognize, I need to be cleansed. And you would people would get specific Luke three tells us about how specific they were in their cleansing. I have not trusted you. I have not obeyed you. And so um Some of the examples from Luke, you have these people coming down to the water, and here's a tax collector, and he says, I've cheated people, I've taken advantage of my authority, and I've taken more than I should have taken God forgive me. I'm dirty. I need to be cleansed. That's specific. That's not just saying, well, you know, I've sins of omission and commission. No, you know, here's what I have done in my job, how I have cheated people Somebody comes down and the John says if you have two tunics and your brother doesn't have anything, you gotta share with him. And somebody comes down and they say, you know, I got more than I need of this and that and I haven't been willing to share with people in my neighborhood, people that I know who have needs. And so they share that specific thing and they say, I realize now I'm dirty and I need to be cleansed. And John baptizes them. Soldiers come down. And they say, uh, we've used our authority to intimidate people. We've taken advantage of our power. We've grumbled about our wages and We we've done wrong. John doesn't say quit your job as soldiers. He says don't intimidate. Be content. So they confess And John baptizes them. And so you see this picture, you know, of people coming, and I believe if you were standing there, you'd see them weeping. People that are moved by this. You see, John wants to get to your heart. John isn't just interested in some formulaic doctrinal agreement. Get into that next week, the next paragraph. That's quite clear. John wants a visceral response I've sinned. I'm dirty. I need to be clean. And they weep and they confess this and they come down to the banks of the Jordan. And John probably takes some water and I think he does probably a little more than we do in the bowls here, and he's there and he takes it and he pours this water on them. And he says, God says you're clean. And people come up out of the water and they're still crying. But now their tears of grief have turned to tears of joy. Uh maybe if you've seen the movie, uh, Oh Brother, where art thou? There's that baptism scene, you know, and so the people come up and this one guy is just shouting, Hallelujah, I'm clean, I'm clean. This last week was a very difficult week for me, and um I sinned against a couple of my brothers. Um Not loving them, closing my heart to them and writing them off in some pretty severe disagreements that we had And when I began to see my heart in that, um I was miserable, uh, and I felt dirty And I realized that I needed to confess. And it wasn't just a matter of confessing to God. I needed to confess to them, and I needed to confess to the other people who were affected by that. And that was hard, you know. Confession feels like death, doesn't it? When we stop blame shifting and minimizing It feels like death. So painful. I felt disqualified as a leader. I felt inept and humiliated. And the thing that comforted me at that point was that I realized I didn't do something that showed God my heart was what he didn't know. All I did was reveal what my heart was like. The confession Is the recognition, this is what I'm like. The cleansing comes because God, at a point in time. I could realize God had set his love on me. He had sent his son to die for me. And where I'm appalled and I say, God, how can you love me like that And it was as if God was saying to me, You think I didn't know that when I set my heart on you? All this did was reveal to you what your heart is like. And it may be that for some of you like me, we minimize and blame shift And God's wanting to say to you this morning, I want you to see what your heart is like. You keep pretending to me that it's something different. You keep trying to say, but you know, my intentions are really good and on and on and on and on, or you know, if the wasn't this person wasn't in my life and they didn't make me you know and on and on. And God's saying Stop trying to cover your filth with clothes that hide it. Come before me. Find the freedom of admitting your filth so that I can cleanse you. And so I stand before you this morning, a man that's clean only because of Jesus. Do you understand that kind of given cleansing? It's by grace alone. And there's one more point that John makes here that is so powerful The third point is that the baptism is not just by water. It's by his spirit. In verse eleven, John says, I baptize you with water for or in connection with repentance. But after me will come one who's more powerful than I, whose sandals I am not fit to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. So here comes another baptism. John says, my baptism of water is just a picture. But there's one coming who's going to baptize you with the Spirit. Now that doesn't spring out of nowhere. John, I believe, is still here connecting to the Old Testament this view, this picture of cleansing and water and baptism and the Spirit. See a couple of examples in Isaiah 44, verses 3 and 4. Isaiah says, I pour out water, and then he connects that with pouring out his spirit. You see, uh he says there, uh, I will pour out my spirit, I will pour water on the thirsty land, streams on the dry ground, I will pour out my spirit. On your offspring, parallel ideas, and my blessing on your descendants, they will spring up like grass in the meadow, like poplar trees by flowing streams Now, nowhere is this connection clearer than in the passage that Tom read in Ezekiel 36. So let's go back to that, see that on the screen again. Pick up at verse twenty-five what God is saying to his people. God says, I will sprinkle clean water on you. Okay, that's what we've been talking about. I need to be cleansed. And you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all notice two things, from your impurities and from all your idols. From all the things you do that have shamed you, that you recognize, have polluted you. But all the God's substitutes that you have in your life, I'm going to cleanse you from those. Those two things. But then he doesn't stop there. He goes on, I will give you a new heart. And I will put a new spirit in you. I'm not just going to cleanse you, I'm going to change you. I will remove from your heart of from you your heart of stone, and I will give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit in you, and I will move you to follow my decrees and to be careful to keep my laws. You will live in the land that I gave your forefathers. You will be my people, and I will be your God. I will save you from all your uncleanness. I will cleanse you and I will change you. I will wash you and I will put my spirit in you. This combination is what John is preparing us for, the gospel. The gospel not only of forgiveness to say you can be clean But the gospel that says you can be changed. Your heart can be a new heart by his Spirit coming in you. So Joel 2 says, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh in that new age. John announces. that this one is coming. He's coming not simply to cleanse you. He's coming to change you. To give you a new heart But notice there's two images there. I said that John has two images. One is water, cleansing, and the other is fire, judgment. Verse 11, he says. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire. The only alternative to being baptized with the Spirit is unquenchable fire. You see, this spirit baptism is not a second blessing added to the Christian's life. This is basic conversion to be baptized by his Spirit Because the only alternative to that is to be undergoing the baptism of fire, which is judgment. He makes that clear again. We'll look at that more next week, the unquenchable fire that he speaks of, of the judgment of Messiah. Notice also that the baptism that John does here in the beginning, he baptizes other places later, but here in the beginning he starts at the Jordan River. And I believe that what he's saying in that Remember, the Jordan was the entrance into the promised land. John is saying, in order to come into the promises of God, the promised land, the kingdom, You need to be cleansed. And so these people come up out of the Jordan back into the land, but now they're clean. Now they can lay hold of the promises. To live in the land, to live with God as their Father, as their Savior. And so that idea of the Jordan, I think, is significant Let me just conclude by asking you, as I asked myself, a couple of personal questions on this, you know, the what, the so what Have you ever felt that need for Jesus cleansing in your life personally? Have you ever longed for it like you longed to take a shower? I mean suppose I said, you know, somehow there was a reason why you can take a shower for the rest of this month You know, and and you're doing yard work and, you know, you're laying mulch and you're digging stuff up. I mean if you You ever gotten I mean, you get to a point where you're getting so dirty you almost enjoy it because you're thinking I am so gritty and grimy and slimy and man and because what are you thinking? I can't wait. To get a shower. Boy, am I gonna enjoy I mean, that's not like when you got up this morning, you took a shower. Probably, you know, it was kind of like to wake you up and get you going. No, I'm talking about the shower when you are just You know. You can smell it. You can feel it. Have you ever looked at your heart and said, that's the way my life is And I can't wait to get cleansed by Jesus. I can't wait to know that He's sufficient to wash away that sin. And you can feel the cleansing coming upon you. The second question I have to ask you is: do you really believe? That his cleansing is sufficient? There are some of you here who have been Christians for years, and you still feel dirty. I find this particularly with women sometimes who have violated their consciences sexually. And they say, you know, been a Christian for ten, fifteen years. I still don't feel clean. The reason very often is because you're trying to get cleansing through penance rather than repentance The difference is that in penance I'm trying to prove to God that I'm really sorry, I'm really trying to show you, I'm really trying and I keep punishing and punishing and saying How do I get to feel clean? And I get angrier at God because I'm feeling like He didn't do it. Let me give you the word that God has for you. You see it up there, Hebrews chapter ten. He takes this idea that John is opening up. And in Hebrews, after Christ's death, you see, he takes this and he applies it. And he applies it in a very specific and personal way. Therefore, brothers, therefore, sisters, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place that is God's very presence, by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, open Force through the curtain, that is his body, that's the new and living way to get into the Holy of Holies. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let's draw near to God with a sincere heart and full assurance. See that's what Some of you lack. It's that assurance that I can come into his presence and I won't be scorned and he won't cast me aside. He won't say, You don't really mean that, and how can you come to me and ask me to be kind and favorable to you and answer your prayers and do this for you. But he says we've got two things we plead by Jesus. One, our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience. And two Just in case you wonder, having our bodies washed with pure water You say, uh, preacher, you don't know what I've done. I'm not just like other people. I've done things that'd be too shame to tell you. I've done them repeatedly and I've done them knowingly. There's things that I have done that when I think about it, it causes a clutching in my chest and pain. I don't know that it's that easy for me. Do you remember Paul wrote to the church at Corinth? The church that was a church filled with moral pollution. And he says to that church, some of you guys, he says, were Some of you were immoral, idolaters, adulterers, male prostitutes. Homosexual offenders, thieves, greedy, drunkards, slanderers, swindlers. None of those will inherit the kingdom. And that is what some of you were. But you were washed, you were sanctified You were justified, declared innocent, righteous in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. He baptized you with his Spirit. And what the Spirit makes clean, let none of you say is polluted or dirty. Come, rest in that cleansing. It comes with confession and admission and the recognition that only Jesus and his sacrifice. Is sufficient. But I stand before you as a testimony. It is sufficient. Let's pray. So our God We come and we we recognize we need a bath, we need a shower Not a bath or a shower physically. Lord, we kids understand that. Kids here understand what it means to get really filthy, grimy, dirty, and look forward to getting a bath or a shower. But Lord, we we spend so much time trying to pretend that we're not. I think of the woman I was talking to this week about Jesus, and she said, I yeah, I I look at some TV evangelists, and there's one that when I look at him, he makes me feel good. And uh he doesn't talk about sin, he just talks about things that make me smile and laugh, and I like to watch him. And there's another one that tells me I need to change. And he finishes and I I don't feel good about myself. I think I'm gonna stop watching him And Lord, I'm sure that people felt like that with John. I come out to John and when I come I see things that I don't want to look at And yet, Lord, by your spirit, people came from all around. They came from Jerusalem, they came from all Judea, they came as mobs because there was power. In those words, power to cleanse. I pray, Lord, that none of us would resist that here this morning. Say, I want something that's going to make me just feel good, but Lord, to avoid your wrath, to come clean before you has the effect. Of our coming into a new kind of cleanness and a new kind of awareness that we can approach you. In the Holy of Holies, clean, our consciences cleansed, and our bodies washed with pure water, and your spirit in us to change our hearts and desires. We long for that. Oh God, we long for that. Lord Jesus, you stand here ready to meet every person that comes to you. To seek you to do that in their life. I pray, Holy Spirit, who draw us to believe that you are necessary and that you are sufficient. Whatever we've done. To come to you now and to be cleansed. In Jesus' name. Amen.