Spend some time with some family and friends. And uh if you're like me, you come to a service like this saying, Remind me again of what we're celebrating. Remind me of the gospel. Uh you know, uh I can't think of a season where I have been so impressed with the difference between how a Christian looks at the season and a person who is secular or without Jesus, without faith, you think of just the movies that have come out this season on Christmas Like surviving Christmas. I mean, you know, what's that tell ya? Uh or Christmas with the cranks that wish the whole thing would just go away Or um a movie like Noel, full of dysfunction, despair, disillusionment Or a movie, I guess, from last year, uh Bad Santa about a dirty old man. You know, I mean just if you take away the transcendence of the meaning of Christmas. It's so hollow, isn't it? I mean, there's nothing you can fill it with that makes the meaning glad, as Rick's been leading us. Gladness. What is there? And uh at the very center of what it is that we celebrate, it is the incarnation, Jesus, God, come in the flesh. The idea of the virgin birth or the virgin conception, which is at the very heart of what we celebrate at this season. And yet I'm ashamed to say that as I thought about preparing this message and bringing it to you this Sunday, I thought, how can I make the virgin birth interesting? I mean you know it's kind of like saying how do I take you to the brink of Niagara Falls and make that interesting to you? Yeah. But we've lost the sense of transcendence in our culture, haven't we? And I was talking to my wife about that. In fact, I was sharing that with her. I said, you know, I'm struggling with how do I make this interesting? What do I do You know, if it's Niagara Falls, you just show Niagara Falls, get out of the way and let you take a look. Um And she uh just uh shortly after that happened to see something on TV and um she said, you know, there's an example. She says, You see, Itzak Perlman playing the violin and his fingers were flying across, you know, and we had gone to see the Messiah um at the Kennedy Center. You think of the grandeur of the music and the choir that is singing. Those things move us. They give us some experience of transcendence, but it's all focused on man It's the glory of what man can do. I got a Christmas card uh few days ago from a friend, a dear friend that I've known for many years, haven't seen for many years who I believe is no longer walking with the Lord, believe he was at one point. And his hope in the Christmas card that he wrote, his note was, I I hope that my friends can feel some transcendence. This year. But you get that? That's the way our culture is. It's transcendence, but without any contact with a transcendent God. It's just the feeling of transcendence. So what I want to do is kind of get out of the way and just help you to see what Matthew says about the virgin birth, the virgin conception. so that your heart will be lifted up to simply see what it is, get in touch with it, and be able to celebrate and be full of faith and joy this morning. All right? That's my task. Now, um, first of all, let's be clear that when we talk about the virgin birth, we're really talking about the virgin conception. Virgin birth is the term that has been used. And um As we uh think of that, um we uh had another thought here And I'm I'm debating. Shall I go back and tell you that? Well let me let me just mention another example I thought of this week when I was thinking of this loss of transcendence was listening to a couple of Christmas carols Uh one O Magnum Mysterium or Let All Mortal Flesh Keep Sil. And I thought, you know Uh those are from another age. You just you just wouldn't hear something like that normally today. We use the word awe and awesome to refer to pizzas. You know, and I had a friend that this week wrote me um a very kind email, and th this is not at all disparaging the thought, but they were saying, I really think our times together recently have been awesome. Now, in all my wildest self-delusion and grandeur, I may think I'm a kind of a nice guy to spend time with, but I hardly would describe time with me as that which produces awe. in your being. But you see, if we if we grasp a hold of the virgin conception, it produces awe, a sense of true transcendence, because God has come in the flesh. Now it's interesting that in the New Testament, you don't have any reference, explicit reference, to the virginal conception or virgin birth outside of the birth narratives. They might say it's not altogether surprising, but it's interesting that Paul doesn't refer to it. He doesn't teach the virgin birth, fullness of time, God sent his son born of a woman, born under the law. It doesn't specifically get into that. Really only Matthew and Luke and John, of course, says that the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and that's clearly teaching incarnation. But it's really only in Matthew and Luke, and of the few references, here in Matthew, in five verses, you have three times the reference to the virgin conception, virgin birth. in Matthew twenty one verses twenty to twenty-three. So let's take a look at this again. I want to note that so you just get what his references are clear in your mind. After he considered this, that is, after Joseph had been thinking about uh the need to divorce this woman he was betrothed to because he didn't know her She had been unfaithful and was blaming God for it. An angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. That's the first reference, okay? It is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son. You're going to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place To fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet, the virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel Which means God with us. So the Virgin will bear the Son, second reference, and that son that she bears is Emmanuel God with us. the product of that birth. So what I want to do is to look at these three references and see that each touches on a foundational implication of the virginal conception for your faith and for mine. First of all, we see how it affects our view of Scripture. How this whole question of the virgin birth affects our view of Scripture. Because you notice And the question, if you're looking at the blank there, is is Scripture, is it absolutely reliable or not? Now why is that an issue? Well, because Matthew quite clearly says that the Virgin Conception was in fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy. In fact, as we go through these birth narratives, chapter one and chapter two of Matthew, you'll see that five times Matthew will say this was to fulfill the prophets, or this was to fulfill the Old Testament writings of quotes we either quotes or alludes, or sometimes it's hard to figure out what he's referring to. But five times he makes that reference. And so this is the first, and he quotes from Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14. Now, in that case, it was Isaiah speaking to King Ahaz of Judah. You remember the circumstance was that uh Israel to the north and Syria were threatening to invade Judah. There's an alliance against Judah. Ahaz was shaken in his boots and He was trying to build any alliances he could, and God spoke to Isaiah to say, Ahaz, relax. I am going to deliver you. You don't deserve it, but I'm going to be gracious and deliver my people. And so Isaiah says to Ahaz, Ahaz, you can ask for any sign you want for God to confirm this to you. Any sign in heaven or earth, what do you want? And A has in false hypocritical piety says, uh, I'm not going to ask anything of the Lord. No, no, that's okay. And Isaiah says, well, you know, you you weary me and you weary God too. Therefore God Himself is going to give you a sign. Isaiah 7. 14, the virgin will be with child And we'll give birth to a son and we'll call him Emmanuel. And then he goes on to talk about how he's going to eat curds and honey, and that's because it's going to be a pretty rough time. Crops aren't going to grow It's going to be pretty devastating. But before he knows to choose the good and the evil, maybe age four or five, something like that, uh these two nations that you fear are not going to be any threat at all to you. So he then goes on, and in chapter eight, he refers twice to Emmanuel, this one that is God with us. Now, is it really true that Isaiah was foreseeing that Messiah was going to be born of a virgin in that? I mean, is what you know How's that help Ahaz? You know, uh 720 years from now, there's gonna be a little boy born of a virgin, and that's that's just gonna, you know, encourage your faith. You don't have to worry about what's gonna happen in the next couple years. How's that help Ahaz? Uh is Matthew distorting scripture? Is he misusing it? Is he picking up on something? Is he mistaken? Can we really trust Matthew to tell the truth? You see, it's not just a question of the virgin birth, it's a question here of since that's supposed to be in fulfillment of prophecy And particularly Isaiah 7. 14. If you can't trust Matthew in that, if Matthew's playing fast and loose with Scripture, Isaiah had no idea about this, and Matthew's just saying, well, you know, it kind of fits, so I'm going to use it. as if it was a prophecy, then you really can't trust Scripture. And your faith is vain. Now, you know, that may not hit you um with tremendous force, but y you take a Time magazine, December thirteenth And they use exactly that in a subtle swipe at the Christian faith. Let me quote you. This is uh You know, it's very interesting that uh Newsweek time, US News, every year in December will have cover story on Christmas. You know why they do that? Because it sells. They they double their sales when they put Christmas on the cover. That's the only reason they do it. Anyway, that might be a little cynical there, but uh I did read that. Okay. Um They talk about these secrets of the nativity. And one of them is about the virgin birth. And here's what they say. Fellow Jews early on challenged Matthew's gospel assertion that it fulfilled a prophecy in the book of Isaiah that the Messiah would be born to a virgin. Isaiah's Hebrew actually talks of a young girl. Matthew is probably working from a Greek mistranslation. And then it goes on. Critics about you know say about this and that. You read that and you know you if you're just a typical person, kinda go through that and you look and you say, uh well ps see that's it, there again. Yeah, you can't trust the Bible. If you're a believer in Jesus, you read that and you say, Well, wait a minute, you know, what about that? Can I really trust my Bible? Did Matthew work from some mistranslation of the Greek and that's why he said this? Now, if you've been around the block a few times, like me, you know, and you're old enough, you've seen this stuff and you kind of shook one time, you actually have to smile and chuckle a little bit Because the problem is when people write this, they're really not real in touch with the culture. Matthew knew Hebrew In Aramaic, a lot better than the people that wrote this stuff. In fact, scholars who've looked closely at the Gospel of Matthew have postulated that it's very likely Matthew originally wrote the gospel in Aramaic, which is the close derivative of Hebrew. So to say 2,000 years later, Matthew really didn't know the difference between the Hebrew word Alma and the Hebrew word betula, and so he had to go to the Greek translation to see Parthenos, which was a mistranslation. And that's how he got his information, is so ludicrous that you have to smile to think that somebody would even take that seriously. In fact, in Hebrew, in Isaiah 7. 14, the word that Isaiah uses is the word Alma. It means virgin. It is used nine times in the Old Testament. Eight of those nine times, it clearly refers to a virgin. The ninth time is about either a married or a betrothed woman. So either a a married woman or a virgin, but because the context determines which it is, you look at the other eight times in the context of the uh passage, and it probably means virgin there too. In fact. There's no inconsistency of any use in the Old Testament with the clear meaning virgin. The word betula was a broader word, could refer to a virgin, could refer to a married woman. The Hebrew scholars, 200 or so BC, that translated it, chose the clear Greek word virgin. And for somebody to say hundreds of years later they didn't know what they were talking about is so arrogant, it is ludicrous. Why then does Matthew say that this is fulfilling that? It still doesn't answer the question of how this is assigned to Ahaz. Well, at that point I'll just refer you to my message on Isaiah 714 some years ago in the Messianic Prophecy series. You can go check that out. But in case you don't have the time to do that, let me give you the one-minute solution on that What I believe Isaiah was doing was he was saying, Ahaz, there is a woman right now who's a virgin, and before she gets married and has a child And that child is able to discern good and evil. In other words, in the next few years, you will see that God is with us, Emmanuel. And then I said he uses that Emmanuel, he's with us to deliver us twice in the next chapter. Matthew uses a very interesting word when he says this was to fulfill. The word he uses fulfill is a word which means to fill something up. Take a cup, pour water into it, you fulfill, you fill up that cup. Pleromize the word. And it means to fill up. It's the word that's used to be filled with the Spirit It's a word that means to fill something to overflowing. What Matthew was saying is that when Isaiah said this, he was talking about God delivering through his intervening in history. And the cob was a sign of demarcating the fact that God was simply going to do that quickly. Now The filling up beyond what Isaiah could have ever seen, the filling up of the meaning of that is that now the Virgin has come to bear the Emmanuel who is literally God with us. What's the point? The point is whenever God speaks a promise The fulfillment of that promise is not barely done. It is superabundantly beyond anything you can ask or imagine. Finally, in the final fulfillment in the day of Christ. And Matthew says that day is breaking upon us. And so we're beginning to see what God is going to do in fulfilling superabundantly all that He promised to the prophets in the past. He is filling up the meaning of the hope of Messiah. And this is the first reference to that, you see. So far beyond anything of saying, Jesus, this is a real problem, you know, that's a question of my faith. It should actually cause you to jump up and sing, Hallelujah! Look how scripture fits together. Look at how the promises are more than beyond any expectation fulfilled in the coming of Jesus. That's just the first point. Second point gets even better Because you notice in verse 20, he says, This pregnancy is of the Holy Spirit. That raises the question, is the universe an open or closed universe? Now, um, once again, I did I did this in the first service too, I forgot there's that second section Which I'm again not going to spend a lot of time on. The attacks of the Scriptures Authority on a Virginal Conception. From outside the church, I was going to give a quote from um a um a Roman anti-Christian Kelsis about 177-180 that says that Jesus made it up. You know, you have things like the Passover plot, Time magazine quotes Jane Schauberg, who says that really Joseph uh was the father of Jesus, but uh they were embarrassed and so they made up this story and you know it just kind of really took off and so it transmuted into something from shame to glory and see isn't that really neat how you can do that sort of stuff. You get all these wild things. You have people who say they're Christians within the church that attack the virgin birth. That's that's hypocritical and abominable. It's more subtle and more malicious You have people that say, well, you know, um really Jesus wasn't literally born of a virgin. I mean people thought that, but you know, it really is a mythological meaning. Which is to say it's kind of on the order of Santa Claus and Yeah, but that's really good. It's really good. Don't don't get upset about it. It's really good It's like me telling you, go to hell, but it's really good. I get you looking forward to the trip. You know, it's really not a bad thing. You know, they damned Jesus by faint praise They say, you know, it really isn't literal, but that's okay. No, it's not okay. If Jesus wasn't born of a virgin, you and I are still in our sins. Now, the second question, I want to come back to that in the third point, but the second point is this whole question of the universe. Because the universe is really at stake in this, you see. When the angels said She is pregnant of the Holy Spirit. That which was of the Holy Spirit has come upon her. The angel is saying, Joseph You live in an open universe. Now, what's the difference between a closed universe and an open universe? That's your second point on your outline there. Is it open? The blank is, is it open or is it closed? And then a closed universe is a universe simply of matter and laws that are scientifically understood, maybe very complex. Maybe a lot of mystery, but ultimately the universe is impersonal. There is nothing beyond the created universe that you see or beyond what you can see, but that's all there really is. An open universe is a universe in which ultimately the universe is personal in that it's created by a transcendent God beyond the universe. So that the laws are the laws that He has constructed. Therefore it is His prerogative to either operate by and through those laws or at times to transcend those laws for his own purpose Now, we probably don't realize, you probably don't realize, how deeply the assumption is held today that we live in a closed universe. It's simply in the air that you breathe. It's everywhere. We live in a closed universe, so Time magazine describes the wonder of nativity. And the assumption through the whole article is, of course, it's not supernatural. It's wonderful, it's magnificent, it's all this, but nothing transcendent And you see that in the writings today, in the way that people think about everything. The uh the idea That there would be a virginal conception which is not simply parthenogenesis. Parthenesis Parthenogenesis, which literally means virgin conception, virgin birth, uh, is that which can be studied scientifically. It could be um you know, rabbits, toads, uh silkworms, various things that may be produced without any male involved But in every case, those that are produced are a clone of the mother, genetic clone. Jesus obviously was not a genetic clone of Mary. Just start with the fact that he was a man and she was a woman. So this is a totally different kind of thing we're talking about here. Here we are talking about the staggering fact that God, who made the universe, at a point in time chose to enter into that universe. To dwell in flesh on a tiny planet in one little spot corner of that universe. That's a staggering thought Our world cannot entertain that kind of thinking. It's simply implausible to it. I'll give you an example of that. In um this week's U. S. News and World Report, cover article is 50 Ways to Improve Your Life in 2005. And you know, it's a good article really. There's a number of good ways, good things to do. Um it talks about um, you know, of course there's exercise, stimulation, various things to do. A lot of good practical ideas. Uh the last one is on forgiveness. You know, don't carry around bitterness, forgive But of course there's there's nothing transcendent about the forgiveness. It's just, you know, work it up in yourself to forgive. I find um perhaps the um The most ludicrous and the most telling is the second one they give. Learn to meditate. Now I can't say learn to pray, because it's a closed universe, you see. Prayer depends on an open universe. Prayer depends on the fact that beyond all the laws that we see, there is a God who is in charge, transcends that. He is able to change what would not have been changed if you didn't pray. And in this about the learning to meditate, you have the secular closed universe counterpart to prayer. This woman says Then after listening to this CD, Meditation 24-7, she says, Roche introduces me to the fill your cup exercise. Which has me reflecting over my coffee every morning for five minutes, savoring each sip, and concentrating on drinking in the qualities I'll need to get through the day. like strength or endurance. See, you know, it's right there in your coffee all along and you've you've missed it. You know, all you get is caffeine withdrawal and headaches and He said, you know, you just you drink through in this coffee, you know, the drinking in endurance and strength, you see. Are you that pathetic? But you see, that's all you've got if you've got a closed universe. The angel says to Joseph, This is of the Holy Spirit. God has broken into history. You live in an open universe. Joseph believed that. Do you believe that? Do you believe that you live in an open universe. You know that makes all the difference in your praying. If you do not believe you live in an open universe, you can't pray. For the reason I just said, because you're asking God to intervene. But if you believe as a secularist that it's a closed universe, forget talking about prayer. There is no prayer. The virginal conception says that God not only was able to breakthrough in history In order to come and to meet your deepest need. But God would go to any length in order to save you out of your sin. And that brings me to the third point. The third point is that this also affects our view of Jesus Christ. Virginal conception determines our view of Jesus Christ. The question is, is he uniquely a sinless second Adam, and therefore uniquely eligible to be your Savior? Or is he not? In order for him to be a substitutionary sacrifice for sin, he cannot have sin himself. And therefore he cannot be through Adam's line. There must be a break. He must be a second Adam, a new Adam. That comes sinless in his nature from Mary's womb, the Holy Spirit is the Father. This is the only way that you can escape your sins, the only way I can escape my sin. You see, the world looks at the problem of sin because it says it's a closed universe, because it says that Christmas is simply the celebration of those good things within this closed universe that we can find some meaning in. What it says is really the problem, the problem kind of looks like the fire swamp in Lord of the Rings. And I figure for those of you who really struggle with the fact that you had to come to a Christmas without a new edition of a Lord of the Ring release from Hollywood, I'd at least give you an illustration, right? You remember in the Lord of the Rings you go through the fire swamp and there there was all that difficulty, you know, the fire would come up and then the dead bodies and it was very, very difficult to negotiate your way safely through that. But you had to do it. You had to get from here to there if you're going to accomplish the goal, get the ring back where it belonged. Now the world says that's what life is. You know, you've got all this all these pitfalls, you know, you've got generational dysfunction, you've got all these problems, you've got cosmic uh scheming against you. Seems like everything is out to get you. And but you know, you gotta just keep plugging along and work your way, maybe get a little bit of help from this person, a little bit of insight from that person. Get your way through that swamp. What the Bible says is actually the problem is a lot worse than a fire swamp. The problem is more like you're in a ring of fire. The problem is more like you picture yourself standing in a grass area, flat grass area, about a hundred yards in diameter And around you is this wall of flame. Flames are shooting up 50-60 feet high. Beyond that, it's flames as far as your eye can see. And every day that you're in that ring of fire, the fire is burning closer to where you are. You're running out of time. And there is no possible way for you to break through those flames to get out. What are you going to do? The Bible says that God, out of sheer pity for people who did not deserve it, became flesh, dropped down into that ring of fire with you. And Jesus extinguished the flames so you could walk safely out into paradise with him. That's the picture of the gospel. On November the fifteenth of this year, Sergeant Raphael Peralta was as a Marine Sergeant fighting with his men in Fallujah. He saw a hand grenade that landed between him and his men and threw his body voluntarily on that hand grenade and sacrificed his life to save his buddies. You know, I can never read a story like that and see a picture of that Marine now dead and think, why would a guy do that? What would I do if I was in that kind of situation? I can give my life and perhaps save a number of others, or I can try to save myself. It's every man for himself Voluntary sacrifice out of love. But that was for his buddies. Jesus came and he sacrificed his life, becoming flesh. To extinguish the flames at the cost of his own life, not for his buddies, but for his enemies. For you and for me, who despised his claim upon our lives. And yet he did it. And so Matthew says his name was Jesus, because he saved his people from their sins. Matthew says, He's Emmanuel, God with us. And in my next two messages, I want to look at those two names, Jesus and Emmanuel. For us to plumb more deeply the mystery of who Jesus is, come in the flesh to save us Not just make it possible, but to save us, to save you and me from our sins This is the word that he gives. The virginal birth is true because this word predicted it, it filled up its meaning, and you and I can trust it. This world is an open universe. Therefore, you can pray about your needs this week. And know that the God who came in the flesh is a God who will go to any length. To meet your need. And if he doesn't answer your prayer the way you want it prayed, it's because his wisdom transcends yours and mine. And if you knew all the circumstances, you'd agree. With what he did. And this womb, the womb of Mary, bears God in the flesh, who's come for you. Do you know him? Do you serve him this morning? Is he in your life and you're walking with him? Or is he still removed from you, outside? And you're living as if it's a closed universe. I invite you to come. On the basis of the gospel, its hope and its promises this morning to trust Jesus. Let's pray. Our Father, everything that we are and have and every hope that we have at this Christmas time, whether it is Simply the constructing of family values or what we get out of sales, meaning, memories Purchases, or whether it transcends that hollowness to something which is abiding forever. Which feeds our souls, which gives us peace and joy. Depends on whether in fact you did come God in the flesh, born of a virgin, or whether you didn't. We come this morning and our hearts are encouraged by how Matthew used Isaiah in a way so insightful, in a way that is so full. Of promise and hope and meaning. That when we read the critics seeking to debunk it, we have to laugh at the foolishness And our hearts are encouraged to trust your word. Pray, Lord, for any who's having trouble, who's having doubts, and finding it difficult to trust your word in their lives that you would give faith, confidence. In the reliability of this word in their lives this week. Lord, that you would cause us to rejoice that we live In a culture that assumes that we live in a closed universe, that we know better, we have the information, it's an open universe. Therefore, nothing is impossible with God, as the angel said to Mary, describing the virginal conception. Nothing is impossible. Nothing And so we come to plead with you for needs, needs that are in our own lives, needs in our homes, our families, and know that you hear us and that you care. Lord, we thank you for Jesus. Jesus who has come to save us from our sins. Jesus who has entered that ring of fire to extinguish the flames at the cost of his own life. Jesus who loved us. So much better than even Sergeant Peralta could have loved the men that he saved. You came for us And you have saved us. May there not be a single person in this room who would walk out of here that doesn't know Jesus and the salvation that you offer. Thank you. Thank you. Amen.