Let me also thank you, Rebecca and Lydia, ministering to my heart, taking truth and putting it in a way that just really gets to your heart. Umger more for Jesus. We continue in our looking at our own heart through the list of what Jesus has given to us, the Beatitudes. And we are now up to the fifth Beatitude, despite what their outline says. I didn't change it, should say fifth. The beatitude that says, Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. That seems deceptively obvious, doesn't it? And yet it's really quite astounding a statement. Because we live in a day when revenge is in. We live, many of us, amongst some very angry people One of the things that makes work most difficult is thinking of the angry people that some of you work with. And that anger just makes it hard in relationships. Think of the bumper sticker that you see occasionally. Don't get mad, get even. And over the last years, there have been an alarming number of movies that focus on the subject of revenge. You could probably think of ten or twelve right off. Why are there so many movies on revenge? Well, because angry people like to see movies about revenge. There's this vicarious taking revenge. Don't have to actually kill somebody. I can just watch somebody go and take their revenge and I feel a little better about it. You know, I think of years ago the movie Thelma and Louise that just so took off Angry Women or First Wives Club. Or you think of Mel Gibson and the patriot, mild-mannered colonial farmer that takes us militia and leads them on to Take revenge against the sadistic British officer who had murdered his son, or one of the classics of all time, Russell Crowe, Gladiator. This soldier hero who has the throne taken away from him and then his family is butchered He himself is supposed to be killed, but he escapes and he lives for revenge against this usurper emperor. And you watch the movie and it dawns on you, there is not a shred of hope for any mercy for that emperor. All you're doing is waiting for him to get it. And you're hoping he gets it good Or perhaps uh some of you think of the film that Tim Flora put me onto, not that Tim's into revenge films, I want you to understand. But he said if you're gonna talk about revenge, I gotta talk about Breakdown. I don't know how many of you have seen that. Kurt Russell, you know. Man or a woman are out traveling in the West. The wife is abducted, and these guys say that he's gotta come up with $90,000 to get her back safe. And you watch these cold-hearted, evil villains, and your heart is just turned against them, and you you know, and you're just really hoping that they get theirs, and then at the end When the lead villain gets what he intended for his victims, you want to cheer. You want to watch them die. And suddenly it occurs to you, what's happening to me? Why am I so gloating in this revenge? Why am I so caught up in this? And you know what? That's not altogether bad. Because there is within the human heart the desire for justice. And so you want for evil to be punished. You want to see justice done. The problem is, we want justice for other people and mercy for ourselves. Jesus says, lest are the merciful, for they'll be shown mercy. So you have to put this in the context of the other Beatitudes. Remember, he started off by saying, blessed are those who admit, acknowledge their poverty of spirit. Those are the ones who inherit the kingdom of heaven. Not just to admit it, but also having admitted it, to mourn it, to grieve it. To feel the brokenness of your poverty of spirit. And that gentles you. So blessed are the gentle, for they're the ones that are going to inherit the kingdom of heaven, not those that have to scrap and fight for it. And that gentleness more broadly, he says, there's this change of heart that comes when we repent and we mourn our sin and come to Christ for forgiveness. There's a hunger and thirst for righteousness, which is going to be satisfied. Now what he's doing is after he says that, I believe he's giving us three particulars in how hunger and thirst for righteousness work out. Not that they're exhaustive, they're three examples. It leads to mercy, purity of heart, and peacemaking. We are not outside of Christ naturally pure in heart or merciful or peacemakers. This is the change of the gospel. And so Jesus is describing the work of grace, the work of the gospel in his disciples, and what makes for that rich, full, blessed life. We're going to look at each of these as we've been doing through the Beatitudes, one each week. And so this morning I want to just take this matter of mercy and focus on that. And as always before, we need to be honest and examine our own hearts. Look at your heart this morning. Are you a merciful person? Would you be described by others? as merciful. The mercy that he's talking about, I think, has two expressions. First of all, there is mercy toward those who have wronged me Mercy rather than revenge. Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. And I believe that he intends there to cover everything from trivial annoyances to heartbreaking wrongs. There's the annoyances. Jesus would ask you personally, right here, right now, are you easily annoyed? You have a bunch of pet peeves, things that tick you off easily When your kids are clumsy and they break something, spill something, lose something, especially if it was new, you know, and you think, gotta teach them a lesson. You know, or you have a spouse that misplaces your stuff or throws it out because they want to clear things up. Straighten things up. It's in the way. Didn't wear that shirt for four weeks. Out it goes. Or or is it a friend that has borrowed something? They forget to return it. A book, tool. And you know, you think, hey, don't talk to me about mercy. These people need to be taught a lesson. Well, you know, you and I can tell the difference between vindictiveness and the desire to help a person along with a lesson, right? It's an attitude of the heart It's whether my heart is hard or whether my heart is soft. And Jesus wants you to look at your heart. You see, there's a principle here, and it's this. Whenever you feel justified in treating somebody in the way that they deserve, you have slipped from grace. Let me say that again. Whenever you feel justified in treating somebody in the way that they deserve, you have slipped from grace. Because you are implicitly saying that you can live by getting what you deserve. And of course we know as Christians we can't. But as Christians we slip from grace and we treat others in the way they deserve. That was the whole point of Matthew 18, the parable of the fellow who owed millions of dollars and pleaded. Just give me a chance, I'll do something, get it back. And he was forgiven. He received mercy. Then he goes out to his Buddy and his buddy owes him. Now, don't mistake this in the parable, his buddy didn't owe him a few bucks. He owed him the equivalent of something like $20,000. It was a significant amount, but it was a fraction, a small fraction, compared to the millions of dollars, the multiple millions of dollars that he had earned And having slipped from grace, he thought he deserved to get that. Do you live by what you deserve? Do you treat others by what you think they deserve? Jesus says, blessed are the merciful, because they will be shown mercy. Or maybe it's not a trivial annoyance. Maybe it's a major heartbreak. Maybe somebody has treated you thoughtlessly, cruelly, in a way that has scarred you for life. It's something that has broken your heart. Think of the relatives of John Muhammad during the trial. Think of the widow this week. Who broke down sobbing as she heard the account of how John Muhammad in cold blood had shot her husband Now the Bible is quite clear in Genesis 9. 6 that whoever sheds man's blood by man the state, should his blood be shed. So there should be justice administered by the state. But on the personal level, can you feel mercy for someone who has hurt you so deeply? Personally, is there somebody that you find it so far in your life Impossible to forgive. Admit it's supernatural You will not be able to work up that mercy. That kind of mercy comes from the one who was betrayed by one of his best friends Was put before a mock trial and mocked and spat upon by those who should have been among the first to worship him. was then turned over to sadistic Roman soldiers who beat him and mocked him And drove him out to a hill and hammered nails into his hands and his feet. And hanging on the cross, he prayed for them. Father, forgive them because they don't know what they're doing. That's supernatural. That's Christ. And only Christ in you is able to produce heartbreaking forgiveness. Forgiveness that costs mercy That is very expensive. Is there somebody that you find it Nigh into impossible to forgive. Do you find yourself thinking about that person almost to the point of obsession? Thinking of how you could show them how much they have hurt you, what it has meant, what it has cost you, all the hurt, the damage that's been done in your life, and you find that you can't get your mind off that person Sometimes you fantasize revenge, sometimes you feel guilty for it, and sometimes you think about what you could just do to show them how much it's hurt. You know the problem? You're thinking about the wrong person. As long as you are thinking about that person, you will never be able to forgive them or show them mercy. There are times when I'm thinking about somebody that's hurt me and somebody that I'm really struggling with, and I have got to take my mind and almost like physically wrench it away from that and say Lord Jesus, I need to think about you for the next 15 minutes Just get your mind off that person. Don't think about them. Good, bad, nothing. Think about Jesus. Think about how he has treated you. Think about how he suffered. God's curse for what you deserved. Think about how He would treat that person. Think about Him. In his mercy. Then after you've done that for a while, stand and think again about that person. It's only then that you can want to be gentle and merciful. One of the ways that God gets glory the most in this world is when his people are able to show mercy to and to forgive those who obviously do not deserve it. So that the observer looks and says, I did never do that. What enabled them to do that? Now let me give you an example that may seem kind of trivial, but it really spoke to me. I've told you before that we only have seven or eight videos. And about half of those or more are ones for kids. So that when families come over, we may want the kids to watch a video for a little bit. And one of those that we've had for years is Fox and Hound. Now, you kids, listen up. For years we had this and we would show it and I never saw the whole thing. Finally I I got to see it and I thought, well, what a story. You know, it's a story about this little fox and this little hound that are born and as pups, they become friends and they play together because They don't realize that they're not supposed to be friends. They're supposed to be enemies, but they don't know that and they become the best of friends and have a lot of fun. But the hound's owner is a hunter And he hunts foxes. And so as the hound grows up, the hunter turns the hound against his friend the fox. And the fox becomes confused, wondering why his friend can't play with him anymore. What's he done to turn his friend against him? And as you watch this, you see that this hunter is really a mean and nasty guy. I mean, he's always taking shots at the fox. chasing him, try to kill him. At one point he finally figures out where the fox goes down his trail that he goes down to drink, and so he sets traps there. And then he burns the fox out of his den, and then he shoots at the fox, and he's chasing the fox, and the fox goes down, misses the traps, and he escapes beyond them. And you're cheering for the fox. Go, fox, go, you know, because you don't want this nasty old guy to be able to shoot him, you know, and you're just cheering them on. And the fox gets away. And then the fox stops. He hears cries of distress back in the distance And it turns out that this huge bear has attacked the hunter and his hound. And the hunter, trying to escape, stepped in his own trap. So now he's trapped. He's doomed. He can't get away. And you're thinking, yeah, you're going to get what you deserve now. And you watch in horror as the fox, instead of going on to freedom, stops and turns around and heads back toward the traps. And he thinks, no, fox, no, no, no, no. Now's your chance. Get away. Don't be stupid. And he goes back, and the fox attacks the bear. In order to try and save his old friend and the hunter. And you think that's not just stupid. It's suicidal. The bear's ten times as big as you And then as I watched that, I caught my heart. That's stupid. It's suicidal. It's also merciful. But I was repulsed by the mercy. It didn't seem laudable, it seemed stupid. And you watch as this fox fights the bear, and those of you who've watched the video, you know they're going tumbling all around. Finally the bear goes over a cliff and the fox is half dead, but he's saved And then you watch in horror, as this poor fox, it can't even walk, he just drags himself up on his beach, and the hunter comes at him again. He still wants to kill him. And the only thing that prevents it is that the hound steps between the hunter and the fox so that the hunter will have to kill his own dog. Before he can kill the fox. And I thought of how my Jesus stepped between me And the Father, whose anger had burned against my sin. And Jesus took the punishment in my place. Now when you begin to understand the heart of this fox, I guess the fox was a Christian. You begin to understand the heart of this box that this is something you can't explain. It searches your own heart, doesn't it? And if you think about it, you love mercy. And when you love mercy, you love to show mercy. That's supernatural. That's something only Jesus can do in your life and in my life. But you know, there's another kind of mercy that he has in mind here, I believe. It's not just the mercy against those who've wronged us. It's a mercy against the needy who come across our path. He develops that more in chapter six, and so I believe he has that in mind here. To not ignore them But to show mercy and love. Classic example, perhaps, is the Good Samaritan, who comes across the man who's been beaten in the way, the road from Jericho. And he stops and ministers to him at cost to himself time, money, inconvenience. The priest had gone on, ignored him, the Levite had ignored him. And I wonder what I would have done, because you know what? Whenever you see needy people, there's a part of you that can always say they probably did something to get themselves in that situation, isn't there? I work hard for my money. Why should I help somebody who's probably wasted and not worked and done what they should have done? My kids need to learn a lesson. They've gotten themselves in big trouble and they're suffering consequences for stupid and foolish choices. And I need to let them learn the lesson. Maybe they do need to learn the consequence of their choices. Sometimes that's the best thing. But is my heart hard or soft? See, I imagine that the Good Samaritan could have said, What was that guy doing going on this road from Jericho anyway? Everybody knows this is a dangerous road. He probably wasn't careful. He's probably getting what he deserved. But you see, mercy stops and says, I didn't get what I deserved. And I love mercy. And so I love to show mercy. See, the gospel says I've made bad choices And I didn't get what I deserved. Mercy is what says that I was told To not play by the house. And I did. And my ball went right through the window. And it wasn't just the window. It was the double-pane sliding glass door window. And as a kid, I have no resources to replace it. And so, for a few fleeting moments, I consider running away from home. That may be better than the other alternative. And when I finally dismiss that, what do I do? I go and I plead mercy. Mercy is when you are told by God, don't live as if you are the center of the universe. But you do. And things get broken in your life. And you're not able to fix them. And you're tired of running. And so you stop, maybe this morning for the first time. And you say, it's time for me to come back to the God who made me and see the Savior He has provided. And plead mercy. Nothing else but mercy And when you do that, and you receive his mercy, you love mercy. And as you live in that, you love to show mercy. And so whether it's to people in Sand Town to help them have a place to live, Or people in Howard County, whether it is your family or your friends. You're not so interested in teaching lessons as to display mercy. And I know from my own life, I only ever want to do that when I'm living moment by moment. In awareness of my own need of God's mercy. Now it's interesting that Jesus' promise here is that you will be shown mercy. You are blessed. Now I've thought every no week ever seems right, but I'll just say briefly, maybe sometime I'll talk more about it. There's two words that are used blessed. And um this particular word, it's not the word that's used about blessing God in the Old Testament or blessing his people. This is a word that is hard to translate by any one word in English and maybe the best kind of translation is full, rich life They have a full, rich life who are merciful, for they will be shown mercy. And he's describing gospel mercy there and calls attention to the fact that it has three tenses. Past, present, and future. In terms of the past tense, that's the first blank you have there in your outline. In terms of the past tense, you look at Ephesians chapter 2 Which we were familiar with in our study of Ephesians, that Ephesians chapter 2, where you remember that Paul says that you and I were dead in our trespasses and sins, we lived according to to the spirit of disobedience in this world, the the one who is the leader of that, and he says, all of us also lived among them, those who were in disobedience at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature. Following its desires and thoughts, like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath, God's wrath. But because of his great love for us, God. Who is rich in mercy? Made past tense made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in transgressions. It's by grace you've been saved. Not what you deserve. And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. He showed mercy on you. He not only gave you life, new life, he raised you up with his son to be seated in the heavenlies with him to show you mercy. And so you have received mercy. You can't return or show mercy until you're aware of having received mercy. It is the experience of mercy that begets mercy. Christ transforms your heart when you recognize God, who is rich in mercy, had mercy on you and gave you life. But there's also the present tense mercy. That's the second line. If you look at Hebrews chapter 4 Hebrews there talks about the daily mercy that you and I need. He says, For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are. Lord, you know how I'm being tempted. You know the struggles, the stress I'm under. Lord, I need help. Yet he was without sin. So if you're in a situation where you need help, do you add up What you've done for the Lord in the last week, how many minutes you've spent reading his Bible, how many times you've prayed, how much you've done good things. You know, I helped this person, I did that. So Lord, I deserve for you to help me out now. No. You know that is hopeless, even though you sometimes try it. He says, let us then approach the throne of grace. With confidence. Why confidence? Because it's not what I deserve. So that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. Have you ever asked yourself what is the throne of grace? I mean, what is it, you know, you picture some throne that just kind of emanates grace or something. What is the throne of grace? It's referring to something quite tangible. When God brought his people out of Egypt, he revealed his character to them through the law. He summed up the law in the Ten Commandments. Now look at James chapter 2, where James describes, whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles in just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. Why? Well, because he who said do not commit adultery also said do not murder. So if you don't commit adultery, but you do murder, commit murder, you become a lawbreaker. You've still broken. It's it's the the Ten Commandments are like a vase. You break it. There may be some pieces, but you've broken it. You have rebelled against his authority. So James says, speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom, it's a good law, because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Then you have this cryptic statement. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Now go back to God before Israel. When he revealed his law to them, what happened to that law of the tables? He placed it in a box And that box was a gold box, pure gold, about two feet by four feet. And it looked like this. This is a decent rendering of it. Although that was shiny pure gold. So imagine that almost glowing in its brilliance and radiance. Over this box, around two feet by four feet by two feet, There is a lid that would come off because inside that box was the law, the tables of the law, besides Arangerod and Potomana. And this law was in that box. displaying this is the character of God. On the lid you see were carved two angels, and the angels had their wings so that they were bowed toward the center of that lid. Now every other nation that had some symbol like that of their God would have had an idol to depict that God in the center of that lid. Israel uniquely had nothing. Why? Because God is a spirit. And so the angels are worshiping God in his fullness, a God who is invisible. But now here's the point. That lid was called the mercy seat. That lid was called the throne of grace. And that was to symbolize that mercy triumphs over literally judgment of the law. The mercy seat was over the law, so God pictured to his people, my mercy triumphs. over my judgment because I will take the judgment so that you will get the mercy And so day by day, Hebrew says, you come and you say, Lord, I don't deserve mercy. I am in a tight spot I have screwed up. Lord, I need your mercy. But what's he say? Come with confidence. Because you plead the covenant. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Is that good news? Or is that good news? But now notice that Jesus does not refer to either of those tenses. Jesus says Blessed, full of life are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. Future tense So what Jesus is doing is he is calling attention to the third tense, the future tense of mercy. And what is that? There is coming a day of judgment. And in that day of judgment, all the earth will be assembled before the throne. This is not the throne of mercy, the Ark of the Covenant, this is now the throne of judgment. And people will be standing there trembling. People will be standing there in terror because they know this is a just God who has known every thought, every action, every motive. And they are about to receive exactly what they deserve. And as you watch that judgment scene unfold, what's going through your heart? I know what I'm gonna get. I already know the verdict I can see my Savior's face. And when I stand before that throne, I know I will be dismissed from all judgment. And he will say, Come in, my child, to my heaven. Because I will receive mercy. And that mercy, that hope of mercy, that fact that I will be amazed. I believe you and I will be so amazed on that day. You'll say, Well, I thought it was going to get mercy. I had no idea the depth, the extent of the mercy that I will receive when I see my life as it was, and I receive his pardon. I receive his welcome. And I look to that. Jesus says, you hope in that you will be shown mercy. And the inevitable effect of that is you will be merciful. So much so that when he teaches us to pray, in chapter 6, he says, pray, we, Lord, forgive us our debts even as we forgive our debtors. It's the only one he picks up on then and says, For if you forgive, you'll be forgiven. If you don't, you won't. Because the heart that has been shown mercy, the heart that looks forward to being shown mercy, is a heart that is merciful. Do you love mercy? Is Christ working in you so that gradually you are loving more to show mercy? Let's pray. Lord to our God, oh, open our eyes to see your mercy. Lord, some of us have here been carrying around a rock of bitterness and resentment toward other people, a particular person, and it's like something we are dragging. And we are so tired from dragging the burden of that bitterness. Lord, we want to come and see the cross and see your mercy extended to us. We want to see that you who are rich in mercy. Have made us alive in Christ. Lord, we want to see that if we have never received that pardon, that it is offered to us freely and fully right now And we can receive it by being honest about what our hearts are like, admitting our spiritual poverty, mourning it, and coming before you to receive mercy. Lord, we come to understand that mercy that helps us in our time of need We come to recognize that there will be that day when we will be shown mercy in the great day of judgment. And so we want to give you that anger. We want to give you that bitterness right now. We want to lay it at your feet. We want you to take that burden from us and make us a merciful people. For merciful people have a rich and full and free life. And that's only available to us through Jesus, and we long for it. We hunger for it, as the song said. So Lord, we come to you now. Believing that you can do that. So that you get the glory. That's the merciful God that we so need. Hallelujah. Thank you. Amen.