He's all that my hungering spirit needs. I'd rather have Jesus and let him lead. Thanks, Youth Choir, for reminding us of that and singing that to us. In your heart, echo that as you hear them sing that, something that you can sing along. Um you know I believe that it's God's purpose and plan that every successive week that you and I come here that the combination of our experiences during the week and our hearing the word preached causes us to realize more how much we need Jesus. I need him a little bit more than I did last week, last month, because I'm seeing my brokenness and his wholeness and what he's doing in me and how he is sufficient for each need. Each little bit, and so particularly as we're going through Matthew chapter five And we see Jesus holding up to us six mirrors, the six mirrors of his interpretation of the law. You've heard it taught, but I say to you, we are seeing how much we need Jesus. Three weeks ago we began the first one, anger. The first mirror, to show you what your heart is like, that your anger is not because of other people, ultimately, it's not because of your circumstances. It's because of your heart And you and I think about how we're wronged and we dwell on all the things that we're upset about, and we don't see how we wrong others. We don't see that we had the heart of Cain. We don't see that what we say comes from out of our hearts. And so hopefully the Lord's been showing you something about your anger in these last three weeks. If you want to review that or you missed part of it, there's a a set of the three CDs that are available back on the table there, taking a look in the bulletin for anything about payment. Or you can just download it from the website. But that's what we've looked at the last three weeks. Anger. Now, this week pick up the second mirror, the one called lust In chapter 5, verses 27 to 30, Jesus is holding this mirror up for you and for me to take a good, hard, honest look. Lust is a big issue today. In fact, it's such a big issue that it's the one other of the six that we're not going to be able to just deal with in one week. After I open up Matthew 5 to you this morning. The next three weeks, Tim Flora, who heads up the E53 uh sexual addiction ministry here at Columbia Presbyterian. Uh Tim is going to be opening up three more uh messages in order for us to look at our hearts and to be able to see how Jesus can bring healing and how he can deal with that issue that for some of us is still holding us in bondage. It's a big issue in our culture. Um we've come to the place now where it's hard to tell pornography from just what is normal advertising. Uh we are in a time now where Um approximately 50 million hits on pornographic websites per month take place. It's a between three and four billion dollar a year industry. In the recent issue of Pediatrics Journal, it was a survey revealed that the typical kid aged 10 to 17 who uses the internet, 42% of them have been onto pornographic websites. Ages 10 to 17 It said also that 66% of them, two out of three, hit their first pornographic website by accident. Just came across something, and there it was. And gradually so many become hooked by that huge business. Such a business I heard just on the news this week about a model for Victoria's Secret. She was struggling getting by on five million dollars a year that they were paying her to show her body in various apparel. And she said that that was uh ridiculous. She needed more. So she demanded six million dollars. and they told her to take a hike. Now, the interesting thing is that the newscaster was a female that I heard reporting that, was appalled, but simply at her greed, not at the fact that sex had become such a commodity in our culture. Because the culture can't make any judgments on this. And more and more we're seeing the slide so that as Christians are getting sucked into the vortex of this. And therefore we have to look at the ageless words of Jesus. Amazingly relevant to our situation today. After speaking on anger, the second mirror Jesus holds up is in Matthew chapter 5, verses 27 to 30. I want to make five observations. about what he says here. And the first one is that again Jesus says we tend to focus on behavior His focus is on the heart. Look at verses 27 and 28. Jesus says, you have heard that it was said, do not commit adultery. But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart. The teachers restricted it to the act. Jesus says specifically there in verse 28, in his heart, he's talking about our hearts. And while we think that maybe it was just the Pharisees who got that wrong, I think you and I can have the same problem. Let me illustrate. There's some of you perhaps that are sitting there as I talk and you're saying, well, I've always been faithful to my wife. I've always been faithful to my husband, so um I haven't been unfaithful. This is not an issue with us. And after all, I mean when I know what my friends are into, what I look at is really no big deal. I mean, it's just looking, what's the harm? Well you see again what that's doing is it's focusing on the act as the Pharisees did, not on our hearts. Or take it the other way around. Some of you sit there and you sit in abject shame and you say I know that I have been unfaithful, either before we were married, or I'm not married, and I've been unfaithful, or I was unfaithful since my marriage. And I feel like I will never be clean again. I know that Christ forgives me. I know that that's supposed to be gone, but somehow I will never feel clean again. What are you doing? You're saying that because you have been involved in the act, that puts you in a whole separate category. Now don't get me wrong, the act is certainly more significant. It has more consequences. But what Jesus is saying here is about our hearts. He is saying that if he can forgive and make clean the person who has lusted in their heart, he can also do that to the one who has committed the act. Jesus' blood can make you clean. He is not simply focusing on the physical outward activity. He is talking here about your heart. and about my heart. This is such a such a serious area. I I wish I could convey to you better the passion with which I feel What Jesus is saying here. In fact, look what he does. He says that our sin our sins here affect where our body spends eternity. It's an eternal matter. Look at verse 29 and 30. If your right eye causes you to sin, he says, gouge it out and throw it away. It's better for you to lose one part of your physical body than for your whole physical body to be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your physical body than for your whole physical body to go into hell. Jesus is saying there that your body is eternal. Your body will spend somewhere, will be somewhere for eternity. If you're a Christian this morning and you belong to Jesus Christ, when Jesus comes again, your body, which is separated from your soul when you die, and your body is placed in the grave, that will be reunited With your soul and your body and soul will be glorified and spend eternity with Jesus, unable to sin and knowing only the pleasures He's intended for us from the beginning and even beyond that. But not every one of you are in that state. I know, then at a group this size, I know that if you were to die, if we were to all die today Some of you, your body would be thrown into hell. It would be a physical experience Now when Jesus used that word hell, he was talking about Gehenna, and the picture that came to everybody's mind was the valley that was just east of Jerusalem. It was a deep valley And that valley was used, as I mentioned before, when animals would be dying, roadkill throughout the streets of Jerusalem, they'd pick up the carcasses and they'd throw them down in the valley. When criminals were executed, they didn't want to bother to bury them, they'd take the bodies and they'd throw them down in the valley of Hinnem, Yehenna They throw their garbage down there. They throw their refuse down there. It was the valley that had been desecrated back in the times of the kings by human sacrifice They would place babies into the molten hot arms of the god, the idol Moloch, and the screams of the babies would come up from that valley as they were roasted alive. This was the picture of hell that Jesus had in mind. And what Jesus is saying here is that if you understood what hell is like You would do anything to keep yourself from going there. You'd gouge out your eye, you'd cut off your hand, you'd do anything if you understood what hell was like. And that's the warning of verses 29 and 30. Your body will go somewhere. And what you do right now affects that. What you do in terms of lust affects your heart. And how your heart responds to the gospel. So the third observation is that you must address lust with a desperate urgency A desperate urgency. The kind of urgency that would say, if I have to rip out my eye, I will do it. If I have to cut off my hand, I would do it. I remember reading in the news, thankfully we have Dan McQueen, part of our congregation, to get these kind of details correct. Man a couple of years ago, about three, four years ago, was climbing in a mountains. He came into a blind alley. And some rocks fell on him, and one rock pinned his hand. He tried for two days to be able to get his hand out from under that rock before he was too weak. He was unable to do it He had a knife with him, and so he literally cut off his own hand, broke the bone, and severed his hand to drag himself out of that valley alive. And he did Because he thought, it is better to leave this valley alive with my hand cut off than it is to die here. That's the picture that Jesus is giving you. Jesus is saying, whatever it takes, if there is something that is capturing your heart and is corroding it and keeping it from Jesus Christ, Jesus says, it is better to cut that off no matter what it is. No matter how painful it may seem to be for you to be able to do that. Twice Oprah has shown the effects of pornography on her shows. My wife happened to see both of those, and both those times at dinner she was weeping as she told me the stories of the wreckage and the ruin of lives. Well one of them was a pastor who had lost his church, lost his family, lost everything. Men who were into bondage and were ruined. It said, I I I can't believe that I've come to where I've come in the grip that this has had on my life as I just began to indulge in a little bit of lust and looking here and there and didn't see where it was going to lead. W If I had only known, I would have cut it off at the beginning. It's kind of like drinking seawater, you know. I mean you think you're thirsty and and there's a whole ocean before you. Why not drink? I remember a couple of years ago reading the book in Harm's Way. It's about the story of the USS Indianapolis. That was the boat that took the atomic bomb to Japan to be delivered to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. On the way back, that ship was lost, the Navy didn't track it, they were sunk by the Japanese. Hundreds, thousands of men were left in the sea for days, for weeks. They had two fears. One was the sharks, of course. And the second was that they would begin to drink the seawater. Men would go around and they'd slap them in and they'd beat them because they would say, I can't stand it. Here I am, I'm dying of thirst in the sea. And they would think, surely, surely just a little sip, just a little bit. It's gotta help me just to wet my lips. And they said, no, no, no, no, if you do it, we know you'll die Well you'll do it and it'll just make you thirstier and you'll get mad with thirst and you won't be able to control yourself and then your body fluids will all get all out of whack and then within a couple hours you'll be dead Dying of thirst in the midst of the sea. And that's our culture, isn't it? Sexual aridness in a sea of sexuality. Jesus is saying, you have got to address this with a desperate, desperate urgency. I remember back in the early days of our marriage that um I came across um in the trash in pornographic magazines and I was curious. And I looked at 'em and I didn't really get to look at 'em, so I thought, well let's just take at him and take a look at 'em, and I I hid 'em away somewhere and I looked at 'em again and I look at him from time to time and I began to notice that it was affecting my relationship with the Lord. It was affecting my relationship with my young wife. And I remember that it was astonishing to me when I thought, well, why don't you just throw them away? And it's just like it had a grip on me. And I remember the day that I finally decided I I can't hang on to this and it's re and and I just I prayed and it was it was like ripping off my arm And I took those and I threw them out. I finally disposed of them. And I was I was amazed just that little bit of exposure, what a grip it had begun to have on me. But I also remember when I threw them away, what a euphoric sense of freedom I felt. It was like somebody had taken a hundred-pound weight off of my back. I felt clean again. The sensitivity to the Lord had returned into my wife and a reconnection of sex and romance and love. And so what does this mean? Well, two scriptures that I think help us to understand it. One is Romans chapter 13. Romans chapter 13 We have to begin at verse 12 to see what Paul is saying here. He says, the night is nearly over, the day is almost here, the day of Jesus' return, so let us put aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light. It's worth it, guys. Only a short time. Let us behave decently as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and debauchery, not in dissension and jealousy And so among the deeds of the darkness he's talking about uh sexual immorality. Then verse 14. Rather Clothe yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ. Put him on. And do not think about how to gratify the desires of the sinful nature. And what does that mean? Well, let me give you a more amplified, this is the amplified Bible literal translation of this. See it up there, verse 14. But clothe yourself, let's see the next one, but clothe yourself with the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah. And make no provision for indulging the flesh. Put a stop to thinking about the evil cravings of your physical nature to gratify its desires or its lusts. You see what Paul's saying there is that some of us go around saying, well, you know, it just it's an area that I can't seem to control. I don't know what happens, just goes down, you know And and it's like the person who's got candy bars and snacks and chips and all around the house. I just can't seem to stay on my diet. I don't know what it is. I just you know, I find this stuff and it's there it is, and I just gotta consume it. Listen guys, you got a stash of magazines hidden somewhere. You got some videos. You got the websites in mind. You got the pictures. That's making a provision for the lust of the flesh. And so what Paul's saying here is that it's a choice. Jesus says, see the stakes. And Paul says it's a choice. Don't make provision so that you will be tempted and drawn into looking lustfully. Job puts it this way. In Job chapter 31, verse 1, he says, I made a covenant with my eyes not to look lustfully at a girl. I made a choice. made an agreement. I am going to determine not to do this, and therefore I will determine to not put something where I can get it that will break that covenant Or as David said in Psalm 101, verse 3, I will set before my eyes no vile thing. That's a choice. That's a choice that you and I make. And that leads to the second passage, Romans chapter 8. Verse 13, Paul says, if you live according to the sinful nature, you will die. But if by the Spirit You put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live. It's something that must be done by the Spirit. You and I can't do it ourselves. Now, to understand that, let's look at an anatomy of temptation. And I want to look more closely at what Jesus is actually saying in verse 28. You look at James chapter 1, verses 13 to 15, you find that there is a progression. Cain says, when you're tempted, nobody should say God's tempting me. It's unfair. God gave me this body, he gave me these desires, he put this stuff here. It's his fault. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when by his own evil desire he is dragged away and enticed. Then after desire has conceived. It gives birth to sin. So you see that there is a separation between the desire and the sin. In that small space, there is a choice Sin, when it's full grown, gives birth to death. That's what Jesus is saying. But you see, there is that one small space between the temptation, the initial desire And the choice to look lustfully. It's a choice. Now To understand that, look at verse 28 again. When Jesus says there, I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her. What does he mean when he says, who looks at a woman lustfully? Literally what he says there is seeing with a view to lusting. It's not a glance. L It's seeing with a purposeful view to lusting. In other words, anyone who stares at a woman in order to lust for her. or even to incite her to lust by eye connection. It's the staring, it's the dwelling, it's the choice. You see, we say, I can't help myself. You know, I just I somehow I just find myself there and I don't know how I got there, but there I am once again, and I hate it and I don't know what to do. You know, you're just lying to yourself. I know We're deceiving ourselves. You know, I'll prove it to you. Yeah, I can prove it to you. Let's imagine that you connected to the website that you go to. A device that meant that when you clicked on that website, 20,000 bolts would go through your body. It would fry you. Yeah, you think you'd hit that website? All of a sudden, there would be a whole new level of motivation. Man, I am not touching that thing. See, and that's exactly what Jesus is addressing He says you play with this because you don't think the consequences are that bad. He says if you knew what the consequences were, you'd rip out your eye, you'd tear off your hand, you'd do and Jesus isn't talking literally there He's using that for the purpose of the extreme measures. That you'll throw the stuff out, you'll get rid of it, you'll do whatever it takes. Because literally If you tear out your right eye, you still got your left eye. How's that help? You tear out both eyes, you still got your memory, still got the fantasies. You tear chop off your right hand, so what? You still got your left hand So Jesus isn't talking about literally, here's the way to deal with this. What Jesus is saying is whatever it takes, whatever it is. That is causing you to continue to follow that path of looking at women as things to gratify yourself. Whatever it takes, this is life and death. Get rid of it. And so, even though he says that, even though we recognize that when we say we can't do it, what we're really saying is that at that point I make a choice that the reasons to go ahead outweigh the reasons to not do it. We still realize that ultimately fear is not going to deal with this problem. You're not going to conquer it out of fear. And that's where Jesus is taking in this sermon, and he's unpacking, remember what he had said back in the Beatitudes, the basic foundation. Of the relationship with Him. Do you remember what he had said back in verse 8? Blessed, happy, enviable is the person who is pure in heart, for they shall see God. That's what Jesus is saying. He said when you recognize, when you hold that mirror up to yourself and you say, you know, this is the kind of man I am I am the kind of man who in my brokenness and corruption will look at a woman as a thing in order to gratify my immediate desires. That's what kind of a guy I am. Jesus help me. Jesus, forgive me. And when Jesus, by his death on the cross and his resurrection, dies to your sin so that your sin is is judged in that and is put to death and in his resurrection you rise to a new life, then Jesus gives to you the gift of purity He causes you to be pure in heart. And as you begin to experience that, as you find that the delight in knowing him and seeing him. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. And you say, to see him more, to know more of his goodness, his sufficiency, his loveliness, the fact that he satisfies my deeper needs. Lust is a is the warning light on the dashboard that says something's out of control. Jesus takes your heart, he puts it into that right relationship with him. And as you see that purity, you say, Lord, I don't want to do anything that's going to jeopardize that. I don't want to do anything that's going to compromise that, that's going to put that into a place where I will go back into the pit of my own self-gratification. Then what happens is in that moment, that space between the temptation and the intention to go on and stare and lustfully desire You stop and you say, Lord Jesus, you're more important. Lord Jesus, I thank you for beauty. I thank you that you've given me passions. I thank you that you've given me desires. I thank you that you've provided for those desires. Then if you're married, you say, I thank you given me a wife and you're If you've been finding yourself moving into the less, then that may not be that great an incentive at that point. You say, yeah, but you know what? You determine at that point, out of the grace of Jesus Christ, I'm going to go home and I'm going to speak tenderly to my wife. You know what happens? You begin to reconnect sex and love. That's been the problem. Lust severs sex. Lust severs sex from love. The way back is to reconnect sex and love. That's through the purity of heart that only Jesus Christ can give you, and that's why he says, by the Spirit. We're able to do this. You can't do it yourself. You can't deliver yourself. And when you thank him, when you turn that temptation into Lord Thank you that you've given me these desires. Lord, I'm determining by the power of your spirit to reconnect in my desires sex and love. And I will begin by speaking tenderly to my wife. I read of a guy who said that changed his life. To determine at each point he was going to go home and he's going to speak tenderly to his wife, and he began to reconnect his desires for her. It's not a simple thing, doesn't happen overnight, but it's something that gradually becomes a series of choices. Also, it's a choice of whether you're going to live in community or whether you're going to live on your own. People who live in this area of indulging lust almost always want to stay out of community. Because particularly if you profess Jesus Christ as your Savior and your Lord, you wind up living a double life. You don't want people to find you out. You're living in this area of shame. You're keeping it closed off. Some of you are sweating right now and you're thinking this is getting too uncomfortable. You know, how do I get out of this? And some of you decide to come here and then move on out the door, don't talk to anybody, and go back into your privacy. And Satan's got you right where he wants you in that. You gotta determine I'm gonna live in community. That may mean two things. Number one may just mean I'm gonna generally learn to live in community, become part of a small group, become part of a community with face-to-face fellowship. Talk to Steve about what kind of groups are available. It may mean that for me, I need particular help. And thank God we have that help. There are groups that meet for those who are involved in sexual bondage and sexual addiction. And if you're interested in finding out about any of those groups and say, I would like to be in that community. I'd like to see how the gospel can particularly come to bear on that. I'll tell you some of the The guys I hear of, I don't know who's in those groups. I don't know. The point of contact for those groups is Tim Floor. He's going to be preaching on this next three weeks. Tim has given himself Al Taya, it is quite a sacrifice because of the energy and the time that is spent in dealing with people in this kind of bondage. And I thank God for Tim in doing that. But you can talk to him about that. And you can determine: I want to join this fellowship of guys who will say, you know what, I never really understood the gospel until I got into this group. I never really understood resurrection power till I got into this group. Now I know what brokenness really means and the power of Christ. And so you can decide that you're not going to come back the next three weeks. And I'm telling you, Jesus' words to you are that could be a much more significant decision than you would dare to think about right now. It would be better for you to gouge out your eye and cut off your hand than to say, I'm not going to look at this area. I plead with you, come back. Finally. And let me say one other thing about community. I remember um a a woman once in a small group that I w uh was leading Called me up and she said um uh you know she started beating around Bush about how but things were not good in her marriage and blah blah blah and then she got to the point where she was saying, you know, I'm considering having an affair. And here's all the reasons why I think I'm justified. And I practically shouted in the phone, No, you cannot do that. And I told her why she could not do that. I'll never forget her response. She said, I knew you were going to say that. That's why I called you. Because I needed to hear it. Brothers and sisters, that's why we need community. We need to hear from each other sanity and the gospel. Finally, a word to women. Not just to men. This word addresses you also. It's first of all a word of warning. It would be foolish to restrict this just to married men, as if there's no problem for women. It's an increasing problem for women. In fact, we have women in our fellowship that meet together to help each other in this So you may want to find out about that. With women I find that the because a woman tends to want to continue to connect sex and love together more, uh the tendency is more to go to romance novels, just as an escape. uh to say, you know, I'm just gonna get out of this dull marriage and my dull boring husband, I'm gonna flee to this romantic world. The effect is very similar It undermines the marriage. You become more critical of your husband. Your heart is more distanced from him. And so don't think that this is just something that Jesus is saying to men. But it's also a matter of dress. Now I've been in some pretty hot discussions on this topic, but I'll just boil it down here by saying to you quite simply and straightforward, women, you know the difference. between dressing to be attractive and dressing to be seductive. Every woman wants to dress to be attractive, fine. But you know When you're actually dressing to be seductive, to get a different kind of attention, all I can say to you is, if I were to be able to depict to you what goes on in the minds of men who look at a woman dressed seductively, You would be so repulsed that you would never dress that way again. I'll leave it at that. Finally, for Jesus, this is also a word to you of protection. It's a word of protection because Jesus realizes that men will either be protectors or predators. When he created the sexes, he intended that the man be the protector in his physical strength, in his capabilities. Lust twist that so that men become predators. Some of you women have been the victims of that My call to you is do not harden your heart against all men. Come to Jesus as your refuge. Let him heal that area of your life and show you that he intends to give to you a man to be a protector. that he intends to be your ultimate protector, the one who shows you that he cares for you fully in all of your being That you and I together, men and women, realize that this is an area of our brokenness. Every one of us. that Jesus Christ has the power to heal, to deliver us. That If we are serious about this, if we say that we live in a culture that is every day attacking us, to undermine, to soften us, to just get a little inroad here. And to say, Lord, by the grace of Christ, by the power of the Spirit, I give myself to Jesus Christ for his cleansing, that you would give me the gift of a pure heart. That that pure heart would enable me to see you and that seeing you, I would want nothing to come in between me and you. That I would let you take that area of my life and control it Whatever it is that you've got to do to get to that place, let's pray. Oh our God. Our God, some of us are fighting a real battle now, I know, Lord. Some of us are saying, I've just been laid out. And I my heart recoils at the fact that the consequences are that that sober. I I I don't want to I don't want to admit that Lord, we pray that your spirit would prevail in showing us that Jesus' words here to us are words of warning and love. Did you, Lord Jesus, know our hearts and you know the corrosive effect of lusting and looking at people as things for our own gratification has on the way that we look at you, the way that we look at everything. To the impure, all things are impure. We pray, Lord, that you would deliver us from that bondage. That you would show us the sweet power of your spirit to deliver us, to break the chains of lust and addiction to pornography. Lord, that you would cause us to make that phone call, make that contact, to decide to live in community, to be more open, to see what you will do In providing deep, powerful healing by the strong name of Jesus Christ. Amen