Well this place is quite a bit different from what it was like all this week. Up here uh was Daryl the Barrel. had a big crane and uh it was a construction site for character. Kids uh Just kids that were in the VBS now, help me out. What were the five character traits that were being built? First was Hugh. Phew, come on, kids! First one? All right, let's go to any of the workers. And I mean the kids that were workers. What was the first one? Humble, right. I know you're too humble to say it. Yeah. Alright, what was the second one? You were singing it here. Oh. Obedience. Right. Look at the third one. Caring. I heard somebody say it. Good. Fourth one. Faithfulness. Right. And the last one that we all need? Forgiveness. Thank you. Somebody learned this stuff. That is great. We had about 200 kids. They were saying all that stuff this week, about a hundred workers, many of them teens and preteens. Uh just amazing. I mean just a lot of stuff going on here. You know, I had the Bible stories and the songs and the games and the explosions, you know, the usual BBS stuff. And I thought, um, boy, how different Yeah, I went to VBS, that was a major thing in my life, I was not from a Christian home. And I thought it's a long way from Mrs. Pyle with her flannel graph back in my days. I mean, it was a professional show here Um but you know God was using I th I thought of as I was walking around just kind of you know seeing the games and seeing stuff going on how great it was just to be here And I thought, you know, how the the the atmosphere bes besides the stuff that was being said and taught, which was all good stuff, just the fact that these people obviously enjoyed being here, they cared for each other, cared for the kids. And I thought, you know, the the positive associations that are here with the gospel are just of incalculable value. To grow up and to say, you know, there were people that just seemed like they were neat people, good to be with, and and they believed in Jesus. And there's there's that association of what Jesus can do in us. And it was just the warmth that they felt. I mean the warmth, obviously, it was warm. Third year in a row the AC went out, but you know, people still patient and caring. Grown out, grouching and complaining. Hope that those of you who are working were able to recover yesterday and get a little downtime, maybe a little extra sleep. Check in with Missy, find out, you know, and Scott back there. Uh you know, if you uh if you have benefited from it, uh Talk to some of the teachers, Missy or Barb or any of the others that were involved in it, and uh as they recover and are satisfied with what God has done. It was a great, great thing. But as you've heard, the purpose of it all was to help you kids and any of you parents that have questions. To know what it means to have a genuine relationship with Jesus Christ. And we do all that As Missy was just saying, if we were talking just before the service, because that's what it's all about. That's what's more important to us than anything else in the world. And so if you're confused about that, then you know what? People were confused back in John the Baptist's day. And that's what we're looking at in our study of Scripture. People that came and they weren't real clear what does it mean to have a genuine relationship with God? And so What John has done, and we've been looking at this over the last few weeks, four ways that John prepares people to be able to receive Messiah and his message The first way was to show them their need of repentance. Not penance, just feeling sorry, trying to pay for the things you do wrong, but repentance, realizing you need a basic heart change to come back to God. Secondly, the need for cleansing. And so that's why he baptized people. Water baptism to show the cleansing of the gospel. I need to be clean. I need to be purified. And John's showing the need that we all have of that. The third that we look at today was that John realized that people come with all kinds of vague notions about what it is that makes me right with God and gets me to heaven. And what John does is he strips away the false hopes in order to prepare people for the true hope. And there are three kinds of people that were there in chapter 3 in John's ministry, and there are three kinds of people here in this room. who, if you are not trusting Jesus and are sure about your relationship with him, have one of these ideas probably that is confusing you and needs to be cleared away in order for you to be receptive to the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Briefly looking at those three, the first one is the people who came and said, I'm trusting in my sincerity. I'm saved by my sincerity. You look at verses 5 and 6. Remember, the people went out to him from Jerusalem, from Judea, the whole region of the Jordan, confessing their sins, they were baptized by him in the Jordan River. Now again, picture yourself in that scene. You're standing as a large crowd, people from all over. And these people, you see a number of people going down to the bank, down the banks of the Jordan. And they're confessing. They're confessing that I've cheated, I've been selfish, I have not honored God, and different things you hear, but they're not all doing that There's some people that are standing and they're just kind of watching. They're along the sidelines. And they kind of enjoy hearing other people confess their sins. You know, oh I didn't know he did that. Well I didn't know she did Well I kind of suspected she did. And so they're listening, but but not me. You see, because I don't sin, I make mistakes. And my heart really is always desiring to do the good, the right thing. And sometimes I mess up, but that's not really me. And so, you know, I've talked to so many people when I try to talk about Jesus, and they'll say, well, you know, that wasn't really me when I did that. And I think, oh yeah, well who was it? You know, we deny what our hearts are like. And uh These people are saying that when I look at you know what I do in my life, I I believe that my good is actually gonna outweigh my bad and And so my sincerity, the fact that I really try is going to be enough. There's an article in Discipleship Journal last year by a fellow named William Farley. He talked about three deadly assumptions that are common today, and uh they they relate to this. The first one, he says, is that we assume in today's culture that God is tolerant. We assume God's tolerant because tolerance is uh the foremost virtue in today's culture, and since God being God, he must be the most tolerant of everybody because, you know, he's the best. So God must be very tolerant. In fact, if you read a lot of the stories that circulate and you know these little why sayings of how to live and all this stuff he passed around the internet and all that Uh oftentimes God is presented as one who is saying, you know, cut yourself some slack. You're really too hard on yourself and God is much more indulgent and understanding. He he really isn't going to be hard on you. And so this idea permeates culture today. God's a very tolerant And then secondly, there's the assumption that I'm essentially good. My heart is essentially a good heart. Um I try to do the right thing, don't always, but basically my intentions are always good. like the person that I talked about last week, friend of mine who I'd been talking to about the Lord the week before and she said, you know, I I tune into a couple of these T V preachers and there's this one guy that He's always telling me how I can be more happy and how I can um make my life more meaningful and I always feel good when I finish listening to him because he tells me that I'm good. and um I smile and I feel good about myself. And then there's this other preacher, he talks about the Bible and he tells me that I need to change and I need to repent and I don't think I'm gonna listen to him anymore. I'm gonna just listen to this other guy, you know, and I And I thought, well huh, which one do you think John the Baptist is more like? John the Baptist just telling people things that make them feel good about themselves? Obviously not. John is here trying to wake people up, trying to say you're not essentially good. And we have not only in our own desires that longing to believe that, but it's reinforced again and again in everything that we read today in our culture, in a movie and television. And then that leads to the third thing that um I can merit heaven, third deadly assumption that, you know, I told you that There's Oprah, she's about seventy percent get to heaven. There's Mother Teresa, she's eighty percent. People think that she's gonna be in heaven, but The person most likely to be in heaven is me, the person who responded to the surveys. Eighty-five percent of people think I'm gonna make it to heaven. And um interesting, there's a new book that's just come out By two social scientists, Christian Smith and Melinda Lundquist Denton. They are with the National Study of Youth and Religion at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. This book is called Soul Searching: The Religious and Spiritual Lives of American Teenagers, just published by Oxford University Press. And uh in this book um they had interviewed over three thousand American teenagers, and they said that uh after doing that, uh these authors are not Christians. But after doing that they said that we came up with the fact that American teenagers basically believe five things. Here's what the typical teenager believes today. Number one that there is a God who created and ordered the world and watches over human life on earth. That gives you a kind of a little warm fuzzy that, you know, there's something out there and he watches over Secondly, God wants people to be good, to be nice, to be fair to each other, as taught in the Bible and by most world religions. So, you know, just kind of golden rule, live by That's what it all boils down to. Three, the central goal of life is to be happy and to feel good about oneself. And watch a lot of Oprah. Number four, God does not need to be particularly involved in one's life except when God is needed to resolve a problem. You know, otherwise it's kind of hands-off. You're you're okay. But you know, if there's something that's needed, God or an angel will kind of come in there to help you out. And number five, good people go to heaven when they die. And, you know, of course I'm one of those good people. Interesting, they go on uh here, this is a review of it. Uh even these secular researchers recognize that this is a far cry from Christianity. With no place for sin, judgment, salvation, or Christ. Instead, most teenagers believe in a combination of works, righteousness, religious, psychological well-being, and a distant, non-interfering God. In fact, they have coined a term for this new religion. They call it moralistic therapeutic deism. They're MTDs. Now when you think about that, that's rather insightful. Moral moralistic therapeutic deism. You know, um, being good is rather easy, just need a little help, some guidance to know how to do it. But we can all be basically moral people if we try. And then uh the therapeutic religion is basically therapeutic. It's to kind of help you to cope. And uh deism is this God who has made the world, but he doesn't interfere. He's kind of there if needed, and that's the view of many, many people today Do you know anybody like that? Is it possibly somebody sitting here like that? That believes, yeah, it makes sense to me. You know what? That is a hopeless. View of life. Because if God is simply an indulgent, tolerant, non-interfering deity, he is never going to set things right. And just going to tolerate it. There will never come a judgment when that God will rid the world of all evil and set things right. And that's what John was talking about. Repent because God's rule is about to break in on history. And when it does, there will be judgment. And that judgment is our hope, because the judgment is the ridding of the world of evil. Most people don't think about the uh implications of their views. It's just what seems comfortable, but then wonder why there is really no hope. Of God setting things right. I have found in my evangelism that probably seventy-five, eighty percent of the time that I spend with a person that I'm trying to present Christ to is is to just simply show them they're a sinner. Because once a person sees that I have deceived myself and lived in denial about what my heart is like and they recognize, you know what, God is holy and he is just, and I'm in trouble, then it's relatively easy to present the good news of Jesus Christ and what he's done. Most of the time needs to be spent in doing that. And if you have somebody that you know who is like that, I challenge you, don't just say, well, you know I hope somebody helps them out. If God's placed you in their life, it may be that He wants you, even this week, to raise a conversation with them. To disabuse them of that false hope. And here's a suggestion in how to do it. Whatever, however you get into the conversation. I have found that it's so simple and so basic and so ancient, but it still works. Take them through the Ten Commandments. Just simply say, hey, you know, what what we've had handed down from the ancients, recorded in the Bible, is what God says is how we should live. Now when you say, you know, I basically believe that I, you know, I'm trying to do the good and the right thing. Well let's just take a look what God says And they begin to go through that. I have found God use that again and again for a person to begin to backpedal and see, you know what? Okay. So I'm not what I ought to be, and then begin to get a crack and open the way for the gospel. That's what John was doing. He was trying to show them That their lives were not what they thought they were, and that they needed to confess. And so some are confessing, some were standing aside. But then there's a second group of people, and that's those that believe they're saved by their creed. Saved by my creed. These are the religious folks who say, Well, I believe the necessary things to get me to heaven. Uh I once went forward at a Billy Graham meeting. Uh one time I was at a young life camp and I committed my life to Jesus. Or you know, I believe that Jesus' death pays for my sin. Now you notice that statement, I believe that Jesus died for my sins, let's say. You see, that's simply an assent to a fact. The Bible places it totally different Bible says, believe on Jesus who died for your sin. Not believe that Jesus died for sinners or sin or your sin. The difference between the assent to a fact and the commitment to a person is the difference between life and death. Or death and life in that order. So there has to be that belief that is life changing. Look at on the um screen verses seven. And eight, uh John says uh to those the religious people, the Pharisees, the Sadducees coming to where he was baptizing, he says to them, You brood of vipers Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? Produce fruit in keeping with repentance. Verse 10, the axes were already at the root of the trees in every tree that does not produce good fruit. Will be cut down and thrown into the fire. It's not simply a matter of what you believe. If you come to Jesus Christ, He changes you, and there is evidence of that. The Pharisees and the Sadducees were religious leaders. The Pharisees were basically the evangelicals of that day Here were the people that believed that the Bible was the Word of God and that God was in active in history and you know a lot of things that we would affirm. They believed the Old Testament. The Sadducees were somewhat more comparable with the liberal end of the church today. They accommodated much more to culture. But it's a little more complicated than that. We'll get into that later. But they both thought that they had the truth and therefore that God was pleased with them because they were right. Salvation was based in being right. The problem with the Pharisees and the Sadducees was that neither saw themselves as broken before God or as Jesus, in his first message in Matthew 5 of the Beatitudes, says, They were not poor in spirit. They did not realize poverty of spirit. They thought they were fairly rich in their spirit, in their spiritual lives. And so John puts the finger on their error by saying, You need to demonstrate fruits. that show that your repentance has turned you from yourself to God, the true God. They probably were there because they wanted to check him out, you know, he's a very popular preacher. He got See what the competition's doing, you know? And if he becomes any kind of a threat to be able to criticize him. But they weren't there to repent. They weren't there because of their own searching, their brokenness. They said, we believe the right stuff. And that's enough. Reminds me of a preacher that was popular in certain circles back in the 60s as an evangelist, Al Martin. And I remember him uh describing um back long time at that back in the sixties, I heard him, and uh He gave a message that I never forgot. And in that message, he gave a little illustration about true assurance and false assurance. He described uh he says, suppose you're walking along a road and you see somebody that's standing by the road and they're kinda looking up uh into the sky and this rapt look on their face and they're just kinda standing there gazing up and you say, Excuse me, buddy, what are you doing? Says I'm looking at my oak tree. Say what? I'm looking at my oak tree. I don't see anything. Well I know it's there. Well, how do you know it's there? He said, well, because there's a sign down there. Sa It says the acorn was planted on July 7th, 1995. There's got to be an oak tree there. Man, I don't see anything there. You shake your head and you walk on a little further. There's another guy and he's standing there And he's sort of pacing around, looking all troubled. He's walking around this big oak tree. And he's walking around, he's looking disturbed, and he's saying, excuse me, what are you doing? He says, I'm looking for my oak tree. You're looking for your oak tree? Yeah, man, I sure wish I could find my oak tree. He says, Well man, there it is, eighty feet tall, branches, you know, you're in its shade. Look at it. There it is. How can you miss it? He says, Yeah, but man, unless I find a sign down there that says when that thing was planted, I don't know that it exists. Martin McGorney says there's a lot of people that are like that They say I'm a Christian because on a certain date or at a certain time I did something. I went forward, I joined church, I signed something. I talked to a counselor and the counselor said, Do you believe this? Yeah, I believe. Okay, now you're a Christian. Don't ever doubt it. And so I believe I'm a Christian because of something I did in the past. And he made the point, you are only a Christian because you are right now trusting Jesus, who is changing your life. Don't ever think that because of something you have done or signed or assented to at some time in the past That you're a Christian. Recently I was talking to another friend about a guy who I was concerned about. This was a fellow who was a part of a church and And yet his life in so many ways contradicted what it means for to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. And I asked this friend, do you think he's a Christian? Because he knew him a lot better than I did. And his response was, oh yeah, his beliefs are solid. He believes the right stuff. You see, that's what John's talking about. The Pharisees and the Sadducees, well particularly the Pharisees, believe the right stuff. But there was no fruit of repentance. Jesus says, John says about Jesus, he's going to baptize you with his spirit. And that's going to produce a change. Now, let me ask you. Maybe there's somebody here this morning And you're saying, well, you know, I thought that was okay, because if you asked me why I was a Christian, I would tell you what I had done in the past. I pray God will wake you up to see it's not a matter of what you've done in the past. Are you this morning trusting Jesus Christ, his finished work on the cross, his resurrection as a substitution that is adequate? Sufficient, necessary for you, and that he is your hope Nothing that you have done, no decision, no going forward, is any kind of adequate hope. Maybe you know somebody in your family, some friend that believes that. And you thought, well, you know, who am I to judge? I beg you. Be involved in that person's life. Raise the questions. Where's the fruit of repentance? Not you wouldn't say just that, but you would be asking. See, we say, well, we're not supposed to judge. Yeah, John says, I don't judge, but John was a fruit inspector. And he calls us to be fruit inspectors. Look and see, verse 8, verse 10. Where is the fruit? Where's the evidence that Jesus has baptized you with the Spirit, that He has not only cleansed you, but He is changing you, that you have different desires from the desires you had before you made that commitment to Christ. There is evidence in your life of new life. That's the second. The third is a person who believes that they're saved by their connections. I'm saved by my connections. You see there on the screen again, uh John says, don't think that you can say to yourselves that we have Abraham as our father. I tell you that out of these stones God could raise up children for Abraham. Hey, what's that all about? It refers to the fact that the Jewish leaders at that time believed and taught that any descendant of Abraham, any biological descendant of Abraham, would go to heaven. Not because of how they lived, but because of what they called, and this is a phrase that appears again and again and again in the ancient Jewish writings, the merits of the fathers. Read that again and again, the merits of the fathers, the merits of the fathers. And in one place they picture, this is a the picture that they drew. This is telling you right out of one of the ancient writings, not making this up. At the gates of Gehenna or Hell, there sits Abraham. Now Abraham's life was so meritorious in his good outweighing his bad, that it was like he had a few tons of good that he could spare and the skills would still tip for him. And so Abraham is at the gate of Gehenna, and if you are a Jew and you're in danger of the hellfire, Abraham says, Well, you know, here, that's okay. Based on my merit, come on, and you're saved from the hellfire. Now that seems ridiculous, you know, and you say, What who would believe that? But you know what? I talk to people all the time that believe that, well, because I grew up in a Christian home Or because I was raised in C B C and baptized at C B C and grew up here and you could ask me the catechism and I know the questions and all the answers and I know all that stuff That even though I have never at a point in my life given my life to Jesus Christ as my Savior and my Lord and realized my need for Him And though I've never professed him publicly and said, I want to follow Jesus, somehow it's going to work out. Because of my family. Or because I am Presbyterian or Baptist or Catholic or Reformed or something, you see, it's the association And John says, You brood of vipers, you self-deceived people, do you think that you can say, Oh, we have Abraham as our father, and that's going to get you in? Notice that John is harder on the religious people who think by their associations they will get in than he was on Roman soldiers tax collectors, the impure, the liars, and the selfish. In Luke 3, he is kind to them and leads them. He calls these guys broods of vipers. He wants to wake them up, you see. Now I'm not going to call you a brood of vipers. I'm just going to say, if you are thinking by some connection That you can be complacent. May the Spirit of God wake you up this morning. So that you will see I am in trouble. It's not because I have a knowledge of all the right stuff. And I've been associated with Columbia Presbyterian, but my life really is pretty self-centered. Jesus is on the periphery at best. I make time for him from time to time. But my life's goals, my desires, are all self-centered, then I would seriously question Whether you have a relationship with Christ. And notice that John does not say that that is some small matter. It's a difference, he says, between life and death, between heaven and hell. And so in contrast to that, notice that he says there is only one way to be saved, and that is through your Savior, Jesus. Fourth point, saved by my Savior. The only way John says to be saved is that after me there is coming one more powerful whose sandals I am not fit to carry, and he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit or with fire. Peter picks up on that idea in Acts chapter 2 after Jesus was crucified and rose again, and he's speaking to those who had crucified the Lord of glory, the worst crime in all of human history. As he speaks to them, they are cut to the heart, Luke says, and they say, What do we do? What do we do? We are in big trouble. And Peter says, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The promise is for you and your children, for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord will call, even down to the 21st century in Columbia, Maryland. This is the promise. Jesus still saves people. Who see their need for him. But he passes by. Those who believe that their sincerity or their creed or their connections are sufficient. When it's all said and done, your only hope is, as he says in verse 2, that you repent. And then that you show fruit of repentance by being renewed, verse 11, by the Holy Spirit. And that comes only from Jesus. Only He can change you. And the only alternative to that, he says, is a baptism of fire. A baptism of fire. John says that again and again. Verse 7, he talks about the coming wrath. Verse 10. He says, The axe is already at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire. Verse 11. He's coming, who's going to baptize you with the Spirit. It says hand. It could also mean or. I think it's talking about or baptize you with the spirit or with fire. Verse twelve, his widowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor, gathering his weed into the barn and burning up the chaff with unquenchable fire There are two pictures there. The first is of a tree. And he says the axe is already there. You don't see it. You think it's all fine. You know what? A couple weeks ago, we had a big tree in our front yard. And my wife wasn't real big on that tree. My wife's kind of picky about her trees. And while we were headed out for a walk one night, uh she was talking to the guy next door, we were chatting a little bit and he was complaining about a tree he had. He's yeah, I'm thinking of taking that down. She said, Oh, really? Well if you ever do, then let us know. You know, I'd like to take this one down. You know, and she says, Will that be okay? Yeah, all right, all right. You're not thinking, I used to never get get around to it, you know. Well the next week she calls me up at the office and I just want to give you a warning, there's no tree in the front lawn anymore. What happened? He took him down, he came over and phth you know, it was it. I came home. I mean it was down to the grass. Nothing. Nothing Tree thought, hey, I'll be here. Al's my friend. Oh yeah? Gone, man. My wife works at the breaderie and uh they mill their own flour there. They get the wheat right off the farm and they put it in this big machine and comes down through this funnel and And it blows off the chaff into a bin, and then the rest of it is ground up as flour And she said, you can take that chaff and uh it's just dry stuff and you could just light a match to it. We'd go right up. John says, that's what it's like in your life if you stand before God with your own record. You think, you know, good health, everything's fine. Just yesterday, I got news from my cousin that her granddaughter, 29-year-old, was out riding her bike just a few days ago, and was struck by a car and killed instantly. The axe is laid at the root of the trees. She thought good health, spiritual things, you know. John's trying to do you a favor. I'm trying to do you the best possible favor in saying that Jesus Christ comes and stands. To take your life and to change it, to transform it, to cleanse it. But it's only if you recognize that your sincerity Your creeds and the things that you rest in, that you have done religiously, decisions you've made, or the connections that you have gain you nothing. Before Almighty God. And our longing is to be a church of people who, like at BBS, are a happy people. Because we recognize that Jesus Christ has come in to change us, and He alone is our hope. And that's sufficient, and that gives us joy, and that kind of a church changes its community. Because God is at work. Let's pray. Father, we come to you and we ask in Jesus' name that you would give us grace to examine our own lives. Lord, we know there could be easily people. Lord, I know that I can safely say not everyone in this room has been transformed by your spirit. There are some of us, Lord, who are thinking that our hearts are basically good, or that we have believed the right things. Or been associated somehow with that which will, by its connection in our lives, protect us. We're superstitious to the core. And Lord, we pray that you would show us there is only one Savior. And it's Jesus, and He is here, and He still offers Himself. We can come. And find refuge, cleansing, forgiveness, transformation. Lord, would you do that? Would you make us a church of people whose hearts are filled with joy because we know, we know. Who our Savior is, and He is sufficient for eternity and every day, for every need. Thank you. Thank you. Amen. Let's look for the power.