Here's a cover article for Time magazine. It's entitled The New Rebel Cry, Jesus is coming. It's not from this week or last week. It's actually from June 1971. um nearly forty years ago. He hasn't come yet. But um interest in his coming seems to wax and wane. It was really big in the early seventies. It was really big in Y2K time. Got really big again when the years 1995 to 2007, Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins wrote 16 prophetic novels. called the Left Behind series, sold over eleven million copies and spun off movies and lots of other things. And I don't hear so much about prophecy and end times anymore. I wonder if Left Behind sort of wore people out for a while. But I did go on Google and Googled Left Behind, Googled End Times Prophecies. And I got 1,380,000 sites. So somebody's still interested in prophecy. It is an area that will wax and wane in interest according to what's going on in history and our culture, wars, and economy. And um The third hit that that I looked at on that site, on you know, on the all the different uh sites for Google, uh was a site that was called um Signs that we are in the end times. That's a pretty typical kind of site. Begin with the first series with six signs given by Jesus to indicate his coming and the end of the age, and they're all from Matthew chapter 24. So I thought in the only five remaining messages that I have to do on the book of Matthew that one of them would need to be on Matthew twenty-four. Matthew twenty-four is a very significant book. Um I can only do one message this morning. However, if you are desperate for some more material, back in 1991 as we approached Y2K I did a series on prophecy and I did three messages back in September and October on Matthew 24. But this morning what I want to do is just give to you uh an overview and the main points to get what is Matthew 24 actually about Now remember we left off in January with Matthew 20, and then in Matthew 21, Matthew begins Jesus' last week on earth before his death. So the last eight chapters of Matthew, nearly 30% of his book, are about Jesus' last week, his death and then resurrection. So that tells you something about the priorities. It's not simply a biography. This is the gospel in which his suffering and death and resurrection are the most prominent part of the message. In chapter 23, Jesus comes to the last confrontation between him and the Jewish leaders. He pronounces seven woes and warnings on them, very detailed foreboding about what they are headed for if they do not change and repent and acknowledge him. It's a rather exhausting denunciation, and Jesus ends it with a heartbroken cry. Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often would I have gathered you to me as a hen gathers her chicks, but you would not And then he goes out. That is the last real conversation. And at that point, Jesus begins The fifth and last discourse that is recorded in the book of Matthew There are five discourses. Remember we said going through Matthew that Matthew organizes uniquely his material. in six narrative sections interspersed by five discourses. Those five discourses collect teaching material that are the five significant, most significant messages And the first, remember you see it in your bulletin outline, so you don't have to take it down, but you see there the first discourse was describing the changed heart of a disciple, Sermon on the Mount. Then chapter 10, the commissioning of the disciples for the ministry, persecution, what they will endure. Chapter 13, What the Kingdom is Like, told in seven parables. Chapter 18, Life in the New Covenant Community, What That's Like. And then this last discourse, chapters 24 and 25, preparation for the near and far judgments. Be ready. Now let's admit it right up front. Matthew 24 is a very difficult passage. It's very difficult, one of the most difficult passages in all of Scripture, one of the most controversial. Back in 1999, when I was preparing for it, I read seven commentaries on Matthew 24. No two of them agreed with each other. And none of them agreed with the left behind series. So it is a difficult passage. For instance, you look at verse 29. And thirty. Immediately after the distress of those days, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light, the stars will fall from the sky, and the heavenly bodies will be shaken At that time the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and all the nations of the earth will mourn. They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. What's all that about? Stars falling from the sky? I mean one star would incinerate the earth. I mean, what stars falling? Moon, sun? Or take verse 33. Then he says, even so when you see all these things, you know that it or he is near, right at the door. I tell you the truth, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened. What's that about? The Son of Man has come, the sun, the moon, the stars, all these things have fallen. He says, this generation's not going to pass away till all that happens. And there's all kinds of gymnastics that people go through to what does generation mean? What is this difficult stuff? Well, that's the hard news. The good news is that I believe that the main lesson Of Matthew 24 is crystal clear. So I want to get out of the details of the woods. I want to cover a little bit of that and give you some direction on it. Somebody looked at the bulletin outline this week and said it looked like a doctoral dissertation. Don't worry about all the details and the references. You can check that stuff out on your own. I want to be able to focus. I put that there for you to do what you want with it, but I want to focus on what I believe is the main point and what I want to establish. Incidentally, is that I think of those one million three hundred and eighty thousand sites, that probably over a million of them I would think Miss the point of Matthew 24. I think the most popular interpretations of Matthew 24 are opposite of what Jesus was trying to convey. And that's a pretty strong statement, so see if I can back it up. Alright? So what is it really saying? Well, four points. I think three of them are the crystal clear ones. The fourth one you might think, uh, that wasn't so crystal clear, but that's for you to check out. First point Very simple. Just a cursory reading. You get the world ahead is going to be full of trouble and danger. Jesus saying, you are like sheep in a field of coyotes and cougars. And the only safe place is with me. The only safe place is with Jesus as your Savior and as your shepherd. Especially when Judaism and then all the world will be judged by a just and angry God. Now whenever I read that and think about that, I think about Stephen Sagal in his 1992 movie Under Siege. I don't know how many of you saw it, but it's a pretty decent movie. It's about a guy who, Stephen Segal is a former Navy SEAL. He's on an American ship that has nuclear weapons, and some bad guys get on that ship and they take it over. And Stephen Segal is the only guy left, because he was just the cook, nobody bothered with him, and he's trying to recapture the ship all by himself. So there is mayhem and violence going on and all this you know martial arts stuff and spectacular things. And there's this girl that's following him. Now don't ask how she got on the ship, but She's sticking with him like glue. And at one point he says, Will you just go hide somewhere? And this is what she says. I believe that the only safe place on this ship is with you. I that is that always gives me this beautiful picture of life here, with all the mayhem and all the stuff that's out of control and going on. And Jesus is so often at the center of the controversy. But the only safe place is with him. Jesus, I can't go anywhere else to hide. You're the only safe place to be. So that's the first point. The world is going to be full of danger and difficulties, trials. But I'm the only safe place for you to be. The second point is that Jesus is answering two questions from the disciples, and you have to be clear on what the questions are to know what the rest of the chapter's about. What he does is he shows the connection between the two questions. They didn't realize they were asking two questions. But he is showing the connection between them. Now let's look at what they are. If you look at Matthew chapter 24, you see there it begins that after this confrontation with the Pharisees, the Jewish leaders, Jesus left the temple. He's probably somewhat exhausted from all this He's walking from the temple, he's walking away, when his disciples, who are kind of freaked out by this confrontation, you know, I mean he's Jesus has just told the evangelical leaders of his generation, you're going to hell unless you repent. So as he walks away, they're thinking, I can't believe he just said, but oh gee, well, you know what. So they try to change the subject. And what they do is they say, Boy, this is one beautiful temple, isn't it? Now take a look at it. Let's uh take a look at the temple. There is the model of the temple, which is in Jerusalem. And um You see, it is a beautiful edifice. And so they're walking out of the gate and they're looking back, and here's the Holy of Holies, that most prominent thing there. And uh they're saying, look at this, isn't this beautiful? But it's about 30 A. D. uh. The temple was begun in its construction, 19 B. C So it has been all those years, nearly 50 years in construction, and it's still got another 34 years to go before it's absolutely completed. So they're looking back at this thing and saying, this is fantastic. And Jesus says, Do you see all these things? I tell you the truth, not one stone here will be left on another. Every one will be thrown down. That's the interesting thing about Jesus. And you never know what's going to happen, but it's never what you expect. They didn't expect them to go in and tell the Jewish leaders that they're all going to hell. They just try to recover from that and have a little pleasant conversation. You know, boy, this is a beautiful place. And yeah, you see this? Not one stone's going to be left on. It's all going to be thrown down. So again, they're speechless. They're stunned. Jesus walking out to the Mount of Olives, they follow him and they're saying, Did he say what you thought? I don't know. I can't believe what do you mean all not one stone? Look at all the stones. Some of those stones of the temple weighed a hundred tons They're saying, What do you mean, not one stone left on another? So they go out, and then as Jesus was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples come to him privately and they say, Tell us They kind of pull their thoughts together. Tell us when will this happen and what will be the sign of your coming in the end of the age? They think that's one question. When is this all going to be wrapped up, this whole cataclysm that you're talking about? It's actually two questions, because they're asking when will the temple be destroyed? And what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? And what Jesus does, this is critical in understanding Matthew 24, is he takes those two questions And shows the connection between the two. What he does is he is going to show by twelve signs that he gives. You see them in your bulletin outline. Twelve signs of these two judgments. The first one in 70 A. D. , the destruction of Jerusalem and of the temple And how that is connected and a precursor to the final judgment at the end of the age. And Jesus shows the connection between them, and he does it by Two ideas closely related in the book of Matthew. He says, here's twelve signs that are going to be fulfilled by 70 A. D. Those same signs are going to be filled up until the end of the age. Now there's four basic interpretations of the Matthew 24. I just taking it all, boiling it down. The first group of interpretations says it all is past. It all referred to 70 A. D. That's that's it. The second group of interpretations say it's all future. It's all the signs of the times of the end times that we're looking for. Third group of interpretation says, no, no, it's Verses 1 to 35 have to do with the past, what happened in 70 A. D. Verses 36 through chapter 25 have to do with the future. I hold to a fourth interpretation which is a little different. I believe that All of Matthew twenty four refers both to the past, seventy A D, and to the future that it refers to what was going to be fulfilled by 70 AD, the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple, and that those signs would continue to be filled up until Jesus returns. Why do I say that? Think of the way Matthew uses prophecy. Do you remember, for instance, in chapter 1, he says that Jesus was born of a virgin to fulfill what was predicted in Isaiah 7. 14. She'll bear a virgin will bear a son. Then he goes right on and he says the strange thing when Jesus flees from Herod, the parents take him and they go down to Egypt and they come back and he says, Well that was to fulfill what Hosea said. Out of Egypt I'll call my son. And you scratch your head and you say, Hazah was not talking about Jesus coming out of Egypt. He was talking about Israel in the Exodus. So how is that a fulfillment? But as you read Matthew's use of prophets, you understand what Matthew is saying is that fills up the meaning, you see. Jesus is the true Israel. He's the true Son. And his coming back out of Egypt is the beginning of redemption. So he's filling up the meaning of Hosea. And that's exactly what Jesus is doing in Matthew 24. Here's twelve signs. These are all being fulfilled by 70 AD. When you see that, know that I who predicted something so counterintuitive, so unlikely. So precisely fulfilled, when I tell you I am coming again, be sure that's going to happen just as much as the first did. And those signs will continue to be filled up until I do. Now let's break that down a little bit more so you can get the impact of that. Third point deals with the 12 signs. I'm not going to say very much about that because it would totally distract you and it would be a mess. So you take it, you you look, and you will see that each sign that is in Matthew 24 is repeated and developed in the book of Revelation. And there it is, you go check it out What's ironic to me is you look at the first three signs, false prophets and messiahs, wars, rumors of wars, evil disasters, and then famines, earthquakes, natural disasters. People use these as signs of the times. Jesus is coming because, you know, had an earthquake in Haiti, got another one in Peru, I mean Chile, and they're talking about Pacific Northwest is next Uh sorry Steve, uh we'll pray for you. Um but you know, we look at all these things and say, Oh, the earthquake, increasing earthquakes. That's what this website says. Increase of earthquake Jesus specifically says those are not the signs of the times. Those are the things that are going on. That'll continue to go on. Don't because our natural tendency is when we see something terrible happening. Oh, it must be the end of the world. He said, no, it's not. Then he talks about persecution of Christians. That's going to continue. It's going to go on. It happened before 78 days. It'll continue on. Apostasy, lovelessness, that happened, will continue to happen. Now number six, notice, gospel will be preached to all peoples. He says, Oh, come on. Now that didn't happen by 70 AD. Oh yeah, it did. If you read the book of Acts, chapter 2, it says at Pentecost, the people were there from all the nations under heaven, heard the gospel and Different people representing those nations came to Christ. We've discovered more nations from that time, more outlying peoples. So Jesus is saying in core that was fulfilled, the gospel was preached, but it will continue to be preached to all the nations. More and more fully. That is one of the most dramatic things. You would have never thought that this rabbi back in thirty AD Would be able to say that 2,000 years from now, my name and my message, my gospel is going to continue to be preached throughout all the earth. No one else has come close to anything like that. So Jesus is saying, this is fulfilled, it is filling up. The abomination of desolation. Ah, now we come to the critical point, the seventh sign. The abomination of desolation is from Daniel 9. 27. And any Jew understood what that was. They said, that's what Antiochus Epiphanes did in 1665-66 BC when he came in and offered a pig on the altar of the temple. He desecrated. It was the abomination of desecration. And Jesus says, that's coming. There is a future abomination of desolation. What is it? How do you know? Luke, writing not to Jews, but to Gentiles, paraphrased it. If you read Luke's parallel account, Luke says, when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies. No question what that's referring to. There's only one time in 70 A. D. the Roman armies surrounded Jerusalem, laid siege to it, and utterly destroyed it. That's the abomination of desolation that happened, and quite literally what Jesus said occurred. He says, not one stone will be left on another. When they destroyed the temple, they burned it. The heat was so great in the raging fire to destroy the temple that it melted the gold that was up in the upper portions. The gold melted and dribbled down into the stones. So the Romans pried the stones apart to get to the gold. And not one stone was left to one another. Jesus says that forty years before it occurred, you will see that happening Now he says something that has seemed to me at times to be kind of like exaggeration, because he says, this is the worst thing that ever has happened or ever will happen in history. And you say, well, yeah, that's pretty bad, but you know, gee, what about this disaster? What about that? But you have to understand something. Just like Jesus suffering on the cross, it wasn't simply the physical. The physical suffering of the destruction of Jerusalem is probably one of the great horrors of history. Few things would have ever superseded it. Cannibalism, um, the the horrors, the anguish of the suffering that went on at that time. The Romans hated hated the Jews with a passion, and when they unleashed their fury on them, it was something that was terrible to behold. When we were in Rome just a few years ago, uh you get down to the the center part there where Caesar and all the Forum and all these things are, and there's the remains of their monuments and these different things. And I remember standing down there and I looked up on this hill and there was one of the most prominent of all the arches and monuments. It was still standing. And I thought, Jim, what that one's about? What great Gallic war or something does that celebrate? I went up to it and The plaque one had said, this was to commemorate the victory of Rome over Jerusalem in 70 AD, basically giving the the time of the emperor. This, one of their greatest monuments, because they so hated the Jews and the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple. Was such a monument to them that it was one of the prominent features of their forum. Now, Jesus says that is a picture of God's judgment. And the reason it's so terrible was not simply the physical suffering, as awful as that was, but these were people who said they knew God. These were people who prayed to God. These were people that said, we are faithful to God. And during the siege, they cry out to God, God save us, God protect us. And the Romans continue to come, and the battlements come up against the walls, and they set fire, and there's the pillaging and the destruction of life, the slaughter that goes on. And they cry out to God and they realize God has turned a deaf ear. He has abandoned and forsaken his people. There is no element of history that supersedes that kind of suffering. It is a picture of the end time when people come and they say, but God I've lived a good life. God, I've tried to do this. God, aren't you on my side? And he says, I have shown you my son. I have shown you what he has done for you. You turned your back on that. You are forsaken. Depart from me. I never knew you. That's what Jesus is saying. He's saying, take heed as you see that slaughter, that destruction. When God is angry at sin, his anger is something we cannot begin to imagine in the fury of his holiness. Take refuge in me. Then he goes on. He talks about the Great Tribulation, not some seven-year period at the end, it's the whole period. From that 70 AD up through Jesus' return. The dire heavenly signs are not literal signs of the stars falling and the moon and so All you have to do is read from Isaiah. Give you the references or Isaiah 13, Joel 2. It's talking about when God comes in a dramatic change. Joel 2 talks about that as being fulfilled at Pentecost. The stars didn't fall out of the sky at Pentecost. He's talking about that is when the Holy Spirit comes and there is a new age of God breaking through, fulfilling all the Old Testament prophecy of Messiah. And this new age comes. That age will come and be fulfilled again, so that once again when Jesus comes, a lightning will appear as the east from the west. The Son of Man coming, did that happen at 70 A. D. ? Yes, because Daniel verse 7, 13, and 14 says the Son of Man coming on the clouds is a picture of his beginning to reign over the nations. And that's what he does. In fact, the next signally says, all the tribes of the earth are going to mourn. That's literally all the tribes of the land. It is Israel mourning the Messiah that they've taken. So the thirteenth sign is he gathers all his elect from all over the world. He has done it, he's doing it, he continues to do it, and in that last day when the lightning will appear from the east to the west and the Son of Man comes on the clouds, all the elect will be gathered together to him Now, Jesus says, verse 34, This generation will not pass away until you see all these things come to pass. That will happen within these 40 years, 70 A. D. Then he says, heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. I am speaking this with absolute authority. I am telling you something nobody looking at the temple, one of the great wonders of the ancient world, would have ever thought Six years after it was completed in its construction, it would be utterly destroyed. It only existed in completion for six years. And Jesus says, if I am able to tell that with that specific detail Can you not trust me when I say, I am coming back? And your only refuge is in me. Notice the contrast between verse 34 and verse 36. This generation will not pass. You will see that take place. But verse 36. No one knows about that day. Sign of your coming. No one knows about that day or hour. Not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. Jesus limited in his human knowledge at that point. As it was in the days of Noah, so will be in the coming of the Son of Man. People think nothing special is going to happen today like any other day. And Jesus comes. In fact, he says, verse 44, I think, I will come at an hour that you don't think. What if Jesus came at 2 o'clock this afternoon? Beautiful day. Go outside, day like any other day, looking forward to the lasagna. Never get to eat that lasagna All of a sudden, there is the sound of cosmic trumpets, and you think, whoa man, what kind of a sound system is that? And it's no sound system. It is cosmic trumpets of God and the angels declaring that the Son of Man is coming in his glory. It's a bright, beautiful day out there, but beyond that brightness there pierces a glory and a brilliance. that you can't even look at. And you are gathered up if you belong to Jesus. Along with the saints out of the graves through all the ages. And Jesus welcomes you into his midst, and we're gathered together as the chicks that are gathered by the mother hand. We're gathered to him, and history as we know it is over. Sin is completed. Satan's rule has had his final day. We come to Jesus and all the glory comes to him and we are gathered to be with him in His presence without sin, without anything that is ugly, without anything that desecrates forever and forever with him Do you look forward to that day? Do you say, who cares about the lasagna, man? I'm with Jesus. You know? I'm looking forward to the lasagna, but I'm looking forward more to the interruption. Jesus is saying, if I've predicted this first part so accurately, don't you know for sure? I am coming back. That's the point of Matthew 24. So people take it to say, here's all the signs to know when he will come. And Jesus says, the point is, you won't know when I will come. Since 70 AD, every sign has been fulfilled. I could come at any day, at any time. Therefore, the point of Matthew 24 is what you see in verse 42. Therefore, keep watch. Because you do not know on what day your Lord will come. So you also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. I don't think he's going to come today. Uh oh, that's he's the when you when you don't think I'm coming, that's when I'm coming. Chapter 25, verse 13, therefore keep watch, because you do not know the day or the hour. And what will happen when he comes. Are you ready? Are you ready? Because that is the greatest longing of your heart. And this message places hope once again. Desire, expectation, Lord, come quickly. Or do you say, uh, not yet? Not sure I'm ready for that. I'm interested in Jesus, but I don't know that I'm hiding in him. I don't know that his death was for me. Not ready Not ready. Read of the destruction of Jerusalem and tremble And be so glad that it is still today when you can call on Jesus. But don't presume on tomorrow. Let's pray. Lord, open our eyes, for we live in the deluded sense of permanence in this world We think that because we've never known anything but this world, that somehow it's just going to go on and on But we are pilgrims. This place is extremely temporary. And the burning of Jerusalem was simply the foretaste of the burnings of the heavens and the earth. Which will lead to the creation of a new heavens and a new earth in which there is only righteousness. There is only worship. There is only the reflection of your perfect character in each of your sons and daughters. And so, Lord, speak to the heart of anyone who is not ready, that they will not let another day go by, betting that you won't come. But for those of us who are hidden in Jesus, may we look with hope and expectation. At the fact that you who declared such a counterintuitive prophecy 40 years after were so precisely accurate. Will surely come again, just as you said. We pray, come quickly, Lord Jesus. Our hearts are wrapped up in that. Help us each day to live not for this world, but to live for eternity. To live as hearts that are joined with your heart in the great global purpose for which you've placed us here, that we heard about so often in the last month. Ah Lord, gather us. Gather us up in that great hope and expectation. In Jesus' name. Amen.