The power of music. One thing to say those words, another to hear them sung like that, isn't it? That conveys the invitation, the sense of peace. Cast your burden upon the Lord. Thank you, choir. And that's a very appropriate song for the text before us this morning. We come now to some of the most precious verses in all of the Bible about prayer. An apparent promise that if you persevere, you will get what you so deeply want. From God. Here again those verses from Matthew chapter seven, verses seven to eleven. Jesus says, Ask, and it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. And to him who knocks the door will be opened. Which of you, if his son asks for bread, we'll give him a stone, or if he asked for a fish, we'll give him a snake. If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him? Wow. What a promise. The problem is, I don't think that's what it's talking about In fact, I think this is one of the classic examples of how we totally misunderstand a passage of Scripture by taking it out of context. We so often use the Bible like an encyclopedia. You sort of Google a topic, you get a few verses on it, and you say, okay, well those are the verses, I'll claim those verses. And I think I understand what it's talking about, because there they are, it's simple and plain. But apart from the context, we may totally misunderstand what the intention and the meaning of those verses is. For instance, we looked in the beginning of this chapter, chapter 7 and verses 1 to 5, where Jesus says, Judge not that you be not judged. Now if you just take those five verses out of context, isolate them from the rest of the chapter, then you are teaching complete tolerance, as we talked about. Never judge, criticize anybody else, just You know, accept everybody for what they do, their convictions, their opinions. Just be accepting and tolerant. Of course then we get to verse six. He talks about some people being dogs and pigs that you don't give sacred things and And uh, you know, then other things that he said, and he said, Well, there's something else here you gotta figure out. Even in prayer, same kind of thing. We take verses Totally out of context to make them mean what we think we want them to mean. For instance, in Matthew chapter twenty one. Well Jesus, remember after he cursed the fig tree, and the disciples come and he gives them this teaching, verses 21. Jesus replied, I tell you the truth, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only can you do what was done to the fig tree, but But you will say to the you can say to this mountain, Go throw yourself into the sea and it will be done. If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer So if you have enough faith, you can cast mountains into the sea. So we work at, you know, how do you get that much faith to do that? Missing the fact that that's totally not the point that Jesus is making. I've spoken about that elsewhere, so I'm not going to repeat it. But it's another example of taking something out of context and misunderstanding the meaning. Now I think that's the case here in Matthew chapter seven. If you think that this is saying, just persist in prayer and you'll surely get your good gift that you're asking for from God. Then you have totally missed the context. In context, I believe it is saying something quite different, which is not something less, but something more. It isn't that Jesus, you think he's saying this, and now I'm going to tell you, you've got to reduce it down to this. But rather, we tend to think it means this much, and Jesus is saying it means this much. Now, how do you figure that out? Well, again, look at the context My point is that chapter 7, the first half of chapter 7, is talking about three about four possible reactions and feelings that we would have after hearing Jesus in chapter 5 and 6. In chapter five and six, talking about how to live, uh how to live in perfect righteousness, how to live with a heavenly father in his presence We come to the end of that, and if we are not willing to face our spiritual poverty and saying, I can't do that. I barely can understand it, let alone do it. If we still were wanting to preserve something in our account of righteousness, I'm not bankrupt. Then the first thing we may try to do is to criticize other people, find something worse about them, so you can say, in comparison to them, I'm at least this much better And Jesus is saying, don't do that. Don't judge. You are not the judge of people's hearts. That's a wrong way to respond to what I'm saying. Or the second thing you might do is to say, yeah, yeah, yeah, right. And so what I'm going to be is fully loving. I am going to be so tolerant, I'm not going to judge anybody I'm just going to accept people and be tolerant of them. And Jesus is saying, you missed the point again. Not about that. So what happens? You get those two and you're ready to throw up your hands and say, Lord, I give up. This is hopeless. I don't understand what you're talking about Every time I think I'm beginning to track you, I'm missing it. I don't understand what you're talking about. I am confused. I am helpless. I give up. It's at that point that Jesus now brings in what he says at verses 7 to 11. What he is saying here is a very gentle and encouraging invitation. He is saying, my child If you are frustrated and confused and you're saying, I don't understand, this is hopeless. I see God is somebody who's just ready to judge me. I don't understand him. He's just looking to see how I don't measure up. Jesus says, come, bring that confusion. He takes us right back to the first verse of the Sermon on the Mount. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. If you are recognizing your spiritual bankruptcy, great You're starting to understand what I'm talking about. So now come. Come as a spiritual beggar and say, Lord, help me. Ask, seek, knock. Now, in the light of the context of that, let's look again at verses 7 to 11. You've probably heard, if you've heard any messages on this, by the way, for those of you who fill in the blanks, what I'm saying there is he invites you to come to God as a spiritual beggar. to ask for clarity in your confusion and power in your weakness. That's what I think Jesus is inviting us to do. Ask for clarity in your confusion and power in your weakness. Now, as I started saying, if you have uh heard any messages on this, you may have heard that the words in the Greek ask, seek, and knock, are in the present continual tense in the Greek. That is you could translate them keep on asking, keep on seeking, keep on knocking. Now if you look at your bulletin outline, you see there are three columns. There's the invitation, there's the promise And then there is the generalized application. That is, it's for everybody, it's for you, not just for some set of people back then. So look at that in each case. First he says, ask or keep asking, and it will be given to you. And then he says, for everyone who asks, receives. The invitation, keep asking, the promise, it will be given. And um you will receive. Keep at it. This is like the child that's asking and and doesn't immediately get an answer. So keeps asking. Daddy, mommy, I want this. I need this. Please, please, please. Jesus says, keep asking. Keep seeking. And you will find. For everyone who seeks, he who seeks, finds. You're missing your cell phone. You don't say, I'll look for it for a minute if I don't find it. Well, forget it. I'll just get another one. You keep seeking. There's certain things that when you can't find them, you're going to keep after it You're gonna look and you're gonna stop and you can't think about anything else. You know, you you even try, you look for fifteen minutes, you say, and you can't think about anything else. You keep going back, where did I put, where did I retrace my stuff? Keep seeking Set your heart on finding that. Thirdly, keep knocking. You're knocking on your friend's door. You know he's home. Why aren't you answering? I know you're there. Come on. You keep going. I'm not going away till you answer. Keep on knocking, and it will be open. What Jesus is saying is, you and I are so impatient We say, yes, I've sought the Lord. I once prayed for a half hour about this. And I asked him and and I read a couple things and I asked a couple people and I still didn't make it out. I don't understand why this I'm going to go talk to somebody that'll make me feel better. Or I'm going to go read something, some article, this or that. I I don't want to keep my attention fixed on this because if I do and I still don't get any answers, now I got two problems. Not only do I have any answers, now I got a crisis of faith because God seems to ignore me. So maybe he's not there, he doesn't care, whatever. So it's really better to move on. And that's the way we think, right? You know, you sort of you give it a shot with God I'll ask, I'll see, come on. But if it if nothing happens, I don't want to invest too much in this because I'm opening myself up to deeper disappointment So we go to somebody that we can see, somebody that can talk to us, somebody that will make us feel better. And Jesus is saying, don't give up. Keep coming to God. Keep coming to me. His purpose in your life is for you to know him. He does not reveal himself to the casual. If after these two chapters, you are saying, my life isn't working, And I don't understand how he's saying it's to work, but he's saying something here radically different than the way I have tried to live. I don't understand it. He's saying, don't dismiss that. Don't move on too quickly. Come, ask of me. Seek. Knock. What am I talking about? Because I want you to come into that relationship with me that you will not achieve by a casual pursuit. That so many of us, particularly in America in the 21st century, were addicted to something quick, and if it doesn't happen, move on. Now at that point, if you are trying, if you're saying, Oh yeah, preacher, I know, I have tried. There's things I have sought the Lord for, and I don't get any answers. The tendency is for you to believe that God is not very sympathetic, maybe even to question his goodness, because why doesn't he answer? If he's there, why do I just get silence? Why does it seem like no one's there hearing me? That's exactly why he gives the words in verses 9 to 11. Jesus anticipates that. He understands that. That in itself ought to encourage you, then he understands that's what's going to happen. And so he says to you. He puts you in the position of looking at the fathers that are in the crowd. Now I you know I wish this could have timed this. It'd be on Father's Day, it'd fit real nice. a couple weeks early, but it's about dads. That's what he's talking about. He says, now look. He says, he says, take a look at you dads that are here Which of you, if his son asks for bread, is going to give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, is going to give him a snake? So he says, you know, he's picturing things that look can look similar A brown rock can look like a loaf of bread. So he says, here's a dad, and his child comes, his son comes, he's not asking for a techie toy, he's asking for something basic, something he needs. Dad, I'm hungry. Give me some bread. And his dad says, I got this rock. And it looks like a loaf of bread. Now watch this guys. Okay, here, have some bread. You know, and the kid takes it, conk, you know, he breaks a tooth or something, he says, ha ha ha ha Fool you, didn't I Or, you know, he takes a fish. Dad, please, I'm hungry. Give me a fish. And, you know, some fish are narrow, long, you know, and so he says, hey, watch this guys. And he takes a snake And he gets a snake to his town. The kid freaks out, you know, a snake, you know, and he says, Look at that, if you watch this, look at it. That's repulsive, isn't it? You know, say, that guy's sick Because Jesus says, if you being evil wouldn't act that way, you wouldn't do that. It's an argument, next blanks there, from the lesser to the greater. You would never act that way. Do you think God's going to treat you that way? Do you think you're going to come to him with a broken heart? Jesus, I don't understand. What are you talking about here in chapter 5 and 6? I don't understand it. I can't do it I can't take my treasures that all I have are here and say, oh, you know, just have them in heaven or forgive that person who's broken my heart again and again. I don't know how to do that And then he's going to say, well tough. Go figure it out. If you being evil would never do that, how much more Your Father in heaven will give good gifts to those who ask him Now at that point you got another problem. Say, well, wait a minute. If this is about a change of heart rather than getting things. If this is really about learning how to cry out to him Rather than to simply go to a counselor, read a book in order to get some answer to cope, why does he say in verse 11, good gifts? If you then, though you're evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father in heaven give good gifts to those who ask him? So Harris, it it it doesn't work. He's talking about giving good gifts, the stuff I want, those good things that I'm after. Problem is the translation in almost every translation of the Bible. The word good in verse 11 is used twice. The first time it's used, there are two words there, good gifts. The second time that it's used in verse 11, there's only one word. Good. So look at the next way. See? More literal translation of this would be: if you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more will your Father in heaven give good, simply good, to those who ask him? Now, what's significant about that? Well, wherever there are parallel passages in Scripture, you go to a parallel passage to see if there are any differences to give you insight. It so happens that Jesus gives the same teaching in Luke chapter 11. You remember in Luke chapter 11 he talks about that same thing: asking, seeking, knocking. He gives the same kinds of illustrations about a child coming to the Father, asking for a fish, you wouldn't give him a snake. In that case he says, if he asked for an egg, you wouldn't give him a scorpion. Just a little different, but the same idea. Then verse 13 of Luke 11. If you then, notice the parallel, if you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him. So if this is clearly talking about the same kind of Is the spirit that he refers to in Luke 11. How does that fit the context of Matthew 5, 6, and 7? Perfectly. What he is saying is if in chapter 5 and 6, you're really confused now. I have hedged you off in saying I'm going to establish my righteousness by being critical, I'm going to establish my righteousness by just being loving and tolerant. Now I'm all totally confused. I give up. He's saying, Great, now you're beginning to understand spiritual bankruptcy. Now you are desperate to find out. What am I talking about? What is this life that I'm describing of the kingdom? Jesus gave this teaching before the cross. His purpose in all of this is to prepare you and me to understand our spiritual bankruptcy so that when He dies on the cross, rises again, and his disciples unpack that in their letters. That you say, Ah, now I understand. I can't do this on my own. I need his forgiveness. And I need the Holy Spirit. The Spirit of what? The Spirit of Wisdom to give me understanding, the spirit of power in my helplessness to enable me to begin to enter into living out this teaching. That's what Jesus is offering to you. So you see, it is not about things, next blanks, it's about the gospel. It's all about the gospel. That is so needed in 21st century America. Why? Because in our culture we tend to view the gospel as something very simple Four points. God, sin, Christ, response. You got those four? Took me ten minutes to give them to you. Now, repeat this prayer after me. And so I pray phrase by phrase, and you pray, Lord, I'm a sinner. I need your son Jesus to die for my sins. Thank you that he did. I confess my sins and I give my life to you now. Amen. Okay, now you're a Christian, don't ever doubt it. Brothers and sisters, that is light years from Jesus' teaching. You say, wait a minute, that's the gospel The gospel isn't something complex you can't understand. No, but what is complex that you can't understand is your heart. Jesus' teaching about the kingdom is so foreign to our way of thinking. We see somebody that has hurt us, and we say, I want revenge. And Jesus says, you don't take revenge. You return good for evil. Lord, I can't relate to that. He says that I am to forgive my enemies Lord, I am really struggling. He says that I am to lay up treasures in heaven, not here on earth. That doesn't sound like good news to me. He says, Don't be anxious, because I have a Father in heaven who's going to take care of all my needs. And that my anxiety is disobedience to the one who says, Trust me. These things are beyond me. And when Jesus Christ presents Himself as Savior to you, in one sense it's the simplest thing in the world to simply say, I give my life to you. I need a Savior. You are him, and I give myself to you. But for many of us, it doesn't happen that quickly Because learning about our spiritual bankruptcy is for many an excruciating process. So we need to continue to ask and seek and knock in order to begin to understand what the gospel is all about. Whether you are a seeker and you have not yet given your life to Jesus Christ, my invitation to you, through Jesus Christ this morning, ask, seek, knock. Don't say, well, I've asked and nothing happened. Continue to press on. How serious are you about your need for Christ? If you understand your spiritual bankruptcy, you're not going to give up. Nothing will keep you. from continuing to press on with God. If you are a believer and you don't understand these things about the Sermon on the Mount, you say they frustrate me and and it just distances me from God, Jesus says, see his goodness. See, he wants to meet you. Press on. He wants you to develop intimacy with him. And intimacy is never developed from casualness. It's developed when you set your heart on the one you cannot do without. Now the book of Proverbs has a lot to say about that. Let me give you just a few verses that the book of Proverbs offers to tell you, to invite you To show you that wisdom is not easily attained. You must set your heart on this. Proverbs chapter 2, verse 3. If you call out for insight, cry aloud for understanding. And if you look for it as for silver and search for it as for hidden treasure, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Something you search for is for treasure. Proverbs 4, verse 7. Wisdom is supreme, therefore get wisdom, though it cost you all you have. Though it cost you. Tears in pursuit. Sleepless nights. You don't say, I don't understand this. I'm going to get a bigger screen TV He said, no, nothing else was going to satisfy. Though it cost me all I have, get understanding. Choose my instruction instead of silver, knowledge rather than choice gold, for wisdom is more precious than rubies. Nothing you desire can compare with her. Verse seventeen, I love those who love me, and those who seek me find me. Verse 34. Blessed is the man who listens to me, watching daily at my doors, waiting at my doorway. For whoever finds me finds life and receives favor from the Lord. But whoever fails to find me harms himself, all who hate me of death. I don't hate God. I don't hate the Bible. But do you pursue with an ardency that is unquenchable? What its message is. Do you read this book and pour over it? Lord, help me to understand. And so rather than I it's hard for me to get my mind off these other things and to get it into the Bible Kind of like I put down the Bible and it's hard for me to get away to something else because this thing has has captured my heart and I I don't understand it and I need to know. Lord help me to know Remember the story of Jacob? Genesis 32. Jacob been living 20 years in a foreign land because he fled from his brother Esau that wanted to kill him. Because Jacob is a conniver. He is and his uncle Laban have out-cheated each other all those years. And now Jacob's on his way home. And know what kind of a reception he's going to get. Whether all those years Esau's heart has softened toward him, he'll be glad to see him, or whether he'll come out with an army, with a sword for vengeance. The night before they're to meet, Jacob is alone at the little brooklet Jabuk. And the Bible tells us that God met Jacob there, in the form of a man, and they wrestled all night. Pick it up there at verse 24. So Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him till daybreak. That's a long time. If you have ever wrestled, a few minutes is long enough. When the man saw that he could not overpower him, he touched the socket of Jacob's hip so that his hip was wrenched. As he wrestled with him, his hips out of joint. Excruciating experience. So what's he do? The man says, Let me go, for it's daybreak. But Jacob replied in all of his agony, I will not let you go unless you bless me. This is a desperate man. The man asked him, what is your name? Jacob, he answered. Despised name means heel grabber. And the man said, Your name will no longer be Jacob, the heel grabber, but Israel, Prince of God. Because you have struggled with God and with men and have overcome Jacob said, I am tired of trying to run my own life by my wits. I need God. Do you wrestle? You ever wrestled for hours with God Because your heart said, I can't leave this place till I've met you, till I've gotten a word from you, till I've gotten some understanding, something from your word. That has met the deep longings of my heart and soul. We so easily give up John Bunyan, one of church history's greatest authors and leaders Was a man who in his youth had a mouth that was so foul that he was convicted by some prostitutes who were offended at his language. He said, I think I've gone over the top of grossness. And he began to seek for God He sought for him. He asked. He saw it. He knocked. He got no rest. Got nothing. Continued to seek in Scripture, how do I find rest for my sin? Nothing Day after day, week after week, month after month For a whole year with no rest. And after a year He said, God showed me the riches of Christ, and I rested in him. Ah, but what a rest. Arrest that took him through much suffering. Through long times in jail, where he wrote Pilgrim's Progress to the Blessing of Countless Millions God is not intimately known to the casual Are you willing this morning to renew your hunger? To take this invitation, ask, seek, knock. Because you can trust that his character is that he wants to meet you. 1969. Kathy and I were innervarsity. We're running a an evangelism project on Cape Cod. There's an evangelism project in Hyannis back in the days of the you know, Jesus freaks and the hippies and all that stuff. We had a group of about 15 university students, Christians on the project. We had problems of sex, drugs, and drunkenness, and that was all in the project. It was a mess. Finally had to send one girl home. And I still remember one day going out to Wing Island and crying out to God. God, I gotta find a new job. I am not cut out for this. I don't understand it. I'm a failure God, I don't have the gift of love. I need to do something else. I cried out to God I cried out in desperation. My whole future, everything was at stake. What am I going to do? I thought you called me to this. And then in one of the times in my life where I felt almost like the voice of God more than any other times, only a few times, and this was one. It was like a quiet small voice saying, Alan, love is not a gift. It's the fruit of my spirit Love is not given as a gift to certain people. If you're not loving, you need to know me better. It was a turning point in my life. My wife says the next week, wow, what happened to you? All of a sudden you're loving. Nah. But it was a turning point in my relationship with Jesus Christ. God sometimes has to bring you and me. To the point of desperation where nothing else will do to ask and seek and knock Believing in the silence that his heart is good and that he intends to meet you. Let's pray Forgive us, Lord, our casual attitude, whereby we ask, and if nothing happens, we move on. To something else, to some person that we can see, something else that will satisfy temporarily And all the time, Lord Jesus, you're saying, come on, come, keep on asking, keep on seeking, keep on knocking. I'm here. And I'm like that perfect father, that good father that I described to you in chapters 5 and 6. I know your heart. I know your longing. I'm drawing you to a deeper relationship with myself. I want you to hunger for me. So that we might come into that relationship of peace and rest that the casual never know. Lord, come and stir our hearts to trust you, to pursue you with a passion. That both honors you because it says you alone will satisfy, and it satisfies us because you introduce us to a deeper relationship with you. That we never knew before. Grant that to us, we pray, to each person here that you're speaking to right now. To hunger for you in a new way. For Jesus' sake. Amen.