Well it's a little different from the first service. First service looked like a blizzard had come. This one looks like it's a holiday. I guess because everybody thought that uh you know might as well hang around for the picnic Actually we did it that way so that nobody'd be able to find a seat and then you'd see why it is that we need to build a building. Well it's done Um you've presented your pledge. We've all presented our pledges, pledges of gifts to come, and you may be thinking, I can't believe I just did that. Or you might be thinking, man, I wish I could have done more. But you know, if you presented it with a heart of love to Jesus, God's pleased with your gift. And let it rest. But isn't it interesting that in God's providence, the very next verse that we have going back to Matthew is Matthew chapter 2, verse 11. They opened their treasures and they presented to them gifts. That really is where we left off. So uh seems like an appropriate uh passage to consider on a morning like this. Particularly when you think of how it says how they offered their gifts. You notice that they offered them joyfully. Verse 10 says when they saw the star, they were overjoyed. We're getting near, we're getting ready to see him. And they presented their gifts joyfully to him, not begrudgingly, not as a bill. We see that they presented their gifts lavishly. They opened their treasures And gave to them gold, pure incense and myrrh. And they gave their gifts meaningfully They didn't give their gifts with the receipt that you can take this back to the Jerusalem Mall and exchange it if you want, you know, in case we you know we didn't know you people very well, so we just kind of had a guess. they put a lot of thought into what the gifts were. And the gifts were significant. So I believe it's especially appropriate this Harvest Sunday that as we present our gifts and our pledges that We think about what was going on back here. Remember, these um magi that they're called were most likely pagan Babylonian astrologers. That God had sovereignly revealed himself to through the pillar of fire by which he led his covenant people in the Old Testament that appeared from the east to them as a star And then led them to Jerusalem, and from Jerusalem, then down to Bethlehem, and even to this particular house that they've come to. And so they don't second guess what they're doing or their gifts, but we read that in verse 10. When they saw the star, they were overjoyed, and on coming to the house, They saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down and they worshipped him, and prostrated themselves before him. Then they opened their treasures and they presented him with gifts of gold and of incense and of myrrh. Why those three gifts? Well, um, those are not the kind of gifts you'd expect to give to a baby, would you? I mean you know, not treats or a rattle or toys, not a blankie You know, I mean, what's Jesus going to do with gold and incense and myrrh? So it seems that these magi have not had in mind gifts to give to him as a baby to play with, but rather gifts for him as king of the Jews. They're prophetic gifts, and they're significant gifts. Now, I think as we go through Matthew's gospel, you're going to see Matthew has a genius. For picking up details that articulate the gospel. And this is one of them. Only Matthew records the Magi and their gifts. And I believe that what Matthew sees here is a significance in these gifts that even the Magi couldn't have understood, but that God arranged because he mentions what the gifts are. It doesn't tell us how many magi, it doesn't tell us anything. But he does say they gave gold, they gave incense, and they gave myrrh. So I think as we um reflect on our own gifts to the Lord this morning, it's especially a good time to think about the significance of these gifts. The first one's the most obvious. They gave him gold because he was a king. Gold is the medal of kings. Historically, that has always been true. It's been true throughout the Old Testament. From the book of Genesis, where you have Pharaoh giving Joseph a gold chain because he was made second in the kingdom. To Belshazzar giving Daniel a gold chain because he was third in the kingdom. The description of Solomon in all of his riches focuses in 1 Kings 10 on gold. It's mentioned ten times in that chapter. When it talks about the amount of gold he had, because this is the one on whom God's favor particularly rested, we read that King Solomon's mines produced gold. How much gold Twenty-five tons of gold per year. Can you imagine? Twenty-five tons of gold per year Gold is brilliant, it's lavish. How many of you have ever seen the display of King Tut's gold? Anybody here? A couple of you? I never did. But I've heard, and you can verify it or not, from those that did that have said they've stood in the long lines to go see that, that it's it's breathtaking, that the gold almost looks fake because it's so dazzling. Gold doesn't decay, it doesn't rust. This is thousands of years old and it's still dazzlingly, dazzlingly brilliant. Gold is the medal of kings. And so what the Magi are doing here is they are acknowledging, remember back in verse 10, they said, where is he who was born who is king of the Jews? They recognize he's a king. And thereby this gift saying he is worthy of the finest. It would seem that God providentially used that gift to provide for Mary and Joseph in the trip they're about to make to Egypt that they don't even know about. Isn't it interesting how our kind and sovereign God will sometimes link the prayers of a giver? with the prayers of a person in need to pull those together in the provision that is given for God to use that to provide for one of his own that are in need. And so you've all prayed for, Lord, what is my part in that? And we're going to see at the end of the service, actually after the service when we go outside, how God has put that all together with what is needed. in the facility that we are planning to build. Whatever it is you and I give Not because CPC needs it, not ultimately because this is a task for a facility, but it's because you believe that Jesus is worthy, right? He's king. And if he's your king, he's worthy of your finest offering He's worthy of the finest that you have to give in your money. He's worthy of the finest you have to give in your time, in your gifts, your abilities. He's worthy. Of giving your finest. Do you acknowledge that Jesus is your King As you gave this pledge, were you thinking, Lord Jesus, you're worth so much more than this? You're worthy. There's no question. that you are worthy to receive all that I have. If you see him as your king and that he's worthy, you you submit your life to him. Everything I am and everything I have, Lord, is yours. And so whether you are in a time of prosperity or whether you're in a time of suffering, trial, your heart says, Lord Jesus, you're King. I belong to you. So you have a right to do in my life whatever you choose to do. I submit myself to that. I remember back last fall, my wife, with her sister, had a garage sale. And as a result of that garage sale, she made 40 bucks And she was really happy because she had something in mind for that forty bucks and it was just coming to the end of the garage sale and at the end of the day it disappeared. It simply vanished. One moment it was there and then was gone. To this day we don't know what happened to it. Was it stolen? Somehow got misplaced and blew away? I don't know what happened to it. She didn't know what happened to it. I'll tell you that's pretty disappointing And you're looking and you think, boy, there's there's a gift. There's something unexpected, Lord, thank you, and it's gone. You know, we struggled with that. Lord, why'd you do that? And I remember her saying to me a few days later, you know, I've come to realize I lack nothing. He's given me everything that I need. It's his money. That's what he wants to do with it. That's his right. Do you see what you have like that? You know, Lord Jesus, you're King. So you have a right to do with me and what is mine what you want to, because you're so worthy. You're so worthy. Do you do you see him as so worthy? Do you remember the description we talked about a few weeks ago, the African prince? Who was delivered by the missionary from the jaws of the lion and he comes back and he says, It's our custom when man, when someone has been delivered from the jaws of a wild beast, he no longer belongs to himself. I am yours. Everything I am and have belongs to you. Do you see Jesus as worthy of everything that you are and that you have? Is that your heart's desire as you come this morning? You know, I I'd like to, before I go on, just pause with that. I I think that's something we need to seal in our minds, the worthiness of Jesus as King. And so I'd like to just pause and let's just take a moment to pray. Each quietly in our hearts, just acknowledge, Lord Jesus, here's what you're worth to me. See your worthiness as King Creator King, the one who rules in history, the one who is sovereign over nations, the one who has made me for yourself, and you're worthy Because I'm yours. You made me, and you bought me. Let's just acknowledge in the quiet of our hearts for a moment, come before Him. Let's pray. You are so worthy, Lord Jesus. Amen All right, so the first gift is gold because he's king. The second gift they gave was incense because he is holy. That's the second blank Incense because he's holy. How do you figure that? Well, the word uh incense, frankincense, means simply pure incense It comes from the root meaning of the word that from which uh the Hebrews got the word white, from their word white. Because it was derived from a milky-colored juice that was obtained by cutting the bark of a certain tree that grew in southern Arabia and East Africa. Kinda look like the picture that you have, that drawing on your uh bulletin outline, that's what the frankincense plant looked like And it's uh that milky substance was one of four ingredients that were used in the incense used in the temple in the worship of God. If you go back to Exodus chapter 30, don't bother, but I'll just read it to you. Here's the recipe for the incense used in worship. Then the Lord said to Moses, Take fragrant spices, gum resin. Anaka and galbanum and pure frankincense, all in equal amounts, and make a fragrant blend of incense, the work of a perfumer. It's to be solid and pure and sacred. Grind some of it to a powder, and place it in front of the testimony in the tent of meeting, where I will meet with you. It shall be most holy to you. Do not make any incense with this formula for yourselves. Consider it holy to the Lord. Whoever makes any like it to enjoy its fragrance must be cut off from among my people. Excommunication for using this stuff for perfume. Every time you smelled this particular incense, your only thoughts were to be, that's about God. That's a fragrance that reminds me of him, you see. It was only used in worship. And not only was it only used in worship, it was never used in the sin offerings, it was only used in the burnt offerings, the meal offerings. That were the expression of devotion to the Lord. So it was not about sin, it was about devotion. And this incense was then picturing that the one who offered it was offering themselves fully to the Lord in devotion. Now, how much did the Magi understand that? Perhaps very little. But God sovereignly moved them to offer this incense Which you see reflects what you have Jesus saying in Hebrews chapter ten Do you remember in Hebrews chapter 10, the writer says, Therefore when Christ, the Messiah, came into the world, he said, A sacrifice and offering you did not desire, but a body you prepared for me. With burnt offerings, that's the incense, and sin offerings, you were not pleased. Then I said, when not pleased, they were not sufficient. That wasn't the thing that was really what your heart was set on. So then I said, Here I am. It is written about me in the scroll. I have come to do your will, O God. Hebrews 10, 5-7. Jesus then is the perfect offering of devotion. He is the perfect frankincense. He is the fragrant offering to God. Matthew goes on to tell us in chapter 3 that when he's baptized, God speaks from heaven and says, This is my beloved Son, in him I'm well pleased. He's a fragrant offering to me. And so this incense is a gift that is reflecting, it's expressing the fact, symbolizing that He is the Holy One. Do you ever think about how different Jesus is from you and me? When we say He's holy, that's the little blank that's there, how different He is. You know, the more I read and look in the Gospels, and the more we'll look in Matthew, the more we'll see Jesus thinks different from you and me. Jesus acts different. Jesus reacts differently. He loves people differently. Everything I read and I think now how would I have acted in that situation? I read what Jesus said, well I wouldn't have reacted like that. Now how Jesus deals with a Samaritan woman who's divorced and and has led this life of serial lovers looking for Love in all the wrong places at the well in Samaria. How he deals with her, how he deals with the repentant prostitute throwing herself at his feet. How he deals with Peter after he's betrayed and denied him. How he deals with Pontius Pilate, who thinks that he is the authority to determine whether Jesus lives or dies. Jesus is so different from us because he is holy He is perfect, God-centered completion, love incarnate So incense both, symbolizes both his life and your and my act of worship as we recognize who he is and what he's like. His life is a fragrant offering, so we offer fragrance to say to God, You, Lord Jesus, alone are holy. Here, this little boy, this tonight. Maybe he was walking, we don't know. Maybe, you know, I said he could be a few months, he could have been up to a year. He was maybe crawling around, but they're looking at Jesus and they're thinking If if they could know, they could understand fully that maybe Mary had some glimpse This is God breathing the same air that we're breathing. The same air that you and I breathe, the Holy One. And so we offer our gifts to him because he's holy as a fragrant offering. Whatever the amount If it's an act of love, devotion, it's pleasing, it's fragrant to him. I hope you feel that sense of the fragrance, the pleasure that God receives from your offering. And then thirdly, they offered mirror. Mirror, because he was born to die. Myrcea was obtained by piercing the skin or the bark of a small balsam tree. Interesting thing about myrrhbush is that you see a picture of of a section of one there. Um, you know, at least a drawing and outline. Interesting thing about it is uh when you scrape the bark or the skin, the substance comes out white and when it hits the air it turns red. Myrrh was a perfume. It was a very coveted perfume. There's more about myrrh in the Song of Solomon than Anywhere else in the New Test in the Old Testament, ten times you have Mare referred to in the Song of Songs. Fragrant perfume Matthew, I believe, is hinting at something deeper than anything that the Magi could have seen. They probably gave him merr because it was a it was a Beautiful perfume, and he was a king, so they're simply giving it to him because of its delight. But Myrrh was also used to drug pain and embalm the dead Murr was used to purify the dead. It was used to mask the scent of the decay. Remember I told you before that when a body when someone died, uh they would take their body and they would put it in a tomb and they would let it lay there for two years until it fully decayed and there was nothing left but the bones and they'd take the bones and put 'em in an ossuary, put 'em in a little box somewhere. During that two years, the myrrh was to mask the scent of the decay. And so Matthew is picking up on what God has ordered in this. That this one whose life is a fragrance to God is also going to be despised, Isaiah 53, verse 3. He'll be despised and rejected And he will actually be executed by his people, Isaiah 53, verses 4 to 6. And this Jesus walking around, crawling around, whatever he's doing, he has no idea of that. But someday Jesus is going to read Isaiah 53 and it's going to dawn on him. Isaiah is talking about me. And yet his soul will not shrink back. But he will continue to be that sacrifice. Because he knows it's the only way that you and I can escape hell. Myrrh is specifically referred to in Jesus' death. If you look at John chapter 19, it's on the screen so you don't have to look it up. In John chapter 19 You read in verse 39 that remember Joseph of Arimathea begged the body of Jesus. And so you read that he, Joseph, was accompanied by Nicodemus, the man who earlier had visited Jesus at night. Nicodemus brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about seventy-five pounds I don't know if that was the typical amount that was used. I imagine that's what they figured was the normal amount for anointing. Taking Jesus' body, the two of them wrapped it with the spices and strips of linen. This was in accordance, you see, with Jewish burial customs. Nothing unusual about that. Myrrh was used to embalm bodies. Seventy-five pounds, that's nearly half of the weight of a man. Seventy five pounds of myrrh and aloes. Do you believe That Jesus' death was absolutely necessary for you. That without his death you had no hope of being right with God, no hope of your sin forgiven, no hope of new life, of Going to heaven, seeing God, and seeing his smile. Do you believe that Jesus' death is absolutely necessary and it's absolutely sufficient Or do you believe that it's something that someday you need to deal with and consider? You believe that it really makes absolutely no difference how much you pledged for the capstone campaign. It would not buy God's favor for you one teeniest bit. If you thought somehow superstitiously that if I give more money to God, if I give a larger pledge, God will bless me God will overlook my sin. He'll smile on me. Maybe he'll answer my prayers. He'll do something that he wouldn't otherwise do. Ask for a refund. Get your card back. It's all in vain. There's only one thing that makes us right with God to death of Jesus Christ. Is that death absolutely necessary for you? Maybe you think, yeah, you know, I'm I I really do need to think about that sometime. Remember last week we prayed for Chris Reed, civil engineer that works with our church and he's done various projects. Here he's really a nice guy. Chris Reed's dead. His funeral is held this week. Age of forty one. Had a stroke As far as we know, that was his last conscious thought. Chris Reed could have been sitting here, you know, he he could be here just like you and Might have said to him, Chris, what about the death of Jesus? And you'd say, Yeah, I need to think about that sometime. There's no more chance. Jesus' death is not just necessary and sufficient, it's urgent. You have no hope without that. And as we come this morning, we come not simply acknowledging that Jesus is King and that He is holy, but also that He is my Savior. He is my only sacrifice. I have no life apart from Him. Do you believe that every blessing that you have flows out of the mercy of God that comes from the cross? Remember, Paul said in Galatians 6. 14, my only boast, I boast in nothing else save the cross of Jesus Christ. John Piper, writing on that, says that's sort of equivalent to us saying, my greatest boast in life is the electric chair. See, we get so used to the cross that it doesn't make that kind of impact on us. The cross was a scandal. It was an instrument of torture and death for the despised. of that day. And here these magi come and they offer gifts, and here's gold because he's a king, and here's incense, fragrant, because He's worthy. His life is perfect and holy. And here's Mirror. Because he'll be rejected and executed. In your place, in my place, so that your boast in life and my boast is in the cross because I recognize every mercy of God flows to me from the cross. There would be no mercy apart from that You believe that? If you believe that, it makes your offering make sense. An offering to him as king because he's worthy, as the holy one, perfect. Fragrant before God, to present a fragrant offering to Him, and because He is my one sacrifice by whom I live. And so you see, our offering is worship. Our offering is not to CPC ultimately, it's to Jesus Christ. And if you're not sure about your place before God, whether you've really received Jesus Christ, To know what it means that his death covers your sin, put on the gray slip. I'd like to talk to somebody about that. Just, you know, something on the gray slip, like to talk about what you said in the message. Yeah, you know, I'll get the point. Give you a call. We'll meet and talk. The Magi dimly saw this. You may just dimly see it, like to help you to see it more. But you know when you see it Everything in life's different. Can you imagine just now picture the scene. The magi come and you know here's Mary and she's maybe making dinner and Joseph's working on some woodwork and as a carpenter and Jesus is Maybe crawling around on the floor. And you know, and all of a sudden, you know, apparently it's it's evening because they see the star and they, you know, come into the house and here's this entourage You know, I think surely they got the wrong house. You know, here's these guys dressed in wriggle attire and they've got this armed guard with them so they could get across the desert and not get robbed of all these treasures. You know, so this is it's a crowd, you know, it's not just three guys, one camels. This is some entourage that comes in here. And they all come in and some of them get in the house, maybe they can't all fit in the house, but the the magi come in and they fall down and they prostrate themselves before the child and then they open up their gifts and Mary and Joseph, well we've never seen that kind of stuff. stuff and there it is and then they begin to talk they've never met and Mary says well you you know yeah you did find the right house let me tell you and she talks about how the angel came to her And revealed this one, the Messiah that was going to be born. And Joseph talks about how he doubted and the angel came to him and revealed to him and the Magi say, Boy, we were over there in Babylon and you know we saw this This light, this star in the distance, and God revealed, pulled together some things we had heard of the ancient prophets. And what happens? They share, and there's this there's this immediate sense The presence of God is with us. God is active in our lives. God has been working here. And they become excited. And you know, you ever have an experience that where you say, you know, I I I've sensed God's hand in my life and I begin to share. And I've seen this too. And I and you begin. Begin to share back and forth, and there's this overwhelming sense this is a holy moment of worship. You see, may God give to you and to me this morning. As we offer our gifts to Jesus, the overwhelming sense, this is a holy moment because God's in our midst. Jesus is worthy of whatever we've done and infinitely beyond. Jesus is holy and therefore he was eligible to take your sin and mine. He's died for you and me. He's risen. And he is your sacrifice and my sacrifice so that you and I will have a life in a place that will beggar White Marsh Hall. And not just for a few years, but for all eternity that will never end, because he's worthy, and he's brought you and me into his kingdom. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, open our eyes to see what is going on here. To see that when we offer our gifts, we're offering them to a King who is holy and worthy. Because you are the sacrifice that we so desperately need. And so, Lord Jesus, we come now in this holy moment to recognize God is in our midst. God has come into our midst to take hold of our lives. To bring life out of death, sweetness out of pain, fragrance out of stench To g give to us a a reason to celebrate. We don't know what the figure will be, but we celebrate it in advance by faith. Because we know it is what you have provided. And we'll be able to eat this afternoon and play games because we're a people that are free with hearts that have been made light. By a God who's taken away our sin, who's died for us so that we might have eternal life. Lord, if there's anyone here who doesn't know that life, who can't celebrate, who's on the outside of the party looking through the window, we pray that you would grant to that person a desperate desire. To be made right with you through Jesus. And so, Lord, we offer ourselves, do you and that? We offer ourselves, our lives, our hearts, our affections. And pray that even this week as we as we live we might live with a conscious recognition, you are worthy of our finest. We want to grant to you all that we are and have. In Jesus' name. Amen.