I said last Paul that I would need to bring Matthew to a hasty conclusion, even though I would love to hear from him for another two, three years. We'll have to bear it bid him farewell two weeks after Easter. And that would be April the 18th, the last message on Matthew That means with all the things that are coming between now and then, there are only eight messages left to cover the last sixteen chapters of Matthew. which obviously I can't do in any sort of detail. Um I will cover three In these next three weeks, January and the other five will be on the last week of his life and his resurrection. So when I heard Tim Reach read Matthew 16 as the text, I thought again this morning, what in the world have I gotten myself into to cover such a chapter in a half hour? But let's go. I have to cover Matthew 16 because it's not only a critical chapter in Matthew's story, but it is so gospel saturated. So, uh, Matthew 16, in order to get into it, uh first of all, we've got to see the big picture. And the big picture of Matthew is that the book is divided into basically two halves. And they each deal with one simple question, each with a different question. The first half is really concerned with the one simple question, who is Jesus? Is Jesus the Messiah or isn't he? And you see that brought to a climax in Chapter 16, verse 13. When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, Who do people say the Son of Man is? All his miracles, all his displays of compassion, all his teaching have been leading up to this question. Who is he? Who do people say he is? And then verse 15, what about you? Who do you say that I am? That's a question about his person. The second question has to do with his work From chapter 16 on through chapter 28, it's the question: what did he come to do? Is he the Savior or isn't he? And so beginning, you'll see in verse 21, from that time on, Jesus began to explain to his disciples. What he must do, that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things at the hands of the elders, chief priests, teachers of the law, and that he must be killed on the third day, be raised to life. First time he has said this. New material. Now he's going to begin to describe to them why he has come and what his work will be. Remember Matthew began his gospel, chapter 1 and verse 21. You call his name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. The second half of Matthew has to do with that focus. Now the climax of the first half of Matthew is brought to you by means of three contrasts. First of all, there is the contrast, and you see this in your bulletin outline, between the unbelief of the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the confession of Peter. Those are in stark contrast. Second contrast that we'll look at is the contrast between the revelation of Jesus, what he has come to do, and the confusion of Peter in misunderstanding that. Then the third contrast will be the commitment that Jesus requires of his disciples and those who refuse or hold back from that commitment and the consequences for them. So there's a number of C's here. There are three in your basic outline. There's a fourth one that I'll give you uh heads up on and there's even a fifth one that uh kind of you see toward the end of the chapter. So the first of the C's is the Great Confession That's the first thing you see in Matthew 16 and verses 1 to 20. You notice in the first verses that Tim read there the stubborn refusal of these Pharisees and Sadducees to believe him. In first four verses, they say, Well, teacher, just give us a sign. You know, I mean I want to strike you as a little bit humorous, uh like, you know, healing lepers, uh, casting out demons, raising people from the dead. Those aren't signs. Give us a real sign, you know? So what Jesus does is very interesting. He answers them by talking about the weather. You know, well, you know how to interpret the sky, but you can't tell right in front of your face the spiritual signs that are before you. You'll only have one sign. This is brilliant. You're going to have the sign of disobedient Jonah, who is eaten by a whale. And he lived in the belly of the whale for three days and then he rose from the dead. Now think about that. So he gives them that cryptic response. To chew on it and says he went away. He gets with the disciples, they go across the lake. And what Matthew says is, like before you guys snicker at these Pharisees and Sadducees, the disciples were pretty obtuse too Because they're taking off, they forget to bring bread along. Jesus says, beware of the yeast of the Sadducees and the Pharisees, and they're all nudging each other, saying, See, I told you, we forgot the bread Well I thought you were going to bring the bread. No, no, I thought you were going to bring the bread. You know what has the bread went? And Jesus is saying, Come on, you think I need you guys to remember bread Do you remember the 5,000? Do you remember the 4,000? Remember all the extra baskets? You think that's a problem? And he explains to him that what he means by yeast is that which corrupts and pervades something. And so the end, Matthew ends verse 12, oh, okay, so now they understand he's talking about teaching, not literal bread. Now that's the context for the big question. What Jesus does then is he takes them to the end of the lake, northern end of Lake Galilee, and they go on a height. And he takes them to a place called Caesarea Philippine. And here's just a kind of an idea of it, this is what it looks like today. You see there's a wall, there's a stone um entranceway there It's in a desolate area. It's not a Jewish area. It's a pagan area, several miles north of Lake Galilee. What's he doing? He he's telling them something important's gonna happen now because he's getting them away from the crowds, getting them into an area where they can be all by themselves And Matthew says it's when he gets them there that he pops this big question. Okay, you guys have been with me now for a couple years. Tell me, what's the word on the street? Who do people say that I am? This is verse 13. And they replied: Some say John, some the Baptist, others say Elijah, still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. Now let me ask you, who do you say that Jesus is? You know, there's no more important question for you to answer Every one of you has to have some conviction about who Jesus is. Do you think he was a good person that things kind of got out of hand in these New Testament writers and they kind of blew things up beyond what he intended? Do you think that Jesus really is who he said he was? That he is the God of the flesh, who's come as the only Savior for sin? I I would really want to press on you that you don't leave today without being able to say, if somebody asks you, this is who I believe Jesus is. And that when you say that, you understand that has radical implications in your life. Who you think Jesus is. Determines everything about your values, about what you do in life, whether you follow Him or whether you follow yourself. Who is Jesus? Some say John the Baptist. That is, they were about the same age. John had been killed. And so some people thought he was John the Baptist come back from the dead, because he was doing these miracles, something supernatural here. Other people say, oh, we think he's Elijah. That's based on the last verses of the Old Testament. Very, very end of Malachi. We'll look at next Christmas. Before that great day comes, Malachi said, I'm going to send you Elijah the prophet. Okay, he's Elijah, come back from the dead. He's that one coming before the great day of the Lord. Other people say Jeremiah or any of the other prophets, but notice two things about all their answers. Number one, they're all people that are dead coming back to life. And that's because they want to account for these miracles that he does. So they say, well, there's something supernatural about him, so he's probably somebody back from the dead. The second thing to notice is nobody thinks he's Messiah That's not even an option. Nobody's saying, well, you know, maybe he's a messiah. Why? Because he didn't fit their notions of Messiah. He was not gathering any kind of an army to overthrow the Romans and set up a national Jewish state. So he doesn't fit that. Now, what Matthew does is zero in. He looks at the disciples and he says, Who do you say that I am? The question that everybody in this room has to answer. Who do you say I am? What's your conclusion? from your reading of the data, from your, in their cases, watching me these last couple of years. And Peter, not surprisingly, is the spokesman, and he doesn't hesitate. He says You are the Christ, Messiah, the Son of the Living God. Now, notice That there are two things to Peter's answer. First of all, he is saying, you are the Messiah. Nobody else is saying that, but Peter says, you are the Messiah. That's unique. Secondly, he's saying, You are not simply human. You are the Son of the living God. You are deity. You are somehow God with us. Now Peter doesn't understand the incarnation, all the implications of that, but he does understand Jesus is not simply a man. You are divine. You are God present with us in some way that we don't understand. Now what Matthew wants you to see is this is the same guy that was couldn't understand what yeast was, you know, a couple days before So Jesus acknowledges this doesn't come from you guys. You know, he's being kind. He doesn't say you'd never think about that on your own. But he does say This is not from men. This was not revealed to you by men. It was not something you thought up on your own, but it's from my Father in heaven. God has to give to us the eyes and the faith to see who Jesus really is. Now A couple thousand years, a lot of people, millions of people around the earth say Jesus is God. He's God's Son. But to really understand that To really comprehend what it means that God has come in the flesh, the Messiah has come. So what Jesus does is begins to unpack that now. He says, and I tell you that you're Peter, Cephas, Rock. And on this rock, I will build my church And the gates of Hades will not overcome it. Now, you look at verses 18 and 19, there's probably more controversial questions packed in those two verses than almost any other part of Matthew, certainly. And there's no way in the world that I think I can cover the questions raised in Matthew 16, 18, and 19. But one thing let me just say When Jesus says, You are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, a lot of scholars, commentators through the ages have debated what is the rock? Is the rock Peter? You know, you're the rock and on this rock, is it Peter, the Roman Catholic Church? Uh or is it Peter as a confessing disciple, representative of belief? Uh I actually don't think it's either of those. I think that what was happening is when when Jesus said, You are Peter, you're a rock, and on this rock, pointing to himself Jesus is the rock. And the reason I say that beyond all a number of other things, but the main reason is because he's talking to Peter and when Peter writes in his letter, 1 Peter 1, Peter says Jesus was the rock. And he makes a point of that. He develops that idea. So Peter thinks that the rock refers to Jesus. Who am I to argue? I think that's what he meant. On this rock, myself, I will build my church. And the gates of Hades will not be able to overcome it, not be able to withstand it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven or will have been bound in heaven. Whatever you loose on earth will be loosed or will have been loosed in heaven. And he's saying probably there that you are given the authority to declare the gospel, the basis of forgiveness of sins, or The withholding of forgiveness of sins based on people's response to the gospel you will proclaim. Then he warns the disciples not to tell anyone he's the Messiah. Why? Why does he do that? He can't tell everybody. No. Because what they understand by Messiah, this person who's going to come to set up an independent Jewish state and overthrow the Romans and all of Israel's growth, is not who he is So because they have such a misperception of Messiah, it'll only be confusing to say he's Messiah. So from that, Jesus makes that statement, and then Matthew says, here's the big turning point. From that time on Jesus begans to explain verse 21 to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem And suffer many things at the hands of the elders, the chief priests, teachers of the law, and that he must be killed on the third day, be raised to life. This leads to the second C, what I call the Great Confusion. The Great Confusion Jesus talks about what he is going to do. And Peter hears from that only defeat and death. You're going to go and suffer and die, and I don't know what this stuff about being raised to life is, you know, the last day or something. I don't know. You don't even have categories for that. But I'm but Peter hears defeat and death And he viscerally responds, no Lord, it's very interesting. He says he rebukes Jesus. You know, a little bit of Schutzkook. No, Jesus, never. That's not going to happen to you. Peter is totally confused about this mission. He doesn't have anything in its right order. You're not going to do that. Jesus sharply rebukes him He turns to Peter, get behind me, Satan, means adversary. Get behind me. You are a stumbling block to me. You do not have in mind the things of God, but the things of men. Why did Jesus respond so sharply to Peter? I think it was because at that point the Savior was realizing that this is exactly what Satan whispers to him every day. You don't need to go to the cross. You don't have to do that. And Jesus is every day resisting that temptation. And so when it comes from his beloved disciple, He is stung, and he responds to that which he hears from Satan every day in the identification. Now Satan's even using one of his beloved friends. To say the same thing. So there's a strong reaction. And what Jesus does is he moves from that statement The necessity of the cross to state one of the clearest and most central teachings on discipleship. It's a teaching based on the cross that is so radical that I think it barely even makes sense to 21st century Americans. We barely have categories to understand what Jesus says in verse 24 Now in the rest of the chapter, verse 24 is the central point. The rest of it is commentary, consequences. It's a fourth C. Uh, you know, all that. But what he's talking about here, the third C is the great commitment And you see it in verse 24, it has three parts. Jesus then said to his disciples, If anyone come after me, he must 1, deny himself, 2, take up his cross, and 3, follow me. Three parts. First of all, he must deny himself. What does that mean? It means simply to say no to yourself. He's saying that wherever your will and my will contradict, you say no to your will. Peter You're saying what you're just said there, Lord, that doesn't fit my categories. That's not my agenda. My agenda is victory and we're moving on. And Jesus says, no You have got to submit to my agenda and particularly for my will for you. Say no. And that's so hard for us 21st century Americans to comprehend. Why? Well, because we live in a democracy, which is all about our rights. We live as those who are taught that maturity is equal to independence and self-sufficiency. So if I am going to grow up and be mature, I'm somebody who can handle myself. I have a plan. I know what I'm going to do. I'm on my way to accomplish and achieve it. For us, getting credit, getting praise is just second nature. If I do something, I expect to get credit. I did it. I knew a fellow once used to refuse to say grace because he said, God didn't give me the food. I provided it. We are so self-sufficient. We are taught to be consumers Consumers who are in control. You give me my options and I choose the ones for me. That's the way I think. That's the way we just that's our knee-jerk reflect reflect to anything. And we are people who even with our friends we create this illusion of control. You know, I got my Facebook friends and I can decide whether to Confirm 'em or receive 'em or ignore 'em or blow 'em off. And I have this control about all these areas of my life. You know, we are taught that life is about pleasure and entertainment. And Jesus has the gall to come and say, now I'm asking you to relinquish all of that. Totally change your way of thinking and submit yourself. Give all of the rights to your decisions, your values, your plans, and place them in my hands. And if that's not bad enough, he says, take up your cross. Take up your cross is not about bearing the cross of suffering. for some poor thing that God has laid on. No. Take up the cross. The cross was a hideous instrument of death. And what it is saying is, Paul puts it in Colossians, mortify, put to death the deeds of the flesh. Saying the same thing. Not only do you say no to the desires, but you say, Lord, I want to crucify those desires. I want to put to death those things which are me versus you, me over you, the things that I think I have control for, the things in my life that I want to run, how I use my money. And even when I hear about Haiti and the devastation there, do I say, that's really too bad? I really feel sorry for those people. Or do we say Lord, what do you want me to do with my resources to participate in that? It is saying for everything, what do you want? What's going to please you? Whether it is the use of my time, it's my career, what I do with my plans in my life, what I do in terms of marriage, who I marry. And do I believe that you have said you only marry if you're a believer, someone else who's a believer? You don't have the option of someone who doesn't share your faith Or the use of your body in relationships outside of marriage. Let me put it to you very plainly. You are not at liberty to disobey Jesus. That's what he's saying. And you say, that's too much. You're asking too much. That's why verse 24 comes after the verses when Jesus worked. He's asking you too much? God coming in the flesh to live for you to suffer? Be betrayed? Flogged? Die the hideous death on a cross? And you say, Well, yeah, but Lord, I got my plans, you know? Be reasonable You know, I was out this week uh in and we had a day of prayer this week and I was praying and I had some pretty good time actually. I was having a time of worship, I was reading some scriptures and thinking of a number of things and Feeling the closeness of the Lord. It was a good time, decent day, you know. Came to this verse. I started thinking about this for Sunday As I thought about, he who would come after me must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. And begin to think of all the ways that I don't deny myself, the ways that it's hard for me, just Struggle seems too much, it seems oh, you know, but this one and just you know, this vague sense with my money and my time and all the that I'm just not doing that. I start getting depressed. Now I've learned after all these years, when I start getting depressed reading Scripture, there's probably something I'm missing. Convicted? Yeah? You know, uh stung, but just depressed. And so I had to go back like Perhaps you do. You read that verse and it just brings you down. Why? Because in the flesh we can't do that. You will never deny yourself apart from looking at Christ. Remember 2 Corinthians 3? Gazing upon his glory, you are transformed from one degree of glory to the other. Looking at the unseen, looking at what Jesus did. So Jesus is saying, here's what I have done for you. Now, if you are following me, it's not on your terms. That just makes sense, doesn't it? He bought you. He paid the price of his life for you. So Paul says, He's died for you so that you may no longer live for yourselves, but unto him who died and rose again. We belong to him. You say, but maybe in this thing, if I do what I think you're saying as I read the Bible, because I risked it and I read the Bible and I came on this and that's what it says, that maybe I'll be sorry because I really do think my plans are better. Right? I mean, let's be honest, because a lot of times we think, you know, I really would rather do it my way. And that's why again it follows what he says in verses twenty-one to twenty-three, because he is saying Do you see how much I love you? Do you see that I came to earth to keep the law in your place? That my face was set not just the last week to suffer, but for the months and the years before, every day, Satan was tempting me. Don't wait you could die for these people, these creeps, they're not worth it. Here's another way. You got all these other options. But no, because of his infinite love for you He set his face so that he even replied sharply to his disciple because his face was set to the cross. Because he loved you that much. Do you think that there's anything he's going to call you to give up or to do that will make you sorry that you did it? Has there ever been any time in your life so far that you have decided to commit something you were struggling with? And said, okay, Lord, it breaks my heart, but I'm going to take the step of faith. I'm going to do it your way. And then said afterwards, boy, that was a mistake. Why'd I do that? But it's that it's that mental attitude that says, Lord, I can't do it. I see your cross. I see what you did, and I have no other way. I'm not at liberty. To blow you off or to go my own way. I'm willing to do whatever you say. Now show me what it is. See, it's getting into that place of just being willing. It's getting to develop that mindset from reading his word that says in every instance, okay Lord, I'm willing to do anything. What do you want? My wife instructed me on that a couple weeks ago, a little bit ago. A fight broke out in front of our house at 1. 30 in the morning. And as usually, anything like that happens, she woke up, I didn't. So she goes to the window. And seeing these people they're cursing and swearing, pulling weapons and threats and all this kind of stuff. And she's telling me this the next day, she said, you know, the the thing that occurred to me is, well, Lord, what do you want us to do? Well what would Jesus do in this situation? What what do you want for us to do? And to just get to the place of I'm I'm willing to do anything, what is it? Call 911, go out there, intervene, give them a track, I don't know, you know, what do you want us to do? Fortunately the Lord did not lead her to wake me up. She just went out and took them on herself. No. The fight subsided and, you know, it turned out to be a threatening but non event. But it was it struck me when we talked about that that the point was just, well, I can I'm willing to do whatever. Now what is it you want me to do? And life becomes so much simpler if you and I get to the place of simply, I'm willing. To deny myself, take up the cross, put my own desires, my selfish to death. Now, what do you want me to do and find the pleasure of saying Here's what you've done for me. What is it? And to let his spirit lead you in that. Whatever it is. And follow him. It's a relationship of following him and learning his heart, learning what he is like. Now he finishes up by some motivation, the consequences. Because so he says in verse 25, so for whoever who wants to save his life will lose it. You're grasping on, I'm gonna save it, I'm gonna keep all the things, my plans, all this stuff. He says, but you're going to lose that in the end, for whoever loses his life for me will find it. What good will it be for a man if he gains the whole world? He got it all, all you can imagine, yet forfeits his soul. Because you refuse to give your life to Jesus Christ. Do you see the cost of that? We're not talking here about a few rewards in heaven. We're talking here about the fact that evangelicals today get this so wrong in so many cases. We think that becoming a Christian, heaven is for those who believe the right facts about Jesus. I believe that he died for my sin. I believe that he did this and that. And if I believe those things, then I go to heaven. No. Jesus is saying, here's what I have done. You believe this, but you follow me. It is a relationship of following him by his grace. It is not, I believe these things, put them on my religious shelf, and then through the week I live the way I want to live. Don't work that way. You're going to save your life, you're going to lose it. You're going to forfeit your soul. And what are you going to give, he says, in exchange for your soul? For the Son of Man is going to come in the Father's glory that day with his angels, and then he will reward each person according to what he has done. For the unbeliever, he is going to reward that person based on justice. You want to stand before God and have justice, he will give you justice. And everything you have done or not done, you will receive precisely the recompense for eternity you deserve. If you are a believer, Then the account that you present before God is the righteousness of Jesus Christ. But don't miss the rewards. He said, as he says to Peter, and another occasion we'll look at next week, actually, I will give you infinitely beyond you could imagine for every sacrifice you've ever made. And then he says something strange. Verse 28 finishes it up with, I tell you the truth, some are standing here. Will not taste death before they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. What's that talking about? Some people think it's talking about the resurrection. Some people think it's Pentecost. Some people think it's after 70 AD. I think that the simple answer is he's talking about what happens in the next chapter, the transfiguration He's saying three of you, right here, Peter, James, and John, six days later, goes up on a mountain, and he they see the Son of Man coming in his glory. Why do I say that? Again, Peter comments on these things in his letter. Read Peter, you understand Matthew. Peter says we were not simply hearers of the word, we were eyewitnesses of his glory. And so he takes those three and he gives them a glimpse, a glimpse of the glory. Remember two weeks ago? Don't look at the things that are seen, look at the things that are unseen. And occasionally God gives you a glimpse of the glory. For them, it was a literal. They saw with their naked eye the glimpse of the glory. For us, it is meditating on the unseen. There are times God will overwhelm you with a sense of the reality of the glory. This is what it's about. This is why it's worth it. This is the thing that when I see him in that day, I will say the sacrifices were so small. In comparison with the glory, both in weight and in length. So do you identify with Peter? Is he giving you faith to recognize who Jesus is? Has he given you the realization that when the cross gets out of focus, you mess up and do and say stupid things like I do? Does he give you that sense that following him is worth everything? And does he show you occasionally a glimpse of the glory that makes it all worth it? March 26th and 27th, we're going to have a little conference here called Gospel in the Heart. It unpacks the Gospel and what it means in daily living. I'm not saying you all should go, so a number of you have gone and have said it's really been a turning point, big help in your life. All I'm saying to you is, are you willing to take one of these brochures? They're not there now, they'll be there next week. Take one of these brochures and simply pray, Lord, I'm willing to do whatever you want. Do you want me to go to this? If you want me to go, I'll go Having your life with open hands offered to the Lord Jesus. Let's pray. So, Lord, we do. We want to see Jesus in We want to see what he has done for us in such a compelling way that saying no to our desires, taking up the cross to mortify the deeds of the flesh And to follow you is a joy. Because knowing you is worth it all. We want to give you, at this moment, Lord, our lives, all those things that we struggle with. Particularly the things that we read and see. What I'm determining to do is in opposition to what you have said in your word. That we would repent and confess and bring that before you, that we might see you change us. Deliver us from the bondage of our own insistences to free us in following you. Believing, we will not be sorry because you have loved us so much you would never lead us into a lesser for the greater that we give to you. So Lord, take our lives, take our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen.