Every Thursday morning after our 6. 30 to 7. 30 prayer meeting, I head over to Lake Centennial and do a lap around the lake. And generally when I'm cooling down, I'll take a few minutes to chat with the fishermen that are over there. And I have noticed this summer they've been talking about how the county has been putting tagged fish. in the lake and um different tags make the fish worth different amounts of money So if you get it, you can turn it in, get this prize. The county, of course, stocks the lake with various game fish, trout and bass and other things. So uh when I was over there this Thursday, um I asked, has anybody caught any tag fish? And as one fellow sitting there said, Yeah, he said uh a couple weeks ago there's a guy Caught a tag fish here and he didn't know what it meant, so he just threw it back in the lake. And then he found out afterwards that it was worth twenty thousand dollars. And I thought, how like this passage. Of course every preacher has to make a connection, right? You know, Jesus says, you are the light of the world. The world is in darkness. It's ignorant of values. People see Jesus and they throw him back. He's not worth anything. He's no treasure. And yet Jesus is of infinitely more value than $20,000. He is eternal life. You are the light of the world. The world doesn't recognize the treasure of the gospel. The world doesn't recognize the treasure, the pearl of great price, who is Jesus. And only you and I. Can bring that light for them to see. You are the light of the world. Well, you know, it's interesting. After I heard that, I began to think about it, and I thought I'd never heard that. So I checked on the website for Howard County and I found out that there wasn't anything about tagfish worth anything. So I said at the first service, so don't grab your pole and think that you're gonna make a killing going over to the lake this afternoon. And then our brother Robbie Pennington, who, if you don't know it, our latest addition to our pastoral staff is an Altsorman and an avid fly fisherman, said, no, no, no, it's true. You looked on the Red website. It's the state of Maryland website. And there are fish worth $20,000. So everybody will pick up your polls from this service, not the first service, and go on Head over there. The point is still to stand though. And you know, as I go through this series, we've we've got two weeks down, two weeks to go. Salt, light. We've talked about the overview, talked about what it means to be salt last week, this week and next week we're going to talk about light and As we talk about that, by the way, the the outline will be the same basic outline for this week and next week. So I'm only covering part of the outline this week and then finish it next week. But as I go through this, I have two concerns. And the first concern is that as you read these words and hear me, you are the light of the world, the temptation is to think. That's not referring to me. That's just kind of generally you. But that's really referring to other people. Uh I'm just an ordinary work for the government, feed my family, stay at home, raise my kids, kind of person. I'm not salt and light. And don't miss it. Jesus is saying, you, put your name in the beginning. Sue, Dan, John. You. Put your name in there. You. Are the light of the world. And the second thing that I'm concerned about is that in this you'll hear the voice of Alan Harris talking about ways to be salt and light. But somehow you'll miss hearing the voice of God. And if you don't hear God speaking to you, you won't want to change. You'll hear this as mobilizing and kind of pulling us together to do something. My prayer, my urgent plea is that you will hear Jesus Christ saying this to you. You are the light of the world. And if you hear God speaking to you, that'll make all the difference. Do you believe that when you read this? Jesus says you are the light of the world. He doesn't say aspire to be. Remember, it's present tense. You are. Not someday when you've gone through more of your healing and recovery and got a better grasp on the gospel and on and on you get older out of school Now, as you are getting a grasp on the gospel, as you are in recovery and healing and transformation, now You are the light of the world. Now, in saying that, Jesus is implying that the world is a dark place. That's not stated. It's pretty much presumed. You are the light in the world. The world is a dark place One of the great ironies of the history of thought is the period called the Enlightenment. The Enlightenment was a period that was roughly parallel to the Reformation. While the Reformation was a recovery of the gospel based on the spoken, finished, written word of God. The Enlightenment took a totally different basis. It said, we start with man. Man's reason. I think, therefore I am. And man's reason has the capacity to discover objective truth about the universe. All the things we need to know, we are able to discover by reason. The irony, of course, of that is that the result of it is the post-Enlightenment time of deep darkness. Because the Enlightenment, played out finally, concluded, there is no truth that can be discovered absolutely. In fact, to put it in the simplest form, try to follow this, you can't know anything about anything unless you know everything about everything. Because unless you know everything about everything, something that you may think you know, somebody's going to contradict and prove wrong sometime. So unless you know everything about everything, you really can't assert anything that you know about anything. And it's at that point. Where postmodern man has said, therefore we can't know anything. We can't posit anything. We can only make up our own truths and try to live by them. That in that darkness, in that despair, in that ignorance of values, of understanding of who I am, where I came from, why I'm here, all the rest of that. But the Christian puts up their hand and they say, excuse me, I'd like to suggest there is one other alternative. Oh yeah? What's that? Well, if somebody who knew everything about everything was reliable in conveying to me Something absolutely true. And I could trust them because they knew everything about everything, and I believed that I would know something about something. And that's what the Christian says that the Bible gives. This is something revealed from somebody who knows everything about everything. And he says, here is light on your situation. And that's why the simplest disciple of Jesus Christ is more light in this world Than a researcher with postdoctoral credentials who asserts that research has demonstrated. I still remember at the end of my time in college, there was a fellow who was one of my best friends in college. He was a Jewish atheist. And we did a lot of uh research together, a lot of experiments that we would run on people. And uh we were both in psychology, and as we left, I remember just before graduation, His name was Ron. Ron said, you know, I was going to seminary and Ron was going to Stanford University to do graduate work in psychological research. And Ron said, Al, just think about it. I'm going off now to study cutting-edge discoveries about human behavior And I'll be on the front edge of human learning. And you're going to go study a bunch of stuff hundreds and thousands of years old that's been rehashed over and over and over. And I said, but Ron, you know what? All the truths you're going to discover will be obsolete in 30 years. And mine will endure eternally. The Christian doesn't say that arrogantly. The Christian says that it's because this word, the one who speaks, is light. That I simply reflect to you a little bit of that light as I understand it and as I demonstrate it in my life. So Jesus says, you are light. And notice he describes two pictures to illustrate what he means. Verse 14. The first is a city on a hill. You notice he says, the city on the hill is not hidden. That's the first blank. It's not hidden. That is, you can see it from miles away. Cities in the Near East, the the desert, could be seen from many, many miles off because things were totally dark, and so you would see that glow of the light. The city on a hill can't be hidden. You notice it. And that's why when we seek to do deeds of mercy and serve the community, we seek to join together with other churches. So that the world that sees that doesn't simply say there's a little point of light, Columbia Presbyterian, but there is much more of a witness to Christ when people look and say, There are Christians who get together, whether it's at Sand Town or whether it's a blood drive or whether it's any other service around here, and they say there's Christians Who aren't bickering and competing. They are joining together in the name of Jesus Christ to do this service. It's a city set on a hill. Can't be hidden. The second picture he gives is of a light stand, lampstand. He says, neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. In that case, the lamp is in the home. You don't hide it. Next blank. Not hide. The city's not hidden. The lamp you don't hide. You can see by it. That is, the lamp displays what is there in the house. It's not a matter of seeing the lamp. It's a matter of seeing by the lamp. You see, salt and light are really not very interesting in themselves. I don't know anybody that's ever said, I'm going to sit down for lunch and have a bowl of salt. You know, even the thought of having a good teaspoon of salt probably makes you yuck. You don't want to eat salt. But on the other hand, you don't want to eat without salt. The salt imparts flavor to something else that it's in to bring that out. The Christian draws attention not to themselves in this, but to Christ. To show that he is the one who prevents the decay of the culture. You don't just look at a light bulb, you don't just stare at the light. It's what you see by the light that matters. Jesus is saying he gives light to all that's in the house. He calls attention to the things that are around it. So he says, let your light shine. That's the imperative, the command. Remember, same old principle. The commands in the New Testament are based on the statements of fact. Shine. Why? Because you are light. And so Jesus is saying, I have constituted you light, I have constituted you Beatitude people. As you have recognized your spiritual poverty, I have worked in you. The grace of Christ has come into your life to gentle you. to cause you to be more merciful, to hunger and thirst for righteousness and justice and purity and peace. And as you simply are transformed, you are light. So shine that. Consciously seek to make the connection between who you are and the world that you're in. Now, I would like to call attention, well, the third point. Excuse me, on this is that uh when he says you are light and so shine, we don't have to guess what he means by light. What does it mean when he says you are light? What is your light? Well verse 16, he tells us explicitly, in the same way, let your light shine before men, that they may see your good deeds, and praise your Father in heaven. So your light is your good deeds. It is that beatitude character as it is expressed in daily living. by the gentleness, the mercy, the seeking for truth and purity and peace that simply characterizes you as his disciple. Now I'd like to call attention to six things that are applications of this And I want to touch on five of them this week and then look at the sixth one next week. Maybe a couple other comments on the five again. But the the first five to point out this morning are first of all, it means that we are loving, not despising or fearing our city and county. It involves our loving, not despising, first blank, or fearing, second blank, our city and our county. A couple of verses that Christians have begun to notice and yet have been very much ignored. in recent history in the church are Jeremiah 29, 7 for one, Jesus, God speaking to his people Who had been carried away by Babylon, Babylonia, into Babylon, a heathen city that was the epitome of the enemies of God's people And Jeremiah, bringing God's word, says to them, Also, seek the peace and the prosperity of the city to which I have called, carried you into exile. Pray to the Lord for it, not against it, for it. Because if it prospers, you too will prosper. Jeremiah is there saying something that would be a shock to Israel at that time. They were wanting to prey judgment upon Babylon that God would destroy it and release them. And he says, no, pray for the peace and the prosperity of this city. You are part of this city. If it prospers, you prosper. Now, if that was true of Babylon, how much more true is that of Howard County and the community, the city where you live, where I live, Baltimore, where we are? We are not simply to distance ourselves from it, pray that it goes down the tubes as quickly as possible, so that people will just see that it's lost and condemned. But rather that we seek to be part of it and cause it to prosper. We are to love the city that God has placed us in. Not to love it as an idol, but to love it, because it is part of God's creation and the people that God has placed in it. Well, Proverbs 11, 11, this one struck me Recently, as I was thinking about its implications, through the blessing of the upright, a city is exalted, but by the mouth of the wicked it is destroyed. Think about that. That doesn't say Jerusalem. It's not talking about within the Holy Land. It's a general principle in Proverbs. Through the blessing of the upright, a city, any city, is exalted. So it is through the blessing of the upright that Columbia, Maryland, is exalted. And God says that you and I affect that. Whether we are a blessing, or whether the mouth of the wicked prevails, politicking, manipulation, machinations of power. And so the Christian is to have an influence so that the city will be exalted rather than destroyed. Now, how do you work that out? Second application. It means living your value, living out your values in community. Living out your values in community. That is, it's not something you can do alone, but it's living out your distinctive values. As an example, just for sake of time, take the big three values that everybody sees and notices, sex, money, and power. How is a Christian distinctive Out of community, because we can't do this kind of thing if we're not part of a community, a local church, be very difficult for any Christian to do this alone. In terms of sex, it means that we neither idolize sex, we're not obsessed with it, as something we must have at all costs. Nor do we fear it or avoid it as something dirty and undiscussable to be despised, but rather the Christian lives as part of a community of caring where purity makes sense. The relationships are the kind of relationships in which purity is seen to make sense because of the caring of the community. That's displayed. That is seen. Okay, there's a person who has a different view about sex from the rest of us here in the office. Terms of money is an example. It means that rather than the selfish hoarding The seeking to accumulate the greatest pile of toys and things in this world, the Christian is able to be generous from a generosity that comes from not having to amass all that I possibly can because this world is the only place I have for enjoyment. When it's over, it's done. But the Christian who realizes that this is a pilgrimage That I'm part of a community in which I am safe, and in that community I don't need to be anxious. I have a heavenly Father who is to take care of me. that I don't need to hoard. I can be generous with what I have. I can use money for service rather than simply for selfish gain and selfish uh gathering of my own goods for me and my family. Again, it has to be done in community in order to make sense. And then take power. Um as a Christian, I don't use people I don't see people for what they are able to give me. How can you advance what I'm after? I have an agenda and you fit into that agenda. How can I manipulate you to get me what I want? But the Christian comes, not perfect, far from perfect, but noticeably different with a heart to serve. A heart that says, I'll serve even the weak, the poor, even those that can't benefit me or return what I have to give, because Jesus Christ came to serve me. Because I am so full of the gratitude from what Jesus has done for me that I'm able to save. I'm able to use what power I have in service rather than my own personal agenda. I shared in the first service that somebody mentioned to me, we talked about this a little more in the middle hour. mentioned that they were part of a group here in Howard County for seven years and um had just been part of that group of of uh women. It was Uh within that group it was a pretty diverse group. Uh there were white people, black person, um, a Muslim a Hasidic Jew and a woman who was a very successful executive who was a lesbian. And in that group uh they were having dinner and on this one particular occasion, just recently She mentioned something prompted this, wasn't out of the blue, but something prompted this, and she mentioned that she was a Christian. And she said, literally, everybody dropped their forks. And then they began to try to figure out what she meant by that, because it was clear to them that obviously she did not mean that she was an evangelical. She couldn't have been one of those people. And the reason, this is very telling, but it's also tragic, the reason they said she couldn't be an evangelical was because those were hateful people and she was a loving person. They assumed she couldn't be a Christian because she was loving. Now, brothers and sisters, we may say that has to do with the media and how they portray us and on and on and on. All those things are true. But they couldn't figure her out. Because she was giving baby clothes to the Muslim lady for her kids. She said, Christians hate us. They don't give things to us. And as she shared where she was and you know and then they said well you know w where do you what are you talking about she says I go to Columbia Presbyterian And you know, and then that blew their minds. You're Presbyterian. I mean, it's not, you know, you're some New Age, you know, some Christian. You're a traditional Christian. Well, this you see, this is what Peter's talking about. You know, 2 Peter, the next verse up there. Dear friends, he says, I urge you as aliens and strangers in the world to abstain from sinful desires, sex, money, power, which war against your soul. Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. That sounds pretty much like Jesus there, doesn't it? In the same way, let your light shine before men that they may see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven And after all the discussion, and if you come to the middle hour next week, she's going to be there, she's going to talk about this, and there's some lessons to learn from it. We're going to explore it a little bit as a little bit of a case study briefly. But she said, after all the discussion, and people begin to reflect on their spiritual backgrounds and beliefs and the rest of this, they said You know, we did know there was something different about you that we couldn't figure out. That's salt. That's light. That's not what you and I produce. That's Jesus in you, in me, and making the connection with the people that are in the culture. Third way of applying this, living your vocation as a servant of Jesus. Living your vocation, your job. Colossians 3, 23 and 24. Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart as working for the Lord, not for men. Since you know that you will receive an inheritance from the Lord as a reward. It is the Lord Christ that you are serving. Who do you work for? Not just Northrop Brumman or APL or whoever it is locally. Ultimately who you work for is Jesus Christ. He's the one that you're serving. One of the saddest comments that I hear from time to time, far more than I would expect. Because when somebody says, you know, if I had a choice to do business with a ranked secularist or a Christian expounced Bible verses, I'd probably choose the secularist because I can trust them more. I don't trust Christians, it's about Bible verses. That's tragic. What an indictment on the church. Now, whether it's true or not, the perception, and I've seen this, is that Christians. have this dichotomy between the way we are as Christians in ministry, in the community, and our practices in business. But that integrity that is needed goes beyond simply the integrity of honesty. It is full integrity, that is integrating our lives so that when we think about what we do on Monday to Friday, it is not That's what I do to make money, so that I can hopefully set aside some time to also do ministry. But rather, what I do Monday to Friday is ministry. It is my distinctive ministry as salt and light in seeking to subdue the creation under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And we need to do that in community. We need to help each other to think about how to do that. How does being a Christian make a difference in how I do this work? Now, Wayne Koch, husband of Debbie Koch, who was up here a few minutes ago, has started a fellowship of those in medical practice of all kinds. To help each other. How does being in medical practice in various capacities, how does being a Christian make a difference in that? We need to encourage each other to be courageous in what we do, in holding convictions, but in working out what does this mean? How do I do this differently? Let me offer it to you. If you are in a particular profession and you're saying, I need help working through how to do government intelligence or something. um from a Christian position, put a little notice in the bulletin. You know if we get a whole half page, that's fine. Put a little notice and say, those interested in this profession getting together, contact this phone number, email, whatever. Just to start getting together and thinking about that, stimulating one another. How do we be salt and light by displaying the noticeable, not perfect, far from perfect? But observably different, observable difference that being a Christian makes. D, observing community needs in mercy. He said in the Beatitudes, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Because we receive mercy, we are merciful. So we observe community needs. And we learn what those needs are and how we can match our resources. We can't meet all the needs, far from it. But there are some things that we are able to do. We can't rebuild all of Sandtown. But we could build two houses and then talking about a business transformation after that or whatever God leads us into. So we match the resources we have, limited though they be, as God leads in his spirit to connect with what the needs are that we see in the community. Another example of this would be, you know, you heard about the Sand Town with Debbie and Lynette here just a few minutes ago. We also have people that participate in meals on wheels. And they have sent us a letter saying we need people to help us in this Tremendous opportunity. And so if you're interested in that, uh helping to prepare and deliver meals to people who are shut in. There's their website. Just check them out. It's also on the bulletin downstairs, bulletin board. You can get some information off of that. Giving blood, whatever it is. That God would just lead us, taking our resources, connecting them to the needs. And finally, for this morning, being willing to get involved also in public issues and bringing a Christian voice. Getting involved in public issues. That's, you know, that's a little scary sometimes. I still remember when my son Dean was at Long Reach High School, they were really getting concerned about drugs in the school. And so they uh tried to pull together a parents task force, and I volunteered to be on the task force, and so there I was. And what really surprised me was how open the people were on that task force. I don't know how they did. They always somehow people always find out I'm a pastor. And so after I blew my cover, somehow people found out. But they were still very open to whatever ideas that I had. Uh didn't shut me off, they didn't try to marginalize me. We worked very well together in being able to try to uh bring some solutions that we could to the local community and that had a lot in common and concern for our kids. Now, I know in public meetings it's a scary thing to to talk and bring up a point, you know, and Debbie reminded me that she felt okay until I said that in the first service and then she got up to speak. But I'm talking about when you have to say something controversial, you know, and you know this is not going to be the party line. But as we develop concerns about things. God leads us, not all of us, not all the time, but in particular situations. Just this Wednesday. As simple a matter as gathering at the CU at the pole. It's not a public speech, but it is a presence, it's a Christian presence, a salt and light, on all the schools, the public schools in this area. If you are part of that school, get in there. And to be praying and uh making your presence known, making connections with other Christians, these are just some of the things that we do. But again, let me come back in conclusion to the fact that these are not things we generate because we are somehow intrinsically like. We are more like the moon. We are not like the sun. Jesus is the sun. The moon simply takes on the light of the sun by being in its presence. If the earth is between the moon and the sun, the moon is dark. When the moon is in the light of the sun, we see it reflecting that light. When Jesus says, you are the light of the world, it's not the first time Matthew's mentioned light. Remember back in chapter 4, Matthew quotes from Isaiah chapter 9. When he says that Jesus came into Galilee to fulfill what the prophet Isaiah had said, land of Zebulun, land of Napa, the way to the sea along the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. The people living in darkness have seen a great light. When those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. Jesus is that light. You and I are not the light. When Jesus says you are the light of the world, it is a reflected light. That's good news. It means that you and I not only can't do it, we don't have to try to figure out how we can become light. It is being in the presence of Jesus. It is recognizing that your life is darkness. You don't know where you came from, why you are here. how to live skillfully, how not to mess up, even on all the experiences you've had, and you say, you know, if I had to live my life over again, I would do this. No, you wouldn't. You and I are darkness. It is only as Jesus comes to display his light. This is why you're here. This is why I made you. This is why you screw up. This is what I have done to come and to solve that problem. I've taken that sin upon myself and I died for it on the cross. I rose again. You have life, eternal life. through me and we come out of our darkness. You know, I don't know if you're noticing, but you know, it's really different when you wake up now. A couple months ago you'd wake up, birds are singing, sun's coming through the window, you know, depending on how it early ahead of yet. It was light. It was light for most of us, some light. Now you wake up, it's pitch dark. Stumble around, crash into stuff that was on the floor you didn't know was there. Because you can't see. Jesus is the light. You spend time in his presence, things begin to make sense. You see how different your heart is from his heart You worship him. You love him. You want people to come and bring glory to him. We'll deal with that more next week. And as you do that, as you experience the light of his presence, as you experience the light of his face, welcome you. Into his presence, you become a reflected light. And simply making a connection between who you are and the world that you live in. Can you do that? Not of yourself. But by God's grace, all of us can do that. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we come to confess again. We are not light. Paul says in Ephesians 5, you are light. You were once darkness, and we were. Now we have become a reflected light. And so, Lord, help us. Help us to see that as we spend time with you and come out of our darkness, As we come and see the light of your face welcoming us, the light of your glory, because you came for sinners like us. To redeem us, to buy us back so that we would have eternal life with you as we love you and learn to trust you more To follow you more, to obey you more. You make us, sinners like us, to be light. That's amazing. But it's so wonderful. It is so glorious. Lord, may each of us experience that because we are in touch with you because we belong to you. If nobody here, if somebody here doesn't, Lord, cause them to see Jesus as the light in their darkness. And that we would display that light in the world that you sent us into this afternoon, tomorrow, this week, for Jesus' sake. Amen.