I continue to feel a bit conflicted as I prepare the regular messages from Matthew and uh Probably as you do see more images of people suffering in devastating circumstances from the effects of Katrina. And um that's somewhat unique to our time to be able to do that, you know. It was just uh hundred and five years ago on September the eighth that the worst hurricane ever to hit The United States hit Galveston, Texas, and there were about 8,000 lives lost in the surge that devastated that city. But people didn't have TV and they didn't get daily pictures and images of the suffering that was going on there like we do So it's something that sticks with us. It's something that we are reminded of every morning, every evening. And as I think about that, I feel like what leadership do I need to give spiritually for us as a congregation? And what is God calling us to do in that? And I was reminded as I was studying through Matthew that it's not as if Matthew doesn't address this kind of thing In fact, as you look, almost every chapter has something that is relevant to the experience in the Gulf Coast We're beginning chapter four today. And later on in chapter four you see a picture of Jesus healing those who are afflicted. And they weren't just his disciples, but all that he came upon who were suffering, says he healed them. You come to chapter five and he is teaching about giving and he says, Give to the needy, not just so people will see you and give you credit. But because you're a child of your Heavenly Father, you do it in his sight alone. In um Chapter 6 and chapter 5, he had taught in the initial descriptions of his disciples. He said, Blessed are the merciful. For they'll obtain mercy. In chapter seven, he talks about the two houses, one that is built on shaky foundations. It's uh built on a vulnerable foundation. The other one's built on the rock, and how when the storm comes it reveals the foundations the houses uh like New Orleans uh versus some of the other area down there demonstrating the foundation determined whether it survived or whether it crashed. very relevant to what we're experiencing now. In chapter 8, Matthew pictures Jesus as the one who bore our infirmities, carried our diseases, both physical and spiritual. In chapter 9, you have Jesus looking at the crowds. It says that he surveyed them and saw them as sheep without a shepherd, then he had compassion on them. So over and over and over, this idea of compassion and mercy characterizing Christ toward the crowds is demonstrated in this gospel. And I've been uh encouraged, as I have uh discovered, in the last couple of days, trying to search and see well what is it that we could become part of to learned uh at Presbytery yesterday that um we have had from just our small denomination, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, about 200 volunteers that have gone down. Those are ones that were rallied and known about. Now who else, I don't know others that did on their own, but 200 that have gone from our churches in teams, and currently three teams of twenty are being put together to go down this week. More teams are going to be assembled. They're concerned that this will kind of die off in the long haul. The teams are needed. They're thinking for the next months. And if you want to find out about those things, you can go to our website for the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Just look in your bulletin. There it is, wwwpc. org. And you can go there and David Haney, that a number of you know who has spoken here, is coordinating the relief efforts for us. We're trying to link up with some of the churches that are in that area Got an email from a pastor, Jack Sawyer from a little town, little church in Pineville, Louisiana. You can imagine being in this little congregation in Pineville, Louisiana, and all of a sudden you are overwhelmed with this. You know, they have a diaconal ministry before this ever happened. They had joined together with a number of other churches in the town. for a diaconal ministry, Shepherding, the Shepherding House or something. It was a a joint ministry. And he said, since uh Katrina hit They have ministered to over 700 families, involving several thousand people in that little ministry. uh they're swamped and so um we're trying to partner with congregations like that and others that we know so that we can give money, give imperishable goods and clothes and things like that, or even assemble teams. If you're interested in becoming part of a team to go down there for a few days or a week, various capacities, then just contact one of our deacons so that we can coordinate, pass that on, know who's interested in doing that. But it is good to see how God speaks to his people and how the Lord is moving in this. I've heard of churches having a number of evangelistic services because her people are hungry. For the news of the gospel, more of an openness than they've seen in that area. Having said that, we come back to look at the beginning of Matthew chapter 4. Because I'm excited about the message this morning in which I want to help you and myself particularly to see Jesus. Now, you remember last week we talked about the Holy Spirit. and how Jesus was baptized with the Spirit and baptizes his disciples with the Spirit. Matthew continues this idea in verse 1 of chapter 4, then Jesus was led by the Spirit. into the desert to be tempted by the devil. Now, our problem that I alluded to last week is that we tend to not look at the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, or the unholy spirit, the devil, as real persons. We tend to think of them somewhat like characters in a movie. You know, they're vivid, they have meaning, but they they don't we don't see them as persons. that we interact with on a day-to-day basis. And what Matthew does is that he shows you right here at the beginning, rather compellingly, their personhood. Because you have in verse 1 the fact that Jesus was led by the Spirit, let's see it on the screen there, that Jesus was led by the Spirit. Into the desert. Now, we don't know how the Spirit led him. Did the Spirit speak to him? Did he prompt him? We don't know exactly how. But being led by the Spirit into a particular place, the Judean Desert, up from where he had been baptized uh in the Jordan River indicates a person that's involved in his life. And then you see in verse 3 that the devil comes, the tempter comes to him and says If you're the Son of God, till these stones become bread. So you see, he comes to him and he speaks to him. Both these things indicate that he's a person. It's not simply a force or an idea uh something vague and ethereal, but these are persons. And this really sums up the basic conflict that you and I experience week by week and day by day in our lives, isn't it? We are constantly, if you belong to Jesus Christ here this morning, you are constantly being led by the Spirit and tempted by the Unholy Spirit So if you look back over this last week, you can think of times when you read something in the Bible or you heard something, something was brought to your mind as God's will. This is something that you either felt compelled, I should do this, I should not do this. Let's say it was something you felt you should do. You felt um this is what God would have me to do to react, you know. in a godly way to something that was hurtful or to reach out and to express Christ in some way to someone. And immediately when you think that, then in your mind come all the excuses and the reasons why that's probably not a good idea. And you really shouldn't do it. It's not very practical. And at least not right now. Right? But how many times, as that's going on, do you stop and make yourself aware there are two persons seeking to influence me The Holy Spirit is seeking to influence me in following Christ. The unholy spirit, the devil, is seeking to dissuade me and to misdirect me to tempt me to deny that leading of the Spirit. So it's extremely helpful for us to take a few weeks, four weeks after today. Probably to just look at this matter of temptation and how Jesus handled that. Now next week we're going to look at how Jesus resisted temptation. But before we do that, what I want to do this morning is that I want to set this thing in a larger context. Remember, as we've said many times, there's always a danger when we read scripture of reading it moralistically. of simply saying, okay, here's what Jesus did, be like Jesus. And then that's kind of the law, you know, you just say, this is what I need to do for him as an example. But before we look at any of the rest of the lessons of the temptations and what Jesus did, we need to see who Jesus is, why, and how he's doing this. So I want this morning to look at this little segment here, chapter 4, verses 1 to 11, in the larger context of Scripture. In fact, we need to understand this to go all the way back to the Garden. All the way back to Genesis chapter 3. And if you go back to Genesis chapter 3, remember that at that point, Adam and Eve lived in a perfect world. It was a world where there were no hurricanes, no disasters, no pain, no suffering, no death. Every desire was satisfied. Only one thing was forbidden to them, but nothing that would bring greater satisfaction. And under the influence of the evil one, he came to them and tempted them. And they disobeyed and lost paradise. Everything changed at that moment. Nothing was ever the same. The Bible says that at the point of that curse God began by cursing the serpent, who was the physical form of the devil. And in that curse, God not only curses Satan But he grants a hope, the beginning of a hope of the gospel. And that hope involves the coming of a hero In Genesis 3:15, God says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head. And you will strike his heel. God there places enmity, declares war. between the serpent and the seed of the serpent and the woman and the seed of the woman. And he is indicating there the need of a hero. You see in your bulletin outline that the hero needs to have three characteristics. This hero needs to be a king who will subjugate the enemy and restore the kingdom. He needs to crush the head of the serpent. This king needs to be a priest in order to suffer for the guilt of Adam and Eve and restore their innocence so that God can bring them back into the garden. This hero needs to be a new second atom to succeed where the first atom failed. so that his posterity will reinherit the garden and the promises of God's perfect kingdom. Now, I hope somebody came to me after the first service. They're really excited, and I hope some of you can get excited, like that brother was, to see the unity of the Old and the New Testament. to see that this is a supernatural book, that that hope, written thousands of years ago in Genesis chapter 3, Becomes unfolded and more focused and more defined as you go through the pages of the Old Testament until you finally come to this person, Jesus. who becomes the embodiment, the very perfect fulfillment of that hope in Genesis 3. That you see that what God speaks of back here in the beginning pages of Scripture Is perfectly fulfilled in the Gospels. And secondly, that you come this morning in whatever your situation is, To a deeper love and appreciation for Jesus, that you will marvel at his majesty. The perfect way that he began and accomplished his work, to help you to trust him more this week. And to love him more. So my purpose this morning is really to show you Jesus as I think Matthew wants you to see Jesus as the fulfillment of the Old Testament hope. So first of all, see him as the king who fights to overthrow Satan's kingdom and establish his own. If there's anything that Matthew seeks to make abundantly clear in the early verses of his gospel, it is that Jesus is king. The very first verse of his book, The Record of the Genealogy of Jesus, Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Any Jew reading that would have known son of David means he is in the royal line of David. He is Messiah who is essentially Cain. Psalm 110, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit on my right hand till I make your enemies the footstool of your feet. Messiah is the king. who is going to reign and rule. Three more times in that chapter, Matthew says he is Jesus the Messiah. Jesus the Messiah. Jesus the Messiah. Verses 16, 17, 18. In chapter 2, he begins by saying after Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea during the time of King Herod. Everybody reading that knew that Herod was the false king. Herod was the one who ruled in evil power to subdue God's people, to afflict them. And these Magi come to this king and they ask the question, verse 2, where is the one who has been born king of the Jews? Where is this king that we have heard about? Matthew's trying to get a see this is the king, you see, and they come and they worship him. Verse 10, uh, they come and they um They stop, uh they move to the place where the child and they're overjoyed and they worship him and they give him gifts indicating gold that he is king When John comes to introduce him, the forerunner, he says in verse 11, chapter 3, I simply baptize you with water, but here's one coming, and he is So glorious, I'm not even worthy to carry his sandals. He is so much more powerful than me. He's going to baptize you with the Spirit. He's indicating his kingship, his royalty, his majesty. So when Matthew then talks about Jesus being baptized and being led into the desert He's going into the desert as the king. And he's coming now to meet, verse 3, the devil. Verse 1 says to be tempted by the devil. Verse 3 described as the tempter. And so you have now the final, finally here's the meeting of Jesus and the devil Diabolos, which means adversary. And the two now finally come together to face each other. I think it's uh really sad that we can often read as Christians Matthew chapter four and miss the drama, the tension that's here. You know, you're you really you oughta be like when you see some of those movies, you know, where This exiled king finally comes back to face the enemy who's tried to destroy his kingdom, whether it's Aragon or somebody else or I think this week of uh you know one of our family's favorite videos, Princess Bride. You know, I mean we just you know gotta look at that thing every once in a while. And do you remember when Enegal Montoya whose father has been murdered by the six-fingered man, Count Tyrone Drugen, and finally, toward the end of the movie, they face each other. He's caught him. My name is Anegov Montoya. You're gonna die. And you know, you feel the tension. Finally, he's facing this evil count. What's gonna happen? Now, there ought to be some sense of that when you read Matthew chapter 4. Here's through the ages these prophecies of this one that is going to come Here is Diabolos, who was set against God's people, trying at every point to turn God against his people. Back into the time time of the golden calf to get God to say, I'm going to destroy this nation, I'm going to make another one from you, Moses. Anything he can do in the exile the rest of the time to turn God against his set purposes. But now, even with Herod trying to kill him, here he comes. He's grown up. He's now been approved. He's been baptized by the Spirit. He comes out into the desert and he faces Satan. Face to face, can you imagine the humiliation of Jesus to carry on civil discourse with this usurper? Now, there's a tension there that we need to feel right down in the gut as we read this passage. Jesus is now the king coming to take back his kingdom from the usurper. But he comes also as priest. That same Psalm 110 that says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit on your throne until you make your enemies your footstool, says in verse 4, You are a priest after the order of Melchizedek. This king needs to be a priest. Why? Because in order to establish his kingdom, he needs to deal with the guilt of his people who are under judgment. And so the priest comes, and in chapter 3, we saw that he was baptized in order to identify with his people so that he could represent them. Now he comes and the Father has approved the first thirty years of his life. This is my beloved Son. In him I am delighted. There is not a single thing that he has ever done. That deserves any judgment or disapproval from Almighty God. You and I can't say that for ten minutes. First 30 years of his life. But now comes the test. In the old days, when they took gold to find out if it was pure they would pour acid on it. And if there was any corrosion or stain that revealed the impurities, Jesus comes now out into the desert as the priest to determine whether he is eligible. He comes out And the acid test of the temptations pour over his soul to reveal whether there's any corruption or any stain. Because if he at any point flinches, succumbs, sins, he will be ineligible to pay for your sin because he'll need to pay for his own. Only if he is perfect will he be eligible to offer himself as a sacrifice for you and for me. Then thirdly, finally, we see him coming here as the second Adam. Next two blanks. the second Adam as the head of a new race. The first Adam failed. And most Bible scholars believe that the test that was given to Adam of eating the forbidden fruit would not have been an eternal test. It would not have been the kind of thing that Adam and Adam's sons and grandsons and on down through uh you know, unending generations would have still had that tree where anyone could sin. But that at some point we're not told in scripture, so You know, it's a bit of speculation, but there's a general understanding at some point Adam would have been confirmed and his posterity in righteousness We never got to find out how long that would go. Never needed to go to the second generation. At some point Adam failed. Now how long was he in the garden before he failed? Martin Luther thinks about 20 minutes. I tend to think, you know, Luther had a realistic, very low view of human nature, but Adam's nature was not sinful. I think the the picture of uh God walking regularly with him in the cool of the day indicates at least some days had passed, if not weeks, months, perhaps years. We don't really know. But at some point, Adam failed. And whereas God intended for him to be the head of a race of kings and queens who would rule in majesty under God over the earth that he had given. Now he was the head of a fallen race broken in sin and misery and death. There needs to come now a second Adam, this hero of Genesis 3. 15 to crush the serpent's head, who will reestablish a new line, a new race of people A new line of kings and queens who will rule before God under him as those who have been redeemed. And so I believe that Matthew has this in mind as he pictures Jesus going out into the desert. And I put it in a little chart for you of things that Matthew doesn't spell out, but kind of, I think, hints at. And I describe Adam on the left side, and I leave it for you to describe the contrast Jesus on the right side. Look at it Adam was tested, tempted in a garden where every desire was satisfied. Jesus goes out into a desert. A wasteland. Mark says he was out with the wild animals, the scorpions and snakes, and wild animals to sleep and live in that desert week after week, 40 days. Adam was full. Every desire, as I said, satisfied. It was nothing he ever wanted Didn't even need to go to the store. He could pick it off a tree. He could just pull up the crops. Anything he desired was there for gratification Mark and Matthew tells us that Jesus went out and he fasted for 40 days. He was empty. Adam was full. Jesus was empty. He was starving. He went out and was weak from hunger at the point that he is confronted by Satan. Adam is together with a companion, Eve. He has somebody physical that he can see to talk to. Well, you know, Jesus had the Spirit, but there was no other person with Jesus. He was utterly alone. physically. How much more difficult to face temptations alone we Gather in groups in our church to help one another because we know that that helps us in resisting temptation. Jesus had no companion with him. He was alone And yet Adam succumbed at the very first temptation. Did Satan have three temptations for Adam and Eve, like he did for Jesus? We don't know. My guess is he probably had Plan B and C for when they would have resisted the first temptation. Didn't even need them. First one worked right off. Jesus resists again and again and again And your eternity and my eternity hung in the balance during those temptations. How easy we would see that it would be for him to justify. Well, sure, just make these stones into bread. What's the big deal? You know, God's there to feed you, take care of you, so why not? Why not demonstrate that the Father cares for you and the angels will lift you up lest you guard strike your foot against a stone and jump off? Oh, well, sure. Bow before Satan and be able to bring in God's kingdom and all of his people and purposes. No big deal. What's the big deal? But Jesus sees through every seemingly innocuous suggestion to understand what lies behind it. And if you and I were watching, we would look and I think our pulse would be racing, our heart would be racing Because if he succumbs at any point, any point, all hope is gone God has no second son. There is no second chance. If Jesus fails, all you and I have to look forward to at the end of our lives is justice. Justice to give what you and I deserve to get from a holy God who knows exactly how you have lived. How you have treated other people, what you have thought of them, what you think of me, what you think of your spouse, what do you think of your friends who turn against you. All hope gone. Those of you who Our parents, when you've been in the birthing room, have probably been familiar with something called the baby stress monitor. They call it that because it stresses out the parents. It doesn't stress the baby. But you know, you watch that little thing and you see the little graph of the heartbeat and various things, you know, and everything's going on, you know, and all of a sudden there's this little blip or it goes down, you know, you think, whoop, whoop, what's that about? Oh, you gotta call the nurse, you know. You know, because you you're tense. You know, these are anxious moments. Is this baby gonna make it? Gonna come through okay? You know, and so we're stressed. You know, I want to tell you something. As I was meditating on this passage, I thought, I am so glad I wasn't there to watch Jesus and Satan. I mean I think it would have had heart failure. If you really think about what rests on how Jesus is going to do in these next few minutes, how could you stand it? If he isn't the sufficient hero to come through perfectly all my hope Of all the miseries of this life are utterly smashed and gone. And there is no alternative. There's no other hope. Our world demonstrates that again and again in all its attempts to show self-salvation hope. No hope Job was tempted in adverse circumstances. Will he curse God and die, or will he succeed and pass the test? And Job passed the test. Partially. Partially is not good enough for Jesus. It must be perfect. And I want to remind you, brothers and sisters, and announce to you who are not acquainted with the gospel, Jesus did this perfectly. Amen? Jesus came through as the hero promised in Genesis 3. And so I call upon you as I call upon myself to love him. This morning is just just to focus on him, that you might love him, that you might see that Jesus has been perfect in all of his ways. You know, we we look at people and hear about 'em on the news, somebody that took off from work, gave up vacation. sacrificed personal goods, people in stores down in the Gulf Coast that don't charge, people that have given up time and money and said, I'm going to get down there and volunteer to help these people out because they need somebody to rescue them. They care for them. And that's wonderful. And it should turn your heart and my heart to think of our Lord Jesus, who left heaven. Where everything was absolutely under his control and his perfect majesty ruled and reigned, and he left that He left that to be born in a manger to live in Judea's part of the oppressed Jewish people To come out into the desert and to fast before God forty days to face the evil one and be tempted. Why did he do that? Because he loved you. Because he loved me. How can your heart not turn to him? Thanksgiving, Lord Jesus, how I love you. Tell him sometime today Get alone with him. Just to tell him, Lord Jesus, I don't want to ask you for anything right now. I just want to tell you that I love you for doing that for me. And I want to thank you. I don't want to marvel at the perfection where you stood up to Satan. Perfectly, so that you could reclaim your kingdom and you would be eligible as a priest to die for my sin? And you'd be the second Adam to bring me into your family, into that kingdom forever and ever. And whatever I'm going through here, Lord, I have that hope. Lord Jesus, I love you. And that you would trust him more this week. That you would recognize that whatever's making you anxious now, what is it that you fear? For this week, that you would look at Jesus and say, if he was able to conquer the evil one, is he not sufficient? For whatever need I have right now. Can I not rest in him and rely upon him who did that for me? That he'll be sufficient For the need that you have this week, this day, to trust him. And that you'll know him as that new second Adam that's called you into a new hope. Of a new people who will be with him forever and forever. The way you trust him is unique to you. Let's bring that before him now. Lord Jesus, we come before you and we want our eyes open to see again. Lord Jesus, how magnificent you are. You are our hero. No one else could have rescued us. And the temptation was real. And Satan was bold enough to think that he could dissuade you. But you had the insight, the wisdom, the fortitude, the courage, even in those circumstances, to stand perfectly against him. We marvel at your majesty. We want to trust you. We want to love you and tell you that we love you and follow you more completely this week because you're so worthy of our trust. And so, Lord, receive us. Receive our hearts as we offer ourselves to you now. In Jesus' name. Amen.