The actual story of the birth of Jesus the Messiah. The words that Tom read you saw on the screen are so familiar, aren't they? uh the pictures that you have seen, the paintings, the Christmas cards, the plastic crushes showing a serene, beautiful Mary And an old Haggard Joseph. Always imagine Mary saying, Why he always looks at Harry Hassard, you know, Harry that I'm the one that had the baby, you know, uh, an hour ago or something, you know. is to um take those stories that have been idealized and distorted in many ways to show there are real people in real history We appreciate that this is um the gospel. This is what happened, that Mary and Joseph were actually uh teenagers Joseph was probably around seventeen or eighteen, Mary probably around fourteen to sixteen. We all know that people have to be matched up like that because it takes men longer to mature. So you know we've got to match them up. Well you think of uh Joseph and Mary, think of you know the crowd that sits in the back there, you know, the high school gang, you know. I mean, you know, that's the picture of uh more what they look like Joseph is actually a very shadowy personage in the Bible. Do you realize we don't know a single word that Joseph spoke? Not a single word is recorded that he said in Scripture. And yet I would offer to you that Jo Joseph is one of the great heroes of the faith. That uh Joseph is actually somebody who Is a model for your faith, especially for us men. If you look in the uh gospel accounts of the birth of Jesus, uh it's interesting I told you that Luke gives Mary's lineage, and the birth is from Mary's perspective. Matthew, on the other hand, gives Joseph's lineage, going back to Abraham, and gives the birth from Joseph's perspective. So going through Matthew, We're now looking at the birth of Jesus from Joseph's perspective. Joseph, a hero of the faith, and I would like to suggest in at least three ways he is that for us. Those are your blanks and your outline, but I'll tell you now there is three roles of first of all his faith, and the role of a believer. His faith is a believer Secondly, in his devotion as a husband, and then thirdly in his humility as a father So, for those of you who can't rest until you have the blanks filled in, you can fill them in now and get it off your mind, and you can just listen to the sermon. First of all, look at his faith in his role as a believer To believe the angel, with no questions asked, who says that Mary really is pregnant by the Holy Spirit to bear the Messiah. Sure. Now let's back up and imagine what's going on in this scene. Look again at verse 18. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ, Messiah, came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. Joseph and Mary were betrothed, and betrothal was much more significant and binding than today's engagements. In fact, when they were betrothed, they had a ceremony, and in that ceremony, family members got together. There was the exchange of gifts. There was a formal declaration and there was actually a di- document that was signed that was binding, so binding that it could only be broken by divorce And during this time of the betrothal, somewhere perhaps around a year, the groom to be was to go prepare a place for them to live. During that time, they were, of course, not to have any physical intimacy. They were living apart. They were not yet fully husband and wife. And there then Mary, sometime during this time, is found to be pregnant. I don't think found means that Joseph found out. I believe she disclosed it to him. I often wondered when, whether it was right after the announcement of the angel Gabriel when she first knew she was pregnant or whether she rushed off to her relative Elizabeth for three months And uh thought about it and then came back and told Joseph after that. Don't really know. But can you imagine the scene that occurred when she did tell him? Joseph must have been heartbroken. Here's a woman that he has trusted, respected. Nazareth was just a small town, had a Roman garrison in it. And he probably looked at Mary and thought how different she was in her standards from the pagan Romans. The faith that they shared and the purity that he admired in her and respected. And now she's been unfaithful And it's difficult for his mind to absorb what she's done. Add to that the feelings of intense personal rejection that he must have felt. Some of us have had fathers who've walked out on their family. My mom. Saw her dad the last time in her life when she was sixteen and he walked out on the family and never came back. Experience of rejection. Some of us have had boyfriends or girlfriends who've dumped us, maybe fiancees. Maybe a husband or a wife who's left and never come back. Profound feelings of rejection We talk about heartbroken. And it's an apt term because you actually feel pain in your chest. Joseph must have felt that tightness, that sense of disorientation. I can't believe that I'm hearing what I'm hearing. And yet I see that you're pregnant. Casting around perhaps in rage, who was it? Could he guess? Was there no one to guess? Heartbreak I remember when I was back in seminary dating a girl, sweet Christian girl, not Kathy, before I knew her And um we'd been dating for a few months when she felt the need to tell me that before she had known me she had been intimate with another boy And uh you guys all know that my weight never varies. I'll prove that once again on Christmas Eve when I wear my Christmas sweater. Are you gonna wear that sweater again this year? Yeah, yeah, yeah. My weight doesn't vary, but when she told me that in the next two days I lost ten pounds. And I thought, how naive I've been If this could be true of her, probably nobody's honest. You know, you just you begin to feel cynical about the world. Who can you trust? I mean it was naivety on my part. But what must have Joseph felt if Mary could do this? What kind of a world do I live in? And then you add to all of that the gross insult that she says the Holy Spirit did it That she's not guilty. This woman's either deranged or a blasphemer And to understand that gives you some insight that is surprisingly lacking in almost all the commentaries that I read on verse 19. People are puzzled by this. You notice it says, because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man And did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. And so I think of one book that I read that talks about Joseph, and it says Joseph was a man of principle And his principles outweighed his love. He was a Pharisee, and so this author said, he probably was more concerned for his reputation than he was for Mary's in saying that he needed to divorce her. What's this business? He was righteous and therefore needed to divorce her quietly. Well I'm it made me angry when I read that. Because I thought, that's stupid. Put yourself in this situation. You missed the point. He can't believe her. It's not a matter that she's been unfaithful and he says, okay, it's a matter of forgiving. This woman's out of her mind. How can I marry a woman that blames her pregnancy on the Holy Spirit? And so Joseph is troubled. He's distraught. He's disoriented. I wonder if during this time possibly Mary was praying God. God help him to see that I'm telling the truth. God, I can- there's nothing I can do that will persuade him. Nothing I can do. It's going to show them I'm really telling the truth. Lord, you who have given me this baby, would you intervene? And so verse 19 says that while he was troubled in considering this, verse twenty, after he'd considered it, was pondering what to do. He was deciding to divorce her quietly, and I had two options. He could either bring her to a public trial and accuse her And then there would be a public humiliation. The law said she could be stoned as an adulteress. That probably wouldn't have happened at that time, it was almost never done, but she would have been publicly disgraced. There was another option. And that was an option to have, similar to the ceremony of betrothal, another ceremony that undid it. Simply the same uh couple or a few family members In which the document of betrothal was nullified. It's interesting to me that for Joseph As much as this hurt, he does not want to punish her. That says a lot about his character. That even in all this pain and heartbreak, he says, I will do what will least hurt her and damage her in this small town. So the angel comes, and the angel says in verse 20, Joseph, son of David, reminding him again of the lineage. Do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. If you will give birth to a son and you were to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. Just as angel is saying basically two things there. Number one, it's okay for you to take her as your wife. She really isn't deranged, she's not blaspheming, she is a pregnant virgin. God says it. And then secondly, Joseph, you are to raise this child. Though you are the stepfather, you are to raise him as your son. Interesting that it says that Joseph believes and he obeys. It doesn't say that, but it says in verse 24 that he responded by When he woke up, he did just what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, took Mary home as his wife. So He believed and he obeyed. Interesting to me that Joseph is given three dreams that instruct him in what to do in the birth narratives. He obeys each one without a single question recorded. The Bible says in each case he simply did it. So I posit to you that Joseph is for you and for me a model of faith. He's a hero of the faith. God spoke, unlike Zechariah, unlike Abram, and many others, Joseph simply obeyed. And he believed and obeyed at some considerable cost. So as a model for you and for me, do you believe the gospel because God says it? Or do you say, well, this is what I read, but it says Jesus is necessary as a substitute for my sin, for me to not be judged by a holy God. But I don't feel like that's the case. I feel like my good may outweigh my bad in the end, and then I can stand before God on my own account. Well God says you're a fool to count on that. God says that you are without hope. If you are without Christ, He is absolutely necessary to take your sin. Have you ever believed that? Or unlike Joseph, do you say, I think I can figure it out myself. The Bible also says Jesus is necessary, not only necessary, but he's sufficient for your sin. There's nothing you can or need to ever do to add to what he has done. So when the accuser has come to you this past week and he comes in the next week and says, Yeah, the Bible says you're forgiven, but you carry around this load of guilt and shame. And you feel like you need to pay penance for things that you've done, and the gospel comes again and it says, No, you don't. Jesus has paid it all. You're dressed in his righteousness. Whether you are like Tamar or Rahab or Bathsheba or Ruth, you can have the righteousness of Jesus. It's absolutely sufficient. Do you believe it? Can you rest in that? See, just as a model of faith for you and for me, he believed what God said, and in all his turmoil it put his mind at peace. An interesting thing. You you can go from turmoil to peace simply based on believing a message. That's the gospel. Do you believe it? I pray you do. Just also a model to us here of his obedience because he obeys the gospel. He obeys where God commands. You see, obedience made Joseph to be to appear to be either a fool or a fornicator. And that wasn't easy in a small town. And what would their parents have said? Believe that Joseph's parents, Mary's parents, believed this business about this virginal pregnancy by the Holy Spirit? Were there the outraged moral lectures, the shame you brought on the family, and on and on and on it goes? Until when the census edict came, Joseph was glad for an excuse to get out of Nazareth. It's interesting that only Joseph needed to go to Bethlehem to register for the census. But he takes Mary along so that they can escape the shame. Even though she's nearly nine months pregnant. They gladly get out of Nazareth. Give you some insight into what it was like for them to be living there. Is there some difficult word that God is giving to you this Christmas season for you to hear, to obey? You know, for some people, the Christmas season Is the intensest time of temptation in the particular sins that you struggle with? Memories Perhaps memories of abuse or memories of pain, the holidays can bring to people as much pain as it can bring pleasure. Perhaps God is speaking to you this Christmas of the peace that only He can give, of the strength that only He can give to endure into temptation, or perhaps You'll be seeing some family members you'd rather not be spending time with, and God's been speaking to you about a conversation you need to have, some word that you need to bring. Maybe you're dreading that time. Let me encourage you. Look at Joseph as an example of faith. A man in turmoil who believed the gospel. Was able to proceed in peace, not as if he had no more turmoil, but to be able to believe and to obey. And to see that Jesus is sufficient for you as he was for Joseph. Secondly, notice his devotion in his role as a husband. To live with Mary without physical union until after the birth of Jesus. Great. Interesting detail in verses 24 and 25. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and took Mary home as his wife. But he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. Note the angel does not say to have no union. Joseph chose to do that. Why is that? And by the way, somebody after the first service said, How do you know the angel didn't say it? You know they said everything is recorded here? Well, but there's no indication as the angel said or anything like that So I think the implication is the angel didn't say it, and Joseph chose to do it. And I think there's two possible reasons. I think the first is awe and reverence for what Mary was carrying. And simply feeling like that which is in her womb is so sacred, I do not want to come into intimate contact until that baby is born. Such awe of the holy things of God is so lacking today, isn't it, compared to our need for instant gratification. How many would say, out of sheer awe and reverence for the Lord? I will put off my gratification to honor him. I believe the second possible reason was that This way, Joseph and Mary could at any point, years later, or months later, but at some point, they could say, under oath We had not had any physical union until after the birth of Jesus, and thus to be able to testify to the miracle of the virgin birth. Honestly, straightforward. Not well, you know, at a certain point, but I know it was before the you know it was just straightforward, not until after the birth. And by doing that to honor God Is there a model here for your life, for my life? You see it in your bulletin outline there? Going beyond what is required of you as a Christian To express your devotion or to make yourself more useful to your master. I remember in one of her books, Elizabeth Elliot made the point simply to obey what God has commanded. Is not something we should pat ourselves on the back for and say that that was a big deal. That is simply our duty. Devotion is really expressed When I give up my rights to do something that is simply to please the Lord that I have a right to do, but I would be more useful to him, or I would express my devotion to him, that free will offering talked about in the Old Testament, I would give myself to him simply out of the devotion that I have for him. I remember in uh Watchman Nee's little book, Sit, Walk, Stand, he gives an example of this, and it's Probably better for me to give it to you in his words than to recount it in my own. It'll be more succinct and he does it well. He talks about a brother in South China who had a rice field in the middle of the hill. He says in times of drought he used a water wheel worked by a treadmill to lift water from the irrigation stream below up into his field. His neighbor had two fields below his, and one night his neighbor made a breach in the dividing bank and drained out all his water. When the brother repaired the breach and pumped in more water, his neighbor did the same thing again. And this was repeated three or four times. And so he consulted his brethren and said, I've tried to be patient, not to retaliate, but is it right? After they had prayed together about it, one of them replied, If we only try to do the right thing, surely we are very poor Christians. We have to do something more than what is right. The brother was much impressed. Next morning, he pumped water for the two fields below, and in the afternoon he pumped water for his own field. After that, the water stayed in his field. His neighbor was so amazed at his action that he began to inquire the reason. And in course of time, he too became a Christian. Did he have to do it? No It was an act of devotion, an act of going beyond his rights. Joseph, I believe, went beyond his rights in devotion. In an act of expressing his love for the Lord Jesus, his love for God, his reverence. And he's a model for us in that. Can you think of some way that the Lord perhaps is speaking to you in in your life? For you to do something that pleases him, to be more useful to him, simply because you want to do that, because you love him, not because you feel some obligation to do it. You're free to not do it. Perhaps there's something you're praying for, and this God has laid on your heart and it's an urgent matter, you can pray. You can also fast and pray Fasting isn't anywhere commanded in Scripture. It's not an obligation. But you might choose to fast even during the season where you think, well, that's probably a good idea. I probably ought to fast anyway. But you don't do it for that reason. You think This is simply out of the devotion to set aside what I could be enjoying for a concentrated time. to pray and to see God's face. This Or maybe it's uh fasting from television or something else to just say, you know, all the stress, you know, and all you gotta do is listen to any of the ads, and it all appeals to people's stress. You know, g Get a gift card from us because it'll solve your stress. You know, buy our this, you know, send a gift subscription. Why? To solve your stress. I mean anybody that was from another planet and just read the ads or saw the ads today, no, I don't know what these people do, but they're really stressed out during this time To say, well Lord, I just I love you and I want a peaceful heart, and so I could continue to do this, but I'm gonna back off Just because I want to know you better, I want to appreciate and worship. I don't want to be able to come Friday evening to worship, not because I am so desperate, boy, I gotta get I hope you have something that's gonna get my attention, but Because I want to bring worship. Joseph's an example. He's a model to us. Think about him this week. And then finally, he's a model in his humility, in his role as a father. A model of his humility and his role as a father, to choose to be shamed along with Mary and then raise Jesus as his son without the privilege and recognition of the Father. Wonderful. I'm going to raise this son. My whole world is turned upside down. All I wanted was a nice wife, a carpentry business here in Nazareth, to follow in the steps of the fathers, to serve the Lord. And what do I get? You know that song uh in Canada How Can It Be? You know, I'm out here I am, I'm a carpenter, I'm gonna be the father for king. How do I what do I do? I you know, I'm in over my head, Lord. Uh what do I do? But Joseph did his best. He accepted that. He was choosing When it says in verse 24, he took Mary home as his wife. He was choosing to be shamed along with her. And to take this his stepson, and to raise him as his son. And we know from the Gospels the smide comments that were made about Jesus' paternity. Joseph chose to share in that, knowing that this son would never follow him He would never really have him as a normal son, as a comrade, but that this son would have his own agenda, have his own mission from the Father. He would go far beyond anything that Joseph could relate to. And furthermore, Joseph didn't even live to see his ministry. Because during Jesus' ministry, there's reference only to Mary and to Jesus' brothers. And on the cross, he assigns John to take care of Mary. So somewhere in those early years, Joseph has died. Probably Jesus was old enough to apprentice as a carpenter. But before he began his public ministry. And Joseph is so behind the scenes, so humble. That we don't even have a record of his death, not even a half a verse, to tell us when or that he died Joseph, no words, few records, only inferences. But we salute you, Joseph. We salute you as a hero of the faith. I look forward to meeting you in heaven. Don't you look forward to talking to Joseph? What was it like to watch Jesus grow up? Will he be able to tell the? I don't know. He may not be able to remember things on this earth that are always mixed with pain. But he is for you and for me a model. A model for his faith, for his devotion, for his humility. And in his humility, he's a model for you in the things that God's called you to do You're sitting in chairs that people came here early in the cold to set up, and you don't know who did it, but they came here to serve you, and there'll be people to take down those chairs and put them back after you go. Very little of any recognition. There'll be people who hang around for an hour after the service to count the offering. Make sure that's all taken care of. Who are they? Who knows Or the people that serve in the nursery or children's church or many of the other things that are doing to go on here as a church for us to be able to enjoy the things that we do. Many of you That served without recognition, without credit. And some of you are called to serve God by carpooling endlessly and changing diapers One woman came after the first service. I so glad you mentioned about diapers. I think that's all I ever do. Nice to know that pleases Jesus. And it does Because like Joseph, God calls you and to me to serve in ways that don't get much recognition or credit. Because Joseph in that points us to Jesus. He points us to the one who came. The one who came and the one who, as he grew, read the scriptures and came to believe he was the Messiah to come. And to take the sins of the world. To come and to cultivate in his own heart that sacrificial devotion whereby Jesus would grow up and touch lepers And cleanse the defiled, that he would give his life in healing, in teaching, and finally in his humility to be humbled. Even spat on, slapped around and beaten, and crucified on the cross Jesus, the ultimate example of faith, of devotion, and of humility. And so what is God calling you to do as you look at Jesus and see through the example of Joseph this one That Jesus, that Joseph served. To believe God's word when it says what seems to be impossible to you, but to believe the Bible because God says it. And to give your life to Jesus because God says you need him and he is your only hope. To come and to go beyond what is required of you, to look for ways to express devotion And things you could lay aside for greater usefulness to the Lord this season, because you love Him For ways that you can humbly serve without seeking for or begrudging lack of credit and recognition in the things that please him because you love them. And when you get discouraged, think of Joseph and look at him. He's a hero of the faith that points to Jesus. In some particular way that you need to see this morning. Let's pray. Lord, as we think of Joseph, we think of our complaining, we think of our unbelief We think of those ways that we want to ask what's the least I need to do rather than what can I do to express more devotion and love for you We pray in this quiet moment, Lord, that you would come and speak in our hearts to help us to see Joseph, but beyond Joseph, to help us to see Jesus. Lord Jesus seeing you to love you more, to want to serve you, to believe you, to obey you. And to not need credit and recognition in that. As we speak to you of that moment that of that matter that you have been whispering to us and nudging us in in these last minutes.