And we are coming now to the end of this series, the study of the Sermon on the Mount, I mean uh the Lord's Prayer. Some of you thought, what? What do we miss? The end of the study of the Lord's Prayer within the Sermon on the Mount. And um I ask you, as I ask myself, has it changed The way that you look at that uh prayer, or has it changed the way that you look in prayer in general? It's changed me in some ways. I've come to see more deeply, how the simple address, the way we think of God and address him in prayer is so important. Father in heaven. Father, you are so near to me In heaven. You are so far beyond, transcendent, sovereign. And then looking at the six petitions that sum up all of our basic needs. The first three place God at the center of the circle of our concern to focus on His name, His Kingdom, His will. to think about him, focus on him, and then to move from that beyond to my concerns, my daily needs, material needs, provision. My need for peace through pardon that comes in Jesus Christ, the application of that pardon daily. And then the Moving on to recognizing that as I have received that pardon, so I grant that pardon. Forgiving people are forgiving people. And that Brings that connection of my forgiveness and my forgiving others to the fore. And then finally We come this morning to the last of those petitions for protection. What I want to do as we wrap this up and look at this final petition is to see them all displayed here, and I would like for us to pray them together. So let me read the introduction and then let us read and be praying as we read the Lord's Prayer as He taught us in this section. So, this then is how you should pray together, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread. Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. Deliver us from the evil one. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. What are you actually asking for when you pray that? It's one of those requests that we have learned perhaps from childhood, and we just pray it and you know and we don't think what we're really saying because If you really think about what you're saying, I would suggest to you there's a couple problems. Because if you're praying, Lord, deliver us, lead us not into temptation. You're asking God to not lead you into temptation. But remember what James says in James chapter 1, verses 13 and 14? When tempted, no one should say, God is tempting me. For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when by his own evil desires he is dragged away and enticed. So why do we pray for God to do what by nature he simply can't do? Father, do not lead me into temptation. He says, I don't lead anybody into temptation. It's against my nature. So what do you mean when you pray that? But somebody will say, oh, you know, but I read somewhere that the word temptation could also be test translated testing or trial. So maybe it has to do with trials and testings. Father, deliver me from the trials and the testings of life. Ah, yeah, but you don't get out of it that way, because if you look at James 1, the first part of the book, James 1, verses 2 to 4. James says, Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. And you see that little word in blue, trial It's the same word in Matthew 6. 13, temptation. So are we asking God to not do something that He says is for our good that we should rejoice in? So all of a sudden you stop and think about this simple petition, you say, Well, what am I praying? Am I praying for God to do what he can't do by nature, or for God to not do what would be good for me to have? What does it mean? Well, um I thought about that for a long time. I found one reputable commentator who I think proposed the best solution that I have seen to this. Most actually don't even try to deal with it. And it is uh goes like this, that the word lead that you have there in the Greek is a word which means to bring into And it's a word that is used in the Old Testament, a Greek translation of the Old Testament a number of times to translate a Hebrew word that has a causative um idea to it. So that in the negative i it has the idea of to not permit something So it means do not permit us to be brought into temptation. And so let me suggest that what is implied there is do not permit the devil To bring us into temptation, the reason I say that is because the first and the second part of the verse are parallel thoughts And in the second part of the verse you have, deliver us from evil, and almost certainly that means, as the NIV translates it in most other modern translations, the evil one. So you see in your bulletin outline a translation or paraphrase that I suggest as what Jesus is in fact teaching us here, and it goes like this. Do not let us be brought by the devil into temptation, parallel thought, but rather deliver us from the evil one. So we're praying for God to keep Satan from bringing us into temptation and prevailing in the temptations to destroy us. Now, this is an extremely important petition for at least three reasons. Why is it so important? Let me suggest three reasons why I think it is. And the first is because we need to dread sin. Now the the statement there is because we dread sin. Now I'm not so sure we do. But what Jesus is teaching is you need to dread sin. I mean, of three petitions concerning yourself, that is so important that that is one of the big three. And it's because you and I need to be more aware how prone we are to sin and how serious are the consequences. How terrible sin is. Terrible because of its effects on me. Sin holds me in bondage. Jesus has released you. He has released me from that bondage. But you and I are like Israel after Israel was released from the bondage in Egypt and out in the wilderness again and again they say, oh, how great Egypt was. Oh, for the leeks and the garlics and all the great stuff we had to eat in Egypt. So we're we're conflicted, aren't we? We say, Jesus has delivered me from the bondage of materialism. But oh for the delight of those things that really give me joy I mean that's tangible and yeah, I know that when I get all caught up in that, that It shrivels my soul. It alienates me from God and people. You know, I just saw this week the new BJ's catalog for the holidays comes out As I was paging through that thing, I thought there has got to be a major industry of people who just think up How you can invent things for a couple of hundred dollars that nobody really needs, but they're nice and shiny and cool, and everybody looks at me and they think, you know, I never even thought that thing existed. And it didn't until this year, but I gotta have it. All of a sudden, you know, there it is. This week's Time magazine just came out yesterday, is the cover stories on inventions, the best inventions of 2007. Page after page after page of all this high tech stuff and all these shiny gizmos and gadgets and you look at them and you just say, Wow, look at all that stuff You know, where do I start? And oh, hey, I'm gonna I'm gonna exercise constraint. I'm only gonna get two or three of them. You know, and you know, and that's what we do. Looking for the holidays And you say, Jesus has delivered me from bondage to having to have stuff. What? I'm like Egypt. I'm like Israel. You know? There's this conflict. Lord, deliver me from being brought into the temptation where my soul is shriveled. But it's not just because of the effect on me. Secondly, it's because it dishonors him. That I pray, Lord, let me not be brought into temptation, but deliver me from the evil one. You see, whenever you and I sin, we're saying God is not enough. We're saying God can't be trusted. We're saying that we know better what we need than God does And so I dishonor him by going my own way. So I pray, Lord, I need to recognize that. Let me not be brought into temptation by the devil, but deliver me from the evil one. Let me ask you, as I ask myself in this, do you really dread sin Where do you minimize sin? Do you do you say, well, you know, everybody sins sort of inevitable, so I just try to deal with the biggies. The little ones, hey, you know, I can't get all intense about this. Do we dread sin or do we play with it? Do we toy with it? Do we negotiate it? Jesus is teaching in this prayer to pray with passion. Lead us not to Cause us to not be brought as don't permit the devil to bring us into temptation. But rather, Lord, deliver us from the evil one. Because there is my joy, there is my delight, and I believe it. The second reason That we pray this prayer is because we realize that we're so weak. We're so vulnerable. Those are the next two blanks. It's not just that I know I need to dread sin, but I know I'm so prone to sin. I know I'm so weak and I'm so vulnerable. You and I are like Peter on that night when Jesus was betrayed in the account that Tim read for us this morning. You remember there, it said that Jesus warned the disciples. He said, All of you are going to fall from me. You're all going to be scattered. You're all going to abandon me. And uh When he says this, Peter boasts at the feast, then he sleeps in the garden, and then he denies and curses that he ever knew the Lord. And it's in the Garden of Gethsemane that Jesus uses this same word, in fact this same phrase, into temptation. When in Matthew 26, 41, Jesus comes back to the sleeping disciples and he says, watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. Because the spirit is willing, you want to not sin, but the body is so weak. Jesus says, recognize your weakness, recognize your vulnerability, so that you cry out, Lord, let me not be brought into temptation, but deliver me from the evil one. See, why is it that Peter fell into temptation? I believe there's three reasons, at least, that he fell. First of all, because he was proud When Jesus said to the disciples, All of you are going to be scattered, you're all going to abandon me, Peter jumps up and he says, Huh, not me, nope. If everybody else does, I won't. What's he saying? I am more committed than the rest of these guys. And then Jesus says, oh, Peter, I didn't want to say it, but you brought it out before the cock hose twice. You're going to deny me three times. Oh, no Lord, even if I have to die, I would never do that. I know me. I am not capable of that. I would never do that. I am more courageous. I am more brave than anyone else. What's he doing? He doesn't know his heart. And so Peter, in his pride, thinks that he's not capable of certain sins. Let me ask you. Do you think you're not capable of certain sins? Do you read about others falling, brothers, sisters in Christ, and you say, I'm not capable of adultery. I'm not capable of murder. I'm not capable of that kind of cruelty. I'm not capable of blasphemy. Let me tell you, at the very point when you think I'm not capable of this sin, you have allowed Satan. To catch you right at that point. It's right at the point that we think we are not capable. I believe that I am capable of every sin that there is. The more I know my heart, the more I know I cannot rule out anything. And neither can you. This prayer is teaching us the humility that says, my heart is capable of all kinds of temptation. Lord, let me not be brought into it, for I know how weak I am. Peter fell them not because just because he was proud, but because he was ignorant, ignorant of his heart Contrast Peter's attitude, Lord, not me, with Paul in Romans 7 Where Paul says, Oh, the things that I want to do, I don't do, and the things I don't want to do, those are the things that I do, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me, and he cries out to Jesus. Peter looked at sin superficially. He looked at sin in terms of behavior. Paul realizes that sin has to do with the heart. The reason that you and I continue in certain sin patterns over and over and over, I believe, is because our repentance is a superficial repentance, whereby we want to avoid the act of the sin. or we want to avoid being caught in the sin. We just don't want to do that again. Let me suggest that rather than that approach, what we should do is when we see a sin pattern You and I need to look at what that sin is and trace it back to the root issues of our heart. There's something there that we're saying, this is real life. This is where my thirst is really quenched. Where is that substitute, that core idol? That keeps me from trusting and loving and placing Jesus central in my life. Until you trace that temptation. That area of sin back to the root issues in your heart, you will continue to find the sin catches you again and again and again. Like Peter catches you off guard. So you and I need to trace the temptations to the core idols of Security. You know, this is what gives me security. This is what gives me significance. This is what gives me the power that I crave. You see, in Peter's case, Peter had a terrific need for the esteem of people. You say it all through his life In fact, even into the book of Galatians, when he's one of the leaders of the churches, Paul's still rebuking him for being a people pleaser. There you go, Peter, you're gonna hang out with the Jews, you've got to act like the Jews Peter did not recognize that in his heart there was a drive to impress people. So when Jesus says, you're all going to deny me, Peter's up, nope, not me, not me. Hey guys, you all seen it? Not me. Because of that, Peter was vulnerable to the temptation. He didn't see what his heart was like. I remember a Good pastor friend of mine who was undergoing a lot of stress And he compulsively went to a sear store. I've told a number of you this before. Went to a sear store and shoplifted some software that he felt like he just had to have. Stole it. What was worse is that the security in the store saw him. And so they went up to arrest him. In panic as a pastor, he thought, I can't let this happen. I mean, not going to look too good to the congregation. So he tried to run out of the store and they tackled him And as a result, what would have been simply a shoplifting incident got on the front page of a local paper. He lost his church. Not because he stole, but because the leaders of the church decided here was a man who didn't know his heart. He was living in ignorance of his heart. Now, I am glad to tell you that was many years ago. He's back in the pastorate, and he's very effective. He's a man who knows far better his heart in the gospel. But you and I need to know our hearts. Where is Satan going to get you? Where is your vulnerability? Unless you know that, I'm living with a victim mentality, and so I justify things because I'm a victim. Special privileges. Nobody cares until you know where is the place where you are most not believing the gospel, not trusting Christ. Looking for your satisfaction in something else. That is where Satan is going to lead you into temptation. Now, a third reason why Peter fell was not only was he proud, not only was he ignorant, but he was that led him to be complacent. Jesus wanted him to watch and to pray. Watch and pray so that you won't fall into temptation. Same phrase. What was Peter doing? It's an exhausting night. Lord, I am just done in. So he falls asleep. You say, what a wretched guy. How many times do you and I say, I can't get up that early to pray and cry out to God before I go to work because I just I need the sleep? I'm already sleep-deprived. Maybe you are. I'm not saying just cut off on the end. Go to bed earlier, do whatever. But you know, why is it we don't get up? To cry out to God, Lord, let me not be brought into temptation today. And what's that going to look like? Meditate. Think about the gospel. Fill your heart with the gospel. Don't let me deliver be uh deliver me from the evil one today. But we don't because you and I tend to oscillate between hopelessness and complacency. I'm such a wretch that I know I'm gonna fail. Why even bother to pray? Or, hey, I'm cruising along pretty good, and so I think I can get through today. You know one of the things that amazes me Is how I can go from the one to the other almost like that. I can be cruising along thinking, I think I'm doing okay. My wife will say one thing to me And all of a sudden, it's like I can picture myself going down a slide. The conversation deteriorates at an alarming rate, and within five minutes I have gone from a good mood to defensive, crabby, irritable. And so what I have gone from is where this prayer is irrelevant to me to where it's too late. I wish I had thought to pray that, because now I have just succumbed And so there you are, you know. You're into the lust, you're into the greed, you're into the gossip, and on and on. Why? Because you thought you really didn't need to grasp on to Jesus. Lord, let me not be brought into temptation, but deliver me from the evil one. You're the only hope I have. I have to trust you. So Peter, years later, as an older, wiser man, wrote these words. In 1 Peter 5:8. Be self-controlled and alert. Neither hopeless nor complacent. Self-controlled and alert. Because your enemies, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. That vivid picture of a lion prowling, looking for someone to devour. Kathy and I have been looking at the Planet Earth series DVDs. Some of you may have heard of them, but it's you know it's amazing. the photography of the wilds and all kinds of things all over the earth. And the thing that comes through in that series is whatever you are, there's something out there looking to eat you. I mean that just runs you're a little fish, there's a bigger fish, you know, you're if you're a deer or something, you know, there's always something prowling around looking to devour you. And Peter says, that's the way you are with Satan. You're prey to him. He wants to destroy you. You are so weak and vulnerable. Peter's writing this. He says, look, look at me. You know, I know I was proud, I was ignorant, I was complacent, and I understand. Be controlled, self-controlled, be alert. Why? Because third reason you and I need to pray this prayer, our enemy the devil is so strong. He's so strong. He's cunning. He knows your weaknesses better than you do. He knows exactly how to exploit them. You need to be realistic and on guard. He's deceptive. 2 Corinthians 11 3, Paul says, just as Eve was deceived by the serpent in the garden, so I pray that you will not be deceived by the Satan by the devil now in his cunning craftiness to divide you from Christ. In Revelation 12 he's called the deceiver, the great deceiver. And so he knows how to try to get you to believe a lie that seems plausible to you, to not trust the scriptures, to not obey. And he's persistent. He keeps at you Doesn't work this time. He waits until you get down. Some of you deal with depression. Many of you uh have this as an affliction that you wrestle with and have medication and and struggle with this thing and Satan looks for that time when you're down. He looks for the time when your emotions are down, when you're vulnerable, when the lies seem plausible. He's relentless. He's evil in his desire to destroy you. Lord, let me not be brought into temptation. You are my refuge. He is there to rescue you in those weak, difficult moments. So what then is your hope? Final point. What is your hope? What is my hope? Two things. First of all, our weapons that He's given to us. The weapon of the Word. Jesus, you remember, demonstrated in his temptation in the wilderness the use of the word. Jesus had apparently been meditating on the book of Deuteronomy. Satan comes and he tempts him with all these things to get him to Sever from the Father. Just drive a little bit of a wedge. And Jesus answers him with a word. It is so simple, it is so obvious, but how many times do you and I do it? When is the last time you were tempted by something that was really assaulting your soul and you quoted Scripture out loud to the devil? Hey, you say, oh come on, you don't get carried away. You don't do it. No, I'm saying out loud. There's times I gotta do it out loud. Doing it out loud makes it more real. I realize that I'm engaging a real being. Answer him with the promises, the commands, whatever. But you've got to have them in your heart and you've got to be saying, I know I'm vulnerable in this area. Because I have traced those temptations to the core issues of my heart, I have memorized some scripture that relates to that. And so when Satan comes, I'm able to speak and argue, and I'm able to engage. In specific ways by the word. The use of the word is the sword of the spirit, a weapon against the evil one. That's a hope that you have. He will enable you to do that. He'll fill your mind with it if you take the time to memorize and use that in temptations. And I've seen I've seen in my own life in ways that have been great blessing and makes me ashamed that I don't do it more. Also, he's given you the weapon of weariness. Understanding areas that you need to avoid. Understanding situations you need to avoid. In Ephesians chapter 5, verses 8 to 11, it talks about having been transferred from darkness to light and avoiding situations of darkness so that you don't get caught up in those old ways again. If you know that there is a store that has something that you ought not to be looking at, you don't take the trail past that store just because it happens to be a good route to take to wherever you're going. You avoid that place. If there's a woman that you meet with and you find that every time the two of you get together you somehow you fall into gossip It you know, y y it doesn't seem like your regular pet, but somehow when you're with this woman or this group, you start gossiping. You don't just continue and say, Well, Lord just help me not to gossip. You say, hey When we're together, I find my heart gets drawn into this, and I don't like that. I don't want to do that. Let's help each other. And bring some accountability, gospel accountability to bear on that situation, or avoid situations if you can't handle them. Lord, I'm seriously praying. Let me not be brought into temptation so I don't place myself in that situation and then just pray for deliverance in it. But beyond the weapons is the warrior. And that is your and my chief hope. It isn't the techniques, just like with forgiveness. It is the one that we pray to. Jesus is teaching you and me to pray here to the Father. And so the first thing that we realize is that the Father who hears us pray this desires to answer it. When we address him, he is the one that Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1013 tells us, no temptation has seized you except what is common to man. So Lord, I am not unique. This I'm not the only one to deal with this, not worse for me than anybody else. Nobody else understands. I have this particular affliction. Get off it Come back, root issue is same same root issue that hundreds, thousands, millions of other people have had. It's common. So bring yourself down. But then recognize God is faithful. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. When you are tempted, he'll also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it. So that's the promise related to the request, Lord, let me not be brought into temptation. That's okay, my child. When you begin to move toward that temptation, temptation is a part of life. But as you move, I will not allow you, I will not abandon you in that temptation, I will provide a way out in that temptation, I will provide a way of escape, I will give you the power. And here there is something that I discovered I think is really exciting. If you look back at that Colossians 2 passage we looked at I think these two petitions are related. Forgive us our debts as even as we have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not Do not let us be brought into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. In Colossians two, you remember in verse thirteen, he talked about forgiveness. He forgave us all our sins, having cancelled, remember the The debt of the certificate of indebtedness, with all its regulations, it was against us, that stood opposed to us, he took it away, nailing it to the cross, paid in full. You are forgiven once for all. But You continue to experience on a daily basis the fatherly forgiveness that is the application of that cross, and you're asking him to help you each day Now, connected. And having disarmed the powers and authorities, he made a public speech spectacle of them. That's the picture of the vanquishing, conquering general coming into town, back into his hometown, with a parade of the prisoners of war behind them as a public spectacle of the victory that he's won. triumphing over them by the cross. The powers and authorities are Satan and his minions, the demons. The particular demons. Satan's a creature. He doesn't know everybody all the same. You and I probably have no dealings with Satan. We have the demons, the minions who know you, know what you're like, and he has disarmed them. He has removed the capacity to hold you in bondage. He's made a spectacle of them. You do not have to sin. This is the idea of Romans 6, where we see where Paul says there that because when Jesus died, you died with him. He died to the law and to sin. When you spiritually died on the cross with Jesus Christ, you died to the law and its punishment. You also died to sin and its power. So, for instance, take from Romans chapter 6 just a couple of verses. For we know that our old self was crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be done away with. that we should no longer be slaves to sin, because anyone who has died has been freed from sin. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, so that you obey its evil desires. So that when you go this week into a point of integrity that's at stake, you're tempted to compromise on that And you say, Lord, I don't have to sin. You have freed me from this. Because you have forgiven me, I don't want to sin. Because you have disarmed the demons, I don't have to sin. And finally, because you are with me, I'm not alone in the temptation. So in Hebrews chapter 4 He gives you that tender description. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way just as we are. Yet He was without sin. Now we tend to look at that and we think, well, yeah, it was easier for him. There wasn't, you know, it was like his heart was like Teflon, couldn't stick So it's easier. But you know what? Who's the person that is more assaulted by temptation? The one who gives in or the one who resists? Because Jesus never gave in, the temptations increased and they kept on and they kept on and they were unrelenting. So Jesus, you look at, he was tempted in every core way that I am. But he didn't give up. He is with me as one who says, I can bring you through it. By my strength, I did not sin. I died for your sin. I bring you now, puts his arm around you, and you say, Then let us approach the throne of grace with confidence, so that we may receive mercy. His mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. Jesus Christ stands here this morning and wants to help you. He wants to deliver you. He wants to deliver you from the evil one. He wants to keep you from those temptations that bring you into discouragement and despair again and again. And this is the climax of the prayer. The only thing to add to the Father and the Son is that, of course, the Spirit takes that and applies it to you, and John says, greater is he that is in you than is he that's in the world. And so The Spirit takes all that and he enables you to lay hold of the power of Jesus Christ. And when Jesus taught this prayer, that was the climax. That was the end. Deliver us from the evil one. Now the church, probably following Jewish patterns of worship and taking from chronicles, added on the phrase, For yours is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. And that's very appropriate. But there's something arresting by ending just with deliver us from the evil one Because it thrusts you forward to Romans 1620, where Paul says the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. One last comment about the Lord's Prayer, brothers and sisters, and then I'm done. As I went through the series and prepared for this, it occurred to me that the Lord's Prayer are the heads of a conversation to be initiated by each thought. So when you come to God in your need, you come with the idea that it says, Who is he? He's your father who's in heaven. And you engage him as Father in heaven. He's near, he cares, he's sufficient, capable in every way. You then move on to his character, his name, his kingdom, his will for you. And you engage him on those. You get to know him as you interact with him about his name and what his kingdom is like and what his will is like. And then you move on to the request concerning the need for provision, the need for peace through his pardon, and what that means. And you engage him on that. You don't just pray it. You don't just state that, you engage and build on that conversation starter. And you finish with. And Lord, this day, deliver me from the evil one who wants to bring me into temptation. Lord, you are able to do that. And by that point, your heart, my heart, needs to be soaring with the sufficiency of Jesus Christ presented in that conversation. Where is he speaking to you this morning about your need and his sufficiency as it applies precisely to that point? Let's pray. Lord, we are people who have not taken advantage of this outline for conversation with you. And I pray, Lord, that you will you will bring this to mind so that in traffic, in in the morning, in various times of the day, our mind goes to this prayer. And as it goes to this prayer, Lord, that you would reveal our hearts, we confess that we are either hopeless or complacent about sin. We need to To be delivered from our naivety, to see how terrible sin is, but how sufficient is the victory of Jesus Christ. Lord, let us not be brought by the devil into temptation. Because we see it, we recognize it, we know our hearts, and we know that you are supporting Sufficient to deliver us from the evil one. And that one day, perhaps very soon, you will crush him under your feet. But we want to experience this very week the victory of Jesus Christ in our lives to deliver us from particular temptations. Lord, I know when I've experienced that as you answer this prayer, what a euphoric sense of the satisfaction. Of Christ there is in seeing your power. I pray that for each of my brothers and sisters here this morning, in Jesus' name. Amen.