Christianity is rooted in the teachings and the person and the work of one man, Jesus Christ. A first century carpenter who lived and ministered in an area far from the power centers of that day, such as Rome or Alexandria or Athens. His first followers were few and powerless, not influential. In fact, for the first three hundred years they were persecuted, scorned, And then suddenly the Emperor Constantine declared the Roman Empire to be the Holy Roman Empire under the lordship of this once despised rabbi. Suddenly there was an abrupt shift. Whereas before, you only would admit you're a Christian because you were Now suddenly hordes of people called themselves Christians because of benefit that would come to them for that. In fact, many people say that the very worst thing that ever happened to Christianity was when it became a state religion. The fascinating thing, as we look at Matthew chapter 13 and the parables here, is that Jesus foresaw all of that taking place. He depicts it in the next three parables we're going to look at this morning. Don't miss the fact of how unlikely it would have ever been for Jesus to have guessed if he were to give an overview of his kingdom and what it would look like in the centuries and the couple of millennia ahead. of how precisely he describes and how unlikely what he describes actually took place. So that your faith might really be encouraged this morning. Remember, last week we looked at the first parable, a parable of the soils, and saw that Jesus said, Anyone who understands the gospel, who understands the message of transforming grace of God's work through his son to sinners. Will be transformed in their life. If you understand the gospel, you will bear fruit. You will be different. In the second parable that Tim just read, He talks again about this common occurrence of a farmer sowing seed. But in this case, the image changes. The seed is no longer the word of God. The seed is now people, two kinds of people. Good people and evil people. And as he describes this, he talks about the farmer sowing the two kinds of seed Then he talks about a mustard seed, then he talks about geese. The disciples come and they say, Oh no, Lord, here you go again. What what are you talking about with this wheat in the weeds business? Help us to understand. Explain it. So he explains that parable. And that is a unit I want to deal with these three parables with Three preliminary observations and then draw five lessons from them, practical lessons for you and for me this morning. Alright? First, then, the preliminary observations as we enter into this. First observation. I believe these parables are to be understood as a unit. Not separately. They're a unit. Jesus talks the tells the simple parable about the farmer who sows the seed, the enemy sows seed. Then he tells a brief parable about mustard seed, which is the smallest but grows to be about a twelve-foot shrub. Then he talks about yeast, which is placed in flour, 50 pounds of flour approximately, and transforms the flour. Then he gives the interpretation of the parable of the wheat and the weeds. I believe that the fact that he tells that parable and then a little later he interprets that parable is like a bookend between a unit of thought And so I want to show that these three parables are related in the common theme that are to be understood by them. The second observation Is a question really. Is this about the growth of God's work or of Satan's work? Now I believe that one of the most perceptive commentators of the book of Matthew is James Boyce. I've used his work in preparing this and I've gained a number of my best insights from him that I've shared with you. I think he is really one of the best commentators. But at this point, I have to totally disagree with Brother Boyce, who now knows the truth because he's with the Lord in heaven. He says that these three parables are about the counterfeit work of Satan and its growth. And I think that's not true. I think it's about the work of God. The simplest reason is because each parable is introduced by the statement, the kingdom of heaven is like. Not the kingdom of Satan. And I think it'll become clear to you this is about the work of God. That leads to the third preliminary observation, which is the question, what is this kingdom? Somebody asked me last week after the message, so what do you mean by kingdom? What does Jesus mean when he says kingdom? The kingdom of heaven. Is he talking about heaven? Heaven is like That doesn't seem well no, it's really not about that. So what I put in there is if I were to boil down all the theological writings, all the stuff people talk about the kingdom, all the scripture says into one sentence. This is how I would describe what Jesus means by the kingdom, what the scripture means by it. The kingdom is God's rule. Not a place so much as his dynamic rule. It's God's rule being extended over the nations Until all evil is destroyed and Messiah rules unopposed forever It is God's rectifying all the brokenness, bringing about a people in whom he rules, and then extending his rule. over the nations, through Messiah, who will rule unopposed forever. So when you read the kingdom of heaven is like in each of the parables, that's plug that in. That's what he's talking about. This extension of God's rule in this new age that is entering as God's rule breaks upon history. Now, let's look at the five lessons By the way, when you read that phrase, the kingdom of heaven, in Mark and Luke, it's the phrase, same phrase is the kingdom of God. Mark and Luke talk about the kingdom of God, where Matthew talks for his reasons about the kingdom of heaven. Same exact thing. Five lessons then, uh as what it is what this is all about is an overview of Christian history. And uh bird's eye view with some very important lessons for us. And the first lesson The one I really hope, and in the discussion of the sermon this morning, I think this came through, at least to some people, is that this is to encourage your faith. If you're struggling with some doubts, things that don't make sense in your life this morning, Jesus wants to encourage your faith. by seeing that he anticipated and was confident in the astounding growth of the gospel among the nations in history This gospel came from an insignificant beginning. This was a gospel which was pictured by the mustard seed. You see it there in Matthew 13, verses 31 and 32. He told them another parable. The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed. which a man took and planted in his field. Though it's the smallest of all your seeds, yet when it grows it's the largest of garden plants and becomes a tree actually a about a twelve foot shrub, ten to fifteen feet, but approximately a twelve foot shrub that looks like a tree, so that the birds of the air come and perch in its branches. Now for anybody who may have heard this that I remember was a big discussion back in the 70s, discussion about the inerrancy of scripture. People used to use this mustard seed thing to prove that the Bible is not really inerrant. Because they would say, we all now know that the mustard seed is not the smallest of seeds, so when Jesus says the smallest of seeds, It shows that he was just captured by his own culture and didn't know that. That's really beside the point. What Jesus is doing here is he is using a common phrase from the rabbis. The rabbis would had a lot of stories in which they would talk about the mustard seed, which is the smallest of seed, to talk then about a contrast with greatness. So Jesus just uses a common phrase, common idiom, says the smallest of your seeds, the ones that you're familiar with. And so that's not an issue. Don't let that distract you in the fact that in fact the apparently the sequoia seed is much smaller and produces a much larger plant. But that's not what Jesus was talking about. Alright. Notice he also talks about the birds that are flocking to and resting in this shrub. There he's picking up on Old Testament imagery of the kingdom, twice in Ezekiel, once in Daniel. They speak of the kingdom of God that is coming. like a large tree in which all the birds of the heavens, different birds, weak, frail birds, finding shelter in the branches of this tree. So Jesus is using that kind of image. He's also countering the common Jewish understanding and expectation of the kingdom. because they thought that when Messiah came, that there would be a roll of drums, a blare of the trumpets, and he would burst onto history Stating that his rule had come in a way that would cause Rome to cower all the enemies of God's people to to run and fly in terror because he had come now in a great blaze of glory. And Jesus says, nope, it's not going to happen that way. God's power is going to be displayed in weakness. It's going to be coming something that you could write off. You might say there's really nothing here very spectacular about Jesus. He's somebody that wasn't inherently attractive to people. The kingdom is going to come in weakness. And even after his death, remember the remaining eleven of his disciples Are not demonstrating any power. They're cowering in a room, huddled in terror, lest they be found out as his disciples. Jesus is raised from the dead, and soon there are thousands of believers in that local area who go to the different parts of the earth and these people bring that gospel, but even in the first three centuries, as I said. They continue to be scorned and persecuted. And then the Holy Roman Empire makes Christianity a worldwide phenomenon. It continues to grow so that today Approximately one out of every four people on the face of the earth call themselves Christians. Now we know that far fewer are actually believers. But Christianity has become the large shrub that dominates the landscape The mustard seed has grown inexorable, irresistible in the power of the kingdom. Currently, Christianity is growing at about twice the birth rate. in the world. Current birth rate's about one point seven increase per year. Christianity is growing about two point nine percent per year. Evangelical Bible-believing Christianity is growing at about 4. 7% per year. In the last ten years, it is estimated that there have been approximately Three hundred million conversions. Genuine conversions. What's interesting about three hundred million conversions is Where they are. About ten million of those have been in North America and Europe, which means about two hundred and ninety million of those conversions. have been in the developing countries, the global south countries like Nigeria and Brazil and China 290 million versus 10 million in what we've considered to be the Christian West. The mustard seed is growing and conquering and It is being displayed among all the nations. Take, for instance, our own denomination. uh Orthodox Presbyterian Church, we have less than thirty thousand members, including baptized Uncommunicant members. Our sister denomination, the Reformed Church in Brazil, with whom we have fraternal relations, has over 800,000 members. And that's typical of so much. Christianity is the fastest growing religion in the world, currently growing at about twice the rate of Islam. Take, for instance, the Philippines. 1975, 3,000 churches in all the Philippine Islands. 2005, 30 years later, 55,000 churches. The Filipino Church plans to send in the next 15 years 100,000 self-supporting missionaries in the hardest countries to reach in the world Countries in the 1040 window, mostly Muslim countries, their strategy is that the Filipino Christians have gained a tremendous reputation as domestics. hardworking, faithful, honest. They place themselves in Muslim households and bring the gospel. Hundred thousand are planning to do that. It's the largest missionary force sent by any country in the world. The Philippines. Or take China. 1948, it was estimated there were less than one million Christians in China, and then it was closed to the gospel, and it exploded. For Jesus says the mustard seed is going to grow, and my power is unstoppable. The gates of hell cannot prevail against it. So 60 years later, it's estimated there are about 125 million Christians in China. From 1 million to 125 million in 60 years, and most of that growth has been in the last 30 years. Do you know what that means? That means there's more Christians in China than in North America. Missionary Presbyterian told us yesterday, it works over there, that he has heard recently there are more professing Christians in China than professing communists. The gospel is unstoppable. Jesus was confident of that. He saw that And as you worship him and trust him this morning, this week, let that sink into you. Jesus saw that. He's confident in the gospel. He wants you to join him in that confidence in the power of the gospel. And so our own World Missions Task Force seeks to lead us in the wonderful privilege of participating in that global project of the mustard sea growing so that all the birds of the heaven come and they gather in the branches of that tree for shelter and safety and refuge into Jesus, King Jesus. It's a privilege to have them lead us in that Let's see that as we hear the call and are challenged to display, to make our resources and our lives available to King Jesus in this endeavor. That's all the first insight, first lesson. Second one is insight. And the insight that Jesus gives to us is to not be surprised at the mixture Of genuine and nominal Christians in any culture where Christianity has taken hold. The mixture of the wheat and the weeds. The Son plants good seed, it says. Satan, the enemy, plants the bad, the evil seed, and they are mixed together Now be clear, absolutely clear, this is not about the church. He says in his interpretation of this that the field is the world. The field is the world. It's not the church. Jesus is not saying in let these two grow together, don't disturb them, that the church should not practice discipline. To seek to be as pure as possible believers who are in fact following Jesus and bearing fruit So what's he saying? Remember, it's about the kingdom, and the kingdom is broader than the church. The kingdom is where any Christians are exercising influence to bring God's rule to bear. upon their culture and their world. So when Christians are doing that, he's saying there will always come the counterfeit right alongside it to confuse people. What he's describing is wheat and a plant that was called bearded darnal. Sometimes we call it tares. But bearded darnal is a plant that looks very much like wheat. particularly when they're young before the heads come. The problem, the insidious problem of trying to wheat weed out bearded darnal is that its roots entangled themselves with the roots of the wheat. So if you pull up the bearded Darnell, you're going to pull up the wheat too. And so the servants asked, you want us to go pull up the weeds? No, don't, because in doing that you will also harm the wheat. Wait until that day, the final separation, when they're both pulled up, one to be burned, the other placed in the barn. So when you look at church history and you ask yourself, why in the world did God allow in the Roman Empire, in the medieval Catholic Church, to be all these people that called themselves Christians and most of them weren't Christians and had only a superstitious understanding of religion and God didn't do anything about it. He let it go on for hundreds of years Well, we may not understand it, but Jesus says right here, that's what's going to happen. They didn't understand it either. The servants say, why are you doing this? Be patient, he says, I have my purpose, I don't want to harm the wheat. So you look at America America with its tremendous influence of Christianity in the early founding days with the founding fathers, and people say it was a Christian nation. We know it wasn't a Christian nation. Christian America has never been a Christian nation, but it was greatly influenced by the gospel, both in values and jurisprudence, in its declarations. But why did God allow for these people that wanted to influence America for Christ, so many people, deists and people after that who have been a counterfeit that have confused people so that they say Christianity, you know, America's a Christian nation, well, it's a bunch of hypocrites And it brings disgrace upon the gospel. And we say, God, why don't you do something about that? Why don't you separate and get rid of all that counterfeit? He says, trust me, hang on. I'm not ready to do anything. I'm allowing in the kingdom, beyond the church, I'm allowing the two to be together for my own purpose. Be patient. There is going to come a time when the wheats will be separated from the weeds and all will know. So even though we may not understand it, be encouraged this morning, brothers and sisters. Don't be surprised that God has allowed the counterfeit so often to confuse the world as it's mixed with the believers. That's what this parable is about. They're going to grow together until the harvest. Third Lesson for us is that until that time you and I are given a mission. And the mission we are given is to transform the individuals and the society under the rule of King Jesus. That's the point of the parable of the yeast. Verse 33 told them still another parable. Kingdom of heaven is like yeast that a woman took and mixed into a large amount of flour until it worked all through the dough. Now the picture of the mustard seed is primarily talking about evangelism, deals with numbers, visible, evident growth of the kingdom. The picture of the yeast is about what you can't see. It is about the cycleship. It is about the internal transformation. You don't see the yeast. It's placed within about 50 pounds of flour he's talking about here. And when that yeast transforms the flour, it'll be enough to feed a hundred people. So you don't see the actual yeast, you see the effects of the yeast. Now, what's that talking about? In the mustard seed, it is saying that you and I are given the commission to go make disciples, to bring the news of Jesus Christ. His death, sufficient death for the sins of sinners to transform them, forgive their sins, give them eternal life with God, to serve him and to love him forever. But it's not enough just to get people to make a decision. As we do that, we also begin to act as yeast That that person's life is transformed. The more they understand the gospel, more they're transformed by the gospel. Second Corinthians 3 Looking to Jesus as we gaze to him, we are transformed from one degree of glory to another. So you and I seek in a process to bring about that transformation. Now I've given you here on the next slide the simple process as a way of summing up what we try to do at Columbia Presbyterian. Somebody asked for a copy of this, so put a few of them out next week. But just so you understand very basically, well all we're trying to say is that if you come to Columbia Presbyterian, you say, well, you know, what are you guys going to do with me, to me, for me, if I'm part of this congregation? It's a very simple, it's a three-step process. I want to teach you to worship. That's the first thing. Most basic thing in life. You and I worship ourselves. We're self-centered. The transformation of the yeast begins by learning that we are dependent creatures and that God alone is to be worshipped. So in Romans chapter 12, by the mercies of God, present yourself as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to Him. Offer yourself to Him in worship every day. Every hour of every day, your thoughts being transformed. And Sunday, we come and we are led by Tim and his team to worship together as a corporate body. But it's not enough simply to do that individually and participate with the crowd. Secondly, the church is a community And so the second thing, the worship is the first thing, the second thing is one-anothering. That is practicing the one-anothering commands of Scripture. Over fifty times we're told in the New Testament to do things to one another. Tim prayed about some of those. Encourage one another, exhort one another, confess your sins to one another, love one another. Many things we're told to do with one another, to live in community together. Not as loners. That's the way we are transformed. That's the process of God's yeast working in us to transform us through interaction. But we don't just keep it and hoard it to ourselves. The third thing is witness. Worship one another in witness. And in the witness, we seek to bring that gospel, the truth of the message of the gospel. But not only the message of the gospel. There is that transforming quality of the yeast that changes society so that we demonstrate something of the compassion of Christ in the Route 1 homeless ministry. serving in that, or in Sandtown, in redeveloping that area of Baltimore, building homes and helping businesses. There is the work that we do as Christians bringing the rule of Christ through education, media, the arts, politics, law, government Whatever your call and my call is, we bring the yeast that transforming character, quality, values of the gospel. into the society so that people see that Christianity makes a difference. It displays the rule of Christ in our values and our lives. both in mercy and in justice. And so you have the Vandenhoovels with Drew Chandler. And they go to Ghana. To set up a business. But it's not just to set up a business to make money. It's a win-win situation to bring a pilot project of the way Christians would do business in farming. with a group of Ghana farmers to display that as a pilot project to bring yeast into Ghana. It's what we seek to do in every area as Christians as we bring the transforming power of the gospel. That's what you and I do. And notice that he says it's just a little bit of yeast and a lot of flour. You know, and you say, well, what difference can I make? Just being yeast, where you are, to display the rule of Jesus over your values and your life. Jesus says. I will take that and I will multiply that, and that's going to transform the flower so that you look at countries that have been influenced by the gospel because the gospel has come in a major way to that culture versus countries that have never had the impact of the gospel. Then compare between those countries the way they treat women The way they treat children, the value they place upon human life, their notion of justice, vengeance, all kinds of values. And you see an observable difference of the effect of the gospel. That's what Jesus is talking about. He saw that. Back here in his ministry, before his death, before his resurrection, before the church began to grow, he saw all that. He said, it's going to happen. But not only does he display that, that it's going to happen because of what I'm going to do, but you see the fourth thing, there's a warning in this. And the warning is he says the wheat and the weeds are going to grow until the harvest. And at the harvest, the angels are going to come and they're going to separate the wheat from the weeds. The weeds, you see there, verse 40, will be pulled up and burned in the fire. Verse 42, they will throw them into the fiery furnace where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Contrast. The righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father who hears, who has and he who has ears, let him hear it. It's a warning to you. So the basic question to you is, are you going to be burned or are you going to be put in the barn? Last week we talked about examining yourself whether there is fruit evident that shows you understand the gospel. And some of you have been asking that question and searching and thinking about yourself and thinking about people close to you. Have you resolved it? Has it been settled? Don't let those questions go until you have full peace with Jesus Christ. Yes I believe that by his grace, by his mercy, I am the wheat that he is transforming by the power of the gospel. Because if not, he uses the image of a fiery furnace I don't believe the fiery furnace is literal. I believe it's a symbol, because I don't believe that we are going to be placed in a literal barn, which is the alternative. The picture is of immense, intolerable suffering, weeping and gnashing of teeth. And he gives you a visible image of it. versus the safety and the security of the Father placing you in his barn as his own, his precious treasure. Perhaps you were praying about somebody last week that you need to warn, to raise those uncomfortable questions about whether they're wheat or weeds. Have you had that conversation? We urge you again to continue to pray and don't give up. I've been talking to people that know they need to have those conversations, and I want to encourage you. Don't give up on us. They don't warn them, who will if you don't. But then finally, there is the hope. That's the last thing. There is a hope because that day is soon coming of the great division, and there are two things that Jesus will do besides what he does toward those who are his own. The first is that he will take those who cause sin and evil, and they will be destroyed. Verse 41: The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will weed out of his kingdom. Everything that causes sin and who do evil. No more counterfeit in the kingdom. No more counterfeit mixed in Confusing. There will be nobody who does anything mean, evil. You will be at every place at all times safe. In that kingdom, the kingdom of your Father, your heavenly Father, who will be the Father to you you never knew on earth. In all his love and power and compassion, that's heaven That is the display of his goodness. That is your hope. And if Jesus was able so accurately, To predict what would happen to Christianity in the centuries after him. It would grow in numbers, it would grow in influence, it would grow in the way it transforms culture, and there would be both the real and the counterfeit side by side to confuse people Can you not trust him when he says, there's going to come that day when I will destroy all evil? And you who know me and love me Will not only be in a place where there is no evil, but you yourself will shine like the sun. Verse 43. The righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their father. Shine like the sun. What does that mean? I don't know. But it pictures something which is beautiful and glorious like a crisp September morning and you see the sunrise and you see the beauty and the glory of it and a clear blue sky and you say, That's beautiful, it's glorious and he says, That's what you will be I will bring you to become like me, and you will be beautiful and glorious in that day. Daniel 12, 3 says it like this: those who are wise will shine like the brightness of the heavens. And those who lead many to righteousness like the stars for ever and ever. That is your inheritance. That is your hope this week, because Jesus, who knows everything and is King over all, has promised it for you. Amen. Let's pray. Lord our God, increase our faith as we see that you know perfectly everything you're talking about. These parables are just amazing. Lord, I pray that people will think about and meditate on this week till their hearts are warmed with confidence in Jesus. And then, Lord, that we will be obedient to the mission that you have given to us while we wait for that hope. The hope of glory when we will shine like the sun, like the very stars transformed in all of our character in that place where there is no evil. or anything that causes harm. And Jesus rules unopposed forever and forever. Lord help us to warn those that we know who are deceiving themselves that they are the wheat when in fact they are the weeds. And Lord, give to us deep in our hearts that hope to live by this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.