Well, we are finally back to Matthew after all these months. But don't get too comfortable because it's only for one week. And then I know. Uh then we will take four weeks of a special series for Easter. For a Good Friday and for Easter. And then we will resume for a lengthy period of time the book of Matthew, resuming the Sermon on the Mount after Easter. And so this morning all I have time to do, I wish it could be connected. We were it was going to be two weeks, but the snow reduced it to one week. So all I have time to do is one week of introduction to this major section of the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapter 5, verses 21 to 48 that you heard John read. Now, in this section, Jesus is doing something immensely important for you and for me. Because there is a misunderstanding. This is a hard group of material. People debate this, what is meant by it And there is, beyond all the particulars that are difficult to understand, a basic misunderstanding of this text and of commandments of Scripture in general. And Jesus is addressing this not particularly to Pharisees, but to those who were taught by the Pharisees, that is, religious folks who want to do the right thing, and heard what the teacher said and tried to obey it. And he is saying that we almost always misunderstand what the Bible is trying to tell us in its commands. It's a misunderstanding that I have, and I suspect that you have also. It was helpful for me to study this passage again because I find that my mind continues to drift to a misunderstanding of God's commands and his law. And so please try to keep in mind some basic principles that I'm going to give you today for understanding the whole section as we will go through in the weeks ahead the particular six examples that Jesus gives of a wrong and right understanding of the law. Now you remember that um when I began the Sermon on the Mount, when we began talking about that, I was saying that Jesus, Matthew tells us, was going around preaching, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And the question that is begged there is, what does that repentance look like? The Sermon on the Mount is the answer to that question. So picture again, let's have the picture. The Jesus gathers these people. This picture is of the actual hillside, most likely to have been the one that Jesus actually preached the Sermon on the Mount from Right there you see the Lake of Galilee in the background. Jesus was down in the lower area. The crowds were gathered on the upper area, and the nature of this is that the human voice carries very easily up that hillside from the winds that bring it off the lake. So here we are, gathered around here, listening to Jesus down there. He begins with the word happy And he describes eight characteristics of disciples of the kingdom who repent. And those characteristics Every one of them are counterintuitive and unnatural. There's not a one of them that is the way we are wired or way our personality is. They are all supernatural. Then after that, what Jesus does is he says that if you live like these eight characteristics that are by my grace, In the world that you're in contact with, you will be salt and light to that world. You'll make a difference to that world because you can't help but make a difference as the character of Christ is displayed. Then he says something uh very radical. Because of these eight characteristics in this statement, he's saying, some of you may be thinking, I'm bringing a new religion, I'm bringing something that is different from what the Old Testament says. I want you to know. He says in verses 17 to 20, you see the outline of it we went through back in the fall. Jesus says, I want you to know that I've not come to set aside the law, I've not come to change it, I have come to fulfill it. In fact, everything I say is in complete harmony with the Old Testament. But what's even more startling of what he says is that all of your evangelical leaders, all the preachers that you listen to, all the guys you listen to on TV, turn on the radio, Listen to it in a car. All those people you're listening to, I am in complete disharmony with everything that they say. At every point. Now that sort of gets your attention because if you're one of those people sitting on that hillside and you're looking down at Jesus, you're thinking, these are the most godly people I know. I mean these guys think about God day and night, and all they talk about is how to serve him and how to obey him. And I listen to him and I man, I am nowhere where you guys are. And you're saying, verse 20, he ends this. If I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, all your preachers, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. And he said, what? Well what hope is there for us? I mean, if these guys aren't going to make it, surely I don't have a hope or a prayer. And so then Jesus goes on to give six examples of the misinterpretation that they placed on the law and the commands. Now, you and I will totally miss his point if we think that what Jesus is doing when he says, you've heard, but I say, that he is contrasting himself with the Old Testament. He's not doing that. We will also miss his point if we think that what Jesus is doing is he is explaining something to some obtuse Pharisees It really weren't very bright and they just kind of totally missed what the Old Testament was talking about. But you and I obviously know better. We've had basic gospel teaching, so we understand it. Not true. Let me tell you, I've been a Christian for 48 years, best I know. I have been to seminary. I have read hundreds, literally, of theological books. And my heart, going through this material again, was arrested by there is a gravitational pull in me to misunderstand the commands, the scriptures, laws, and edicts for my life. I don't understand it. So I suspect that there are some of you that had that same kind of trouble. You see, the Pharisees' hearts were like my heart. It wasn't a matter that they didn't have the right education. There is a bent to the human heart that does something with the law that you and I do, that they did That is instructive as we go through this, because if you understand what Jesus is saying It will produce a radical new freedom in your understanding of Scripture and the Christian life. Now, do I have your attention? Curious? Let's go through just some introductory comments, then we pick up after Easter the particulars. Two things I want to look at this morning. First of all, the nature of the contrast, and then secondly, the heart of the contrast. First of all, the nature of the contrast, I'll say it again. It is not between Moses and Jesus. It's not the Old Testament versus Jesus. Some people say that what he's doing is showing that this is what the Old Testament says, but I say to you, no. Whenever Jesus refers to the Old Testament, he introduces it by the phrase, it is written. And you see some examples there, chapter 4, verses 4, 10, verse 7. He does not say that in any case in chapter 5. Here in each of the six examples, he begins them by, you have heard that it was said, or it has been said. For instance, in chapter um by the way the the one um yeah Well, verse 43 is a good clue that Jesus is not contrasting himself with the Old Testament because he says, you've heard that it was said, love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Now what's the verse in the Old Testament that says to hate your enemy? Well, I obviously read any such verse in the Old Testament. But that's what they were saying because they were taking the instruction about uh Destroying the Canaanites and the enemies of the people of God to say, well, that's something that you can do. You can hate those that are your enemies and God's enemies. That's not in the Old Testament. Take a look back at verse 27 as an example where Jesus says here, You have heard that it was said, Do not commit adultery. But I tell you, see, contrast, that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully He says this again in verses 31, 33, 38. Take a look at verse 43. He says there, you have heard that it was said, love your enemy and hate your enemy. Love your neighbor, hate your enemy. But he see, but I tell you to love your enemies. So the contrast is between the Pharisees' teaching and Jesus' teaching. That's what he is setting himself against. Notice also in doing that that Jesus says in every case, but I say to you. He does not quote another authority. He doesn't say, but this rabbi was right and that one was wrong. He simply says, you've heard the whole pack of them, but I say to you. Now that is astounding because no rabbi at that time did that. They would always quote other rabbis. In fact, at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, you look at chapter 7, verses 28 and 29, it says, when Jesus had finished saying these things, the crowds were amazed at his teaching. Because he taught as one who had authority. But I say to you, not as their teachers of the law, who are always quoting other rabbis Now, uh Tim Floor, some time ago, sent me an email on interpreting a stop sign. How to interpret a stop sign. And this goes through how different people would interpret a stop sign. Postmodernist, uh Marxist, uh educated Catholics, uh average Catholics, fundamentalists, suburban preachers, and whatnot. And if you want to see those in Shimta afterwards, I'd love to, but it would get us off track. But number seven deals with an Orthodox Jew or a typical Jew in the line of the Pharisees that Jesus is talking about. And let me just give you a part of this. It goes on and on, but I'll just give you a part of it. Somebody told me after the first service, I think after half of it you made the point. So I'll just give you a half of it. An Orthodox Jew would do one of two things. Number one, take another route to work that doesn't have a stop sign, so he doesn't run the risk of disobeying the law. Or number two, stop at the stop sign and say, Blessed art thou, O Lord God, King of the universe, who has given us thy commandment to stop. Wait three seconds according to his watch, then proceed. Incidentally, the Talmud has the following comments on this passage. Rabbi Mir says, He who does not stop shall not live long. Rabbi Hillel says, Cursed is he who does not count to three before proceeding. Rabbi Simon Ben-Yuda says, why three? Because the Holy One, blessed be he, gave us the law, the prophets, and the writings. Rabbi Ben Isaac says, because of the three patriarchs. Rabbi Ben Yehuda says, why bless the Lord of the stop sign? Because it says, be still and know that I am God. And on and on and on. You had this list of all these rabbis quoting and illustrating and back and forth. And you see the rabbis loved the game of interpreting with fine logic to make a command say what they wanted it to say. And what Jesus does is he simply says, You've heard all these things I say to you. And he cuts right to the heart of the command. Now that's powerful, but it is also discouraging when you look at it at first, which brings us to the heart of the contrast. You see, the heart of the contrast is that Jesus gives us six examples of God's commands. Three of them are negative. Do not murder. Do not commit adultery. Do not break your oath. Break your word. One of them is positive. Love your neighbor, including your enemy. Two of them are permissions. When you may divorce When you may practice retribution. Now the contrast is this: the Pharisees, that is, the evangelical preachers of the day, Try to make the burden of the law's requirements more manageable to our own abilities. That was based on an assumption, never stated in Scripture, but an assumption That was restated by Charles Finney in the 19th century. And he wrote a long systematic theology that I'm sure nobody in this room has ever read, but It has influenced evangelical thinking down to the present day. And whether you've ever read Finney or not, you've been influenced by his thought. The assumption was this. God never commands something you can't do. Because that'd be unjust. It would be unreasonable. So, whatever God commands, you must be able to do it. Despite the fact that Scripture gives us many examples of God commanding us to do things we can't do. For instance, Jesus says to a dead man, Lazarus, come forth. Now Lazarus is dead. How's he going to do that? And there are other examples where Scripture commands impossible things, which gets to the heart of chapter 5. You see, the rabbis restrict the commands so they're less demanding, assuming that we must be able to do them. Or else God wouldn't have given them. And the only way they do that is to restrict it to the act alone. They extend the permission so they're more permissive, so that they're reasonable Jesus reverses exactly what they do. Jesus, as I have said before, always aims at your heart. So what Jesus does is he shows the commands are always aimed at the heart, your motives, your thoughts. They teach they refer to actions. Jesus says they refer to your heart. He presses in that the full demands of God's character revealed in his law to your heart, to my heart. And just in case, after six examples, he goes through of this to show you your anger, your vindictive nature, your lustful nature, how you don't want to love people that are mean to you. And on and on and on. Just in case you think you can somehow get a grip on those and say, well I think there's some way that I can try To seek to obey these, he finishes verse 48 with this statement: Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect. Now I have to smile as I read a number of my commentaries on that verse, because they say he couldn't mean what that sounds like. He must mean the word could be translated mature. So maybe he's saying, be mature, as your heavenly father is mature. That makes a lot of sense. How mature is God? Or be be fully developed, even as your heavenly Father is fully developed. We're going to see when we get to that. What Jesus means is exactly what he says. Be perfect, even as your heavenly Father is perfect. Now, when you look at that, then you know if you're honest with yourself, you you probably got a problem at this point because you're thinking, Jesus seems harsher than the Pharisees. I mean these guys are pretty reasonable. I thought they were the bad guys of the New Testament. Actually, when I look at what Jesus is doing compared to what they're doing, they seem more reasonable. They're saying Let us show you what God means because God is a reasonable God and here's how you can please Him. Jesus is saying, kind of like it seems to me, don't even try Because this is aiming at my heart and and and see what he's doing when he says in verse twenty I tell you, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven, is that Jesus is laying the foundation for the gospel. What Jesus is doing here, which he does not state at this point, why doesn't he state it at this point? Because a basic principle of the law of Scripture is you can't escape it too quickly. It's a problem with a lot of evangelism. You've sinned and you come short of the glory of God. You begin to squirm and say, but I got good news for you. Jesus died and it's all okay. You see what Jesus is doing in this is in his ministry, he's laying that foundation, and he wants you to sit with that for a while. He wants you to feel the full demands of the law upon your heart and your life. Now, after having done that, well, let me go back. What Jesus wants to do, you see, is to take you back to where he started in the sermon. Chapter five, verse three. Blessed are those who realize their impoverishment of spirit. And so what Jesus is doing in the rest of chapter 5 is helping you to realize the poverty of your spirit. So that when you look at those commands about murder and anger, and you say, Well, I'm not really an angry person. You know, that went so slippery that when we talked about that as staff, everybody wanted a term. So I'm going to preach one message on it. Tim's going to preach one message on it. Steve's going to preach one message on it. You know, I I think we got some angry people here because they're all saying, man, I want to have I want a shot at that one. You see, you think you're not vindictive? But take a look at what Jesus says about your heart, my heart. So that we see our poverty of spirit So that we see Jesus' words search us, examine us, look at us, and we see that what Jesus is doing here is he's not trying to be difficult. Jesus is not trying to say, now you're cruising along thinking you're okay. I just want to mess up your life. I just want to make you feel miserable for a little bit. I mean, that's my job. When you come to church, you're supposed to feel miserable, guilty, shameful, right? No, Jesus isn't trying to be difficult. Jesus is simply trying to show you and me what our hearts are like. And he needs to penetrate a lot of defensive um defenses and and um All kinds of um can't think of the word, all kinds of ways that we contrive in order to say, I can get a handle on that. I can manage that. So instead of paring it down so it's manageable, so that you would feel like, yeah, you know, I need God's help, but I can handle it. And then despise people who seem more unable to handle it than you. He wants you to see the poverty of your spirit so you and I cry out to him for mercy. Why? This is most important because it is your goodness that keeps you from Christ more than your badness. Your badness makes you say, Yeah, I need some help. It's your sense of goodness. That causes you to think you can handle it yourself without a Savior. Your goodness keeps you from Christ more than your badness. And Jesus is trying to strip that away because he wants to be your Savior and there is no other. So what he does is through his ministry, he begins to give hints. Hints of the gospel. For instance, after this, no hint of the gospel here. He gives you, by the way, we'll see as we go through this that Jesus gives you that which strips you bear in your heart, but he also gives you some principles about how to live. And and those principles are profound, and we'll look at those So this is not simply to convict you. There's also a lot of wisdom in how to live. But then when he goes beyond that, you get up to, for instance, chapter 9 And this fellow who is a paralytic is brought into Jesus and what he wants to be is healed. What's the first thing Jesus does? He says, your sins are forgiven. Well, wait, where's that coming from? We didn't ask for his sins to be forgiven. We asked for you to heal his paralysis. Because Jesus understands that's the deepest need. He goes on a little later in that same chapter to talk about I have asked I have required mercy, not sacrifice. I've come, he says For not the righteous, but for sinners. I've come for them. They're the ones I've come to give help. So in chapter 11, verse 28. Come to me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, that are burdened by the weight of the law in your life, that you cannot accomplish. Come to me, and I will give you rest. It's an invitation, you see, to those who realize after seeing his ministry, living under that ministry, Lord, I can't do this. Come to me then. So then uh finally in that night that he was betrayed when he has the Lord's Supper, what does he say? You see it up there. This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is given for the forgiveness of your sins. That's the issue. You and I need to know that we need forgiveness and that there is forgiveness. Now it's after his resurrection, when his work has been completed, that he leaves it to his disciples, his apostles, the writers of the New Testament, to spell out the gospel. Such as in Romans chapter 3, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, and are justified freely by the redemption that is in Christ. And so you get all this explicit teaching then in the rest of the New Testament about what Jesus is laying the foundation for in chapter 5 of Matthew. So when you first heard the gospel, you realized my life comes short of the glory of God. I need forgiveness. I need mercy, didn't you? And you ran to Jesus. He forgave you your sin. He gave you a new life. But the amazing thing is that we forget Isn't it? We forget. And so at the beginning of our Christian life, our response to him was, Lord, what do you want me to do? And I read the Bible and I looked at all these things, and I remember as a new Christian Taking steps of faith and doing stuff I wouldn't have dreamed of doing. You know, Lord, because I, you know, I've got a new life in you and I love you. And then what happens? Gradually, begin to bring little offerings. To prove that you've really changed. Lord, you know, I really have changed. And that leads us on a slope where when we read the commands, And they strip us so that we feel like, I read that, and I don't feel like I've changed at all. So what do I do? Either the cross grows, and I come to realize, yes, I need a bigger Savior than I realized I needed, or I begin to pare down the commands, I begin to pare down my nature, I begin to say, you know. I mean, do you ever come to church and say, I wish for one week we could forget the confession of sin part? Just come and say, hey, here's a great week. I pulled it off this week. You know man, it was a good week. Don't need the confession of sin part. Let's just go on to the gospel and that's great, you know. Don't you feel like that? I am so tired of confessing my sin I am so tired of looking at my heart and saying, yes, Lord, I failed again. Yes, Lord, I know that's what I'm like. I know that, Lord, I'm getting tired of confessing it So a strange thing happens. I find often Christians are more in denial of their sin than non-Christians. Because the non-Christian says, yeah, I don't get mad, I get even. Why, you know? Or you kidding after the way she treated me, I am never talking to her again. Christians don't say those kind of things. We want the revenge. We hate her just as much. But we say, well, you know, let me tell you, let's pray for her. You know, we we do this other stuff, you see, because we're trying to say, I've really changed. I know I ought to be different. And when I come to a passage like this, and Jesus shows me what my anger is like, and what my lust is like and what my desire for revenge is like, and how I do not want to turn the other cheek. I do not want to resist. I mean I I want to resist the evil person. I don't want to love my enemies. I don't even want to want to do those things. And we look at that and we say, uh, you got you got three kinds of responses. Maybe the best way to picture this is just imagine somebody Who has authority over your life. And so you're accountable to this person. And they tell you what you need to do. And so you go out and you try. And you fail. And they tell you you failed. You failed. Alright, I'll try again. I'll try harder. You try again. They say, you failed again. Alright, I'll try again. After the third time, not only do you get a little frustrated, you're probably getting a little angry, a little ticked. So then you either get angry at the person, or with that, you may want to start avoiding the person. Till finally, after the fourth or fifth time of hearing that you have failed, what do you do? You yell at him. What is with you? You are impossible to please. And that's the way we look at the Lord, isn't it? And so some of us get angry at them. And some of us just avoid them. And some of us keep trying harder. And what Jesus wants to do is to say, when you come to Him, you are impossible, please. What do you want me to do? To say, My child. I want you to come to me the way you came to me at the beginning, with empty hands, not pleading your case. That you're trying harder, and don't I see that? And why can't I recognize it and give you a little credit? But you simply come with empty hands. And you recognize your poverty of spirit, and you say, Lord, that's what my heart's like. And I can't change that. And if I'm going to change, You're going to have to be the one that will change me. And then a strange and beautiful thing happens When you come to him in that poverty of spirit, you begin to see your life looking more like the commands. And you realize that you couldn't have done that. That only Jesus, who you see offering again and again the forgiveness. The power of his spirit brings you to say, by God's grace, I'm different. And that's what the gospel's about. And that's what chapter five's about. Let's pray. So Lord, we uh we're a bunch of people who look and say, Yeah, tell me what it is. Let me try harder. I'll keep going. And by doing that, we tend to live more and more in denial of our sin. And we know that because if somebody comes and tells us about our sin, we're very defensive. We don't like to hear that. We certainly not do see as a friend somebody that shows us what our heart's like. And Lord Jesus, we're ashamed to admit it, but we don't see you as a friend sometimes because you show us what our heart is like. And we run from you. We flee you. We avoid you. And some of us have been avoiding you for a long time. We don't like to read the Bible. It just shows us our failure. And we miss the grace. We miss the good news. Because we have forgotten our poverty of spirit. And so we pray this morning, Holy Spirit That you would show us once again the poverty of our spirit. That you would make us able to hear this word as it comes to us in the next weeks. To say it is the word of one who loves us, of one who wants to show us what God's character is, which is reflected in the law. Because we are made in your image, we are to reflect that too, and to recognize we simply can't But it's as we come to you with empty hands, admitting what we're really like, that you do that mysterious work of changing our hearts to love that law. And to want to serve you and to obey you. And you get the glory for that. Because that's not us. And so Lord, I thank you for those that in the middle hour struggled as we struggled with that and what it means. Lord, cause each one of us here. To wrestle with what you're saying, that it might liberate us from our own self-righteousness to see Christ sufficient