Well, I think you got me want to sign up for that course. That let me in? No. Gotta be a female. Okay. Forty years yesterday. That's great. And you know what? Um, yesterday was also Ginger Lori's birthday. Now I'm not going to tell you how old she is, but she was born on our wedding day. Tom has no such landmarks that we can identify him with. Happy birthday, Ginger. W. Somerset Mawn in his 1915 classic of Human Bondage writes about an orphan, Philip, who has a club foot. He endures much suffering physically, but particularly emotionally, by the rejection that he gets from his classmates in boarding school. And one day they're in a Bible study, and he comes across the words of Jesus, whatsoever you ask in prayer, believing, you shall receive. Shortly after that, he hears a sermon on that, and he decides that this is God's word to him. So he decides to ask God to heal him of his club foot. He reads this verse over and over and over until he believes it with all his heart that God is able and willing to heal him of his club foot. So one night he confidently goes to bed, fully expecting to awake the next morning with his club foot healed. And what happens? Well, of course, he wakes up the next morning, his clubfoot is not healed. No different. At first, he's confused. Disoriented. Eventually he loses his faith. He decides that his uncle and all those that have told him about the Bible have lied to him. Because if God can't make good on this promise, then he really can't be a God who exists. And he rejects him. Now that's what I call the vending machine view of prayer. You put in a certain amount of faith, and out comes the answer. Need a bigger answer? Got to put in more faith. But it's a matter of input and output. Now, just on the face of it, there's a number of problems with this kind of view of prayer First of all, there is the conflict problem. I mean, told you last week about the girl who was claiming from God all these gold medals. But what about the other girls who were reading the same verse and also claiming gold medals? What does God do? And then there is the problem of foolish requests. Some of you may be familiar with Garth Brooks. Song, country song, where he talks about this old high school girlfriend he had, and he bumps into her years later, remembers that he had asked God to give him the heart of that girl And now he is saying, Thank God for the gift of unanswered prayers. Boy, am I glad God didn't answer that one, you know? How many prayers that you might have prayed that you say Thank you, God, you didn't answer that. And then of course there's the ultimate problem that such a view of prayer makes you, Lord, and God the servant, like a genie in the bottle, where you name it and claim it. Just bring it before him in faith, and there it is, and God is supposed to respond and give you what you want. So clearly, this is not the God of the Bible. And we're confused about prayer. Jesus is giving us an alternative view to the way we normally think about prayer, and I think it may help to see it diagrammed in two circles or ovals here. So let's get those up on the screen. You see there on your left, self-centered praying. This is the way our hearts incline, I believe. We start at the very center. And what I'm feeling is my needs, and so I pray for my provision, my peace, my protection. That's what dominates my thinking, that's what dominates my prayer life. If God comes through and he grants me some of those requests, he does what I want, then I give him thanks, I may worship. And then I I may even get to the point where I think about his name and his kingdom and his will, and I you know I really want to stretch and go the extra mile and pray for the things that concern that. But the center of it has to do with my peace, my provision, my protection. Now Jesus' alternative, which you see on the right there, God-centered prayer, starts with Thinking who it is that we pray to. Our Father in the heavens, the sovereign ruler of the heavens. The one who is in charge of all things, who invites us through the gospel to call him Father, Daddy He has adopted us in Jesus Christ. And as you think about those two ideas that he's near, caring, he's capable and fully sovereign. then you worship, your heart is drawn to worship. And as a result of that being the focus, the central idea, the beginning, the foundation, you move to His name, Kingdom, Will. Lord, your name. be hallowed, your kingdom come, your will be done. That's what flows from it. Then fitting in around that Don't just end with that, but sitting in around that you bring now come to my provision, my peace, my protection. That's the alternative. Now let me just ask you, as you look at that, which of those circles tends to more describe the way you think about your prayer life? I mean, be honest. Nobody's got to check it off and I've got to check your bulletin outline. Which one of these more describes your prayer life? And so you see, Jesus needs to teach us. We need to submit. We need to learn from Him about God-centered praying. It's not natural to us. So we begin, our Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name. May your reputation be enhanced today through me. in every way possible, to all the world, wherever I'm in contact, so that people will respect you and take you seriously. That's what you're praying. And then the second petition flows immediately from that, Matthew 6, verse 10. You start off, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, then your kingdom come. Your kingdom come. And what does that mean? What are we praying in that? What do we mean by God's kingdom? It's an unfamiliar concept to us, isn't it? So we need to go back and try to understand this idea, the biblical idea of kingdom. And I want to help us to grasp that. By presenting the idea of kingdom and what we are praying for in this request by looking at kingdom in terms of three tenses. To look at God's kingdom in the past tense, the present tense, and the future tense, what it means, your kingdom. Come. So the first thing is to look at it in terms of the past, the vision of your kingdom. Past. You need to understand the world in terms of kingdom. See, we don't think in terms of kingdom. We're not kingdom conscious. In fact, when we look at history, We kind of tend to look at history as sort of just unfolding the way it does, with God occasionally active. occasionally intervening in response to the prayers of his people for deliverance, for instance in the American Revolution or the Civil War where you had both sides sure that they were on God's side and praying for their victory, where you have World War I, World War II praying against tyranny and evil Um after that maybe gets a little messier, but you know, there is this idea of we're praying for God to intervene But rather, what the Bible teaches us to do is to see all of history in terms of kingdoms, to understand that that's the lens through which we are to see history. The Bible begins by telling us that God created the heavens and the earth, and that he created men and women in his image to rule in his place over the world. The Bible tells us also in Revelation chapter 12 that before God had created men and women, he created another set of beings, angels, who perfectly did his bidding. But there was one of these angels, Satan, named means adversary, who led a revolt against God's rule and his authority to establish an alternate kingdom, an alternate rule. And so when God establishes these king and queen in a perfect garden, Satan comes into that garden to tempt Eve by casting aspersions on God's good intentions. Casting doubt upon his goodness. And Eve succumbs to the temptation. She eats the fruit. She gives it to Adam. And in doing that In that act of disobedience, they have sided with Satan and his kingdom. So now rather than one kingdom, there are two kingdoms. There is God's kingdom and there is Satan's kingdom. And God gives a promise at that point that he will eventually send forth a Messiah who will come as king in order to do fatal damage to Satan and his kingdom, who will ultimately crush his head. But this is going to be a long, protracted struggle. And the rest of the Old Testament is the story of the conflict of these two kingdoms. So you have God coming at one point where he brings Israel out of bondage to the kingdom of death in Egypt. And when he brings them out to the wilderness to serve him, he says to them in Exodus chapter 19 and verse 5: Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant Then out of all the nations, you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, I'm king, rightful king of all my creation, you will be for me a kingdom of priests. And a holy nation. You're a subset within this cosmic order, particularly to be to me a kingdom of priests, a holy nation. And so God institutes what I call the Palestinian Pilot Project. God establishes a piece of real estate where he distinctly and uniquely rules as king. This land runs by God's laws. These kings are appointed by God to rule for him. The Palestinian Pilate project of the kingdom. And it's an utter failure. Why? Because as God says through his prophets There's a need for a new heart to be able to function in this kingdom. So Ezekiel and Jeremiah says, I'm going to establish a new covenant, and in that new covenant I am going to give you a new heart. I'm going to take away from you the heart of stone. I'm giving you a heart of flesh that will want to live in submission to my perfect laws. And that's the promise of what God is going to do under a new covenant. And so in Matthew Matthew comes and he says, I've come to give you the good news. The king has come. And what happens? The first thing that Jesus does, he goes out into the wilderness, not a garden now, but it's a wilderness. And you have two kings meeting head on. You have Satan coming again with the temptations. You have Jesus resisting those temptations. The two kings in mortal combat and Jesus doesn't flinch and he wins the contest. And as a result of that, what does he do? The very next verse. Look in Matthew chapter 4. In verse 17, from that time on Jesus began to preach, repent for the kingdom. of heaven is near. In other words, this kingdom is right here. It's come. I am now bringing it in. I am ushering it into history. Verse twenty-three. Jesus went throughout Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom. And healing every disease and sickness among the people. Do you see how those things go together? Why? Because God's kingdom is the restoration of all the brokenness of the fall. And so this kingdom comes with power, and Jesus brings about healing. Jesus brings about restoration. He's setting things right. And so he begins his first definitive sermon, the Sermon on the Mount that we've been studying for months now. He begins it with the Beatitudes, the statement of the blessings of the kingdom. What it's like for the disciples, his people that are citizens of this kingdom, and how does he begin? So you see in Matthew chapter 5, verse 3, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom The last Beatitude, verse 10, blessed are those who persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. It's a Hebrew device called inclusion. Where the first statement and the last statement, when they're the same thing, it means everything else in between is just amplifying and unpacking that. It's all about the kingdom. This is what he's saying. Think of it down to verse 20. And he says, startling to them, I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. What does he do? We saw how he gives us then six examples of how our righteousness will always be insufficient. Never be able to enter in by our own righteousness. Our hearts are simply so twisted. That our righteousness is entirely deficient. But Jesus says you need to enter the kingdom. Do you get that? You're not born into the kingdom. If you don't have Jesus Christ in your life this morning, you're not part of that kingdom. You need to enter that kingdom. So what does he say at the end of chapter 6 after this, the Lord's Prayer? Verse 33, seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, not your own righteousness. You only get into that kingdom by his righteousness. And all these things, all the material things that he talks about that we'll be looking at weeks ahead, will be added to you. So the king has come to bring the kingdom. Jesus is the king. And he brings the kingdom not through political or military power to establish his kingdom, but through weakness. This king comes and he defeats Satan in his kingdom through dying rejected, spat upon, and cursed upon a cross. But because he is innocent, he is eligible to take upon himself your sin and my sin. And he is judged for that sin and therefore able to give to you his righteousness that becomes the qualification for entering that kingdom. Isn't that amazing? I mean that's just staggering, isn't it? What a plan. And so because he has accomplished that, he's able to rise again. Death cannot hold him And as he rises again, what does he say? All authority in all of heaven and earth has been given to me. I am the king. Therefore go and make disciples of all the nations. That's the plan. That's the vision of the kingdom. So when you see that, you need to understand your kingdom come begins by appreciating that all of history is seen in terms of two kingdoms and The victory, the establishment of the kingdom of God through Jesus Christ in his death and resurrection. And that kingdom that is now being extended, that kingdom that is now being displayed, that kingdom which has come because of his sacrifice. Cornelius Plantica wrote this little quote: Human sin is stubborn But not as stubborn as the grace of God, and not half so persistent, not half so ready to suffer and to win its way. Why do we then run so quickly from grace? For this, brothers and sisters, is a kingdom of grace. Your kingdom come is a recognition. My only hope is to be part of your kingdom. My only hope is that Jesus has established the kingdom. And has invited me by the admission of my own hopelessness without him to enter into that kingdom. Have you entered into that kingdom through the narrow door of Jesus Christ? If that's still a question and an issue to you, I urge you put on the grace, famine slips now. Or see me at the door, you've already handled them in. If you still got one, you've kept it. Write it down. Somehow get to us. I want to make sure Make sure there's nothing more important than to make sure you are part of his kingdom. But there's also the kingdom in the sense of the present. Because the prayer is, your kingdom come. And so the second thing that we're doing is that we're praying in submission, that's the second blank, to your kingdom. Submission. There's really two parts to what you're praying in that. The first part is that you're saying, Lord, I am allying myself with your kingdom in submission to your rule. Now the third petition flows right from the second one. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We'll look at that next week. But I want to just observe this morning that you cannot pray your kingdom come and simply live your life centered on yourself as if only you and your family are what matter. Preserving your marriage, hoping you'll make it to 40 years. Preserving your kids, hoping they'll grow up and be able to get through all the temptations of a corrupt culture. Or get through to a decent retirement or all the other things, it's not all about that. Not that God's unconcerned with that. But the first thing is that I'm praying your kingdom come. I am part of something larger, a larger enterprise. I am part of the kingdom. I am part of the fellow citizens throughout the world, through all nations and cultures that are part of the kingdom of God. And I am praying, may that kingdom be extended. I want to live under submission to your rule as a citizen of that kingdom under you as king of my life personally. And so that prayer does something very unique for a Christian. Firstly, it moves us from complacency. Because it says I can't just live for myself, my family, and my interests. I'm part of a larger thing. I am part of the pilot projects of the kingdom to establish justice and mercy So that I am participating in something like the Sandtown Project in Baltimore or the projects of the One Voice Community of Churches to serve our community of Howard County. I am part of a larger enterprise. seeking to bring kingdom presence into our broken culture. But secondly, it delivers me from the way an unbeliever would do that. trying to establish a utopia here on earth. Because I'm praying your kingdom come and I realize that what I do will only be partially fulfilled here and now And so I'm delivered from disillusionment when the success is not what I would expect it would be after all my efforts and my valiant attempts. I realize it is your kingdom. I am simply being faithful within that kingdom to obey. And to seek to do what would demonstrate Jesus, his righteousness, his mercy, his justice within our world. Because I realize that this is a spiritual kingdom, the second thing that that means is that I pray for its advance through the Great Commission. That's the primary focus. All authority is given to me, Jesus says, in all of heaven and on earth. Therefore, go, make disciples of all nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father. and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. I am the King. Bring them into this kingdom by the gospel, the recognition of the need for my righteousness. And teach them to obey all the things that I've commanded you, see lives changed, realize The people in your family that are without Jesus Christ are in the kingdom of darkness. People among your neighbors who have things that you envy and seem to have so much together are in the kingdom of darkness without Jesus Christ. They're a part of that dominion of darkness. The people at your work, the people that you rub shoulders with, who look and act just like you, have the same kinds of interests and desires and seem to have so much in common and you look and you say, But these people Are really in bondage in the kingdom of darkness, so as Colossians chapter 1, verse 13 tells us. For he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness. That's the kingdom of darkness, Satan's kingdom. And has brought us into the kingdom of the Son that He loves, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. So He has made me a bearer of the kingdom news. And by his grace I I come and I I simply share what he has done to transfer me, what he has done to change my life in the kingdom. There's nothing I'm doing that takes my special power or anything. It's just Just a citizen of the kingdom, an ambassador to those who are in darkness. But you see, when you pray this, your kingdom comes. You're saying, Lord, make me available to that. You willing to do that? Humans understand what you're praying when you pray this, you know? I mean, there's a lot to it. Lord, your kingdom come. I'm part of that. Make me available this week. In the extension of that kingdom. As you see the wonder of that kingdom, you begin to understand more and more fully, Father Ruler of the heavens, Father, you who rule all things, you have brought me into your kingdom through the righteousness of your Son, through his death and resurrection. You have given to me the grace so that you call me your child. Father, may your kingdom come. May your kingdom come. And I'm challenging you this week, just like last week. Don't go beyond this in the Lord's Prayer. This week, Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, stop there. Say it like Tom was saying so that you feel it. You don't just hear it. You feel it in your heart. Your kingdom come Lord, your kingdom come. I want my heart to join with that cry. I want for it to sing. I want it in my being so that I feel it and I rejoice in it. I anticipate it. I can taste it. That time. When you're restoring all things new, your kingdom come, your kingdom come, your kingdom come. Amen. Say that this week until your heart enters into it And when you do, you know what there's going to be? A tremendous longing. A longing that is filled with hope. And that brings us to the last thing, the kingdom of the future. The third tense is the hope of your kingdom in the future. As your heart gets more conscious of The conflict between the two kingdoms. And your heart gets more fixed on Lord your kingdom come. I'm a part of that. Lord, whatever it takes. Lord, take me, use me, your kingdom come. Then as you pick up the newspaper, as you watch TV, you're going to be more conscious. There's a spiritual battle going on. So, for instance, you read World Magazine and this week's article. Let me read just a portion of it, a small quote. Mikey Weinstein has a battle plan. We're going to go into a court of law and lay down our own withering Field of fire and leave sucking chest wounds on this unconstitutional heart of darkness that is swept through our Pentagon and our military like a f Fascist contagion turning the Pentagon into the Pentecostal gone. What is that unconstitutional heart of darkness? Evangelicals in military leadership And he characterizes military evangelicals as narrow-minded, homophobic, misogynist bigots who ram their faith down your throat, and he's going to put an end to it. He's going to bring lawsuits against every Bible study. He's already caused the Fort Leavenworth, the chaplain, to withdraw Bible studies from off their website Because he's threatened a lawsuit, he's the fellow that brought the lawsuit against the Air Force Academy a couple years ago. He's established a A group called the Military Religious Freedom Foundation is to eradicate evangelical influence within the military. You read that and you think, hmm, boy, you know, it don't make you feel so good. But what I thought was really interesting and so encouraging was the Christian generals and the military leaders and the chaplain's response to him. It was totally non-combative. It's kind of like, yeah, well, he's gonna do his thing. That's okay. We're you know what? We're still gonna talk about Jesus, we're still gonna lead Bible studies, we'll stay within our constitutional rights. But he's not going to intimidate us. Why? Well, because we serve the king and he's going to win. You know, you got kingdom perspective. You know, we're serving under Lord Jesus. See, you've got to have that when you're engaged in the battle. When you read about Iraq and you read that half the Christians in Iraq have left Because it's intolerable to live there as a Christian. You don't know from one day to the next whether you're going to be forced to leave your house, your home, with only the clothes on your back, or you're dead. Whether you'll see a loved one killed before your eyes. Whether you'll see the brutal application of Sharia law drive you out. And you say, what God's gonna happen to Iraq? What's gonna happen to the Middle East? What are you gonna do? And you pray, your kingdom, come. Ah, yes. You're still in control. You're in charge. It's okay. And then you pick up a paper and you read at Southern Illinois University. There's a chapter of the Christian Legal Society there. And you read that the University of Southern Illinois has decided to revoke their recognition of the Christian Legal Society chapter on campus. And um kick them boss basically off campus because they um they um um are Um what's what's the word there? Um discriminate against homosexuals. It's not allowed them in leadership. And so it went to court. And you read a few weeks later that the U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals has ruled against Southern Illinois University re-established the chapter and that the university decided not only would they fully recognize the chapter now, but they granted them a $10,000 scholarship for them to administrate for the chapter. And you say, your kingdom come. Lord Jesus, you're on the throne. And the pattern is that it's a war, and in that war, you see on one line, there's a little bit of advance. You say, praise God. You look on a lot another line, there's a little bit of a retreat, but you say that's okay, because I know the final story. I know Jesus is going to win. See, some Christians look at the end times and they say the picture of the end times Is it there's just going to be tribulation, woe, and loss of faith, and it's all going to go down the tubes, then Jesus will come to rescue us? Other Christians have a very triumphalist view at the end times Jesus is going to become king, he'll dominate the nations, most people will become Christians, and the world will be basically subdued with his kingdom before he comes back. But which is it? You know I've said for years, both. My own view. The gospel will continue to make major advances, staggering advances among the nations. We'll see the Church of Jesus Christ and his kingdom advanced beyond what we can imagine. But that in that and with that there will come a withering backlash of the hatred, what I call currently the the aggressive atheist movement, and we will see worse To marginalize, intimidate, to persecute the church. Both will happen. But in the end, When Jesus comes back, what will we see? We're told in Revelation chapter 11, verse 15, we've got the inside information. For ye read there that the seventh angel sounded his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, which said, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, his Messiah. And he will reign forever and ever. No longer two kingdoms, now only one kingdom. The serpent's head has been crushed. Jesus alone is king. And all misunderstandings and discord and hatred and oppression and death and sickness and sorrow has been eliminated. Because the kingdom is the setting right of all the effects of the curse. The kingdom is the re-establishment of the rule of God. And when you pray, your kingdom come, you are praying, Lord, bring that day. Bring Jesus. Bring it to the time when I will look up and I will see him come through the clouds, and I will know that the day has come for the bridegroom to come and to receive us all into glory, and the hope will have been fulfilled. Amen. That's what you're praying. My question to you, brothers and sisters, do you live by that vision? When you pray, your kingdom come, is it that sense of history, that sense of the president, the present movement of the kingdom, and your submission and participation in that, and that hope. That captures your heart and keeps you moving and keeps you looking to Jesus. Are you aware of that? Are you living in submission to that kingdom, realizing that your life is part of something much greater than simply your own career and your own family? Did you live for this kingdom? Did you live for the advancement of that kingdom day by day? Are you longing for that kingdom to come so that you can taste it? So that you live in daily expectation of the return of Jesus Christ. I remember when Dean and I were in Nova Scotia. I was sitting one morning at the Minus Basin. The Minus Basin is the very heart. Of where the highest tides of the world come into the Bay of Fundy. Where I was within six hours, about six and a quarter hours, What was dry would be under fifty-two feet of water every day, every six and a quarter hours. God brings tons, billions of tons and gallons of water washing down that bay into those inlets and basins And as I thought of the power of the God who has created the tides, that this is my Father of the heavens. I sang before him from that old hymn, Take My Heart. It is thine own. It shall be thy royal throne. And I prayed, Lord, I want to alig myself with you as King in the establishment of your kingdom. Because you have the power and the glory. And you're surely going to win. And you are my hope this day. Help me, Lord, to live in that hope. So let's pray what's in the italics. Pray it together. Pray it out loud, and then when you come down to the for instance, I give you a few moments of silence for you to pray what that means for you in your life. So let's pray together what's in the italics. Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Bring all my desires into conformity with that. For instance, And Holy Spirit, help us to continue these prayers as we get home, as we think, and as we pray this week. Your kingdom come, and what does that mean? What does it mean for expanding my world, my vision, my understanding of who I am as your disciple, as your child? And let us live within the hope of your sure victory and soon return. In Jesus' name. Amen.