Guilt is a universal problem. You struggle with guilt? I struggle with guilt. No matter what you believe about God, you struggle with guilt. Everybody that you talk to, your neighbors, seem like they don't have any cares about that, any struggle with guilt. In fact, a prominent psychiatrist once said we could empty half the patients from our psych wards in this nation if we could get those people to truly believe their guilt has been taken away. And that was not a Christian. It's a problem that's growing in a society that denies that there is any objective sin or guilt. Very interesting. 1997, there were a total of 58 studies on record on the physical and emotional consequences of guilt and forgiveness. By 2004, just seven years later, there were 1,200 such studies, and a foundation had been established called a Campaign for Forgiveness Research. Big issue in our country. New field is developed called Evolutionary Psychology. It is the study based on the assumption that we have all evolved from animals of how Psychology, how our psychology has d evolved. And of course guilt is one of the big things they deal with. What about guilt? How do you explain guilt if um there is no God and we simply are evolved? from apes. And the reasoning goes that uh guilt was simply a human emotion that evolved to protect the species Because if you have this negative emotion when you harm someone or don't return good, then you will be more inclined to practice the golden rule. And the golden rule tends to operate to uh the maintenance of the species. And so um guilt is helpful On the other hand, some other psychologists say, no, no, no, guilt is a malady. Guilt is simply the production of control by a society that seeks to control its children and its citizens. Healthy people are those that break free from guilt, released from its shackles. Guilt is harmful, not helpful. So it goes on. Seems like there's basically three elements to guilt that you feel and I feel, whether it's that free-floating bay kind of guilt or some specific guilt. The first is a sense that I've done something wrong. I failed, did something wrong, tend to get depressed. Feeling is a failure. And second thing is that I fear the consequences of what I've done. Feel that there will be punishment or retribution. And the third thing is that I feel isolated. I feel rejected. Guilt is a very lonely feeling. Now there are three basic ways that human beings seek to cope with guilt. The first is what I call denial is to say, no, I'm really a good person. You don't understand. If you really knew me, you'd know that I am a good person and that the things that I feel guilty about are either imagined, that is, you know, I I'm I'm not really guilty about them, or there's somebody else's fault. Uh I'm the product of my dysfunctional family or whatever else, how people treated me or toilet trained me or whatever else they did. Yeah. And so Denial is a way that we deal with guilt. The second way that we try to deal with it is what I call offsetting. I try to offset my guilt by saying what I do is is has more weight. What I do good is more weight than what I do bad. So yeah, I do some bad things, but you know, I really do more good things And so I spend my life trying to impress myself and other people and God that I'm really a good person and that my bad things are the exception. The third way of dealing with guilt is through grace. And grace says that I will never get rid of my guilt, I will never work my way out of it. I must have guilt removed if I'm to be able to be rid of it. It must be taken away. People will sometimes say, you need to forgive yourself. But Grace says, no, I can't forgive myself. The only person that can take away guilt is the person that was offended. And so guilt must be something that's received on the person who is offended and removed by that person. Well, so we come To this request in the Lord's Prayer that we looked up, look at, looked at up until a month ago. We've been a month away from it, but in verse 12 we pick up now. What Jesus has been teaching us about how to pray. You remember this prayer has an address. Our Father in the heavens. You see it up here. This hand is how you should pray. Our Father in Heaven. And then it has six petitions. Three of them are about God. Hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Then the second three petitions are about us. They are the prev the petitions of the what I call the three P's, petitions for provision. For peace through pardon and for protection, for provision. Give us today our daily bread For peace through pardon. Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And then verse 13, for protection. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. So this morning we focus on that second P. Prayer for peace through pardon, forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. That is so basic and such an important request. It is the only one of the whole Lord's Prayer that I am going to spend more than one week on. Mentioned that to you at the beginning. I'm going to spend three weeks on this. This morning, I want to just look at that first Part of it. Forgive us our debts. Next two weeks we're going to look at the second part as we also have forgiven our debtors and the connection that the Lord makes between those two things. So this morning I want to focus on that one simple thing which is so basic because of this pervasive problem of guilt that we all have. Forgive us our debts. And as always, we notice that Jesus does not deal with it in a way that we would expect. He uses a particular word here, in fact, both key words in this. petition, forgive, and debts are words about debt. So sin is described in terms of debt Our guilt is described in terms of death. Now that's not obvious that that's how you would describe it. There's a number of other ways that the scripture describes sin. In fact, the King James version of this prayer that many of us grew up with are is what? Forgiveness our trespasses. And some people still sort of stumble, you know, when we pray about what are we going to say? In We're going to say trespasses, we're going to say debts, you know. Um because we're used to that. And trespass is a common word that speaks about uh one of the elements of sin. Uh missing the mark is another one, different things. But Det has a particular idea that Jesus believes it is important to convey to you and to me As we pray, forgive us for our sins. He doesn't say sins, he says debt. Now, why is that Because sin is about debt. First point. Why is sin referred to as debt? Well, because it implies we owe God something. Now, what is it that you owe God? Well, everything. I mean, what do you have that was self-generated? Everything that you and I have received was from God. Your very existence was from God. You did not decide to be born. You did not decide to come into existence in this world. In fact, when you think about it The chances against your having come into this world are absolutely phenomenal. All it took was one definitive argument between any two of your ancestors, so that they decided not to have any more kids, not to get married, and that was it for you Nothing. Your DNAs would have never come together. You ever think about that? You think I think about my parents, you know, they told me about, you know, tempestuous before they got married. Oh my, we broke up and we all said, Oh my. If I was there, you know, I'd be really sweating. Like, come on, guys, you gotta get together. Because if you don't, I'm not gonna be here. You think about that. In fact, I had a cousin fourteen years older than me once told me, you know, Al, if it hadn't been for World War II, you would not exist Gee, God brought about a war to bring um said now your parents really didn't weren't interested in having kids. They've been married a number of years and then World War II came along in the draft And all of a sudden, Al was conceived. He said, and they told me, you know, let's stay out of the war. Think of all the things, all the ways that you could have not existed. But it wasn't that you just kind of fought your way through all this improbability to come into existence. You had nothing to do with it. Life was simply a sovereignly bestowed gift to you. Your existence Is a gift from God. Not only your existence, but the sustaining of your life every day Every time we have somebody in the congregation that develops a malady, something that goes wrong in their body that I never heard of before. And I think Man, I didn't realize how delicate is the endocrine system and the immune system and the way our brain cells operate, all the things that have to be held in such balance You know, your acidic levels and, you know, electrolytes and all these various things that God sustains in you. To be healthy, to function, to enjoy life. It's a gift. You owe that to him The things that He has given to you, that you enjoy in life. You know, and here I was thinking about this and heard this week again the country song, you know, philosophers that deal with country music, you know. Montgomery Gentry's lucky man. Anybody know that song, you know? He's complaining about life and his job and this and all the things he hates, you know, and then he stops and he says, But you know Lord knows I'm a lucky man. God's given to me a pretty fair hand. Now you've got to understand in country music, lucky, doesn't just mean chance. It just means fortunate. You know. God's given me a pretty fair hand. Give me a house and a piece of land, a few dollars in a coffee can. Old truck still running good, the ticker's ticking like they say it should I got dinner in the supper in the oven. Good woman's loving. One more day. You've been my children's dad. Lord knows I'm a lucky man. You see that? I mean, you know, all the things that God has given to you, friends and family. You owe that to him. Tremendous debt. And there's nothing wrong with that But the Bible says that because we owe those things to him, he expects three things from us in our payment. The first is that we simply be grateful. Romans 1:21 says that the basic problem of the human race is that they knew God, but they did not give thanks to him. We don't get up and say, thank you, Lord. We get up and we complain and grumble about the weather or something we've got to do at work or this or that. We complain about trivia. We're not thankful to him. Secondly, the Bible says, same verse, that we should glorify him. That is that all our thoughts should be toward his reputation and his name, his honor being exalted Because of the display of his majesty and power and goodness in creation, including me. What God has done, what he has demonstrated of his wisdom and power in creating us. And so I should be thinking in every way I can, I want to focus around him. It's about him, it's not about me. And so thirdly, I owe him my obedience. When the God who has created me gives the owner's manual for here's how the things should operate, I should pay attention to it and I should be thankful for that. And I should not decide whether or not I will choose to obey it, but rather say, not only do I owe my obedience to him, but it's in my best interest because I believe he's infinitely wise, who gave it to me. And therefore Glorifying him and my own enjoyment are blended together as all the colors of the rainbow make white when they're blended together. So I owe him my thanks to glorify him and to obey him. And the Bible says that you and I have not done that To the degree that you make an effort to do that, you and I tend to make a big deal about it. I think of our refrigerator repairmen. We tend to see them every couple years, kinda like a checkup or something. Something's always going wrong with our refrigerator. In fact, we see this guy so much he's become a friend. And early on in one of his visits I had shared the gospel with him. So every time he comes to fix our refrigerator, he knows we're gonna talk about how he's doing spiritually, and it's never really good. Um but I followed him out to the truck a couple months ago when he was fixing it again. And um When I was going out there pursuing him, talking about it, he he responded, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know. I know that I should probably get more serious about God. But hey, come on, cut me some slack. I'm not that bad a guy. I mean I'm not greedy, I don't try to rip off my customers, you know, I'm I'm basically a good person. And I said, yeah, sure. Maybe compared to other people. But compared to God's standards? Let's suppose that God made your body at the standard of your level of obedience and interest in him. And he said, Hey, give me a break. Fifty percent of you operates. You know, and don't be too pushy here. What do you expect? Perfection? He has made you with a glorious body. And you ignore him. But you get off doing that. And you know what? Your goodness is keeping you from Christ more than your badness. Because you look at your goodness and think you don't owe him that much. When in fact your goodness ought to show you that it's the exception. The general flow of your life is to ignore him, to run things as if he doesn't exist or deserve anything. He mumbled something and drove off. I'll see him again. Isn't that true? You make a big deal about what we give to God. The Bible says you owe him so much more. And so Jesus says this basic prayer, forgive us our debts, is the necessary cry of our heart. And so the second point is it's about forgiveness. See, you can never work your way out of this debt. It's an infinite debt. Your only hope is forgiveness. Interesting, the English word for give comes from two parts, for, which means not like forswear, it's the negative, and then give. So it means to not give. what the person deserves to withhold that. And so the word that's used here The Greek word aphemi for forgive is a word which means to cancel or to release a debt. That's its literal meaning, to cancel or release a debt. Jesus uses debt language. The prayer is literally, Father, forgive, cancel my debt. That idea is vividly pictured in Colossians chapter 2, in its picture of Christ's work for you and for me. In Colossians chapter 2, Paul says in verse 13, When you were dead in your sins, that is, oblivious to God and the debt that you owed him, and in the uncircumcision of your sinful nature, your heart uncleans. God made you alive with Christ. Now, how did he do that? He forgave us all our sins. All our sins. And how did he do that? Having canceled the written code, the written code was technically a debt, a certificate of indebtedness. When a person incurred a debt in that society, the person who was the lender would hold a certificate of indebtedness. And that could be presented at the court if you wanted to press the claim. But there it was, you signed it, and it said, you owe $500, whatever it is, this is what you owe me Now Jesus, Paul pictures, came as the perfect son, verse 15-19 of chapter 1. He was the son who completely fulfilled every obligation to his father. All of his Thanks, His reverence, His obedience, completely fulfilled. Jesus was not in debt. But because of his love for you and for me, Jesus placed himself under the law and placed himself under the wicked. Accusations, unjust accusations that placed him on a cross. And on that cross Jesus' hands and feet were nailed to the cross. Now back to the certificate of indebtedness. When you paid off the $500 Your creditor would take the certificate of indebtedness and he would drive a nail through it. And the nail through the certificate meant it is paid in full. Do you see what Paul's saying here? He forgave us all our sins, having canceled the certificate of indebtedness with its regulations that was against us. And that stood opposed to it. He took it away, nailing it to the cross The nails in the hand and the feet of Jesus Christ were the nails of the certificate of indebtedness that said your debt and my debt were completely paid. God has marked on it paid in full. Therefore, He holds nothing of any of your sin against you. In the past In the present or in the future, it is all paid What a savior! What a gospel! What a solution to your guilt and my guilt! It is not to cope with it, it is not to accommodate it. Satan accuses you. Free-floating guilt. And what do you do? You hold up the certificate of indebtedness with the nail and you say, It's been paid. I owe nothing Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. It is all done, completely done. So you see in the next bullet there. That um he not only paid it, but he took it away What Jesus did on the cross was pictured by the goat that was or the bull that was sacrificed for atonement. But there was another goat that was used on the Day of Atonement called the scapegoat. And the scapegoat, the sins were confessed with the hands of the priest upon the head of the scapegoat, and the gay scapegoat was driven into the wilderness, never to be seen again. And that was the bearing away of the sin. And so he not only Bullet there and nailed it to the cross, but he also, the next bullet, he took it away. He removed it entirely. The debt is gone, paid, complete And the final bullet there, he did it all by grace undeserved. The word in verse 13, he forgave us, is not the same word as Matthew 6, 12. It's a different word. Which has as its root grace. It means to deal graciously with someone. It means he did not do this because we deserve to have it done. He forgave Willingly, fully, abundantly, freely, undeserved. And so when you sin You think of the sin that you do that so shames you and humiliates you and at the point you are sinning Come to your mind. He loves me even now. He does not hold even this against me. It has been paid in full. So some Christians say that any time you feel guilty, that's from Satan. Should never feel guilty because the debt's been paid. You say, well man, I'm sure doing a lot of sinning because I feel guilty every day. How do we understand that Why is it that Jesus, if that's true, that we should never feel guilt, that that's just from the evil one, why is it that Jesus taught his disciples to pray daily? Forgive us our debts. Did Jesus do this because it was before his resurrection, and you know that was a pre-Gospel statement? No. Everything in the Lord's Prayer is for you and for me. It's important here to make a basic gospel distinction between God as Judge and God as Father. And so God is judged, the next little um blank that you have there. That's what Colossians 2 is talking about. That's what Romans 8. 11, 8. 1 is talking about. There is now therefore no condemnation to him who is in Christ. It is the judicial forgiveness, the payment of the debt of your sin and my sin, of all that we owe to God as judge of our lives. One day every one of us, you and me and everyone, will stand before the judgment seat of God. And He will look at our lives and He will render an account. And if you stand in your own righteousness, you will suffer the consequences of all the things that you have done for which there is no payment. If you are in Jesus Christ by faith, having admitted your need, asked for his forgiveness from God as judge. Then because of Jesus Christ's nailing the certificate of indebtedness to the cross, you stand in his righteousness. The debt fully, completely paid. God is no longer your judge. But what he does, the gospel says, is he steps down from the bar of the judge and then he adopts you as his own child. He not only forgives you, he adopts you. And what Jesus is teaching us here is that as his children, Father in heaven, the prayer begins. So this is a prayer of the children to the Father. Father, forgive us our debts. That is speaking about relational forgiveness, not judicial forgiveness That is the prayer for forgiveness of those things that we accumulate, the debts of our going our separate ways, the barriers that come between us, the idols in our lives, the things that come. that block the relationship between the child and the father. And so this kind of um Wrong relationship leads not to a judgment, not to punishment, but to chastism. This is the loving discipline of the Father. Not a past reference to penalize you for sin, but it is a future reference to make you more like Christ. It is God's loving discipline to bring you into conformity with the image of his own son for your good. And so you are recognizing that. I recognize that. The Christian life is a life of daily repentance and faith, and it is expressed in this. In this petition, Father, forgive us our debts. We are both recognizing, thank you for the judicial forgiveness you have given to me once for all. I thank you that I am forgiven, but Father, forgive me for those ways that I continue to disobey you. Not forgive me in canceling the debt that is accumulated, but it's the relational. The relational disconnect, it is that debt, the relational debt of the disobedient child to the loving Father. It's important that you and I preach the gospel to ourselves every single day. That you see that what God is doing here is teaching you through this petition the wonder of forgiveness. That when you complain, or you criticize, or you gossip, and all the things that you and I continue to do, The provision has been made, and you claim that provision. Father, forgive us our debts. And he teaches you that by your connection with other people, as we have forgiven those who are our debtors. We'll look at the next two weeks. Next time Satan accuses you this week, in your mind, some of you are real visual, tangible kind of people. You may want to write out a certificate. This is my certificate of indebtedness. I put a nail into a clipboard or something so that I remember God has paid that debt. I no longer owe. Satan, go bother somebody else. My conscience has been cleared through Christ. My sin. Oh, the bliss of this glorious thought. My sin, not in part, but the whole Was nailed to the cross, and I'd bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. O my soul. Gracias Spafford wrote that hymn, those words, It is well with my soul, after the death of his entire family. But the wonder of sin forgiven comforted his soul and outweighed the grief of the loss of his wife and children. Brothers and sisters, there is nothing more basic in your lives than the dealing with a guilt question. Jesus Christ has dealt with that definitively. Let me ask you: have you ever asked for that forgiveness? Have you ever realized the infinite debt that you owe to a holy God for all that He has given you and what little you have returned? To come to him and to say, forgive me as a judge. You who judge my life, forgive me my debts because of Jesus Christ. We're going to pray now. And I'm going to pray about that. And if God is speaking to you now about your need for the forgiveness of God of the debt you could never pay, pray that with me. I invite you, I urge you, I beseech you, pray that prayer with me. And then we will pray also as Christians. Let's pray. So are God. We who sit here breathing, having eaten Looking forward to another meal with our bodies functioning in mysterious ways that we cannot understand, we owe you everything. We owe you our thanks, we owe you the desire to center our lives upon you for your glory, and we owe you our obedience. And we've paid very little of that. And some of us have never bothered to ask you for your forgiveness. We continue to carry around the burden of that debt. It's crushing us the ways we seek to cope. It could be through substance abuse or coping or through psychology or through blame shifting, through all kinds of things that haven't worked for us. And continue standing before us is Jesus Christ. And you, Lord Jesus, point to your cross and you say, There it is, I have paid the debt For all who come to admit their need. Will you come? And so, Lord, we pray. That your spirit would prevail upon our hearts now. That we would not be able to resist you anymore, that we would see that free offer. We would not presume upon another day to think about it. We would come right now and we would say, Lord, forgive me. Forgive my debt I want to pause right here. With our eyes still closed and our heads bowed, I want to ask if there's anyone who's prayed that prayer for the first time to ask. God through Jesus Christ to forgive your debt. And you're praying that and you're struggling through it and you're praying and you want help. Just slip up your hand so I can pray for you. Perhaps we could meet afterwards and talk about it. If you are praying that prayer, For the first time. Would you just slip up your hand quickly? Nobody will know call attention to you. Alright. Okay, Lord. Lord, you hear those prayers. You are faithful and just to forgive. Lord, would you seal to the heart of each one who has prayed that, the promise of the gospel. Our peace is as complete as our faith. Satan himself cannot rob us of the peace that is given through Jesus Christ and the certificate of indebtedness that has been paid. And as your children, we come and ask that this week you would remind us of that, so that when the guilt comes, Lord, we would be able to come as your children. Father, forgive my death You've forgiven it judicially, forgive it relationally, that nothing would be between us, that I would be able to live in the light of your presence with the joy of my salvation. And delight to call you Father. So, Lord, bring that to bear completely upon our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen