I'm trying to contrast two ways of looking at prayer that we saw last week with these two circles up here. The way that we incline to think about prayer naturally Which is that I begin with the things that are on my mind, my concerns, my provision, my peace, my protection. And then I move from that that if um God has done something that I've asked him to and I'm grateful to try to remember to say, Lord, yeah, I need to worship you and I want to thank you for what you've done And then if I can remember it to maybe eventually get to some prayers about his name, his kingdom, his will. Jesus is trying to shake us from that self-centered way of thinking because it's a way that uh does not Satisfy us or glorify him. We don't get to know God particularly better with that pattern of praying. You pray that way for months and years, and after a while you begin to wonder if the answers aren't sort of random. You know, sometimes seems like he answers, sometimes not. Not sure why does, why did he this case and that case he didn't? So I begin to adopt the just in case view of praying. You Don't know how it works, not sure that it works But just in case it does, I better pray, because then at least if my prayer is not answered, I don't feel guilty that I didn't pray. So I just, you know, it's a kind of a subtle superstition Now, what Jesus is trying to do is to shake up the way we think about prayer. And he is offering a whole different way He's offering a way that begins with the relationship. We think about who we're addressing, the Father in the heavens. to think of those two ideas holding intention, both his intimacy with us and his transcendence as ruler of the heavens. And we worship him as we think about him like that. From that then naturally flows his name, his kingdom, his will. That's where we begin our prayers. From that then afterwards, having stated that, having gotten those things in mind, we then, with greater faith, because we have a larger view of God offer the petitions concerning our provision, our peace, and our protection. I think about this um last Tuesday when I was out praying. And I happen to be meditating on Psalm 139. You know, that's the Psalm that begins, O Lord, search me and know my heart. You know when I sit down, you know when I get up. Lord, you have known my thoughts from afar. Before there's a word on my tongue, you know it altogether. It's a psalm which speaks of God's intimate knowledge of me, of you. In fact, he says, You are acquainted with all my ways. Now think about that. He's acquainted with all your idiosyncrasies. And I thought there as I was standing there praying that You know all the idiosyncratic ways about me. Why I do things strange. Nobody else understands it, and I sometimes don't understand it. But you know me better than I know myself You know why I do the things I do. You knit me in my mom's womb. That's what he says. You knit the DNA that formed me. You produce the way that I'm wired. You know all of this intimately. Begin to think about that. Begin to pray through that and think about where he says, search me and know my anxious thoughts. Well, once you begin to think about that, and I was deeply moved by thinking of how I am precious to him, how intimately he knows me. Knows me better than I know myself. When you then think about that and realize I am now invited to call you father, daddy in the heavens. You know my thoughts from afar. You are in the heavens, but you are right here intimately with me. Before I speak a word, you know it altogether. Then what can you say except Lord, hallowed be your name? Oh, Lord, I I'm just amazed at what you're like. And I want your character to be displayed, how wonderful you are. Lord, may your kingdom come. And then you come to this third petition that we consider today. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Now, what is it that we're actually praying when we pray that petition? I would like to try to get our hands on that a little bit by thinking of it in terms of three pairs of ideas. And as I've thought about these, probably the better conjunction to put between each of them is and. They're really each, the one, and the other. So the first is control and commands. The control means we're reflecting, we're acknowledging his control and his commands. By control, I mean that in this prayer, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, we are affirming something like Ephesians chapter one, verse eleven. In him We were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will. Your will be done. I'm not only affirming it, I am submitting to it. It means that in saying that, I'm saying, your will be done. Lord, I submit to and I gladly affirm What your secret will, your decreed of will from all eternity has been about my life. When I was born, where I was born, who my parents are, you chose them for me, what I look like. What are my limitations in being able to achieve success? Um Certain things about my personality, how long I will live, how I will die. My loved ones, my family and friends, what will happen to them? Lord, your will be done. I affirm that. I embrace that. I don't want to kick against it. I don't want to argue. Let me ask you, have you ever just affirmed those basic things of God's will in your life? Not just say, well, what can I do? I just passively accept it. But to affirm it before the Heavenly Father. Your will is good. Your will be done. And to think this is not only what theologians call his decretive will or his secret will, but It's also talking about his declarative will, that is his revealed will, the commands of scriptures, not only his control of your life. But also his commands in how to live your life. That's the other side of it. And so your will be done is not simply saying, I submit to what happens, what has happened, is happening, will happen. But I am also praying that I might know and that I might obey what you have told me about how to live. I'm praying for grace to both know your will and to obey your will. Realize that when you pray that You are setting yourself totally apart in a radical statement from a postmodern world that says that There is no God who can be known. There are no absolutes. He certainly doesn't speak. We don't have a record of his will. In fact, your ethical system is something that you simply manufacture by calling and picking from your parents' values and culture's values and your tribe and the things that you've grown up with, and you just kind of figure out what works for you and that's how you live. And in doing praying this prayer, you're saying, no, no, no. There is a God My Father in the heavens, who's made me. And He is sovereign over all, and He has given me commands out of His infinite wisdom and love for how to live He speaks to me and I want to know his will and I want to obey that will. Your will be done. Notice that's a strong statement. It's not simply saying, Lord, help me to do your will. You see, what it's saying is, in Jesus Christ, sin's bondage has been broken. Its dominion over me has been broken. I am able to do your will. I am able to take that which I have understood from your word, and I am praying your will be done in me. I realize I need you to perform that. And so I'm praying your will be done in my life. I'm asking you for the power, but I'm affirming that as I pray that it is a possibility. I'm able to do that But it begins by your knowing his will. If your will be done as a mockery of a prayer if you don't ever read the Bible to know what his will is. So let me ask you something. Do you know his will more now than you did six months ago or a year ago? Remember Ephesians 5, where it talks about trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord? That as we live, we learn more about from Scripture. Ephesians 5 talks about rejecting the darkness, embracing the light, what he says to do. And that as I do that I learn his value system. Can you say now that compared to a year ago, I'm understanding some more insights about what life is about and how God wants me to live it? I'm beginning to see more of the values of eternity. I'm beginning to see how he sees life and learning to live it a little more skillfully. I'm knowing his will. It's a choice that you make in how much you're going to pick up the Bible and read it and study it, not just for the favorite few verses that you like to Put in a piece of paper and carry with you, but getting the grand scope of the themes of Scripture and what God is like. Your will I believe is good. May it be done. I want to know it, and I want to obey it. Not just to consider it, but to obey it. And that leads to the second point. In praying this, we are praying something that is both pervasive and personal. It's both pervasive and personal. That is, it's pervasive. Your will be done on earth. Not just here with me But I'm praying that all people will know more about your will, come to obey you. And so as I have suggested the last couple of weeks, let me suggest it again. Don't just pray through the whole Lord's Prayer this week. You know, do that, fine, that's great, not going to stop you. But also pray down to this request and stop Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth. And think about what that means. Think about as you read the newspaper, as you watch the news, what does it mean to pray his will to be done? Think about the 2008 elections. I know that it's hard to believe they're still over a year away, but think about all the candidates that are vying to get the nominations of their parties. And be praying now before those things are decided. Lord, give us in November 2008, if we're all still here. And Jesus hasn't come. Lord, give to us a president and an administration and a Congress more inclined to do your will Give to us, Lord, some solution in Iraq in the Middle East That reflects something of your will for justice and mercy. Pray particulars within this Dominant theme, your will be done on earth. What does that mean? Look at the scriptures To enrich your prayer life, I think. It means probably praying for this as you think about what his justice and his mercy look like on a national and international scale. Your will be done on earth. But of course, it's not only for all the global pervasive way of thinking, but it's very personal. Lord, your will be done in me. Starting with me, starting with my heart, starting with my conflicts, my fears. You know, praying, your will be done can be kind of a scary prayer, can't it? Your will be done. I'm taking my hands off. I don't want to manipulate and I don't want to just read the way I want to see Scripture say so that I I can talk to people and read Scripture to I make it mean what I want it to mean. Your will be done. I think of um missionary back in the 1930s, missionary couple, John and Betty Stamm. Went to Moody Bible Institute and then went in the 1930s with the China Inland Mission. Betty Stamm was a kind of a timid person and As she went, she prayed about all the things, you know, becoming a missionary in China back then was far different from now. Um it did not mean you could just email one another and travel back and forth and talk on a cell phone. And a lot of isolation It meant going in an area where um maybe years before you would see your family and perhaps not ever see them again. Disease and danger And so she wrote as she was praying, Lord, your will be done. Believe you've led us here in the process of their going. She wrote these words. And shall I fear that there is anything that men hold dear that you would deprive me of, and nothing given place? That is not so. For I can see thy face and hear thee now, my child. I died for thee. It is the gift of love and life you took from me Shall I one precious thing withhold, one beautiful and bright, one pure and precious thing withhold? My child? It cannot be. Your will be done on earth. It's a prayer of faith. It's saying, I affirm that your will is good, that I can trust you. That I can embrace your will, whether it is the providences or whether it is the commands, I can trust you as you lead me in my life. Things were rather dangerous as the years went on. They had a little baby girl, and then the Reds, as they were called, the communists, began to march through China. Um they were attacking a number of villages, killing, pillaging. They particularly hated the foreigners and most particularly missionaries. And so it wasn't very long before John and Betty Stam were taken captive by the Reds, and they were marched as prisoners from town to town. And they watched people get shot and butchered. And she confessed her fears, Lord. Um, I'm afraid. I want to trust you, I want to affirm your will be done. But then she stopped and thought, what's the worst thing that can happen? We could die. And she wrote these words, afraid of what? To feel the spirit's glad release, to pass from pain to perfect peace, the strife and strain of life to cease, afraid of that Afraid of what? Afraid to see the Savior's face? To hear his welcome, and to trace the glory gleam from wounds of grace? Afraid of that? Afraid? Of what? A flash? A crash? A pierced heart? Darkness? Light? Oh heaven's art. A wound of his a counterpart afraid of that? Afraid of what To do by death what life could not, baptize with blood a stony plot till souls shall blossom from the spot. Afraid of that It was not long after she wrote that that John and Betty Stem were both executed by the Reds. Miraculously, their baby daughter had been left in a village in a sleeping bag. The village was raided, lives were taken. And when the Reds left, somebody discovered in this little sleeping bag a little baby girl, perfectly healthy. She was taken out of China and grew up near where we lived in Philly. And I don't know what's happened to her since, but John and Betty stand with the Lord, the daughter, rescued. Your will be done. What is the risk? In the hands of a loving Heavenly Father, what's the worst that can happen if you abandon yourself to the will of Jesus Christ? The third thing is that this prayer for His will is both partial and perfect. It's partial. Your will be done. I know that will not be done perfectly. And yet the prayer is: your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That is perfect. So I'm praying that your will will be done fully and completely in me, not just partially, generally. I'm not negotiating. I'm not saying, Lord, um I want to consider this if it doesn't impinge on my plans too much and the things that I want to do. It means I don't plan to compromise, you kids. You learn to pray this prayer by learning to obey mom and dad without shaving off and saying, well, sort of, kinda. Mom and dad say we're going to go out and while we're gone, we don't want any of your friends in the house. And you say, well, uh just for a few minutes, just to see one thing. I just, you know, they weren't really in the house. We just kind of passed through and we, you know, your will be done. On earth as it is in heaven. You don't learn to obey the Heavenly Father if you don't learn to obey mom and dad without compromise. You're tempted to gossip. Ah, just that one little thing that I want to tell you about what happened to her. And, you know, I knew this was going to happen. I just want to tell you so we can pray for her. But you know that if she knew you were saying that, she'd be very disappointed. She couldn't defend herself. Your will be done. on earth as it is in heaven. To ignore the Lord's Day because it's inconvenient and I don't really get that much time off, and so well, I just, you know So we wind up coming to worship occasionally, but what can you do? To lie? Just a little? Because if I don't, I'll probably get in trouble To date someone who's not a believer, just a couple of times. No harm. We're not planning to get married It's not a serious relationship. Just want to have a little time together. Such a neat person. And on and on it goes. Where are our hearts as we pray? Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. What does it mean as it is in heaven? I believe it's referring to how the angels obey his will. And the angels are conscious beings who do decide to obey him, for some decided not to. But you read in Ephesians, I mean excuse me, in Psalm 103, verses 20 and 21, praise the Lord, you his angels, you mighty ones who do his bidding. Who obey his word. Praise the Lord. All his heavenly hosts, you his servants, who do his will. Your will be done on earth as it is done by the angels in heaven, immediately No questions asked, no compromise, completely. Contrast, Saul. Do you remember the incident where Samuel came to Saul and he said, Saul, God has a task for you. He wants you to wipe out the Amalekites. For what they have done. This is God's direct, complete judgment. You are not only to destroy the Amalekites, you are to kill every living human being. Every man, woman, child, every animal spare nothing, Saul This is a divine mission of judgment, a foretaste of judgment day against an evil, evil people. And Saul goes out with great zeal with his sword, and he attacks the Amalekites and he destroys them, and God gives a great victory. And they kill left and right in executing the judgment of the Lord. But there's a few really pretty women. That need to be spared. And he spares the king as a trophy. And as they're going through the goods There are a couple of BMWs in the back lot. Why torch those? And on the way, why don't you pick up a couple of those flat-screen plasma TVs? They could serve too. And we'll take a number of these other things and we'll offer them as sacrifices to the Lord to show. that we really mean business and we really want to obey him. Your will be done And Samuel comes. And he said, What did you not understand about kill everything and take nothing? And Samuel says to Saul in 1 Samuel 15, 22, Does the Lord delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as much as in obeying the voice of the Lord? To obey is better than sacrifice. And to heed is better than the fat of rams, for rebellion is like the sin of divination, and the arrogance like the evil of adultery. Something I have perceived over the years, kids who grow up in the church, it's to you teenagers now, you grow up in the church, you learn a catechism. Go to Sunday school, maybe you profess Jesus as your own personal Savior, and then ten years later can't find you. Ten years later you say, you know, that stuff doesn't mean much to me anymore. I don't pray to God, I don't really think that the Bible's necessarily true. I've got a bigger view of life and I don't really follow that stuff. Can't really get into it. You know what I have found in investigating that, finding out what happened? It's almost never that there was a cognitive intellectual decision that the Bible was not true, that Christianity really didn't hold water. In almost every case where I've pursued it, there was a point where your will be done became negotiated. And there was a point where the teenager, the young adult said, I am not going to do that. I am going to go this way in this relationship, in this sexual activity, in this or that, or whatever it is, and from the decision To do my will, not yours, I change what I believe Sin is like divination. Rebellion, he says, is like witchcraft. You never play with sin. There's this tension. It's partial. I'm never going to be absolutely, completely obedient till Jesus comes. But I don't ever say, but I'll only, you know, seventy-five percent is good enough. Your will be done on earth. As it is in heaven. Contrast our Lord Jesus In Hebrews chapter ten, in verse seven, we read of him, Then I, that's Jesus, said, Here I am. It is written about me in the scroll, I have come to do your will, O God. Jesus said, I've come to do your will. In fact, he says it's his meat and his drink. In John 4. 34, he tells his disciples, My food, said Jesus, is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. And that's not just mostly kind of, sort of, generally. In John 14, 31, Jesus says, but the world must learn that I love the Father. And that I do exactly what my Father has commanded me. Come now. Let's leave. Jesus says, if you love me, you'll keep my commands. Rick brought to our attention the agony of the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus was a human. And Jesus knew temptation, like you and I, will never know temptation, because the person who resists temptation knows its force greater than the person who succumbs. And so when Jesus, we read Matthew 26, 39, going a little farther, fell with his face to the ground in agony, in torment. And he prays, my father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. Oh God I'm looking into the face of hell. I am seeing what it's going to mean to endure your curse and alienation and all the forces of hell unleashed upon me. Oh God, if this cup could pass from me. Yet. Your salvation and my salvation, all eternity. Hung on that yet Yet not as I will, but as you will And Jesus obeyed perfectly. And for him, because he was eligible As an innocent sacrifice, he could go to the cross bearing your sin. Dying on the cross for all the ways that you and I have said your will be done and didn't do it. Or the ways that we didn't even bother to say, your will be done. We simply did our own will and ran down that path joyfully. And Jesus bore the consequences. He bore the cross. And in a couple of minutes, you and I are going to hold elements, the bread, the juice, the bread depicting his body. A body that was lived in perfect obedience, and the blood depicting the sacrifice whereby he suffered the curse for your disobedience, my disobedience. So that you and I could come before the Father with a bondage broken of sin and pray your will be done. On earth, as it is in heaven. And someday I will be in heaven. And you will be in heaven if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning doing his will perfectly. And that means that at that point there will be only joy and enjoyment because when his will is done perfectly, life is perfect. That's the hope that you have as you and I hold these elements. But right now In this time, between when he has been crowned as king from his resurrection and he comes back, he says, I. Have given you the commission to make disciples of all nations, teaching them to obey all that I have commanded you. You and I are learning how to obey. We have been given the record of perfect obedience. Now we are learning how to obey and to pray. Your will be done. You who know me and who search my thoughts, who know my intentions, who know my ways, who perceive my thoughts from afar, you love me You accept me. I am precious to you. And I want to obey you. I want to learn what it means to obey you. Your will be done. I don't want to play with sin anymore. I don't want to toy with how far I can go in disobedience without the consequences being too great. Your will be done. And so in this prayer, you and I are learning to submit. And we are learning to obey. Let me conclude with a little known story. About one of 20th century's best known Christian writers and devotional writers and prayer warriors, Catherine Marshall, author of Christie and many, many devotional books and writings. After she died, a friend of hers told this story. Now Kathy and I lived on Cape Cod during the summer of 1969, and during that time we went to her son's church, Peter Marshall's church. in Venice. And um two years before they had had their first child who had died of a very rare disease in infancy. During the year that we were there, their second child was born, and then on July 22, 1971. A third child was born, a little daughter, who had the same rare disease. Only forty cases had ever been detected. Not one of them had survived beyond a few weeks. The Catherine Marshall determined that it was the step of faith to believe God, and she believed that if she could get enough people to pray with enough faith, God would deliver that child and she would live. She's a very strong personality. She mobilized sixteen friends to pray four days nonstop. Laying hands on this infant. Thinking no thoughts of death, she forbade it, no tears, only positive faith thoughts, and agreeing together for the victory. The result was that on September the 4th, the baby died. And Catherine Marshall went into profound depression. She concluded that she had failed. She didn't have enough faith Something had gone wrong. And she was deeply alienated from God. She not only ceased her writing, she ceased journaling. She almost ceased praying. Till after some months she began to realize, as she said afterwards I did not have faith in God. I had faith in faith. And faith in faith Puts humans at the center. Our faith determines the outcome. Somebody said, but your motives were good. She said, Oh no. Whenever you put a person before God, it's idolatry. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven We don't tack that on to the end of our petitions. Jesus taught us you begin before the petitions to get it straight. Your name, your kingdom, your will. Now here I am. Let's pray. Heavenly Father We thank you for Jesus who perfectly did your will. We thank you for him who even assaulting and assaulted by Satan himself. Did not flinch, but perfectly obeyed and went to the cross for us. We thank you for that because we have been forgiven for all of our disobedience. And Lord, you have broken the chains of the bondage of sin over us. We want to do your will. And yet we confess we are so often vacillating. And rationalizing. Lord, it's scary to be a living sacrifice and place ourselves on the altar and simply say, Lord, your will be done. To accept your providence and to obey your commands. But that's what we want to do now. We want to take our hands off and we want to trust you. And so Lord, we come and as we take these elements, we recognize that this Lord's Supper is a reminder to get to us again that At the cross, you proved once and for all your love and your good will for us. Teach us what that means. What that prayer means for each of us as we think on it in the next few minutes, today, this week, for Jesus' sake.