Maybe you feel like you're in some sort of time warp. Um some of those that uh We're here at the Christmas Eve service, the second service. You may remember that that was my devotional for Christmas Eve was on that song, As of Gladness Men of Old. And uh you see you hear the story of the magi and you're thinking, is Harris slipping or what's you know, you gotta drag out some Rerun or you know. I mean I bet you never heard a sermon on the magi in April, right? Anybody ever hear a sermon on the magi in April? But we're going through Matthew and we're up to chapter two and it's April, so um I'm not going to say we'll skip this and then come back to it next December. We're going to do it now. But actually, as I thought about that, there's two very distinct advantages to preaching on this passage in April. The first is that, of course, the Magi didn't come to Jesus right when he was born. And we always connect those, you know, you always think of the Magi at Christmas at Jesus' birth. But in fact, they weren't right there at Jesus' birth. They came sometime later, several months, possibly as much as a year. So, um my guess is that uh for a number of reasons that I'm not gonna go into now, that I I think the like most likely time is it came probably three, four months after Jesus was born, which would be if he had been born in December, but he kinda liked April. So you see it's you think about the his birth being last December. This is right about the time when the Magi event would have occurred. So it's um very appropriate Second reason that I think it's good to preach on it now is that there's this danger at Christmas time. You preach on things about the Christmas story. that we sort of sentimentalize it and we kind of bring all this baggage of all these associations and feelings and pictures and stuff we've seen. And we sort of drag all that in and we lose the sense of the historicity, the fact that this is something that actually happened. So by removing that, preaching on it in April, you can think of it as an event that happened in history. and follow it without all of the sentimentalizing stuff that kind of gets in the way for it. So um I think it's actually good to deal with it now. Now, let me uh review the basic material by means of four questions that are associated with this. First of all, remember where did they see Jesus? And of course it wasn't in the stable. Not in the stable. Verse 11. You kids know that, right? Not in the stable. When coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down and they worshipped him. Um Joseph and Mary were poor, but they weren't so poor that they lived in a stable for four months. They finally did get out of there and uh apparently obtained a house. Probably had in mind, wasn't very exciting to think about going back to Nazareth, the head wagging, the uh king tongues wagging and a head shaking and all the shame about Mary's pregnancy. So um they probably were glad to just settle down in Nazareth, which was their ancestral home. So um that's apparently where they intended to stay. And uh how many magi were there? Um three, right? Nah. I don't know. I mean it could have been three. Uh Henry Wadsworth Longfellow did us the favor of giving their names, three names, so not only know how many, but we know their names. But uh Longfellow didn't really get that out of ancient uh scholarship who was just kind of fit his poem. We really don't know. Bible doesn't ever say how many. All you see is in verse 2 Uh that magi came from the east. That's plural, so we know it's more than one, but we don't know. Could have been two, could have been twelve. Who knows? Why do we think it's three? Well, because they gave three gifts gold, frankincense, and myrrh, but you know, that doesn't mean it was three of 'em. Uh could have been any number that decided on those three gifts. Probably three because uh fits nicely in your little crush scene, you know, to have the donkeys and the shepherds and you know, you got got three wise men. But of course that's not where they were, so you gotta eliminate that idea. But in all my years I have never seen a Christmas display in any home that had a stable on one side with a shepherd's and then somewhere else in the living room there was a house. Um and if it was a house and they were inside then you wouldn't know how many were in there. You just put a little light in the house, you know. I've never seen it. So if anybody ever wants to produce that for a Christian service brigade project or something, you know more power to you. So we don't know. What about the star? What was the star that led them? Verse 2. You see, where is the one born king of the Jews? We saw his star in the East, literally in the rising from the East, uh we've come to worship him. Um well that's m that's very interesting and very significant, and so I'm gonna hold off till next week on that deal with that that question. But uh the real thing I want to deal with is this fourth thing. Who were they? Who were these magi, and why were they seeking Jesus? Now again, you know, get away from all your Christmas stuff and think about what the way Matthew tells us. Verse 25, remember no chapter divisions in the original. Verse 25 of chapter 1 says That Joseph, you know, after the dream, he had no union with Mary until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. Very next verse, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea during the time of King Herod, Magi from the east came to Jerusalem. That Now, let me think about that. There's nothing about shepherds, nothing about a manger, nothing about any of the circumstances of his birth. That's not exactly how you'd expect Matthew to tell it, is it? He just Jesus was born and then Here's these magi. Who are they? What are they about? Why does Matthew include that as in his account? Only Matthew includes it in his account. What is Matthew's point? Now what I'd like to suggest to you that as you think about this and wonder You know, so what? As I go to work this week and raise the kids and try to get a little time in April sun, get my garden going Think about the death of Pope John Paul and what's going on around me. Why in the world would I care about why Magi came to see Jesus? And I would like to offer to you that this is right at the heart of Matthew's purpose for writing this gospel, and that if we understand who they are and why they came. It reveals to you something about the tenderness of the heart of God and some basic precious gospel truths for your life So it's worth looking at. Let's take a look at it. Now, let me say right off, there's only uh four clues. There's not very much about who they are. I can't say definitively I don't have a scripture that says and identifies who they are, but the four clues give some direction in this mystery. First thing is to notice that they are men of rank and wealth. That's quite clear. Those are the first two blanks for you blank filler-inners. They were men of rank and wealth. Our word magistrate comes from the word magi. They were leaders. Despite the fact that they're called kings by many people in hymns, we three kings and all that, the Bible neverware calls them kings. never anywhere, calls them kings. Um but we do know that they were men of rank and wealth because of two things. Number one, because they had immediate access to Herod. Verse 2 and 3, they're asking Herod, where is this one? He doesn't say get out of here And uh not let them talk to him. Verse seven in fact he approaches them and asks them, uh, where does this uh king that you're looking for? Tell us uh when it appeared and the star and all this So they have credibility with Herod. So clearly they are not just anybody that's wandering into Jerusalem. Secondly, you notice that the gifts are pretty costly gifts. They give gold, which is called the Medal of Kings, very precious then as it is now. They give frankincense, which was a very rare perfume from the bark of a tree in Southern Arabia or East Africa. It was very expensive. You could only get it at Nordstrom's or Lord and Taylor. Couldn't get it just uh going down to Walmart, you know. Um they also gave myrrh, which was another expensive perfume from a tree in Arabia. Also just a Lord and Taylor kind of item. Uh and they um had come through uh a number of lonely places that they came from the east that The road, the caravan road that came, uh was a road that was uh notorious for being dangerous if you had any valuables. So uh it seems pretty clear to me that these guys didn't just travel by themselves. They probably had an armed guard, you know. small army, just a few you know, at least some protection for this trip. Uh so I picture a fairly sizable group, perhaps a dozen men that are in this entourage coming all together. The second clue that we have is that they were stargazers. That's clear. From the East, verse 2, we saw his star That's why we're here. In the east, three times, there's the mention of the star. Uh Herodotus, wrote back at that time, said he thought that the Magi were priests of Zoroastrianism, the religion of Persia. It's possible. Um modern Parsis in India are the spiritual descendants of the Zoroastrianism. And there have been many other suggestions, but I'm going to make one that I think fits the clues that we have Third clue is that they had some knowledge of the Jewish hope of Messiah. These weren't just stargazers from some distant place and didn't know anything about scripture or this hope. They had something. They knew there was a king that was coming, the Jews were expecting him. And uh fourth clue is that uh not only did they have knowledge of some hope, but they saw that this one coming was worthy. of their time, their gifts, and their honor. It's intriguing to think that these non-Jews were aware of Old Testament prophecy, and they saw that this one coming was so significant that they would take several weeks out of their schedule to assemble the gifts, to assemble the party, get everything together, take the trip, and then head on back to the east, you know, perhaps a week or so each way, plus the time spent looking around in Judea, time getting ready, coming back. So this is a pretty significant undertaking. These guys don't take this lightly and they're not Jews. So who are they and why did they do it? Well, the one likely solution that I would like to offer you to you that makes sense to me and also fits Matthew's purpose and reveals the tender heart of God. is a clue is the solution that I find um the m the the key to it that unlocked it for me is Daniel chapter 2 verse 48. But before we look at Daniel 2, 48, let me tell you the context of it so you get the the drift of it, all right? Yeah, we're still on that. No, that's okay. Thank you, Fed. You'll be looking at that too soon. All right, a little bit of just context for that. You remember that it was around 605 BC that Nebuchadnezzar, in one of his raids into Jerusalem, uh took away a a group of captives. This was before he leveled the place in the final attack, but he took away a group of captives back into Babylon. And among those captives in that uh raid were three young guys, probably teenagers, uh Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And these guys were especially well educated. They were especially gifted, they were good looking, and so they didn't just take them along with a whole pack. They separated them out because they saw them as useful for their own purposes. And when they got them to Babylon, you remember um they treated them pretty well. I mean, they gave them royal food, you know, a lot of great stuff. But you remember uh Daniel and his three friends uh said um we really don't want all this high carb, high fat, saturated fat, high sugars kind of food. Just give us vegetables. We're vegetarians. They say, gotta be crazy. This is great stuff we have here. And they said, no, no, no, no And he said, Well, you know, um I don't want you guys looking bad. So Daniel said, Look, give us ten days, we'll eat just vegetables, and you guys have all your rich high fat food, high carb Uh and and see who looks best after ten days. And after ten days, you remember the Bible tells us that these guys looked healthier, they did better, they they gave them graduate record exam test and they did ten times better, scored higher than everybody else on all their exams. And so in Daniel 1 in verse 20 The Bible tells that in every matter of wisdom and understanding about which the king questioned them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and the enchanters in his whole kingdom. So he gave them belt-wide jobs consulting with the government, basically specializing in visions and in interpreting dreams and things for the future policies of Babylon. So they were, you know, pretty posh position. Alright, so things settle down, and then sometime after this, Nebuchadnezzar has a dream. Now, remember, as you if you've heard Kat Stewart and others that talk about uh Iran and Iraq and those areas, dreams are very significant. And that goes back a long way. So Nebuchadnezzar didn't have a dream and decide to change his diet so he doesn't have these dreams to keep him awake the next night. He decides this is very significant. He wants to know the meaning of it And immediately what goes into his mind is this is a job for magi. That's why we pay these guys. You know, magi are supposed to interpret dreams, tell you about it. So he calls in the magi Now when he calls him in, Nebuchadnezzar decides he doesn't want to just have them bluff their way, tell them something he wants to hear. You know, it's kind of like that story of the Persian king. I don't know if you've heard that the guy uh who uh l loved to drink and his advisors told him that you keep drinking the stuff you're drinking, uh it's not good for your health, you're gonna die So he just had them executed. Didn't like the advice. He got in a new set of advisors, and a new set of advisors made this new scientific discovery that what you're drinking is really good for you. It's really good for your health, especially good for our health. And uh so you know that's the way things operated. Nebuchadnezzar is saying, look, I don't want you just telling me what you think I want to hear And just to test you to make sure that you really have the power to interpret my dreams, I want you to tell me the dream before you tell me the interpretation. And they look at him in horror and they said, With all due respect, King, you're crazy. Nobody can do that And they say something very interesting. They say, such a thing is not a possible. Only the gods can do that. And they don't live with people. They don't live among men. So No dream, no interpretation. He says, listen guys, I got news for you. No dream, no interpretation. I'm gonna cut your body in little pieces and I'm gonna make your houses rubble. How's that for incentive? They still can't do it. So things escalate a little bit, and finally Nebuchadnezzar loses it, and he said, that's it, you're all executed. Go Uh for whatever reason we don't know, Daniel and his three friends weren't there. So they have to send these guys out to round up all the magi. all these magicians, these interpreters, and to tell them uh that they're gonna be executed. And Daniel says, Well wait a minute, just you know, I I didn't know what was going on here. Can can we have just a little time, you know It's all right, all right, we'll give you a little time. In Daniel chapter 2 and verse 19, we read that during the night, then, this is after that conversation, the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a dream, in a vision. And so then Daniel praises God and he says, Okay, take me to Nebuchadnezzar, goes to Nebuchadnezzar, and he says, Hear your dream It's about four kingdoms, describes the dream, and then he describes the interpretation. You remember he both is uh gracious to Nebuchadnezzar about his place in that, but he says But after that fourth kingdom, there is a rock that's going to be hewn out of the mountain, and that rock is going to establish a kingdom that is going to rule over all kingdoms and cover the earth Now this is, you know, he's talking about m obviously Messiah's kingdom. And you know, you can imagine everybody all the the other magi are all looking at me keep you know, looking at Daniel and they're looking at Nebuchadnezzar and looking at Daniel saying, you know, the What you know what's he gonna do? And so they're waiting breathlessly to see what's Nebuchadnezzar gonna do after he tells them all this. And they look and and to their amazement, Nebuchadnezzar falls on his face before Daniel. And he says, your God is the one true living God who's revealed this dream. You can't imagine it. He just said, Daniel, I don't know how he pulled that off, but whoa. So then so Nebuchadnezzar acknowledges that supernaturally God has revealed the dream and therefore he accepts the interpretation of it. Now It's in that context that you read Daniel chapter 2, verse 48. So let's have it up there now. You see that then the king placed Daniel in a high position and lavished many gifts on him. He made him ruler over the entire province of Babylon and placed him in charge of all its wise men. The Septuagint translation of that term wise men is the word magi. Daniel, who just before this wasn't even bothered to be consulted, to be included with the Magi Now is the Speaker of the House. He's the chief head magi. He is over all the magi. So it's from that clue that I begin to speculate what probably happened. It doesn't take a whole lot of imagination to consider that suddenly the other magi in Babylon, who probably looked with some disdain at this Hebrew slave who'd been brought in, you know, who you think you are, all of a sudden So Daniel would have had an unparalleled opportunity to describe to these other fellows the hope of the Old Testament, you know, of the God who made the heavens and earth. And by the way, B Babylon had its own uh parallel accounts of creation and blood And he would have said, you know, those accounts you have, well let me let me tell you where they came from. And here's the God who made the heavens and the earth and we rebelled and fell against him, were under a curse, but God promised that he was going to send a Messiah, the hero who was going to crush the head of the serpent Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the covenant, he describes that, and he describes some of the prophecies of Isaiah, this one who is to come, who's going to bring about this salvation of the nations. Now interesting we are not told exactly that he did that. That's supposition, but I can't imagine they wouldn't have been interested and he wouldn't have been a witness for that But we're not told anything about that, and so there's no indication that there were conversions Maybe they were like Nebuchadnezzar, who on two occasions acknowledged that God, the God of Daniel, was the living true God. He was very excited about it, actually, and then wasn't any real life change. You know, and uh frequently we'll have people that come and visit and worship here at Columbia Presbyterian and you know, they're kind of excited, yes, great church, good stuff, this and that, but you know, after a while you don't see them anymore. And you you you Try to follow up and find out it really wasn't any change. It was just kind of a passing interest. I don't know if that's true of you or where you are with the Lord Jesus, but And there's always that danger of just kind of being intrigued with something that's, wow, this is pretty spectacular, it's kind of interesting, but doesn't affect your life. Now we're not told. We don't know what happened in the discussions, but I can certainly imagine That over the years there would have been passed down from these Magi this story to their descendants, one generation after another. about this hope of the Jews. Remember that when Cyrus told the Jews to go back to Palestine, to Judea and build rebuild the temple and that they were free to go. Only about fifty thousand went, so more Jews stayed in Babylon, and at the time of the birth of Christ there were more Jews living in Babylon than there were in Jerusalem, in Judea even So that hope would have still been um would have been well known in Babylon. Now um What's interesting to me is to consider that God would have, at the time of the birth of his son Not speaking to the Jewish leaders, to the priests, to the Pharisees, but he reveals himself Through stars to astrologers, because that's the medium that they're sensitive to Now, I don't know about you, but when Kat Stewart and others talk about uh Muslims coming to Christ, I mean in almost every Conversion story I've heard of an Iran, of a person from Iran or from Iraq, uh from the Middle East coming to Christ, there's always a dream involved Because that's their culture, and God seems to accommodate to that culture, and sometimes they say, oh, is that really true? I don't know. It sounds kind of it doesn't sound real biblical to me. But here's God in the scriptures saying he spoke to Magi through a star. He accommodated himself to that extra-biblical sign in order to call them to himself. So, God's ways are beyond some of the things that we have categories for. Amazing. Um one confirmatory piece of evidence from archaeology that my uh theory about the Magi being Babylonian astrologers is the fact that in 614 A. D. , Persian army swept through Judea raiding and destroying all the Christian relics and holy places, but they distinctly left the church at Bethlehem unscathed and untouched. And the reason was, they said, that in this church of Bethlehem there was a mosaic picture of the Magi. And they recognized their own fellow Babylonians. So they honored it and they left it. Now, what are the lessons for you and for me out of this story? Let me draw three. First of all, it's a picture that we see powerfully of the extent of God's grace. The extent of God's grace. Again, the Magi were Gentiles. They were outside of the covenant. They were not Jews They didn't belong. They weren't raised in Christian homes. The church was something foreign to them. And maybe there's some of you who feel that way here this morning. You feel like you don't really fit. You weren't raised in a Christian home or you don't feel like you fit with Christians, Presbyterians, you know, in a setting like this, just not part of your culture, your background And you wonder, do I really fit here? Let me tell you, the God of Jesus Christ that Matthew records is quite clearly saying to you, you fit here. His grace extends beyond those who culturally fit within these confines. The gospel extends. To Gentiles, to Magi, Babylonians. And don't miss the fact that, secondly, the Babylonians were the enemies of God's people. I mean we're not just talking that they, you know, were kind of outside the covenant. These are the people who had destroyed God's temple. They had carried off the ark and destroyed it. These are the people who blaspheme God by saying our God Chemish is more powerful than your Yahweh because we defeated you. And God reaches out to these people, revealing Himself through a star to call them to be the first fruits of the nations worshiping Jesus. Again, these guys are astrologers. I mean, these are new agers into some unhealthy stuff. They're into the occult. I read a story recently about a fellow who had been in the occult, who had become a Christian. As I read that, I thought, thank God for a Christian that didn't write him off. You know, you'd go downtown into Ellicott City and see some of the New Age stores and some of the occultic stuff there into downtown DC or Baltimore, you know. And we see people and we we can tend to as Christians kind of write 'em off and say, Well, obviously these people are not part of the elect. These people would probably never be interested in the gospel. These people aren't going to think I have anything to offer to them. And yet here's these guys hungry, spiritually hungry and responsive. Don't know what response there was from their ancestors, but down through the ages there had been passed on The sense that there is this king coming, this Messiah. He's worth going to. He's worth checking out. He's worth their time and their reverence. It's a lesson to me, and I hope a lesson to you, that we dare not write off people, people that don't look like they fit within Columbia Presbyterian, but that God's grace is so much broader. so much more extensive than our categories and our levels of seeing where grace appropriately should be displayed. God's grace is just so magnificent, isn't it? And that's the hope that is for you and for me. He doesn't write people off. He's in the process of calling the unlikely. Notice that these guys are not just ones that come, but they are the first fruits Of God's kingdom. That's the second lesson. Notice, you know, this is, I think, essentially part of Matthew's message. What he's doing is he's taking The promise of Isaiah, in Isaiah 42 and 49, let's have those up here now. And you notice that again and again Isaiah had made this point. about the Messiah, that this m Messiah would not just be for God's covenant people, but he would be a light for the Gentiles. Word Gentiles is also nations, not just Gentiles, but it's the light of the nations. Down in Isaiah forty nine, verse six, I will also make you a light for the Gentiles and for the nations. And you see, what Daniel's doing, I mean what Matthew's doing Is he saying this is the beginning of God extending beyond the Jews? Matthew's gospel begins and ends with missions. begins by saying that that God calls from even God's enemies Some people who are in the occult to come and bow at the feet of Jesus, and then at the end, all authority is given to me. Go and make disciples of all the nations. Right from the beginning of his book, he has displayed the heart of Jesus to do this. The more you and I get to know Jesus' heart, the more that will be on your heart and my heart also, his heart for the nations. And finally, he's a display, a lesson to you and to me of the power of God's word. In Isaiah 55, we read that God says, My word. Goes out to accomplish my purpose, it shall not return to me void. God's word will not return to him without accomplishing what he intends. And yet sometimes you and I may share that word or seek to display it and think nothing happens and get discouraged and wonder if it really is going to bear any fruit. Daniel might have thought that. He might have wondered what's been the result of this sharing among my colleagues And 530 years later, there's a group of them paying a visit at quite some expense and trouble. To see Jesus. Hopefully you don't have to wait 530 years to see what will be the results of your witnessing, but you may have to wait a long time. I remember when Kathy and I lived in Syracuse. A couple moved in next door. They were a fun couple. He and I played tennis and did some things together, but they didn't show any spiritual interest. We just got to get know them a little bit, we prayed for them, and um we decided we would ask them if they'd be interested in meeting uh on Sunday evenings for a Bible study. And um they said yeah. I mean I think it was just because they liked us and we were friends and they just wanted to do it. And I the reason I say that is first of all, they quite literally didn't know the Old Testament from the New Testament. I mean they they knew nothing about the Bible. And when we would get into it as we would go through it, it would just take the slightest thing to get off onto some tangent away from get on who's kinda like We'd be t I'm singing there trying to you know show 'em what the passage means, you know, and something goes, Oh yeah, and I'm remaining clearly they were not really engrossed with, oh yeah, help me to see Jesus. You know, it was kind of like, Hey yeah, this is a hangout, you know. Well when we came to move to come down here to Maryland, uh there still hadn't been any display of interest and I finally just decided, I said to Jim before I left, Jim, I you know, I don't sense you feel any need for Jesus that we've been talking about. And uh so probably until you feel a need, you won't be really interested in this. So I'm just telling you what I'm gonna do, just leveling with you. I'm gonna pray that God will make you miserable so that you'll see your need for Jesus. And if you get to that point, uh, do call me. So we moved down here and said goodbye. Thanks, friend, you know. And it was some months later that uh one evening I I got a call. It was Jim on the other end of the line. He said, uh last night my little son almost died. And you're the first person I thought of who prayed that God would make me miserable. How do I get to know Jesus? And uh over the phone was able to lead him and his wife to the Lord. And I mean this wasn't just, you know, okay, well now God heal my son They professed their faith in a local church. It was a large local church in the area. And within a year, they were the youth group leaders. And we saw them years later, still going on with Jesus. See, last week I talked about how the gospel is both sense and mystery. And the real mystery, you see, is not just that That God who is over all the universe became a dot in the universe. It's not just the mystery that the Holy Spirit is the father of this child Jesus. It's not just the amazing mystery of the incarnation. It's also that this God seeks Babylonian astrologers to come to the feet of Jesus to worship It's the mystery of the scandal of the fact that God seeks such people as his worshipers People like these Babylonian magi or people like so-called Jane in Philadelphia, a 15-year-old girl who in 2003 lured a fella who was about fifteen or sixteen into the woods between I-95 and the Delaware River. promising sex and when he got there three of his friends were waiting. They killed him with a hatchet, a hammer, and a brick, because he had just gotten paid and had five hundred dollars in his pocket And they used the five hundred dollars to get drugs, party for a few days. They were caught. The guys were given life sentences. This 15-year-old girl was given a sentence of 17 and a half to 35 years in prison. She described herself in a letter in prison as a cold-blooded, blank, death-worshipping blank who survives by feeding off the weak and the lonely. I lure them and then I crush them. Andre Sue in World Magazine last week Said that she knows somebody who knows that girl's older sister. Now she says she's writing letters that are full of Jesus. And you can't explain the change in her. The mystery is that our God is the God that seeks those kind of people to worship. And that's good news for you and for me, isn't it? Let's pray. Well, Lord our God. The God of the Lord Jesus Christ, the God who, at the very beginning of Matthew's account, calls in not righteous Pharisees Not even covenantally straight Jews, but who calls in Babylonian magi, astrologers You condemn astrology in Leviticus. And yet you reached out to these guys to draw them to Jesus. Lord, how your grace is so far more extensive than we sometimes believe. You are so much greater, kinder, fuller, richer. And Lord, we depend on that because we need your grace Lord, help us to believe that you're still calling people like this Jane to like these people that we can write off around us in our lives to yourself. And trust you, trust you that your word will not return void, but you will accomplish the purpose that you have caused for it to accomplish even through us. In Jesus' name. Amen.