Well, unless you have been buried for the last week, you know that um the last Harry Potter book was released last weekend. And in the first twenty-four hours, it sold eighteen million copies. Last week's Time magazine did what I consider a rather amazing and insightful article on the Harry Potter phenomenon. Let me quote to you from just a part of that article. Rowling's work is so familiar that we have forgotten how radical it really is. Look at her literary forbears. In The Lord of the Rings, J. R. R. Tolkien fused his ardent Catholicism with a deep nostalgic love for the unspoiled English landscape. C. S. Lewis was a devout Anglican whose Chronicles of Narnia forms an extended argument for the Christian faith. Now look at Rowling's books. What's missing? If you want to know who dies in Harry Potter, the answer is easy. God. Harry Potter lives in a world free of any religious or spirituality, religion or spirituality of any kind. He lives surrounded by ghosts, but has no one to pray to, even if he were so inclined, which he isn't. And yet, in the 21st century, where we pick a secular fantasy to be the epic of the day, most people still pray. Most people don't know who they're praying to, or maybe even quite why they're praying, but they continue to pray because we know we can't do life on our own. Now, for Christians, we find our instruction on who we pray to and how to pray from the Bible, and nowhere more than in the Lord Jesus' teaching in the Sermon on the Mount that we have been looking at, what we call in verses 9 to 13 the Lord's Prayer We've been working our way through this life-changing sermon for many weeks, months, and we've seen that if chapter five is about righteousness, Chapter six is about what? Remember? Chapter six is about Who said? Somebody over here. Hey, thank you. A kid. Yes. All right. Shame you adults. Get a little freed up. Okay. Chapter 5 is about righteousness. Chapter 6 is about faith. And Jesus is showing us How we say we believe certain things, like that there is an unseen kingdom, we have an unseen Heavenly Father, but in fact the way we live belies that. In two basic ways, he says in chapter six. Number one, in terms of whose favor we seek, secondly, what treasure we seek. And so we've looked at this matter of whose favor we seek. A couple weeks ago we looked at that in terms of our giving. We give for the admiration of people. And Secondly, we started last week looking at praying. We saw Jesus warning not to pray ostentatious prayers where prayer is about my image. I want to impress you by the fact that I pray or how I pray. Uh he says, rather you should pray privately. We should seek three times he states that. private place, close the door, alone with the Father. And the dynamic of prayer is you pray to a God who you can't see, but he sees you and he will reward you in ways that will make a difference. Secondly, he says, do not pray superstitiously. Don't think that it's your technique, that there's some sort of magical formula. In Jesus' name, saying certain things, certain repetitions, or perhaps going in exquisite detail, telling God what the problem is, going on and on and on. He says he already knows what your problem is. And so you're sort of cast back and you say, well then Lord, how should we pray? And Jesus says, I'm glad you asked. And he says that he wants to give us a model. Remember, the heart of prayer that Jesus is teaching us here is that God is our Father. That is the focus of this chapter. One out of every three verses says, God is your father. You notice that in verse 6, when you pray, go into your room, close the door. Then pray to your father who is unseen. Then your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. This then is how you should pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name Larry Crabbe, in his recent book, The Pop-Up Prayer, says most Christians think of prayer as simply ways to get things from God. About as far as it seems to go. We relate to God, he says, sort of like the ice cream man. Now, let me tell for you kids who don't know what an ice cream man is, uh, you've missed out. Up until even a couple of years ago, there would be this old truck that would drive around our neighborhood and would always play the same sing-song thing till you thought you would go nuts hearing that tune Uh but when I was a kid, uh it used to ring bells and we'd drive down the street and you could get a a decent sized Dixie cup for a quarter. In fact, I remember when you got a decent sized Dixie cup for seven cents. And I know that it was seven cents, in fact I know the day that it went up to eight cents because that was a day I'll never forget I remember that it was a day I got in trouble. Now that wasn't in itself quite memorable, but my mother forbid me for getting a Dixie cup that night. And that was pretty serious back in those days. You didn't have freezers and so that's how you got ice cream. And she said, No Dixie Cup for you tonight, but she forgot to tell my father. And so after dinner I crept up the stairs and I got my seven cents off of them, went out to the ice cream man who told me, sorry son, today they went up to eight cents. Now that was the days when you didn't say a penny, forget it. I'll go look in the gutter, what you know. So I had to sneak past my mother again, full of guilt. but not remorse, and got that extra penny from my father and got my eight cent Dixie cup. Now, one thing I will tell you, I saw that ice cream man day after day, week after week, all through the summer. I don't remember once ever asking him how his family was. I don't remember once trying to start up a conversation with him to see what he thought of life, whether he ever got bored selling ice cream, what he thought of his job, anything else. All I wanted was the Dixie cup. And so often we as Christians approach God in a similar way. You have what I want. Now my job is to figure out how to get it from you. Because you could do it if you wanted. And for some reason, which I don't understand You seem to be arbitrary in what you give. Sometimes you answer prayers, sometimes you don't. Can't quite make out why you do sometimes, and other times you don't. So Larry Crab says we indulge in what we call just in case praying Not really sure how it works, but I better pray just in case it might make a difference. And besides, if I don't get what I want, then I will feel guilty because it was due to my not praying. So at least I avoid some guilt. But I'm not really sure how this whole thing works. Well you see what Jesus is doing here is he is teaching us a whole new way to look at prayer. Now let me ask you, would you like, would you really long to learn how to pray Uh would you like to look forward to prayer rather than feel like it's something you need to do so you don't feel guilty when somebody asks you how your prayer life is or something? Would you like to think that praying would make a difference, both in your life as well as in the world around you? Let me tell you that my meditating on the Lord's Prayer for this series has made a difference in my prayer life. It's made a difference in how I think about coming to my Heavenly Father in prayer and what it's about. And I pray it'll make a difference for you too. I pray that you will find through this series insights on how to pray. That will make a practical difference in your praying. In fact, I want to suggest that if you've never memorized the Lord's Prayer, that you do memorize it and that you pray it. Go through it each day, and I'll say a little bit more about that later on. But let's pause right now, and each in our own hearts before the Lord. Ask him to teach us through this series how to pray. Let's pray. Father, we're embarrassed when we look at how we approach you, what we think of prayer. It mostly is seeking your hand, not your face. It's mostly thinking of how we can get what we want, whether it's for ourselves or our families or our friends or somebody else, even for our church. But it is mostly in terms of getting With an occasional bit of praise and thanks thrown in. And we're not real satisfied with the depth and the intimacy of our prayer with you. So, Lord, would you use this model that the Lord Jesus gave us to teach us individually, corporately? More about how to pray. Holy Spirit, would you be pleased to do that in us? For the sake of Jesus. Amen. So this morning I want to give you the overview. One of the things that just occurred to me just recently as I was thinking about this is how amazing Jesus is. He gave this prayer early in his ministry. And he never revised it. He never thought, you know, as I think about it, maybe a little more balanced way of doing it, or, you know, here's here's a petition I Yeah, I hadn't really considered add that. He never did when he did it, it was perfect as he gave it. It's still perfect. It says all that we need, it's complete Jesus doesn't have to revise his teaching. Isn't that wonderful? Okay, we're going to look at the prayer as a whole. Next week we'll start with Father. Two parts to the prayer. First part, who we pray to, second part, what we pray for. What we pray for is six petitions. Those six petitions are divided into two parts. Make sure you have your bulletin outline there so you can follow along as I'm going through this. Six petitions, three of them are regarding God, His name, His Kingdom, and His will. Three of those petitions regard us. Our provision, our sins, and our struggles. Note that the petitions concerning our needs cover everything that we need. Our physical needs, our relational needs, our spiritual needs. I pray for my bread, that's food, and it stands for all material things needed. I pray concerning forgiveness, forgiveness for me, for forgiveness that relates to my family and my friends. I pray for my failings to deliver me from temptations. And so I begin by the address coming with who I come to. I come to a father. Who cares and is capable. Notice the two sides. Our Father in heaven. A father indicates that he is the one who cares for us intimately. The fact that he is in heaven, residing in glory beyond all the galaxies, shows that he is capable of doing anything that he desires to do. So this then is how you should pray. Our Father in heaven. He is the one who is worthy of my trust and my worship. The Father who cares and is fully capable of meeting every need. Then I begin with my petitions. Petition one, my chief concern is his name. First blank, that it be revered throughout the world. That is, I'm praying that he won't be blown off. That we will honor him, that I honor him, that the people in my world that know of him Will not blow him off, but will honor him. Hallowed be your name. The outworking of that is his kingdom and his rule That's the slash, kingdom rule. That his kingdom rule will be advanced in this world. Jesus came to announce the kingdom. He says, I have come to bring the kingdom, to establish the kingdom. Jesus has come to rule, and we're praying in this prayer that his kingdom will be advanced, that God will break down and overcome all resistance to that kingdom. Then I go on. The outworking of that petition is that his revealed will will be done perfectly. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That has two parts to it also. I'm praying that your will will be done in my life, that I will submit to you Lord, bring your will to bear and take control of my will. But not just that, but also that your will will be done in my world, in those around me. That your will will be accomplished. Now, these purposes shape my overriding concerns in life. It makes all the difference that you begin this way. Let me illustrate. Let's say that you're struggling in your marriage. You're saying I feel profoundly unloved in this marriage. I'm hopeless. I'm desperate And I cry out to God. Well, let's say that in your job, you've recently been vilified, you've been accused, your reputation has been attacked. And you feel an innocent victim of what people were cruelly seeking to do to you out of competition to To threaten your career, your advancement, and uh it all seems so unfair, it's all so painful, or perhaps there's just something else that is breaking your heart And what do you do as a Christian? You and I pray. But how do we pray? The tendency is that I will rehearse the pain before God. God, look at this person who who doesn't love me. God, look at these people who are using me. God, look at this thing that's breaking my heart, and we go into exquisite detail, don't we? Rehearsing the pain, the problems, the desperate situation. We go on and on and on as if somehow just pouring it out to God is going to solve the problem. And maybe we feel some catharsis, but if you're like me, oftentimes you do that half hour, forty five minutes, you feel worse after you finish. Because you just reminded yourself of how hopeless your life is. So you go through this whole thing, and then you say, now God, would you please do something? And by that time, you've convinced yourself even God couldn't change the situation. So at some point Jesus is saying, this model says, whoa, whoa, stop, stop, back up. You need to start over, and you need to start at a different place. You need to start by thinking about the Father. You need to start by saying, uh, Father, hallowed be your name. It's all about you. It's not about me May your kingdom and your rule come. May your will be done. And you see, by the time you have got your mind wrapped around the fact that this really isn't ultimately about me, it's about you. You know what happens? About half your burden is taken away in simply that process. It's amazing. It's an amazing thing. I've experienced it so often So much of my burden is lifted just by realizing that life is not about me. As I said in another illustration recently, it's not my party. And so you come to God and direct your gaze upon Him. Now, recently in our Thursday morning concerts of prayer We will generally start with just a brief kind of devotional and maybe a verse or two of scripture. And then we move into some worship, and then we give you a sheet that gives all the requests printed out so we don't have to take time going through that, and we simply go to prayer. Invite you to join us sometime. It's a small group, it's kind of intimate, but come and join us 6. 30 every Thursday morning. Stop in once a month, every once in a while. Guarantee you're out by 7. 30. We know everybody's got to take off somewhere. Recently, Robbie Pennington was leading us and he uh Let us through this uh little devotional that was taken from a recent book by John Piper. And he gives an illustration here where um Dwight Al Moody uh was uh in London and he was doing some teaching and a young fella came up to him to talk about spiritual things and he asked the question of Moody, what is prayer anyway? And they were in this man's house, and just after he asked that, they heard a child's voice on the steps. And so her father, the owner of the house, called her down. She was a little girl, about nine or ten. And he said, Come here, Jenny, tell this gentleman what is prayer. Jenny did not know what had been going on, but she quite understood that she was now called upon to say her catechism. So she drew herself up, folded her hands in front of her, like a good little girl who was going to say her questions. And she said in her clear, childish voice, Prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God for things agreeable to his will. In the name of Christ, with the confession of our sins and thankful acknowledgement of his mercies. Ha ha, that's the catechism, Moody said. Thank God for the catechism. Piper goes on. The central definition of prayer in the Westminster Catechism is an offering up of our desires unto God. Therefore, prayer is the revealer of the heart. What a person prays for shows the spiritual condition of his heart. If we do not pray for spiritual things like the glory of Christ, the hallowing of God's name, salvation of sinners, holiness of our hearts, the advancement of the gospel, contrition for sin, fullness of the Spirit, coming of his kingdom, the joy of knowing Christ. And probably it's because we do not desire these things. Which is a devastating indictment of our hearts. This is why J. I. Packer said, Quote, I believe that prayer is the measure of the man spiritually in a way that nothing else is. So that how we pray is as important a question as we can ever face. How we pray reveals the desires of our hearts. And the desires of our hearts reveal what our treasure is. So, is it wrong to pray for personal needs, personal desires? Thank God that Jesus says absolutely not in the pattern he gives us. For having established that our primary concern is his name, his kingdom, his will, we then move on. To our basic personal needs. And we lay them before Him shamelessly. He teaches us to do that and encourages us that God wants us to do it and will hear us Notice that the needs we lay before him are in the plural. They're not, again, just about me. But they are things that I ask for in community. First thing, petition for. Material provision for me, my family, our community. Give us today our daily bread. As I said before, bread stands for all necessary material provisions. I move on then to pray petition five for forgiveness, verse 12. Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. As I forgive others in my community, I ask God to be forgiving me Notice this is the one petition that he further develops in verses 14. It is the one petition that I will take more than one week to discuss. We'll take three weeks to talk about forgiveness. Because forgiveness, Jesus is indicating in this model, is at the very heart of our relationships. You ever feel discouraged about how hard it is to get along with people in your family? Your brothers, your sisters, your wife, your husband, your friends, your workers, coworkers, your neighbors, you know, you just it's so hard to get along with these people. I got a special group of people God's plopped me in that are hard to get along with. Yeah, be encouraged, you might say in a perverse sort of way, that Jesus says that if there's one thing to pray about your relationships It's forgiveness, because that's at the heart of your need. Forgive my debts as I forgive my debtors, those that have wronged me. And so prayer is uh forgiveness is the petition at the heart of our relationships. But it's a petition that he also intends to answer. Finally, the sixth petition, deliverance from temptation, deliverance is the blank, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us. From the evil one. In other words, deliver us from temptation as well as the tempter. In that petition, you and I are crying out for strength because we're so weak. You feel weak this morning? Do you feel weak in resisting temptation? You feel weak, wrung out in fighting a spiritual battle? Good. Because that means you're in touch with reality. You and I are weak Jesus teaches in this prayer, recognize your weakness. You do not pray, bring on the temptations. I have the Spirit and I'll conquer. But you pray in humble weakness, Lord, deliver me from temptation. Deliver me from the evil one. I am so weak. I need you to get through this next week. in a way that will honor you. Petitions because of needs. Now as Tim indicated, the early church added something to this. The earliest manuscripts of Matthew do not have anything about the traditional ending. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever and ever. Amen. What's the problem? Well, it seems like it's a very appropriate ending. As I say, it's almost certainly not in the original that Jesus taught us, but the very early church Added that because Jewish prayers always ended with a doxology. And so what the early church did was they took a doxology out of one of David's prayers, actually the one in 1 Chronicles 29 in verse 11, and they summed it up in a few phrases to put it at the end of the Lord's Prayer. What that says in David's prayer is, Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, the glory and the majesty and spirit Splendor, for everything in heaven and earth is yours. Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom, and you are exalted as head over all. So it's entirely appropriate to put that on. We have no reason to say we're not gonna had that ending because Jesus didn't teach it that way and so we're not going to teach it and it was good enough for Jesus, it's good enough for us to not have it. We can put it on there And it reminds us that this is a model for praying. It is not the precise words that we are to state as the prayer And that is a very basic important point. This is not a prescribed prayer to use in a rote fashion. The irony is that this prayer was given in the context of Jesus' warning against superstitious technique kind of praying. Where you simply go through saying if you say certain things that that is some magic control upon God puts him in your debt so that he's gotta answer you Jesus is saying this is a model for your mind to wrap around to understand prayer. But as early as the second century, one of the most highly regarded non-scriptural documents of that time, the Didiche, prescribed that Christians should repeat this prayer three times a day. And has been downhill since then. Many church liturgies have included this: that every Sunday we stand and we say the Lord's Prayer. And so people have been taught inadvertently to mindlessly, without thinking of its meaning, simply to say the Lord's Prayer. And that's why Columbia Presbyterian has never had this as part of our liturgy. However We sometimes can overreact. There's a big difference between saying it mindlessly every week and occasionally throwing it in once every five years. So during this series, we will be most if not all the time praying, not just saying the Lord's Prayer, thinking about it. Because I'm convinced that one of the benefits of praying together, the Lord's Prayer, is that it reminds you that is A prayer that in our minds we join together in, and it gets it back again close to the surface of our thinking. I think for many of us our prayer life is more impoverished because we don't have this model close to our conscious thought. to use in times when our hearts are in such great upheaval that we can't think about how to pray. When Todd Beamer was on Flight 93 in 9-11, and he knew that in a couple of minutes he was going to go to his death by leading a group of men to take out the terrorists on that plane. He was on his cell phone with a phone operator on the other end. And what was the last thing he did? He prayed the Lord's Prayer by memory To direct his thoughts in the moment of the greatest upheaval. You and I, at times in our lives, need to have this prayer close to the surface of our thinking. So that it's there ready to just leap to help us in those times of upheaval where we grasp and cast about, and Lord, what do I say? How do I get? Oh, quiet your heart. Our Father in heaven. Hallowed be your name. And move through that balm of the Spirit to quiet your heart and to direct it before the Lord. So, four final observations before we pray. You see here a lesson in the priority of prayer Jesus gives us this basic model because it is something he assumes that we need every day. Why every day? Because he says, give us our daily bread. The prayer is only for the prayer for the bread needed for today. So it's implied that this is a daily prayer. It's a daily model for our praying. We pray because we cannot do life on our own. And so we come not like those who simply cry out in some superstitious prayer to a God that they don't know, but led by our Lord Jesus. To pray to the God who reveals himself his Father. He is not like the ice cream man, somebody simply to be used to get what we want. But a God to be pursued and known. Our own inclinations are so self-centered and so narrow. Help me, give me, make my life easier. Jesus says, here is a daily guide to help you in life. Secondly, it also teaches the importance of praying together. Because you notice that the pronouns are all in the plural. Our Father, give us this day, our daily bread. Forgive us as we forgive. Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. And I believe Columbia Presbyteria needs to grow in that. We do tend to incline, like last week, the proper ways. getting into a quiet place alone apart to pray to the Lord, but also to gather together Thursday mornings. To pray together for God to meet us, to hear us, to answer us. So many Thursday mornings I'll drive over and my heart may be empty and dull, and I am ministered to. By hearing other brothers and sisters, sometimes you know, before the lights come up, or it's it's gray and it's You know, and it's cloudy and you think you're half awake. But praying together ministers as our hearts are joined together in the request before God. Again, an invitation. Come join us sometime, 630 Just show up. Don't need a ticket. And probably it'll be a seat for you. Also, you can just show up in the back, our Sunday service prayer team. People that pray every Sunday for God to make a difference The Word of God will penetrate your hearts. Just show up. Put your name on the list. I give you the feedback of what God has been doing. Thirdly This prayer reflects the gospel. So important to see that as we come to God We come to Him as a Father because we are forgiven, based on Jesus' death and resurrection. You see, the Lord's Prayer is a perfect balance of God-centered grace. It's really a microcosm of our relationship with God in the gospel. What do I mean by that? I mean that you and I have needs, and so in those needs we realize we need to come to God because we're not adequate in ourselves. So we come to God. But we have not been concerned that his name be hallowed. We don't give a rip about his kingdom and his rule in the world, and we certainly aren't concerned that his will is going to be done in our life. We don't even know what his will is. All we know is what we want. And so God is angry with us. God is justly, righteously angry at those who have disregarded. His name, his rule, his will. But this same God sent his own son, his one and only Son. At that son, Jesus had his whole life wrapped around the honor of his name. That son came to do nothing but to establish God's kingdom, his rule. to cause his will to be done. I come to do your will, O my God. He did all of that perfectly. And then this son came and stood before God to be condemned for your sin and my sin, to take that sin upon himself and substitute himself at the cross to be cursed. to be killed so that you and I could be forgiven because the debt has been paid. Forgive us our debts. He's forgiven the debt because Jesus paid the debt, and not only did he do that, but he adopted you and me as his children to say, you can call me Father, you can come to me. And what happens? You and I come and our debts are forgiven. And we come to him and we say, Father, here's my need. And in doing that, he reminds us it's not about me. So I back off and I get my eyes focused on him, his name, his kingdom, his will. And as I do that, God blends together this perfect microcosm of life, where He shows His love as a Father to come and meet my need. I have my needs transformed to see they are secondary, not primary. Because I love Him and I want His glory. And those two loves blended together become a microcosm of God-centered grace in Jesus Christ. And that, brothers and sisters, is what prayer is about. So I urge you, this week To take five minutes each day to meditate on this prayer. And then to pray it. And to take all of your concerns and fit them into this prayer. See where they fit among these six petitions in the address. And as you do that, see if there's any that don't fit. Then ask yourself, hmm, how come that one doesn't fit there? Wrestle with God. Get to know Him. Pray this prayer so that it becomes the model of your thinking. And in the weeks ahead, as we unpack it, see the treasures. Let's pray, and we will end by praying together the Lord's Prayer. And we when we do that, we will use this translation so that we'll all be joined together. Let's pray. Our Father, we come to you in the name of Jesus because that's the only way we can come. To call you Father To know that you are the Father who draws close to us because you have sent your own Son so that you would forgive our debts. And you're the Father in heaven, fully capable to do anything according to your holy will. And we want to get to know you. We want to get to know you so that we long for your name to be hallowed and your kingdom to come and your will to be done. So that we can trust you with all our physical needs, with all our broken relationships, with all those temptations that hold us in bondage. That we can experience your power. That we can know you. Ah, Lord Jesus, reveal yourself. Father, show us what it means That you invite us as your children. And so we come. We come in our weakness and our helplessness. And we want to learn to pray. So teach us, even as we come to pray together, our Father, let's pray together, our Father in heaven. Hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the kingdom, the power, the glory forever. Amen.