So now we return to our study of the greatest sermon ever preached, called the Sermon on the Mount, because it was probably preached along this hillside, you see back here. With Jesus down in that lower part, kind of a natural amphitheater. Take your position back on that slope of grass and listen to Jesus talk about life. He has been talking about prayer and fasting, and now he is going to talk about materialism and worry. Very practical and pertinent in 21st century America, aren't they? But let me say it right up front This passage that we're about to look at in this this week and the next few weeks is going to make us uncomfortable and is going to make us feel guilty. Now I could try to spin it so that it will make us feel pretty good and comfortable, but it's not going to work. And I'll tell you the reason why I know it's not going to work, because when I read it, it makes me feel uncomfortable, and it makes me feel guilty, even though I've been a Christian for nearly 50 years. And so it's at a point like this that we need to remind ourselves that gospel means good news. Remember that Jesus began the sermon with the word blessed. And that word in the Greek has the idea of something that's enviable. And you remember he used that word seven times to describe his disciples. They are blessed. You remember that he began chapter six by talking about rewards. God intends to, desires to give you rewards. Don't do this and miss out on the reward. Do this, and your heavenly Father who sees in secret will reward you. And now he comes to this section on materialism and on worry, and the first verse deals with treasure. So there's treasure that he wants you to have. He wants you to not miss out on it. We need to keep that in mind, lest we think that this is a restrictive passage. lest in our hearts we think Jesus wants to take something away from us and see instead that there's something He very much wants to give to us. He doesn't want us to miss out on it. Now, I I hope that you'll look at the top half of page one of your bulletin outline, but not now. Sometime after the service, maybe this afternoon or while you're eating lunch or something, I don't know. But we don't have time to go through those context ideas. But there's just a couple of things that I want to make sure that we're aware of. Like the fact that chapter six is about living in the presence of God. That's the overarching theme. Living in the presence of God. And what Jesus does in chapter six is that he shows us that we're not consistent. We say that we live in the presence of a heavenly Father. But he says, you don't really believe that. In fact, people in this world are much more compelling to you. And he demonstrates that by showing us two ways that that's true. The first way is because of whose favor we seek. In our giving, in our praying, in our fasting, the good things that we do, our eye is generally on what people think. And so he's showing us that if we really live in the presence of God, what we'll be most concerned about is simply what he thinks. And the key idea is there that your father knows your heart. People see the appearance, what it looks like, but your father knows your heart. The second way that he says that you demonstrate that you're really more compelled by things in this world than you are by knowing that you live in the presence of your Heavenly Father is by what treasures we seek. In this idea, he's talking about our preoccupation with stuff. Your need, my need to acquire more stuff. to be anxious if we don't feel like we have enough stuff. And so what Jesus is doing here is that He is making this evident to you. He's challenging you here. The key idea in this last this second half of the chapter is that your father knows your need. He knows your desires. And what Jesus wants to do is to demonstrate the points that he's trying to make by giving you and me three, four contrasting alternatives. Four ideas that are set in contrast to each other, four pairs. First of all, he talks about treasure. Two kinds of treasure. Treasure on earth, treasure in heaven. Secondly, he talks about two kinds of eyes. A bad eye that can't see, a good eye that can. Thirdly, he talks about two kinds of masters, materialism and money versus God. And then fourthly, he talks about two kinds of preoccupations. Preoccupation with my body and its needs and its desires, and preoccupation with God's kingdom. Four sets of contrasting ideas. And what's important is that Jesus is saying it's an either-or situation. It's not a both and. It's an either-or. You have to choose which of these two ideas is going to control your values and your thinking. What we want to do this morning is to look at the first of those contrasting ideas. Remember, chapter 6 is about faith. Chapter 5 is about righteousness. Chapter 6 is about faith. And he's going to show us How by faith we can choose the right of these two contrasting ideas about treasure and about your heart. That's what we want to look at. It's Matthew 6, verses 19 to 21. Rick read it in the context of other passages. He got the theme as you saw it. there this common theme going through, but let's read those three verses again to focus on them. Matthew 6, 19-21. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth. Where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also I want to pose two questions based on these verses that I believe that Jesus is asking this morning. Asking you and asking me. First question, where is your treasure? Second question, where's your heart? Where's your treasure? And where's your heart? They come out of these three verses. So the first question, where is your treasure? You only got two blanks this morning because there's a lot of material here. So I want you to get all bogged down. Alright, first question is, where is your treasure? And you see that in verses 19 and 20. Let me read them again. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moss and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. where moth and rust do not destroy and where thieves do not break in and steal. They're very simple, aren't they? Just A simple negative command and a simple positive command. Do not store up, store up. Why does he say do not store up treasures on earth? Why? Look at the reason. You notice that it's not because they're evil. It's not because they're bad. Doesn't say anything about that. If they were evil or bad, we'd say, okay, Lord, help me to not store up treasures here. And just as best I can to eliminate that in my thinking, and uh that's why I need the cross to forgive me for that. That's not his argument What Jesus says is, do not store treasures up on earth because it's stupid. Not because it's wrong. It's stupid. Why? Because they don't last. They get destroyed. Moth will eat them away. Rust will corrode and corrupt them. We live in a day that manufacturers plan to make us have to replace things that are always going bad, right? Let me give you a couple examples of that When I grew up in our home, all my life I only remember one telephone. It was a black, indestructible piece of equipment You could have thrown that thing through the wall. There'd be a hole in the wall, the phone would still work. That's the only phone we ever had. Now, eight years ago our office over here bought a set of state-of-the-art phones. Man, these things could do all kinds of stuff. We had to take a course just to find out how we could operate all these phones and all the stuff it could do. Recently, some of the features stopped working. So what do you do? You call the people that sold you the phone and you say, Could you come out and service these phones? They're not working. You know the answer he got? How old are those phones? Eight years? We don't even service something that old Throw them out. And it's even worse with cell phones. People replace their cell phones every couple of years. You gotta get the one with the new features that does this, and that's you know, it's like eye candy. You know, or take my wife's car. She's ten years old. Recently she was driving on Snowden River Parkway, the accelerator stuck. That's a terrorizing experience. She said she felt like she was in a 5,000-pound missile that was headed for some target. God was gracious, protected her, she was able to bring that thing to a stop with no harm, no problem, took it to the dealer, And I said with the fellow there, you know, um, looks like it might be a stuck accelerator cable. Yeah, looks like it might be that. I said, well rather than test it and check, why don't you just replace the accelerator cable? He said, Well I'd like to, but actually that car is ten years old and they don't make accelerator cables for that car anymore I say so if your accelerator cable sticks, what do you do? Wait until the next time it happens and when the car gets destroyed, you just get a new car. Well maybe that's an option, but They don't make accelerator cables because the car is too old. Ten years. You know, I had a lawn mower that I bought in 1973 And that thing lasted me until 1996. That's, you know, 23 years. 1996, I bought another lawnmower, and I thought this would be the last lawnmower I ever buy in my life. We trashed it last month. Barely ten years, a little over ten years we got out of that thing. And I found out from the dealer they don't make long hours to last long anymore because they found out they weren't making enough money by making the parts of them all out of metal. So now half the parts are plastic So that you have to buy. We live in a world in which our treasures are so compacted here that it is assumed that everything is just to be replaced to get more, more, more, more, more. It's the way we live. And so we we live in a society of accumulation Now, um, it's not just that things corrode, rust, fall apart. Jesus says, you may have somebody steal them Uh Rick read the pro the verse from Proverbs, don't set your heart on wealth and riches here because like a bird it can just take wings and take off. What do you think of when you think of that? Anybody been following Bear Stearns? You know, here is an investment bank, considered a solid investment bank. Shares of Bear Stearns early 2007 were worth $172 a share. As recently as about three weeks ago, they were worth about $57 a share. Within one week they went down to two dollars a share. The government had to bail them out From healthy to dead meat in a week. You know, the the president, the CEO of Bear Stearns, was a billionaire. In one week, he went from a billionaire to worth only about fifty-three million dollars. Now that may not sound like the poor guy's really hurting, but you realize what a loss Bear Stearns lost nineteen billion dollars in that collapse. There is nothing certain. In this life. Invest in this life. If it doesn't leave you, you're gonna eventually leave it If your treasure is in this life, you realize that every day you live is one day closer to when you're going to have to leave your treasure. If your treasure is in heaven, every day you live is one day closer to when you get your treasure. Now Jesus says something here that is an amazing Amazing uh principle. Look at verse 20. He says, Store up for yourselves treasures in heaven where moth and rust do not destroy and where thieves do not break through and steal. In 1 Peter chapter 1 in verse 4, Peter says that God has given to us an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you. Now Jesus here is giving a principle that is unique to Christianity, and it is so radical that if you and I believe this principle, that Jesus is stating It will literally change your life. And the principle is simply this. You can't take it with you, but you can send it on ahead. Isn't that amazing? I mean that is unique to the gospel. You can't take it with you, but you can send it on ahead. Jesus says, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. That means you are able to do that. You are able to send ahead in the kingdom of heaven, in the new heavens and earth, treasure. You can't take it with you, but you can send it on ahead. How much will Bill Gates take with him when he goes? Zero. How much will Bill Gates leave when he goes? Every bit of it. He will take nothing. He will leave it all. Every last dollar. What Jesus is saying here is how you live as a Christian has eternal consequences. Has eternal consequences as an unbeliever too. But what he's talking to now is disciples, and he's saying how you live has eternal consequences. There is a distinction here that we need to grasp as Christians, and it is this. It's in your bulletin outline. First of all, where you spend eternity depends on your faith in Jesus Christ. If you see your need for Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord and trust in Him, then Jesus Christ will receive you into heaven when you die. Where you spend eternity depends on your faith in Christ. What you have there depends on how you invest your life. What you have in that kingdom. In a large measure, it depends on how you invest your life. Now you notice that the have in your bulletin outlines in quotes because it raises the question immediately of what does this treasure consist of? What is it that we actually get in heaven if we're investing here? Well, we're not told. The Bible doesn't specify that, but we do know that in heaven we are not sitting in clouds in uniform robes playing harps, wandering around all day. It is a real place. It's a new heavens and a new earth Where there is geography, where there is places that we live And we also know that we are all going to be content in heaven. There will not be covetousness, there will not be greed. Nobody's going to say in heaven, how come he got a bigger piece of land closer to the water than I got? In fact, the Bible seems to indicate that we will live in one house, the Father's house Whether we'll have parcels of land or any of the rest of that, I don't know. But though we're all content and though we'll all be perfectly satisfied, there will apparently be capacities for joy, and things that what we invested in from this life Paid in the expansion of our treasures and our capacity to enjoy those treasures because there are real things Of which Jesus is the center. It will not ever be a question of idolatry. Do I trust and delight in this thing apart from Jesus? It'll all be perfectly integrated But what you do and what you invest in here and now, your money, your house, your cars, your things Whether they are used for Jesus Christ or whether they are protected and whether they are an investment and a treasure for you affects eternity. That is an amazing principle. So what Jesus is trying to do is to free you up, to give you the best kind of advisor, uh investment advisor advice. He's like Randy Alcorn would describe. It would be like you're living at the end of the Civil War in the South, and this friend comes to you and he says, let me tell you Don't be storing up lots of Confederate cash. Only use what you need to spend for your needs now. Because it's going to be worthless very soon. Then you will need the U. S. Treasury's money. Get that. Jesus is saying This money, this investment, these treasures here on earth are going to be worthless in a very short time. I want you to have the real treasure. that I intend for you. Invest in that. How do you do that? Let me give you an example. There's a fellow that was uh from Chad, a country in Africa, Muslim country where people are becoming Christians This fellow from Chad came to the United States to study, studied at Gordon Conwell Seminary in order to prepare himself for gospel ministry. And of course, like anybody that comes to study from a country like that, a poor country, uh there was uh affluence here and he could have decided that he uh saw the Lord calling him to stay here, but he didn't. He said, God has called me to go home to my people. So he went back to Chad. He had been able to accumulate some money while he was here. So when he went back to Chad, he had $3,000 that he could put down to get a well dug on his property. That's a treasure in Chad. So he had this $3,000 well dug, and after the well was dug, some of the neighbors came around and they said, How much are you going to charge for the water? We would like to buy water from you. And when anybody has a well in Chad, I understand that they sell the water because it's a precious commodity. And this fellow as a Christian said, I'm not going to sell the water, because Jesus is the free living water. So every morning from 6 a. m. to 8 a. m. , you can bring whatever containers you want. You can all fill them up for free. Every day. That's investing in people. That's investing in the kingdom. That is storing up treasure. Instead of what he could make of it here, to say he's storing it up there. Now it's not saying that making profits here is wrong. It's not saying that we should live on the bare minimum. Jesus is saying, simply see where the true treasure is and look for the opportunities, your resources. Your house, your things, your cars. See those as tools to invest in the kingdom. Enjoy them. But don't accumulate the treasure here. Now, some people say to me when I talk about this kind of thing, but isn't that really just appealing to another level of greed? I mean it sounds like Jesus is saying, hey, don't be greedy about this life, be greedy about the heaven about heaven. Store up all the treasures you have there. No, no, no, no. That doesn't sound like what Jesus would do. You must be missing something there. Let me tell you something. I have never seen in my life a person who was storing up treasure in heaven out of greed I've never seen it. I have never seen somebody that says, you know, I'm gonna take all this stuff and I'm gonna invest it in missions and I'm gonna give it to the kingdom and I'm gonna invest in people's lives because man am I gonna get a pile in heaven. Doesn't happen. You do it because you love Jesus. That's part of why I don't think we could imagine what it is that he has for us there. And besides, it that would get us on the wrong focus All we know is that Jesus says, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, because those treasures are secure, and you will delight in those treasures. Now That leads us to the second question, which is what? Where is your heart? First of all, where is your treasure? Secondly, where is your heart? Verse 21. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Now, I don't know if you've ever noticed this, but it has struck me that that verse is a bit strange. I would have expected Jesus to say the opposite. I would have expected him to say, don't store up for treasure on earth, store it up treasure in heaven, because where your heart is, that's where your treasure will be. Makes sense, right? You know, we're I mean that's what he's talking about, our heart. Where your heart is, that's where you're gonna invest your treasure. He doesn't say that, he says the opposite. Where your treasure is, that's where your heart is. And and you notice there's a forward, there's a connection. Because What's he saying? I believe the four refers to the whole chapter, chapter six, where he's talking about our hearts and our treasures. Where he talks about what it is that we're really seeking after. And what he's saying here is, because if you're really seeking after The Lord and His treasure. If you invest in that, your heart is going to follow it. It's just inevitable. Your heart follows what you invest in. If you invest in Comcast, your heart's going to follow Comcast. You're going to be interested in whether Comcast is competing with Verizon. effectively. What they're doing with their plans in the future and how they're expanding and what they're doing. You're going to care about Comcast. If you invest in the kingdom You're going to be concerned about the kingdom. Your heart will follow that investment. People say, like after the month of missions that we had last month, how can I cultivate a heart for missions? The answer is very simple. Give a lot of money to missions. Give a lot of money to some particular mission that you believe in, and you know what? Your heart's going to follow Inevitably, you will care about how that mission is doing, whether they're being strategic, whether they're being effective. You will pray for those people. Because your heart follows your treasure. It is simply human nature. Jesus understands that. Jesus is in this passage talking about wisdom, how to live the way you're wired and the way the world is and what life is about And he is saying, if you really believe that there is a kingdom and that you have a heavenly Father, here is how you will live. You will live not for the dot That tiny point of time that you and I live in, you will live for the line Let me tell you again an illustration I've used in the past. Some years ago, my wife and I, Kathy, and I had the privilege and the opportunity to live in Ireland for three weeks And we had a lovely large home. The home was so large we only lived in a portion of it, shut off the rest of it. But it was a beautiful home on a hill and it was it was very, very nice and we enjoyed that for three weeks. So as soon as we got there The first thing that we did, of course, was to decide how we could improve on the house. And we decided that we would maybe put an extension out off of the porch And maybe we'd redo the kitchen, get some granite countertops and, you know, make this place really nice. And we really had all these kinds of plans to develop that. Now you're not laughing, but you're looking at me kind of strange because you should understand the point. We were there three weeks. Obviously we weren't gonna redevelop the house How stupid would that be? Everything we got in Ireland was what we could bring home. Because this was home. This is what we wanted to invest in I still remember the first time I saw that sign, you know, when you come into Maryland from most different roads, it says, Welcome to Maryland. Enjoy your visit. And I remember when I first saw that thinking, what do you mean, enjoy your visit? I live here. But then I realized the insight. No, I'm just visiting. This is a brief visit here. It was just a visit in Ireland. You and I are just visiting in this Life in this world, Jesus says, don't let your heart, don't let your treasure get all wrapped up in something that's going to be taken away so quickly. Invest in the eternal treasure that nothing can destroy. That is what he wants you to see. Now If you look across the bulletin outline, I have a little survey there, value survey. And I would like you to take that survey sometime this afternoon. Don't let it go to Nora. You'll forget about it. Do it this afternoon. And in that you will see a lot of good things. They're all good things But it will help you to examine so you don't think about this theoretically. You know, well, you know, it's talking about just don't get all caught up in materialism. Well, what does that mean? Because there's a lot of things that we spend our money on that are good things. But what it does is it helps you to sort out what are my priorities and which of these things that I value Would be the most tempting to me to get my treasure all wrapped up in this world. What are going to be the issues for me and my family? And if you do that, bring those before the Lord. Bring those before Him so that He can examine those, so that He can free you up from the things that will Sneak in, grab your heart. You know John Wesley once said, I give money away as quick as I can before it has a chance to grab my heart. And there are things that want to grab your heart and grab my heart. And we need to recognize them. We need to be able to enjoy good things that God has given to us and not feel guilty. We need to also be able to lay up treasure in heaven and know where the priorities of our joys and our treasures are. So be aware of that. We had a packed house and a great discussion in the middle hour about this If you're interested, you know, it's going on for a couple of weeks. In fact, this series isn't just me. Steve's going to be preaching on. Tim's going to be preaching on. We want for us to engage our hearts on this. So that we can begin to think about it. It's not something for you to just say, yeah, okay, I gotta remember that. It's something for us to engage our hearts on. And as we discussed it in the middle hour, we could see there's complicated questions. But we need to engage our hearts to be freed up from the materialism that shouts and is like the air we breathe all about us. Because the simple fact is you were made for one person, Jesus Christ. He is the only one who can satisfy the deepest longings of your heart. And He wants to free you from all the things that you will look at if I could just acquire this and if I could have that, then I would be satisfied to see that He is the pearl of great price. He wants you to see that you were made for one place. Heaven is your home. To not make this place home or pretend that it's home. But to be able to say, I live here, it's a visit, I enjoy it, but my home is there in heaven. Again, in closing, look at that passage that Rick read from Matthew 13. The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again, and then in his joy he went and he sold all that he had and bought that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls. When he found one of great value, he went away and he sold everything he had and he bought it. And you look at the person that sold everything he had and bought the field and you think, that poor guy, what a sacrifice. He sold everything he had. I feel so bad for him. What's it say? Out of joy he sold everything he's had. Why? He says, you kidding? There's a treasure in that field, and I gotta have it. And you say, well look at that guy, he he sold everything he had for one measly pearl. I was really dumb. Why did he do that? What a sacrifice. He said, ha ha, but you don't know that pearl. That pearl is worth more than all that I have. I would do anything to have that pearl. And that's what Jesus Christ is saying to you. If you understand him and you understand his kingdom, There is nothing that will keep you from him and that kingdom. There is nothing that will keep you from the joys that he has for you. And if that happens, the Church of Jesus Christ and all its ministries and missions will never lack. For the means to bring the gospel to the ends of the earth so that others may share in the treasure of Jesus and that kingdom with us. You believe him? Let's pray. Lord, we want to believe you. We want to take a moment right now to have these words from you ring in our ears. To not store up treasure for that which is going to last so quickly. It's going to leave us so quickly. But to store up the treasure in heaven, where you, the pearl of great price, are at the very center of our joys, and there is so much to enjoy there. Fix our hearts, Lord, to believe you. And then to go home and to see what difference does this make? In how I live, in our values, in our checkbooks, in our credit cards, and how we spend money, if we really believe that treasure And we really believe Jesus. Amen.