So we are with Christ in the school of prayer for a few weeks, and he is giving us a template. on which to organize our thoughts so that when you pray it's real prayer, not just fretting out loud or Winding a list to Santa Claus, we saw the first thing in considering prayer was to fix our minds on who it is that we come to. So he begins, our Father in the heavens. And we saw the importance of the balance light years from one end of the universe to the other at 660 million miles per second. God is beyond all that. He is above that. We saw that astronomers have detected that even beyond all the things that we can see in the universe, there is another whole universe that we cannot perceive that is in control of that universe that we see. But beyond that created universe, there is the God who is uncreated, who rules over all things. Heaven is his throne, earth is his footstool. But the God of the Bible is the one who is given to us in the gospel that says, My son Who has been the only one who is able to address me, my eternal son, as father, because you and I don't have the right to do that. We have not acknowledged his rule over us, and therefore God is angry with you and me in our sin. And this one, his son, the perfect son, came and he bore that sin, bore the sin, your sin, my sin, if you trust him. and has come to offer to you that God has removed the obstacle of your sin to reconcile you with Him and give you the privilege of calling Him Father. He has adopted you. in Jesus Christ. Now those are the two ideas. This God of majesty and infinitely remove the God who is near, who calls us, who says that we can call him Father, that we can come to him. Both of these things are true. You must keep both of those in mind when you begin praying. But the fact is that you and I hold us in great imbalance because we all have a tendency to identify with one more than the other For some of you, you may be able to identify with the idea that God is Father, that He is comfort, that He empathizes with you. You can go to Him and know that He is near, but You can't believe he's really going to change anything. He just simply offers comfort for you to adjust and adapt to what is There's others of you who view God as powerful. You were in a home where your father ruled. You can believe that he rules, but he's distant. He's sovereign, and so you can't believe that your coming and praying will make a difference in things, that he will hear, that he will act on your behalf, that he will change things. And Jesus is teaching, both these things are true. He is Father, He is in the heavens. Now, which one is the one that you incline to? Ask yourself that. Is it more that you can believe he's father or that you can believe he's in heaven? And ask the Holy Spirit to bring both those ideas together in your thinking. Now, once you are able to come to this God who is infinitely beyond all the galaxies, This one who is infinite in his majesty, who invites you to come and call him Father, expecting his embrace and not stiff arm. Expecting that you can come to him in the gospel because of Jesus Christ. As you come to him, Father in the heavens, The first thing that spills out of your mouth is, oh God, which you are like, may your name be magnified, glorified. It just spills out of you, you see. And that's the first petition. So when you come to the answer, the question that I have here, put it in terms of Matthew 6:9: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. They ask why is that the first petition? The answer is quite simple. It simply flows out of who God is. You can't see him as he really is, and then start with yourself. Can't do it. When you get a glimpse of the true Father who is in heavens then it simply flows from that vision, hallowed be your name. I want to see, I want others to see who you are, what you are like. Now that's a very important order that Jesus is giving us there. Let's suppose that you are in recovery. And in a basic sense, all of us here are in recovery from various kinds of life-dominating sins. But let's suppose that you're in recovery of substance abuse. or sexual addiction or um eating disorders, maybe all kinds of things. The way you're going to tend to pray is God help me to get through this day. God, help me to resist this temptation. Help me to get through these next couple of hours. God, help me. And that focus Well there's nothing wrong with praying, crying out to God for that kind of help. The focus of it, you see, in a subtle way is all on me. God help me to get through. Help me. And by doing that, you you wind up thinking more about the problem. Jesus is offering to you here a different way to pray. What he is saying is rather than starting with your problem You start with him, Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name. And I want to suggest to you that that could be a turning point in your recovery. When you and I come to the place where we are able to see God in a way so that rather than dwell on my problems, my needs, My being frozen into this bondage, I am able to see rather him and say the first thing I'm concerned about Beyond my addiction, beyond my recovery, the first thing I'm concerned about is that in my life today, your name will be lifted up. Your character will be displayed. That's a turning point. In that turning point, you see, you benefit. Because now you are lining up with God's primary concerns. He is honored. He is now not seen as simply a means to your recovery. He's now not simply seen as if I do these things and apply certain techniques I get in my support group and this and that, then I am able to move on in recovery. But rather, it is seeing him as a person. And that he is able to deliver and magnify himself as a savior for big sinners like me, to be able to give to me the recovery that I simply cannot accomplish on my own. See the difference? Big difference. Turning point. Second point, what is it that we're actually praying when we ask him to do this? It is, by the way, a request. It's not an affirmation. It's not simply saying, holy be your name, holy is your name. It is a prayer. Hallowed be your name. Two key words in that, name and hallowed. What does it mean? First blank there, name As you recall, some of you have been around for a long time. Back years ago, we did a series on the names of God. And I offered at that time a very simple definition of God's name. God's name is not simply God. Some people say, well, God's name is equivalent to himself. It's not quite. God's name is God as He has revealed Himself to His creatures. In Scripture. God's name is God as He has revealed Himself to His creatures in Scripture And back in that series we looked at twenty-some names of God that were in the Old Testament. And remember names like Elohim, the strong, faithful creator. Yahweh, the covenant keeping redeemer, savior, Helsai, the God of the impossible who brings life out of death And on and on and on. To come to the new covenant, the new covenant name of God is what? Father. That's what Jesus is teaching us here. A Father who is in the heavens. These are the ways God displays Himself. So this is praying that God, as He is revealed, will be demonstrated. Now, what does it mean when we pray that his name, how he has revealed himself, will be hallowed? The word hallowed is not a term that we're very familiar with. So what does it mean? What are we praying for? Well, actually the term hallowed is a term that while it is not common to us for some of us, it's a term that we have become familiar with. How? Through the series of H Harry Potter. The last volume is what? Harry Potter and the Deathly What Hallows. Alright? That's the word. Now, what does hallows refer to there? Hallows refers in that and in that kind of literature to important and powerful objects. And in that book, Harry Potter on the Deathly Hallows, the hallows refers to three items of power that were mentioned in a wizard fairy tale. And do you remember uh what those three items were? Remember anybody what what what's name one of the three items The elder wand. And the the cloak of invisibility and the resurrection stone. Now, how many can tell me who the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court is? Nobody. But we know who the death what the deathly hallows are. Now, why are they called the deathly hallows? Because the one who beholds them gains the power of death. The master of death, and hence the title, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. The hallows are something that you revere and respect because of its power. So when we pray about hallowed be your name, we are recognizing his power. It's not only, by the way, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, you have it in Lord of the Rings. In the volume Return of the King, you remember the stewards and the kings of Gondor are laid to rest in the tombs of the hallows of Rathdin. Again, it's the place that's a sacred place set aside for something that's holy. So when we pray, hallowed be your name, we're praying that your name will be made reverent reverentially respectful, that it will be holy, that it will be set aside as something that's so powerful that we give deferential respect When we see it, when we hear it, we venerate your name. We regard it with admiring deference. We see its power, Jesus the name high over all, in earth or hell or sky Angels and men before it fall and devils fear and fly. But the name of Jesus, you see, it it commands respect. It commands veneration. In other words, it's the opposite to trivialization. What we're praying is, Lord, hallowed be your name. May your name not be trivialized. One of the things that so concerns me in contemporary culture is not, although it's a big problem, but it's not particularly the what I call the aggressive atheist movement. Well, you have a lot of writings that are seeking to show that uh God is not only non-existent, but he's toxic to society and all the rest of that. It's not that people are attacking and blaspheming God. What is, I think, a bigger problem is that in much of contemporary media, movies, other things God is simply so unimportant, he's not worth mentioning. He's a non-issue. You can go through a movie that's dealing with philosophical things and uh all kinds of uh issues of life and death. Nobody talks about how God enters into that. We are so radically secularized that God is a non-issue. And so um you have articles uh written on religion. And you get the ideas you read these articles on religion, it's just about well, you know, these people believe this and these people believe that but there's no God who is there beyond The religions. There is no God who reveals Himself as Father in the heavens, who is ruling all things and invites people to come to Him through His Son as the one and only way. You know, let alone being able to let's, you know, call God Allah and just, you know, which is really kind of ironic to me if Tom read that, because Islam, the the word means submission. And so that the Muslims are saying, sure, call him Allah, you know. We won. 'Cause his name is very significant He does not, you know, he's be above and beyond that. So we're praying that his name will not be trivialized. He will not be seen as inconsequential. You can explain life without him. You can deal with self-help things without him. You just kind of bring them in as something that is a means to an end. This is what we are concerned with when we pray. Hallowed be your name. May people not blow you off or disrespect you. So may I give to you. Your proper place in my life, in my thinking. May I honor you, treating you with respect and the honor that you deserve. Remember that the old, uh that the word worship comes from the old English word worthship. It was a title of respect, your worthship. And so we come to God to worship Him because we see that He is worthy of our respect. We see a few scriptures that speak of that, besides what Tom gave to us here. Revelation chapter 4. You are worthy, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power for, because you created all things and by your will they were created and have their being. You exist. We exist for your glory. So you are worthy to receive that glory, honor, and power. So that's the lifting up of his name because he is creator. For Psalm 99, the Lord reigns Let the nations tremble. Let all the nations tremble before him. He sits enthroned between the cherubim. Let the earth shake Great is the Lord in Zion. He is exalted over all the nations. Let them praise your great and awesome name. He is holy. Let the nations tremble and the earth shake before him. That's not trivializing. That's seeing that he is the one who rules and judges and controls all things and gives you the next breath that you breathe. Take Psalm 83, verse 18. Let them know that you, whose name is the Lord Yahweh, that you alone are the most high over all the earth. Back um seven hundred or so years BC, when Hezekiah was ruling Um Israel Syria was the most powerful nation on earth. King Sennacherim of Assyria sent his undefeated army, an army that had rolled over the cities and the countries between Assyria and Judea. And he sent his undefeated commander to Jerusalem to address all the people and demand unconditional surrender. He demands that because he says, no one is able to deliver you from our hands. And don't let Hezekiah tell you that your God, this Yahweh, is going to deliver you because That's what all the other nations thought of their gods, and none of them delivered them. And we are about to take over, bow before us, or pay the consequences. As a result, Hezekiah, remember in 2 Kings 19, comes up to the temple, the place where God reveals his name. And he prays, and you see it there, 2 Kings 19, Hezekiah prayed to the Lord, O Lord, God of Israel, enthroned between the cherubim, you Alone are the God over all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. You're the Father who is in heaven. You rule over all. Give ear, O Lord, and hear. Open your eyes, O Lord. Four times he uses God's covenant name, Yahweh the Lord, there And see, listen to the words Sennacherib has sent to insult the living God. He doesn't plead their danger. He doesn't say we're in a big mess and Lord you've got to save us because without you, I mean we could get swallowed up and it's going to be a real mess and you don't want to see all the bloodshed. It's your name. They're insulting you. So he goes on, verse 17. It is true, O Lord, that the Assyrian kings have laid waste these nations and their lands. They've thrown their gods into the fire, and they destroyed them, for they were not gods, but only wood and stone fashioned by men's hands. Now, O Lord our God, O Yahweh, our Elohim, deliver us from his hand, so that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone, O Lord Yahweh, our Elohim. Not just for our sake, but that they will see that you are God. Hallowed be your name. It is the controlling plea that reaches to the heart of God. The result of it is that it's God sends Isaiah, his prophet. And Isaiah comes and he says, God's heard your plea. God couldn't resist that request. Then he addresses the Assyrians. Who is it that you have insulted and blasphemed? Against whom have you raised your voice and lifted your eyes in pride? Against the Holy One of Israel. By your messengers you have heaped insults on the Lord, Adonai. So verse 34: I will defend this city and I will save it for my sake. And for the sake of David, my servant, with whom God made covenant. The result of that is verse 35, that that very night the angel of the Lord went out and put to death. A hundred and eighty-five thousand men in the Assyrian camp. When the people got up the next morning, there were all the dead bodies. So Sennacherib, king of Assyria, broke camp and withdrew, and he returned to Nineveh and stayed there. And one day, while he was worshipping in the temple of his god Nisrach, He was honoring his name, lifting him up, hallowing him. His sons Adramelech and Shariser cut him down with the sword. And they escaped to the land of Aarat. And Desar Hadan, his son, succeeded him as king. And where is Assyria today? It is a ruins that you can visit as a tourist. What is left of it? Dust and nothing of glory. But the God of the Israelites, Yahweh, is worshipped by millions This God rules and reigns, and he continues in America 2007 to be concerned. Hallowed be my name. And when you join with him and pray, Lord, hallowed be your name, you're praying to the God who delivers his people from the mighty Assyrians. The God who hears the prayers of his people, who were concerned primarily for his glory. And so it's true today. It's true in a nation that sees God as inconsequential and irrelevant to the major issues that we discuss. And he's looking for people who pray that prayer and say, Lord, I am willing to be used to make that happen. So, thirdly, what difference does it make when you pray this? You can't pray that prayer and then just go on, your kingdom come, your will be done, give us my bread. Forgive me, deliver me, Amen, and move on. The implications of this prayer are radical in how we think about God, how we live, how we pray. And so I want to touch on two ways particularly That are the implications of this prayer, the difference it makes. First of all, when I pray this, I'm saying that I want to magnify you in everything that I say and do today. You can't pray, hallowed be your name, and not see the implications of that on how you live. And so um I've told you before there are two ways that you and I magnify. The first is through a microscope, whereby you take something which is very, very tiny and you make it look large by magnifying it. The other way that we magnify is through a telescope. And the telescope does the opposite. The telescope takes that which is very, very large, but that you can't see how large it is. You have no conception. of how great that thing is until you look through the telescope and it makes what is really large but appears with a naked eye small to appear more like it really is To see more of its dimensions as they truly are, but even so through the telescope, when you're looking into the heavens only the faintest idea, but still it is looking to see more what it is really like. And that's what you and I are praying. Lord, make me a telescope today. Lord, make me a telescope so that people will see more of what you are really like because of my actions, because of my words. Because of my worship, whereby I come in to a more exalted understanding of who you are. So that as I dwell on Father in the heavens and think about you and I read things and I study and meditate on what will expand my view of you, then God, when I come to worship, I want to sing I don't want to just stand there and just meditate or look around. I want to sing. I want to join with giving you the praise that you deserve. And so when we pray this prayer, we're praying this, you see, because it's not natural to us. We're praying for our actions and our words and our thoughts and our emotions. To be lifted up. We're praying that we will be available to speak of Jesus Christ, not as an obsessive evangelist who somehow needs to get the gospel in to justify the next few breaths that I breathe, because I did my duty today, but just casually because he is the center of my life, he enters into the discussions in any kind of way that's relevant and see where the God of the heavens and the earth takes that It's really a missionary prayer, too, because it's praying, God, may your name be hallowed among the nations. May all peoples see who you are and what you're like. But again, I tell myself as I tell you that it's a prayer because that's not naturally the way I think. See, the way I think, and I suspect the way that you think on your own, is hallowed be my name. That's the way I think. Let me give you an example. When Kathy and I were out visiting our grandkids earlier this year, along with their parents. We're out in their neighborhood and I was kind of circling around their cul-de-sac and a couple houses around there's a big new house that's gone up. It's got multi-level decks that look out over the Rocky Mountains. They live in Denver. And uh she, the mistress of the house, has two Emmys from Fox Sports. He is a TV producer for Fox. And so as we started talking, he happened to mention he's just finished a new TV series that's going to be aired this fall. And it's called Amazon Women Rule the World. I thought, oh great, I can't wait to see that. He said, well, you know, the storyline is kind of like we got this place in Fiji and we set it aside and set up a set And um we brought in a bunch of women, a bunch of men. And the idea is that the the guy who learns to most thoroughly, consistently submit to the women's rule eventually gets, you know, and he's the last one on the island, he gets like a half a million dollars or something. Now let me tell you what I'm thinking. Besides a bunch of other stuff, I'm thinking you're gonna get around to what I do And I don't want to come across as a measly religious pastor who simply sits in my little box and am, you know, totally out of touch with all this glorious stuff that you're into. So I'm thinking, how can I impress you? May my name be hallowed. And then that afternoon, met the next door neighbor. And we got into weather. You always get into weather out there. We got into weather and you know contrasting the weather of the Rockies and upstate New York where we used to live. And he mentioned, yes, I graduated from Cornell And so immediately I tell him, yes, I once did a seminar at Cornell and I remember because there's a weather story attached to it, which I won't bother to tell you. But I told him about this seminar as leading and thinking, you know, that's Really nice. Now I didn't tell them that I was leaving this seminar at Cornell simply because I was a lowly intervarsity fellowship staff worker doing an evangelism seminar with the Christians in the chapter You know, but I give them the impression that, you know, yeah, well again, I lead seminars at Cornell and, you know, any school You see, and afterwards I realized, Lord, where in that conversation was my heart saying, How do I hallow your name? I wanted to hallow my name. See, I need to pray this prayer because my heart is not there. You and I pray this prayer because we need the Spirit of God to work in us so that we want to hallow his name. Amen? We need to pray this because it is only by grace that God transforms us to want to live like that. I want your name to be hallowed in my conversations, not to impress people. What do they think of me? So that my name is exalted. Second implication of this Is that when I pray it, I'm concerned that your reputation is more important than my screaming desires. You come first. Before I get into all the things that I need and want and want to lay before you, let me remember, Father in the heavens, your name be hallowed. And so that means that the Bible is for me more than Emmanuel for attaining a pleasant life and getting the things that I want. Recently, I was reading in the Baltimore Examiner about a 15-year-old who has 14 world records and nine gold medals in Paralympic swimming. She gives the credit to God, the article says. She said, one day I read in Philippians chapter 4 in the Bible, I can do everything through him who gives me strength. I took that to mean that I can win as many gold medals as I want to. Because I can do all things in Christ who gives me strength. The thought occurred to me, what about the other girl who's a Christian that's claiming the same verse for her to get as many gold medals as she wants? What does God do with that? Well No matter. The fact is that it reveals that my desire is I can claim this verse for me It is for what I want, my desires. And this that Jesus is teaching, you and me, Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name, means I lay those desires. And I say, Lord, between these two alternatives, which one will bring you most glory? Shape my heart to desire that. It means that there are things that I want you to deliver me from. But you may desire to glorify yourself more by showing your grace in the suffering rather than delivering me from the suffering. It was forty years ago last month that Johnny Erickson jumped into the Chesapeake Bay, broke her neck, and for forty years Has lived as a quadriplegic, unable to move anything from her neck down, prayed for deliverance But God brought her to the place where her chief prayer was, hallowed be your name. And for forty years in a wheelchair. Jesus Christ has been honored through her showing the sufficiency of Christ in suffering. You know, other than the prayer for deliverance, for pardon from sin, Jesus prayed this prayer. And in John chapter 12, you have Jesus picking up on this particular petition. is just before the Last Supper, where he is going to suffer, be spat upon, and crucified. And in John chapter 12, in verse 27, Jesus prays. He says, Now my heart is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. He has an idea what is coming. Father, save me from this terrible, terrible suffering, this cursing that is about to come. No. It was for this very reason I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name. For Jesus Christ, praying this petition meant the cross It meant the cross for you to be saved, to be delivered, to be forgiven. What will it mean for you? I don't know. But you know it's a prayer of faith. Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name, no matter what it costs. I'm trusting that as I lay my life before you, it's beginning your day as you pray this prayer every day, it's beginning by laying yourself before Him. I want you, your reputation, to be what is paramount, the number one concern for my life this day. And so you need to pray this every day. You see, you can't wait till the crisis comes. It's got to be such a part of your being, Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name, that when the crisis comes, it's second nature to you. Of course. As I come and my mind is reeling with this news, and I'm disoriented, and everything is in chaos, and I think, what am I going to do? How am I going to handle this? I can't cope with this Your mind goes back to that still small moment of Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name. And your heart settles down. And you say, that's sufficient. So I want to suggest to you that this week you don't pray the whole Lord's Prayer. I mean, go ahead, you want to, and we're doing that, and encourage you to do it every week. But what I want you to do is some of the times, just do verse 9. See, the danger is when we pray, Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Go on. You know, you don't get the weight of this. Just pray, Father in the heavens, hallowed be your name. What does that mean for me today? And to see what he will do to display his glory in you, through you. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Father, teach us to come to you in that balance. You are my Father. Approachable, near, caring, in the heavens, capable, transcendent, majestic, and glorious. And I come to you in Jesus' name to pray. Hallard be your name. Lord, we confess that is not the way we think. It's not the way I think. My prayer is: hallowed be my name. But by Jesus Christ, the sufficient Savior, you have brought us to yourself. And you're changing our hearts so that we can pray. Hallowed be your name and experience. What does that mean? Lord, you're not going to be able to do that. Direct us, Holy Spirit, teach us and shape us in our thinking and our praying this week. According to that petition, which is dear to your heart, because above all things you have glorified your name and your word. And we want to enter into that with you. In Jesus' name. Amen.