See once again the hill up there that uh is the approximation of The place where Jesus spoke this most famous of all sermons, the Sermon on the Mount. And uh that's the spot. Now some miles northeast of this spot, across the lake Up in the northeast corner of the Lake of Galilee is the town of Gamla, which means camel, because it looked like a camel's hump, was considered impregnable. Now it's only a ruin because it was destroyed by the Romans in 67 A. D. It was not impregnable Gomla was the home to many Jews who called themselves the Zealots. They were terrorists who were dedicated to driving out the hated Romans from their land. for the sake of the God of Israel. Gamlah was for the Romans practice for another town that they would siege some years later, Masada. Now imagine one young Jewish zealot walking from Gamla counterclockwise around the lake And he's headed down along the west coast of the Lake of Galilee because his friend David has written to him. And said, Meet me in Tiberias. I've been listening to this rabbi, and he's a fascinating person. He's been doing some miracles. He is saying that the kingdom of God is at hand. And he is teaching strange things. Some people think he may be the Messiah. And David and this other terrorist, El Azar, are looking for someone who will lead their terrorist movement. They've been disappointed by a number of people who claim to be Messiah, but they're willing to give this rabbi a chance. Tomorrow he's going to be speaking south of Tiberias along the coast of the lake. And so they go down to hear him. And they hear him begin to talk about the kingdom of God. And he says that blessed are the peacemakers. And their brows begin to furrow. And then he talks about being salt and light, and they find that rather intriguing. Goes on to say that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the Pharisees, then you will not even get into heaven. And they kind of nod at that because they don't think much of the Pharisees anyway. Those guys never were radical enough. But then he talks about not resisting an evil person. Well, that's pretty disappointing. But then when he gets to this place of loving your enemies, They think we've had enough. That's pretty radical talk. And the problem is that you and I hear these words as Tim reads them, and we read them in our Bibles. And they don't seem like very radical talk to us. That's pretty tame stuff when you've heard it fifty times. And until it impacts us like a punch to the gut that challenges the way we think. The challenges some of our deepest held grudges, those victimization thoughts that we nurse against people who have hurt us and harmed us and we refuse to love. We will not get the impact of this message or the gospel that it points to. So let's pray for just a moment. Lord, we come and we want to hear these words in the impact with which you intended them. We do not want to be vague. We want you, Holy Spirit, to bring to our mind people we don't like. People that we feel have harmed us and persecuted us and done wrong to us. We pray that you would disturb us And that you would then bring the truth and the power and the hope of the gospel to change us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Once again, Jesus is holding up a mirror to show us our hearts. We've got six of these things in here, you know, he's been showing. Different ways, six examples of what your heart looks like and why it is that you and I need Jesus Christ. Once again, as he's done in the other five times, he starts by saying what your contemporary preachers are saying. This is what you hear. When you turn on the TV, when you turn on the radio about the people that are proclaiming contemporary evangelical thought. First point, what the rabbis taught. You've heard it said, he says, that it was said, love your neighbor and hate your enemy. And that's what they taught. Now Leviticus 19, 18, which is the Old Testament passage from which that's most derived, says, do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against one of your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. Doesn't say anything there about hating your enemy. In fact, there's no place in the whole Old Testament that says hate your enemy. So how did they get that? A lot of commentators say they just twisted and distorted this, and I think that's a little maybe a little harsh. Um you've got to put yourself in the mindset of the rabbi reading the Old Testament, and he looks and he says, Hey When God called Joshua to go into Canaan, what did he say? Exterminate your enemies. They're not being very friendly to them. Drive them out. Kill them. Spare them. Spare no mercy. And they say when I read Psalms like Psalm 139, David said, If only you would slay the wicked, O God. Away from me, you bloodthirsty men. They speak of you with evil intent. Your adversaries misuse your name. Do I not hate those who hate you, O God? and abhor those who rise up against you. I have nothing but hatred for them. I count them my enemies. And so from this what they taught was, your fellow Jews are your neighbors. You're commanded to love them. But the Gentiles The Goim, the nations, the Canaanites, these are the pagans, the idolaters, and you are called to hate them. There is no obligation to love them. And of course, what they were doing was confusing once again the difference between personal and judicial When God called Israel to exterminate the Canaanites, that was not because of a personal vindictiveness, that was because it was a prefigurement of the final judgment that was to come. And God was showing what he will do to all those who set themselves against him. Do not repent and find mercy in him through his provision. But it was never to be done personally. Leviticus 19, 18. Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge, not just against one of your people, but against any. Jesus taught quite clearly, Luke 10. that anyone in need is your neighbor. So the rabbis taught that, and then you see, as in every other case, Jesus contrasts what he's teaching. Second point, what then Jesus taught. Unconditional, or Tim Keller, somebody reminded me, would say counterconditional love to friends and to enemies In verse 39, the last time, last paragraph we looked at two weeks ago, Jesus had put it negatively. I tell you, do not resist an evil person. In this paragraph, Sixth Mirror, he puts it in a positive way. Not only do not resist them, love them. Now I tried to think of the best way to sum up what Jesus is saying here because you notice it's just not one verse. You don't just say, love your enemies, pray for them. That's it. It goes on a number of verses, and the verses are all comparisons. Three times he says what you are like if you do something. And so the my best shot at trying to sum up what Jesus is teaching here is, you see it is in your bulletin outline. The breadth of your love shows who you are like. The breadth of your love shows who you are like. First example he gives is in verses 44 and 45. He says, But I tell you, love your enemies, pray for those who persecute you. That you may be sons of your father, that you might be like, show a family likeness to your father, so that you will reflect him, so that you'll be like him in heaven. And what's he like? Well he causes his son, you notice it's his son, he owns it, he controls it, not in personal laws. He causes his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. He doesn't withhold blessings from those who treat him shabbily. They owe him their lives, and they're not even grateful. Don't give thanks to God for that food. He didn't put it on the table. I did. And yet he continues to feed them. Your neighbors enjoy the sunshine of this summer day, just like you do when you come here to worship. He doesn't withhold it from them. He doesn't place some ban around their gardens so that there's no rain on their lawn, no rain on anybody's lawn. You know, but when the rain comes, it comes on all of us like He does not withhold his blessings from those who treat him shabbily. And then he parallels that. With the statement, pray for those who persecute you. Tell that to the widows and the children of Tilman Geski. Pastor Nikati Aiden of the fiancé of Urgu Yuxil, three missionaries in Turkey. Back in April, five Muslim teenagers came to them saying that they were interested in this Jesus. Could they have a Bible study? And so on the morning of April 18th, they met in the church office to have a Bible study with these five seekers, thanking God for their interest. And after they had read a chapter of the Bible, the five Muslim teenagers pulled out their weapons, tied them hand and foot to three chairs. And over the next three hours, tortured them. They didn't just kill them. They killed them literally, piece by piece. They disembowel them alive. They slit their throats. Tillman. Had a hundred and fifty-six stab wounds. Nikati had ninety-nine stab wounds. Ugar had more wounds than could be counted. The police burst in on them because they heard a disturbance and someone called and they arrested. the five Muslim teenagers. They're still in custody, last I had heard But the Turkish government has not issued any sympathy for the missionaries. Minister of Interior said, I hope you understand Christians are not welcome in Turkey and that you guys have learned your lesson. Over the last couple of years, the Turkish press has been vilifying Christians, associates Christianity with terrorism, with al-Qaeda, and other threats to their country. Have been putting in articles that stir up animosity and hatred against Christians. No wonder this is the third incident of murder in the name of Allah. Since January 2006. But when Tillman's widow, Suzanne, was interviewed on TV She said, I do not want revenge. She forgave her husband's murderers and prayed on Turkish TV. Oh God. Forgive them, for they do not know what they do. And someone wrote, in a country where blood for blood revenge is as normal as breathing. This was a startling statement. One columnist wrote in a Turkish newspaper. Quote, she said in one sentence what 1,000 missionaries in 1,000 years could never do. Why? Because probably the most obvious difference between Islam and Christianity is the way you treat your enemies. She bore the likeness of her father in heaven when she prayed for her persecutors. And all the things that could be said about the power of the gospel sitting around tea. Was brought to reality when her husband was butchered. And by the grace of Christ, she loved her enemies See, the breadth of your love displays who you're like. Now Jesus contrasts that with two other examples to show what you are like. And they there in verses forty-six and forty-seven. He says, If you love those who love you What reward, Luke's parallel passage has what thanks? So that's the idea. What thanks is that? Are not even the tax collectors doing that? And you know what you guys think of them. And if you greet only your brothers, what are you doing more than others? Do not even the pagans, that is, even the Gentiles, do that? The breadth of your love shows what you're like. And so what Jesus is doing here is showing When you only love people who are nice to you You're no different from tax collectors, pagans. Now you have to understand the visceral impact when he said you're like tax collectors. The Roman tax system meant that the Roman government collected taxes through petty officials that were in localities. They would collect the taxes. And the Roman government said this is what we require and this is what you gotta turn into us. But how much you collect, we don't care. You get from them as much as you want to get. And so they would get by extortion as much as they could wring out of the people. So they were hated for three reasons. Number one, because they were traitors, these were Jews who were siding with the Romans to steal from their own people. Second, because they were greedy thieves. And thirdly, because they were extortionists. This really was protection money. You had to give them what they asked for, or they'll have the Roman government beat you up. It was extortion. So when Jesus says, if you love only those who love you, what reward will you get? You know, hey, the tax collectors do that. They love people that love them. You know better than them. What an insult And then he says, no, you only greet your brothers, your tribe, those that are like you, and you just sort of screen out and don't notice other people. You come in here and on Sundays You know, there's people you're not going to sit near because when Tim says greet one another, you know, you may have to greet them and you don't want to greet them. So, you know, you sit around your friends. You come in here and and you know married folks don't notice the single folks so much and Anglos don't notice the African Americans or the Latinos and we all just kind of stick with the people that are like us. Jesus says, as all you do is associate with people that you have a natural affinity with, it's just like pagans. They do the same thing. There's nothing distinctive about that. That doesn't show any likeness to your Father in heaven who treats people with grace and mercy who treat him shabbily. What Jesus is stating here, he then brings to a conclusion in the climax, verse 48. What he says is that you guys are becoming like those that you or or reflecting those that you hate. You're no better than the enemies that you hate. But the essence of the law is to be like God. So verse 48 is not simply the climax to this section. 43 to 47, it's the climax of the whole section, verses 21 to 47. Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect. See, he's saying that's the essence of the law. The law is simply the reflection of God's character. And so what the law calls you to is perfection because that's the nature of God. Be the way God is in the way that He loves. That's what it's about. What Jesus is stating here is a profound counterintuitive in principle. And that is simply this. It's in your outline, because it's very important. He says you become like your emotional focus. Positive or negative. Now what's an emotional focus? It's what your mind drifts to. You start praying, but your mind keeps going back to that person. That's your emotional focus. And you become like your emotional focus, whether it's positive or negative. Your spouse ever say to you if you're married, you are just like your father. Or you're just like your mother. And you say, that's impossible. I hate my mother. I hate my father. I determined I would never be like them. I did not like the way they acted at home. And I said I am never going to be like my father in that. And you're telling me I'm just like my father, how can I Because the person who is your emotional focus, negative or positive, is what you become like. And the only way you can be free from that is to forgive that person. When you forgive that person, you're free to focus on Jesus. But you see, it's a circle, because the only way that you can free the person is to focus on Jesus. And that brings us to the third point. Once again, Jesus didn't just teach these six principles, he modeled them. So now we look, how did Jesus love? And particularly, how did he love you? Remember that Jesus demonstrated love for his enemies primarily, definitively, at the cross. Where when he was hanging there, he prayed for the Roman soldiers who had driven the nails through his hands and his feet. Father, forgive them. But they don't know what they're doing. When Jesus gave the command here in verse 44: love your enemies. The word that he uses is agape. And agape is almost always associated, connected to the cross. John 3. 16, for God so loved Agape, the world, that he gave his only Son, so that whoever believes in him should not perish. But have eternal life. Galatians 2. 20. The Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Ephesians 1. In love he predestined us to be sons who he redeemed with blood according to the lavish riches of his grace. And so, you and I, the gospel states, are so far from verse 48, be perfect. Even as your Father is perfect, we are so far from that that we are God's enemies. That's what the Bible states. But you and I have little appreciation of that. Think of Isaiah, when he was condemning the culture that was deteriorating, was immoral, was weak, materialistic. The first five chapters of the book of Isaiah. Then comes chapter six. And Isaiah says, I was in the temple. And I saw the Lord. That is, I saw just the hem of his garment, because the rest was lost in the glorious smoke That was filling the temple. And I saw the seraphim, magnificent angelic beings And they were covering their eyes because they dared not look upon the Holy One, and they cried out, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty. And the foundations begin to shake of the temple. The whole ground is shaking beneath him. And Isaiah says, all of a sudden, I realized I am his enemy. For I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell among a people of unclean lips. I am undone. My eyes have seen the Lord, and I am hopeless. If you are God's enemy, what hope is there for you? Who can rescue you? When Isaiah received the cleansing of the coal from the altar, it transformed his life in ministry. You and I can criticize people and have enemies and have people that we will talk about against, talk against to other people. When their name comes up, we feel sour and critical. We avoid them. We nurse our grudges. Because we have never really seen a holy God who is our enemy. We haven't seen that though we owe him our lives, we have not been thankful. We have not been obedient. We have not lived for him. We have nursed self-righteous anger and our lusts. We've broken our word. We've defended our rights. And we have disliked, no, be honest. We've hated certain people. But when you see yourself before this holy God, and the too good to be true, words of grace come to you from Romans 5. Like Isaiah, you become transformed. For in Romans chapter 5, Paul tells us, you see, at just the right time. When we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. Verse 8, God demonstrates his own love for us in this while we were still sinners. Helpless, powerless, hopeless, sinners. Christ died for you. Verse ten for if when we were God's enemies, God's enemies We were reconciled to him through the death of his son. How much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through his life to sustain us and keep us until heaven? When you were God's enemies, he sent his son to take your sin. And to pay for that sin so that you would no longer be his enemy. He does not hate you Have you ever come, undone, to receive this Christ freely offered to you? Have you? If you haven't, there is no time better than now, and no other time promised But the strange thing is that even for us who may have walked with the Lord for months or years or decades, Some of us still have a sense that we're God's enemies. Just this week, when I was out praying, I found that I was not having peace. I wasn't feeling I could approach God. I wasn't feeling like I could come to Him with my burdens. I felt a distance and I couldn't put my finger on it. As I began to think about it, I realized That I was looking at God and thinking, He doesn't like me. He's looking and he's saying, When are you going to learn to trust me? And really just simply obey me and do what I tell you. And there was this sense of distance that God was holding me at arm's length, turning his face away and saying, I've saved you. But boy, I wish you could get your act together. We've got to preach the gospel to ourselves every day, don't we? And I had to remind myself, I was your enemy. But you have brought me to yourself as your beloved son. You in fact hold your arms out to me to receive me, to come to you. And when that becomes my emotional focus, it changes my heart toward other people. The breadth of your love is determined by your emotional focus, whether negative or positive. See how this controls us? Fourth point. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5. In verses 14 and 15, Paul writes, The love of Christ, Christ's love, that's his own love for us. Compels us, controls us, constrains us because we're convinced that one died for all and therefore all died. I was dead, as your enemy, judged. But when Christ died, I died on the cross with him. And there is no double jeopardy. I am dead. to sin. He died for all that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and for for them and was raised again. You are free not to return in kind because you are not controlled by people, but by the gospel and the Spirit in your life. That is the gospel, brother and sister. You are controlled not by other people, but by the gospel and the spirit. In your life. My immediate reaction to someone that's nasty to me is, yeah, won't be like that? Okay. Two can play that game To react just instantaneous. But then the Spirit reminds me of the gospel. I, who was the enemy of God, had been reconciled through the blood of his Son, Jesus. And he draws me to him, and my response is then determined by what is within, not what is without It's a story of a man who was meditating on the gospel by a riverbank under a tree whose roots stretched out over the riverbank. He saw the river rising, and there was a scorpion caught in the roots. And was going to be drowned. So the man crawled out onto the roots to try to rescue the scorpion, and every time he tried to reach to rescue the scorpion, it it tried to sting him Tried this two or three times and the guy was another fellow was walking past and he said, that's stupid. Don't you know that it is the nature of a scorpion to sting? And his response was, but by the gospel, my nature is to rescue. And should I change my nature because the scorpion won't change his? You are not determined by other people. How you treat them is not determined by how they treat you. The blazing glory of Jesus Christ is demonstrated in the life of a person like that Suzanne, whose husband was butchered and said, I do not take revenge. By the grace of Christ, I forgive. That's supernatural. That's the most obvious distinction between Christianity and Islam. It's the most obvious distinction between you and people who may be hating you and don't know what grace looks like. There was a fellow by the name of Roy who was in prison. He was part of prison fellowship. He'd become a Christian. And they were studying this passage about loving your enemies. And Roy said, That's not a very smart thing to do in prison. You don't last long loving your enemies. But shortly after that, another guy in prison, Rodney, when Roy was playing volleyball, saw that he was not guarding his radio and headphones, and so he stole them. Roy knew that Rodney stole them, but he couldn't prove it, and he couldn't replace them, and he was really angry. And he said that verse stuck with me, and I struggled with that, and I thought, I know what the old roy would have done. But Christ is in me now. God help me to forgive him. Shortly after that, Rodney was put into solitary confinement because of all his other thefts. Turned out that Roy was the law clerk and he had contact with him. Rodney said to him once, do you remember me? He said, Yeah, you're the guy that stole my radio. I didn't do it, I yeah, yeah, right. He said, That's okay, Rodney. I forgive you. And then he began to pray for Rodney. And he said, A strange thing happened as I began to pray for him. I found my heart connected to him. I began to pray for his good. I began to share Jesus with him. And one day I saw him kneeling by his cot with an open Bible. And I knew Jesus really is powerful. That's the power of Jesus Christ in sinners like you and me. So let me ask you, where are you in bondage to someone who controls your behavior? If their name comes up, there's this recoiling, there's this reacting critically, there's this desire to put down. If no one comes to your mind, let me suggest you're not being honest with yourself. We think enemies. I don't have enemies. No, I forget enemy. Enemy is, he's saying, if it's even the enemies, what about people you just don't like? People you want to avoid Who is it? Repent. See yourself as the reconciled enemy of God through Jesus Christ. And let that control you. Let's pray. Oh Father, what good news this is! And yet, Lord, some of us really struggle now because we cherish the hatred we have for certain people. It feels so good. Feeling a victim. Feeling like the nursing of that grudge is something we simply do not want to give up. It would be like tearing a piece of our flesh from us. We've been holding on to it for so long. We ask you now, Holy Spirit. To show us our own enmity from the Father. The reconciliation accomplished by Jesus Christ for us on the cross. You would break our hearts. That you would give us a breadth of love that is produced by the emotional focus upon you, Lord Jesus. that will not sit side by side with that grudge. We want to know you more than we want to hate them. And we bring that to you now, that you would forgive, and that you would heal, and that you would produce the love of Christ in us. Because that is to your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.