Well, we are glad to turn our eyes away from Herod and death to look at Jesus and life And this morning I want to consider from Matthew 14 another one of Jesus' miracles. Not just any miracle. This miracle apparently was so special that it's the only miracle that Jesus did that's recorded in all four Gospels. Apparently it made a great impression on the disciples. In fact, John, in his gospel, devotes almost a whole chapter to the record of this miracle and the discourse that followed it Now you recall that I said that chapter 14 is composed of three stories, and that the stories can best be understood by their designation in five C's. Five C's. Last week we looked at the first story and the first two C's. First of all, the conflict between the kingdom of God and Satan's kingdom. We saw that in Jesus um being He was offending the people in Nazareth, was um opposed by them, and then we saw John the Baptist being murdered by Herod. the conflict of the kingdoms. We saw secondly the contrast, the contrast between Herod and John, and then the contrast between Herod and Jesus, two kings. Now we come to the third C, which is compassion. You can put that in your little blank. Compassion. Now notice the connection between verses 12 and 13. John the Baptist has been beheaded down east of the Dead Sea, many miles from Capernaum, in a Um castle, fortress, prison, by the name of Macarris And apparently it is now several weeks later that Jesus hears about that. So in verse 13, when Jesus heard what had happened to John the Baptist, he withdrew by boat privately to a solitary place. Remember that John was Jesus' cousin. He had known him since he was a baby. He loved John. And so he was deeply grieving over this violent death. of his cousin. Secondly, Mark tells us that the disciples had just come back from their mission that Jesus sent them on. And they had been wanting to talk to him about it, and they hadn't had any time to sit down and get alone. So in Mark's account, Jesus says, Let's go away to a solitary place and have a good talk. Just spend some time together. And thirdly, um, Jesus is here coming to the end of his ministry in Galilee. The people have um been rather apathetic. They have not responded in belief. And Jesus is going after this to move west, and then he's going to start going south toward Jerusalem. This is entering a new phase. He's coming now to see the end of his ministry moving toward the cross. So he knows that he needs to spend some time with the father to get ready for this new phase. So I believe for these three reasons, Jesus is saying, come on, let's go to a solitary place so that we can be alone, talk, pray, think. Now, think of a time in your own life. You always have to get into the fiend of things in Scripture to be able to appreciate it. Think of a time in your own life When you'd been through a particularly stressful time, you've been really busy, maybe got some bad, discouraging news, and you got a day off that's coming Now, this day off is so important that you have done a lot of things to prepare for this day off. You've cleared your schedule, you've gotten everything taken care of so that you're not going to be interrupted. You can just relax. You turn off the cell phone, go out, you know, and and then the other phone rings. And you are really ambivalent about picking it up because if it's one more demand You're gonna crack. I mean you just can't take one more interruption. You so need this day. So Jesus and the disciples decide to head to a very solitary place where they won't be interrupted. Now let's take a look where that is. They're up here in Capernaum, I mean uh yeah, Capernaum area. Uh there's Nazareth. Jesus has come from Nazareth back to where he's been staying these this last year or so. And so this is where he gets the news. What he does is he gets the disciples in the boat and they go along here over to this area, Besseida. And this is a very pretty desolate area, just a small town. This is where the Jordan River comes into the Sea of Galilee. So he goes by boat over to this area hoping that they're going to be able to get some time alone and being undisturbed. But look at verse 13, next slide. Hearing of this, somebody told him, and the word got around very quickly. Hearing of this, the crowds followed him on foot from the towns. They take the land route, which is actually a little quicker, depending on the winds, and they were able to beat them. It's you know two, three hours ride by boat and uh so they run along the shore. They gotta move up two miles to Ford the Jordan. They come around. And verse 14, when Jesus landed and saw a loud, large crowd. So they're talking in the boat about how this is going to be so good. Man, this is way overdue. Can't wait to get this time. They start to approach the land. And this is supposed to be desolate. There's people. What are there people doing there? We forget about some holiday or something. What is with these people? There's hundreds of them. No, no, no. They get closer. There's thousands. Thousands of people. What are they going to do? What is Jesus going to do now? How's he going to respond to this? How he responds will say a lot about his heart. Remember back in chapter 9, we read that Jesus saw the crowds of sheep without a shepherd, and he had compassion on them. Well, a lot of us talk about thinking that we're decent people, we care for people. You know you want to really know somebody? Find out how they respond when they're under stress. Find out how they respond when they're under pressure, when they get something unwelcome, unexpected. How do they react? And so it is very impressive that when you read verse 14, when Jesus landed and saw a large crowd, the end of 14 says he had compassion on them. And healed their sick. Surely you can recall a time when you thought you knew that God knew what you needed And he didn't give it to you. And you think, Lord, you knew I needed this day. You knew I needed this time. You knew we needed to get away. And something just came and took it away from us. What were you thinking? Do you care? Why is it that God did not protect his son and give him that time that he needed? I believe that it's because the Father wanted to show you and me and his disciples real compassion. The compassion that when he saw these people and all the sick with them, his heart went out to them and he said, This will come first. Now, if you get yourself in that scene, to me that's stunning. It's utterly amazing that Jesus would respond with compassion. In such a situation, these people are not there to comfort him. They don't give a rip about his grief, his plans, his needs. They are there to literally suck the life out of him because healing drained him. And he responds, Matthew says, with compassion. Now I hope that as I have mentioned to you many times before That your first response as you hear that is not to feel guilty. Boy, if that was me, I'd have hit that shore and I would have said, you guys get out of here. I need arrest. I gotta set some boundaries. Just, you know, go away. I got That's what I would have felt like doing. But rather than to focus on yourself and how you would have Been so different, think more about Jesus and how different He is from you and me. And as you see, the measure of His compassion. To be able to say, Lord, I am amazed at you. Lord, I adore you. I worship you. You are so unique. Just revel in his uniqueness. Don't worry about comparing yourself with him. Revel in his uniqueness. and delight in what kind of a savior he is, that you can be assured of his compassion whenever you go to him. Because you cannot wear him out. Jesus had compassion on them, and he healed their sick. Now think of the disciples. I think at this point the disciples were probably fairly resentful. I can imagine that they might have taken off eight or nine o'clock in the morning, two, three-hour boat ride, got there a little before noon. They see all these Thousands of people. They're waiting. They can't wait to get more. They've probably been talking in the boat, but they can't wait to get more of Jesus' attention and just be able to focus and rest and think about what God has done and reflect on where they've been and where they're going. And now here's Jesus And he doesn't tell them, go away, get out of here. He starts healing. And he probably is healing them for maybe three hours, maybe noon to about three o'clock. That's the best you can make out of the time references So so there and he's healing and they're standing there and they're probably thinking something like, you know, an hour's gone by, he's still healing. If two hours gone by, he's still healing. Three hours gone by. You know what? When he finishes with this, he's gonna be so wasted, he's not gonna have any energy for us. Doesn't he care about us? What about us? We came over to here to be with you, Jesus, and all you do is Work and just give yourself to all these other people. Don't we matter? So you come to the fourth C, which is confessional. You see, when you come to this time at um Verse 15, it says, as evening approached, the disciples came to him and said, This is a remote place, and it's already getting late. Send the crowds away so they can go to the villages and buy themselves some food. The word that's used there is evening approached is a Greek word that can refer to any time between three o'clock and dusk. And I think it probably in this instance, because so much happens between now and dusk, that it's probably about 3, 330. And the disciples now do something that seems entirely reasonable. You've been healing for three hours. We didn't expect this. It's starting to get late. This is a desolate area. It's going to take a while to get to some place where they're you know, as a fast food place or a strip mall to get some food. So but just tell these people, okay, that's it for today. Time to break up so you can get something to eat. And then we'll at least have some of the day. Now isn't that reasonable? It makes perfect sense, right? What's the matter with that? Now it's at that point that I suggest you do something frequently as you study scripture, uh I think at least for me it helps to give more meaning, try to blot out what you know goes on and happens and think to yourself, if I were writing this story, what would I say happens next? What what would Jesus do? That's a perfectly reasonable thing to say, to send them away, time to go get the food, and you know it's all over, guys. We'll see you again. When I find myself trying to do that, everything I would ever write is always so much more insipid than what Jesus actually does. Because what Jesus does here is something absolutely unheard of. He says, no, no, no, no, they don't have to go away. You give them something to eat. What? You give them something to eat And one of them says, Psh, Oh my God is five stinking barley loaves and a couple stinking fish. Mark adds, it would take eight months wages to feed this crowd Lord, that's impossible. That's unreasonable. And what Jesus does now is to show them two things that they need very much to see. And I'm afraid they're the same two things that he often wants to show you and me, and probably wants to show some people right here this morning. And he began with me. He wants to show them first of all they have no resources to do this. So when they, he says, you give them something to eat. They say it's impossible. We don't have anything to eat. Notice I say confession one. This is the first confession. There's another one coming later. We'll look at next week. But what he says is, go ahead, you can do that. They say, no, we can't do that. And he says, okay, bring me the food. So he is showing them they have no resources. It's impossible for them, but it's not impossible for him. But before we get to that, the second thing I think he wants to show them is not only you are unable to feed them You don't want to feed them. You're not only unable, you are unwilling. You just want them to go away. You see, I know That as a pastor, I'm unable to feed you spiritually. The Lord has to do that. The deeper problem is that there are times when I am unwilling to feed you. People are a bother to me. I've had enough. It's hard enough to love God, who's perfect, let alone to love sinners. And Jesus wants to show them, you are spinning this as a positive, reasonable suggestion. It really isn't. You're hiding your irritation behind the suggestion. How often do we do that? I'd like to help you, but, and we come up with some reason, it really isn't what prevents us. We just don't want to. And there's a reason that we can spin as looking like it's caring when it really is an excuse. I'm guilty of that. Are you? So the confession is: Lord, we are unable and we are unwilling. We desperately need you. So verse 18, Jesus then they says, Give me the five loaves, the two fishes. Bring them to me, and then he does something that again has never been done before. And this shows fifthly, fifth C, his competence. Jesus Has thought of something in his imagination that the disciples wouldn't even think of. It never occurred to them to feed the people. So I find this another amazing thing about Jesus. Not only is he full of pity joined with power He's able to do exceeding abundantly more than I could ask or even imagine. And sometimes with his infinitely fertile imagination, he thinks up a way of showing compassion to me that I would not have even dreamed of. Isn't that amazing? Maybe in that stressful time, in that difficult time in your life, Jesus is preparing to show you his compassion in a way that you would have not even dreamed of. And so he takes five simple barley loaves and two fish and begins to multiply them. Now, how many people did he feed? We don't really know. Matthew says, along with the others, it's 5,000 men plus women and children. Commentators figure out from that that that could have been 7,000 or 8,000. Some commentators say maybe 15,000 or more. We don't know. I incline toward a lower figure, people taking that kind of a trick. And so my guess is something like 8,000 or so. Which raises the question of how in the world did they feed eight or nine thousand people in such a brief time from three thirty or so to before dust by the time they clear up all the basketfuls and Jesus sends them away. How did they do that? Well Mark gives us the clue. He says that Jesus had them sit down on the grass in hundreds and fifties. So we group them. And it's a very simple thing, is Jesus would give the bread to the disciples, and they would break off and give some to another disciple, and then they would just go among these groups. Now, if you have eight thousand people, a hundred groups, that's only about How long does it take to wander to a hundred groups of people and just give them some? Because I believe the the bread and the fish continued to multiply as the people passed it along. So Jesus' competence is being demonstrated in a dramatic way. Imagine seeing food multiply as you pass it And don't miss the contrast between this feast and Herod's feast Herod's feast was a lavish feast in which there was no lack of food for a few people who indulged themselves and satisfied their own lusts and simply wanted more and the result was death. Jesus takes barley loaves, which is usually food for animals, a very simple meal. He multiplies it, and Matthew says the people ate and they were satisfied. You remember what Jesus said back in Matthew eight in verse eleven to the centurion? I say to you that many will come from the east and the west and will take their places at the feast with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. This is the hors d'oeuvre to the great feast. This is the prelude to the Passover, to the Lord's Supper. to the great feast of the kingdom of heaven, when you and I will sit down and indulge ourselves in every kind of delight more than we have ever experienced in food and drink with no guilt, no restrictions, no fat, no anything but the delight of the deepest satisfaction. Jesus feast is life. He satisfies Now, don't miss the disciples. Back to them Notice that he does not feed the people directly. Matthew says he took the bread and the fish and he gave it to the disciples who then gave it to the people. Again, I'm a little amused at this perverted kind of humor, but I'm thinking of the disciples there. They're saying Lord, send these people away. Enough's enough. Just send them away because they need to go get food. No, no, no. They don't need to go away. You could feed them. Feed them. No, no, no, Lord. That's impossible. We can't feed them All we've got here is five loaves and two fishes. Well, give them to me. They give them to him. He begins to break them, and then he says, Here, Matthew, here, Peter, here, John. He gives them the food. Now they're sort of sulking over there. And he doesn't say, you guys got really bad attitude, so I'm just going to set you aside. I'm just going to do this myself, okay? Just watch what you could have done. No. He sweeps them up in his compassion to join the party. Here, take this. No, just start giving. And can you imagine how their countenance changes All they could think of 15 minutes ago was get these people out of here. Now they're caught up in the exhilaration of a miracle they will remember till their dying day, watching food multiply in their hands, watching hungry, tired people be refreshed, and suddenly there is a serendipitous picnic party on the hillside of the Saida. They are so exhilarated in this that they say, you know what, this is worth a whole week off. We've never experienced anything like this. And their hearts are glad. Isn't that wonderful? You see, because Jesus fed the people through them. And that's what he wants to do through you. As you and I come and say, Lord, I'm not able, I'm not willing, I got a real problem, he says, come, give me what you have. And you begin to see him feed people as you minister to them. Out of your nothing. And his infinite competence, and your heart is thrilled that he decided to use you, a sinner, to show his power and his glory. Isn't it precious? So three lessons for you and for me. Number one Trust him for compassion when everything in you says, enough, I've had it, I have nothing left to give. And he says, I know that. I am your strength. I'm your example. Come to him when you have no strength left in yourself. Come to him when you're driving home and you know that your spouse needs an ear to listen. To talk about the day. And you say, I have nothing left to give. Trust me, Jesus says. Learn compassion. Learn from my strength. Trust me, when your kids want to talk at an inconvenient time, why is it that teenagers only ever want to talk at midnight? My son calls me last week. I'm just getting into bed. Hi Dad. Now good time? Oh, fine. Yeah. Trust him for strength and compassion to give yourself when you feel like there's nothing left to give. You remember what Peter said writing to the church about ministry? 1 Peter chapter 11 in verse, I mean chapter 4. In verse 11, Peter says, if anyone speaks, he should do it with one speaking, the very words of God. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides. So that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. Do it in your own strength, you're going to run out of gas, you get resentful, they're not grateful, they're you know Do it in the strength of the infinitely compassionate Jesus. God gets the glory because the feeding is from Him. Come to him in those times and be amazed that God feeds hungry sinners through sinners like you and me. Secondly, A quote from Paul Miller's wonderful book, A Praying Life. Can't recommend it too highly In that book he says, quote, learned desperation is at the heart of a praying life. Learned desperation is at the heart of a praying life. You and I will never really pray because we ought to. You do not pray out of guilt. You pray because you realize that you can't do life on your own. You pray because you have to. You pray out of desperation that comes from the confession of the disciples. We have nothing to give. And if truth be told, we don't want to give it if we had it. Jesus will put you in an impossible situation, maybe this week. to teach you learned desperation that comes to him because there is nowhere else to go. And you will find him sufficient and satisfying and be thrilled in the experience of seeing him meet you. At that point, only Jesus, nothing else, no one else. So that your praying out of desperation becomes praying daily Because you learned on deeper levels, I can't do life any day on my own And finally, thirdly, see his sufficiency for your needs, not only physical But also spiritual. Do you remember John uses this experience, this miracle to pick up on Jesus' discourse? Where the people follow him and the next day they want another meal. It's a pretty good deal. Follow Jesus, you get free food. And he says, no, no, no, it doesn't work that way I'm not to give you simply the physical bread. I'm the true bread from heaven. I'm here to feed your soul, to feed your heart. That's what I've come for. So learn that Jesus is sufficient for you in any need, that He can satisfy your heart. When things are crumbling about you and you feel like there's nothing left in you, come to him. Come to him knowing you will never wear him out, that he will never respond in irritation, but that his heart is compassionate. Toward sinners who come again and again and again and seem to have nothing to offer except their need, and sometimes are whining. But he's compassionate. His compassion was so full and so infinite, it took him to the cross. To take your sin so that you'd be forgiven and have entrance into his kingdom and a heavenly Father. That meets the needs of his precious children. There is no limit to the compassion of Jesus Christ for you. And there is no limit to what he wants to do through you, to display his pity joined with power. To feed hungry sinners through available sinners Are you that person? What is God showing you this morning about your desperate need for Jesus? Let's pray. So, Lord, we come to confess that we are so like the disciples, we are both unable and unwilling. There are times, Lord, when we move into self-protection and we don't really care to be available to you. We don't really give a rip about what you could do. In an available disciple as an instrument. We're just hurting. We're exhausted. And so we pray, Lord, that you would show us your infinite compassion available to us. Your pity. And your imagination to show yourself sufficient in ways that we could not even dream sitting here And that you want to show your sufficiency through us to others that are hurting Others in need that come. And we feel like I can spin this so that I'm not available. But the real reason is I'm unwilling. Lord, I confess there's times that I do that. And I pray, Lord, that you would show us more of Jesus. That you would show us the sufficiency of all that you are and have that we can draw from Oh, Lord Jesus, how we thank you for your compassion. Show us more this week as we come to you to To really seek you and find you sufficient for our deepest need. In Jesus' name. Amen.