Most of you are aware that I plan to be stepping down as senior pastor, Columbia Presbyterian, in just about 20 months, June of May of 2011. And um I have made it a goal to finish the Gospel of Matthew. Recently I realized it's not worth it. It's really not in your best interests, because if I do that, I will not get to speak on anything else except Matthew till the very week I leave. And there are many other things I would like to preach. I have a stack of folders of things that I have thought I would like to be able to develop or to declare uh both of just things that are fascinating in scripture as well as to maybe reaffirm some of our core values as we move into transition So I've decided that I am going to finish the Gospel of Matthew, that is, end it, not really finish it, next Easter, 2010. And that will give me just about 13 months to be able to talk about a number of other things. I may even try blogging on some of the passages I won't get to develop as much. or some of the values that we have as a congregation as we move into transition. But that means that I have only 13 more sermons on Matthew when you take the holidays and the month of missions and all that. So as we move into today's message, the fourth major section of narrative, this is the last major section that I'll be covering with any detail. I'll be covering up to chapter 15, verse 28, and then after that is just uh some selected passages Finishing with Matthew 28, the Great Commission, the week after Easter. So as you look at this new section, the fourth narrative section, I put the box in there so that you'd be able to look at the context and see the overview of where Matthew is going. Remember he uh divides his material into major sections of teaching and then narrative. And we've just finished the third section of teaching seven parables. Now moving into a very significant section, a transition section, from chapter 14 to 17. where Jesus moves from his public ministry to more focusing on teaching his disciples. He's moving now from the statement that Matthew's displaying of who he is to the final climax. There are two significant confessions of who Jesus is in this section. And then he's going to start to focus on what he has come to do. So that's the overview of where Matthew is going. But last week we finished the seven parables in chapter thirteen, simple pictures of the kingdom to woo and to warn the spiritually lethargic And I find the next verse after that to be a bit amusing. Uh Matthew has some of this subtle kind of humor that goes through his gospel. If you come at the end of Chapter 13, Jesus asks in verse 51, So have you understood all these things? Yes, they replied. Yeah, right. You know, twice they've come in the chapter and said, Could you explain that? Wait, what in the world are you talking about? And he had I can just picture them looking at each other and I don't know what he's talking about, but I'm not gonna say I don't Yeah, Lord, we understand, sure. And what is what is interesting to me is how gentle Jesus is. He doesn't mock him. He doesn't say, Yeah, I'm right like you guys, you're clueless on what I'm talking about But rather what he does is he uses this as an opportunity to talk about the transition that he is now going to be passing on the torch that he who is presenting the treasures of the kingdom is saying, you're going to be presenting the treasures of the kingdom. So look what he goes on to say, verse 52. He said to them, Therefore every teacher of the law The scribes that you you read about in the New Testament, every teacher of the law who has been instructed about the kingdom of heaven not just the law, is like the owner of a house who brings out of his storeroom new treasures as well as old. The old, of course, are the old truths of the um old testament, the covenant, the promises, the hopes, and then the new treasures, the fulfillment in the kingdom and the new thing that God has come to do. Well you're going to be presenting those things. Now that's pretty positive. And so if uh you don't immediately have in mind the warnings of chapter ten, these guys might be thinking, well, this is a great privilege. I mean we're going to be talking about the treasures of the king. People are going to love us And the ironic thing is that Matthew uses that to launch a section on conflict. Not going to be that way. So what Matthew does is um to show that this is the conflict that is going to build until the climax of the cross The best way to see this unit of material, chapter 13, 15, 51 to 1412, the text for today, is, I believe, through two themes. Two seas, conflict and contrast. The conflict of the two kingdoms, and then the dramatic contrast between the two kings. Now, we will see three more C's in the following two stories. Chapter 14 is really three stories And we will see five C's in total that I think are the best ways to get a handle on the themes that Matthew's trying to develop in chapter 14. So today, the first two C's and the first story. First of all, then notice the conflicts that Matthew's trying to bring to our attention. After Jesus says that you're going to be like the householder bringing out treasures, he just picks up on that idea of the treasures of the king, kingdom of heavens like treasure. You're going to be talking about those treasures. Then chapter verse 53, Jesus does just what he's talked about them doing. When Jesus had finished these parables, he moved on from there, coming to his hometown. That's speaking of Nazareth. He began teaching the people in their synagogue and they were amazed. Talking about these treasures Where did this man get this wisdom and these miraculous powers? They asked. So they're astonished. They are impressed. Both with his words and with his works, you see, the teaching and the narrative, the the things that he does. But then there's a shift Notice fifty-five. Then somebody says, Well, wait a minute. Isn't this the carpenter's son? Isn't his mother's name Mary and aren't his brothers James, Joseph, Simon, Judas, aren't all his sisters with us? Notice the contrast there between the teaching in the Roman Catholic Church that Mary only had Jesus. No others. And this is a very clear verse describing he had four brothers and an unknown number of sisters. So uh that's so much for that idea. But they say, we know his family. You know, they all live here in Nazareth. Verse 57. And they took offense at him. But Jesus said to them, Only in his hometown and in his own house is a prophet without honor. And he did not do many miracles there because of their lack of faith. You see, the irony of the incarnation and the scandal of the incarnation is that it brings God too close. He's too familiar. And so they can't believe that he is all that he claims and shows himself to be. The incarnation really is a scandal, and it impresses on us how the human heart is so stubborn, so proud That when it sees someone like Jesus, rather than embraced, let my whole world view be shaken And understand God is doing something I can't get my mind around. This is God here as somebody that grew up in Nazareth, that we're familiar with. They would rather, in their pride, keep their worldview and reject Jesus. Just this week I was talking to a fellow who I'd never met before. Talked to him for just a few minutes and spiritual things came up and he told me he lived in a haunted house. I said, that's interesting, and he told me about some of the things that he's experienced, and they certainly were unexplainable things and natural phenomena. Uh so you know I mean if that's not a lead into the gospel, what is, you know, so we talk about Christ. And what uh really Surprised me, except, you know, you get used to this kind of thing, was how he had absolutely no interest in the gospel. And I can press that a little bit, and he said, well, you know, you just you you believe what you craft to believe. You know, you just you take a bit of this, but whatever makes sense to you, who can know And I thought, here's a fellow who just five minutes ago said, so boy, I'm really convinced now that this life is not just flesh and blood and bones. There's something more going on in life. When we talk about the something more from God's perspective, says, well, you know, I want to keep my view and I'm comfortable with that. Don't disturb me with something else. That's the way our hearts are, unless the Holy Spirit comes crashing through. So Jesus says that that's the way it is for a prophet in the familiarity, but because of it Because of their lack of faith, he did not do many miracles in Nazareth. You don't read about miracles in Nazareth. And it provoked in me the question What is it that in my life or in our life as a congregation we don't see Jesus doing that we would see if we trusted him and let him shake up our worldview more thoroughly? What is it that we miss because we want to go along with the familiar and the known rather than let him shake us up? into the dramatic implications of the incarnate risen Jesus Christ. He didn't do many miracles that he would have done. Because their lack of faith affected that. Something to think about. We've got to move on. Because from there, things go downhill real fast and they get rather nasty. Because the next thing is the story of the murder of John the Baptist. So you move from rejection of people who are very familiar with Jesus. to downright rejection and even murder. This is a a terrible example of what we read in Matthew 11 when Jesus was speaking about John. Do you remember in 11 verse 12, from the days of John the Baptist until now The kingdom of heaven has been forcefully advancing, and forceful men lay hold of it. That's the NIV. Literally, though, that last phrase, as I mentioned back then, was violent men seize it. That is, seize it to oppose it by force. I think that's the best translation. And so this is an example now that Matthew is giving us of that. how John's ministry as a honorable prophet committed to telling the truth is resisted as he declares the kingdom. Herod cannot stand that. He opposes it. And he winds up killing John. Now, verse 1 to 12 of chapter 14 have some history and a story behind it. So is before we look at a couple of the lessons from it, let me tell you the story so that you can picture what is going on here that Matthew is referring to. Do you remember Herod the Great back in the beginning of Matthew, the fellow who tried to kill Jesus by killing all the infants in Bethlehem? That Herod, you remember, didn't live too much longer, and he had seven sons. One of those sons was Herod Antipas Another of those sons of the seven sons was Herod Philip. Now Herod Antipas was a corrupt and immoral man from a corrupt and immoral family. Herod Antipas married the daughters of political marriage, the daughter of the king of Arabia. Herod Philip married Herodias also within the family. Herodias and Antipas desired each other, so they each dumped their spouses. It's a rather dangerous thing to do if your wife happens to be a princess, the daughter of a queen. It led to a war, but that's another story. So he dumped her, Herodias dumped Philip, divorced them, and then they got married. That was sinful in two ways. First of all, it was an illegitimate divorce, and secondly, it violated The prohibition in Leviticus 20, 21 that says, You shall not take your brother's wife. John the Baptist was on the scene. And John stood up with great courage and told Herod, that is wrong. You shouldn't have your brother's wife. That's sin. Not only did he tell Herod, he preached it. Now you could say that wasn't just courage, that was stupid, because it really brought on Herod's animosity because If you read the Jewish history at that time, it seemed like it wasn't very hard to get a riot going. So Herod understood that because John was popular, for him to be saying that what he was doing with Herodias was sinful was immoral, was beyond the bounds of what God could approve or bless, the people might rise up again. He wasn't that popular anyway So he had gone imprison, put into a prison north of the Dead Sea near where his palace was. But his wife Herodias wanted to go further. She said, kill that creep. I am not going to stand his vilifying us to the crowds. Just get rid of him. Herod wouldn't do that because the Bible says he knew that John was a righteous man. He respected John. He would actually go talk to John John would tell him about his sin, call him to repent. He wouldn't repent, but he kept coming to hear it He was fascinated with John, he was drawn to John. He also feared the public who thought that John was a prophet, and so he thought If I go kill a prophet, that won't endear me to the people either. So he really felt kind of stuck, but he was not going to repent. This went on for a while, and Herodias was getting more and more incensed. She wanted John out of the way. She saw her opportunity at Herod Antipas's next birthday. For the birthday he had a stag party. Got a bunch of his cronies, other governors, princes. Herod was governor of Galilee and Perea. Got some others, some Romans. And they had this drinking party. Herodias, you know, it it's beyond what you could imagine a mother doing She sent her daughter, who Josephus tells us was named Salome, now an attractive teenager, was a daughter she had by Herod Philip. She sent Salome into the party to dance. Now that was highly irregular. No self-respecting noblewoman from a noble family would do such a dance before a bunch of drunken men. But she was using her daughter to accomplish her purpose. So Salome does the dance, Herodias knows her husband, and rather than being highly offended, he is highly pleased. In fact, he is so pleased that he says, ask anything you want, even to the half of my kingdom. What do you want? Anything. That was wonderful. So she runs to her mother and says, What should I ask for? And she says, Immediately I want the head of John the Baptist on a platter. And this teenage girl goes back and asks for that Give me the head of John the Baptist on a platter. That shakes Antipas to the core. He knows John does not deserve to die. There is no trial. There is no reason. But he has made a public promise. And more than his conscience, more than realizing this is wrong to do, he fears losing face among his friends. Some of you kids will be tempted, are tempted, to do things and you say, I know I shouldn't do this, but if I don't do it, my friends are going to make fun of me. That's what Herod did He said, I don't want my friends making fun of me. So go ahead. Take John's head. The executioner comes, beheads John, comes back with his head on a platter. gives it to the Salome and she takes it to her mother, and her mother has had her revenge. Now some months later, Herod hears about Jesus in Galilee doing these miracles. There's a rumor that's going around that says that Jesus is really John the Baptist, come back from the dead, and that's why he's able to do miraculous powers. And Antipas believes that. His guilty conscience convicts him enough that he says, that's right, Jesus is Herod, is uh John the Baptist come back from the dead to do these miracles and to haunt me. And that's the background to Matthew 14, 1 to 12. Now I believe that Matthew wants you and to me and me to See two instructive contrasts that are displayed in this story. The first is the contrast between Herod and John. You see that in your bulletin outline. Notice The John, I give you a couple of contrasts. John, first of all, notice is righteous. Herod is evil. Herod has not only committed adultery, he has unlawfully taken his brother's wife. He has stolen his brother's wife. He has allowed his stepdaughter to be ugled by a bunch of drunken friends. And finally he kills an innocent man. Salome, for her part, will some few years later marry her great uncle, which will make her her mother's aunt. That's the kind of family it was. And it goes on from there. Herodias is willing to sacrifice her daughter's modesty in order for her own image and to protect herself. Evil, evil, terrible, heart, darkness, evil. In contrast to the bright light of John's simple righteousness. And John loses his life for it. So secondly notice that John is courageous, whereas Herod is weak. He makes a foolish vow. And he's not man enough to say, no, I cannot honor that. That would be wrong. I cannot take John's life. He's not had a trial, he has done nothing worthy of death But his weakness is shown in bright dark contrast to the brightness of John's courage, who has been willing to tell Herod the truth. even at the risk of his freedom and then of his life. You see John as a man of faith versus Herod as a superstitious unbeliever. He's willing to think that Jesus is John come back from the dead because his guilty conscience accuses him. But not only is their character in such contrast, notice the contrast of their ends. Here you have to go to contemporary history a bit. Think of the half-brother Philip, who's lost his wife and been humiliated. He has his revenge. For some time shortly after this, 30 A. D. , Philip is declared king by Rome. And that's too much for Herodias. So Antipas, who's also jealous, his half-brother is not a king, and he's simply a governor, and Herodias decide to Take this lavish entourage to Rome and for him to appeal, make me king too! It made my brother king, make me king He gives him all these gifts and everything. And at that point, Philip, who has an inn with the emperor, turns the emperor against Antipas. So that instead of being made king, he's deposed from his governorship and exiled into Lyon, France, Gaul at that time, for the rest of his life. In disgrace But at least let it be said, Herodias followed him in exile, even to his death. So Their ends are where he seems to be the fellow who is in power and all glory. In fact He becomes banished, humiliated, and disgraced. In 30 AD, he looks like a big deal. He looks like he can determine life or death. He determines whether John lives or dies. A few years later, 39 A. D. , he determines nothing He is totally powerless and in disgrace. Herodias, on that night, held the head of John the Baptist in a platter. And she said, now I've shut you up. You think you're going to humiliate me. I'll teach the world you don't mess with Herodias. In a few short years, she will be nothing. No power. No glory. No determination over people's fate. But living with her exiled husband in disgrace. John seems like he was to be pitied, but it was only a few moments of the executioner and his sword. And John is now in glory. John preached a kingdom that he believed, and that kingdom was the kingdom of God with Jesus as the Messiah King. And Jesus, that Messiah King, welcomes John into his glory. Herod is disgraced. John is exalted and glorified. Don't miss the contrast. But that's nothing compared to the contrast between Herod and Jesus. For here you have the contrast between two kings. Perid begins as the powerful king, and he is able to say whether people live or die. He rules. But in a few years he will be deposed from his kingship. He will be condemned You see, it's that Herod who just a couple of years later is the Herod who appears at Jesus' trial Do you remember Pilate sends Jesus to Herod because he's governor of Galilee? It's the same Herod Antipas. And that Herod Wants to see Jesus do something. He missed it before. Now his heart is totally hardened, and he thinks that he rules over Jesus. He can determine whether Jesus lives or dies. And Jesus will go to the cross. But there is a day coming when Jesus will judge Herod. And Herod will appear before him powerless, will fall before him on his knees and beg for mercy, and it will be too late. Things are not what they seem. Notice also that Jesus, in contrast, begins as a homeless prophet, a person who seems powerless. And he will in fact look powerless before Herod, condemned and then crucified as a common criminal. Herod thought that Jesus was John the Baptist raised from the dead. And Matthew is saying, but you know what? Jesus is really going to be raised from the dead. He will come and he will appear in all glory and he will rule as that king of his kingdom for all eternity. For things are not what they seem. Jesus is the true King with the true power, and he will come to display that power forevermore in his glory. One thing we'll pick up next week, but let me just mention it now so you can think about it and see it fitting here. This is a story of two feasts. Verse 13 and on we're going to see about Jesus feeding the 5,000. That's a feast. This is a feast. Look at the two feasts. Here is a lavish feast given by Herod the powerful king, which becomes a feast of death. Jesus is going to give a feast, a simple feast, bread and fish. And he is going to offer that simple feast to people who come from every walk of life. And it will be a feast of life, or it's after that feast that he says, I am the bread of life. So Matthew is developing all these contrasts for you and for me to see that things are not what they seem. Have your eyes on the kingdom. So there's two final lessons that I would offer. The first is simply to see that if you are part of Christ's kingdom, you will always feel attention and conflict in this world. You do not fit any more than John fit. There's people who may oppose you, like Jesus in his hometown, in a rejection, in a subtle way, or people may openly oppose you as Herod. But when you feel the tension and when you feel that I don't sit here and that hurts, realize that's what Jesus said would happen. Don't be surprised. Look to the glory that's on ahead. But look also to the fact that Jesus had said back in chapter 11, excuse me, back in chapter 13 and verse 40. That um excuse me, verse 41, that the day is coming when the Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will weed out of his kingdom everything that causes sin and all All who do evil. The day is coming when all the herods will be judged. All that who do evil Will be destroyed, so that his kingdom will be unopposed in peace and glory forever. So the final lesson, let me say it again. Things are not what they seem. You and I are to live not by what we see going on, but rather to see the kingdom To live by the faith that understands that what we see in the powers of this world that seems so in control that it may not even seem worth praying to see things change. is an illusion and a lie. For by prayer you and I lay hold of the King who is truly in power. By prayer we lay hold of him, your kingdom come, your will be done. We lay hold of the one who is able to change history. The one who is able to hear, the one who is able to give you and me perseverance and peace in the midst of things that may seem so utterly opposed. Things are not what they seem. I remember reading about a woman who got on a bus. It was a crowded bus. And so, you know, you had the poles to hang on to and she was hanging on to the pole and there was a man right across from her. He's hanging on to the same pole. And he was staring at her. And she was getting a little uncomfortable. Why does this man keep staring at me? And she's uncomfortable and a little agitated. And finally he said, uh, excuse me, this is my stop. She said, Well. And he said, and this is my pole. I just bought it at a hardware store. Things are not always what they seem. And you and I are called to live by faith in the kingdom that we know to be reality, rather than the world that we look at that seems to be so in control. I think back of 15th of January 2006, it was the playoffs between the Steelers and the Indianapolis Colts. The game came down to three minutes before the end. It was 21-18 Steelers. Peyton Manning had the ball And he was sacked twice. He was sacked so bad the second time put him on the Colts' second yard line. facing Jerome Bettis to crush him. Simply take the ball and run it through He's about to get pulverized. Jerome Bettis takes the ball, comes crashing through, and somebody knocks the ball out of his hand. He fumbles it. And the Colts run it almost for a 98-yard touchdown. Be great if I could tell you that's what they did and turned the story around. It wasn't quite true. They almost did it, but the point is There are times when you will feel like you are on the second yard line. The game is over. You're about to be crushed. But God can snap the ball away, and He can bring you to run the touchdown because you serve the king, and things are not what they seem. Because Jesus is still Lord. Amen? Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you would give to us eyes to see the kingdom that is unseen. To see that where there are prophets that get murdered, where justice seems tromped upon And the corrupt seem to rule in their corruption and get away with it, that that is not the final story. There is a risen Savior, Jesus, who rules, who is able to conquer. Who went to the cross to die for our sin, so that when he judges the world and rids all that produce evil, We will be safe and secure in the barn of your pleasure, your precious wheat, to live with you forever. So, Lord, we pray that this week give us faith that we might live with the big picture in mind of eternity. Give to us courage, Lord, to trust you, to believe that we are safe and secure with you. And that we would see you and love you and serve you with that courage because our eyes are open to the reality. In Jesus' name. Amen.