Well, we come back now to Matthew for a two-week conclusion to this wonderful book. After nearly five and a half years, began it in December of 2004. Next week will be the 110th message. On Matthew, that will be the last one. So two sermons on this breathtaking climax that we call the Great Commission. Matthew 28, verses 18 to 20. And Jessica, our librarian, has kindly placed some books back on that table back there in the corner on missions. for these two weeks so that um after the service you might go back there take a look at a couple of them and uh feel free to check one out and read it. Kathy and I are teaching in the middle hour a course on prayer based on Paul Miller's book, A Praying Life. And the thesis of that class is That we do not pray from our heart because we ought to. We pray because we must. We pray out of a learned desperation that comes from being in touch with our hearts, our spiritual poverty, our needs, and his great sufficiency. Likewise, when I think about missions and the Great Commission, I don't think I've ever met a person whose life was shaped around the Great Commission to participate in Jesus' command, who did it because they ought to do it, who did it because somehow they would simply feel guilty if they didn't do it. But as you see in your bulletin outline, the first couple of blanks there, we do not motivate missions by aughts, but rather by a larger vision of Christ. By a larger vision of Christ. We might say that there are three basic motives for missions. The first is because it's commanded. You look in Matthew 28, verse 19, Jesus says, Therefore go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. That's a command. Acts 1. 8. You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. You will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in all Judea, Samaria, to the ends of the earth. We're not at liberty to disobey what Jesus has told us to do. So that's a motive. But I don't know of anybody who's been very effective In being available to the Lord for wherever he wanted them to go and to evangelize because they simply were commanded to do it. The second command is that of compassion. That perhaps is more compelling. You know, Jesus, we read in Matthew 9, verse 36, when he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them. Because he saw them as sheep without a shepherd, harassed and helpless. And um when we see his heart for the lost And we get to know him and draw closer to him, our hearts are drawn like his to see the lost and what lostness means. We begin to Gain some of that compassion as we draw close to him. But just that compassion doesn't seem to compel us to shape our lives around the Great Commission. So there is the third motive, which I call compulsion. Compulsion is being irresistibly driven by a larger vision of Christ. Irresistibly driven by a larger vision of Christ. I believe this is critical in our understanding of the Great Commission that we have at the end of Matthew. The context, remember, is the resurrection. Jesus has risen from the dead, and you see in verse 17, the verse just before the Great Commission, that The disciples come and they worship him up on the mountain. They worship him. They realize he is more than a man. That this is in fact God. Then Jesus' opening words of the Great Commission are breathtaking. Then Jesus came to them and he said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Rarely have I heard this critical part of the Great Commission given the serious attention that I think it deserves. Because I believe that it is really foundational to the Great Commission. And yet we often just kind of pass over that part to get to the commands. Jesus says in this great commission there are four alls. Four alls. One, he talks about discipling all the nations. Secondly, he says, teaching them all the things that I have told you. Then thirdly, I'm going to be with you all the days, from now till the end of the age. But the first one, which is the foundation, is all authority. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. So you remember as we've gone through Matthew for these last years, we've seen again and again how Matthew calls attention to Jesus' compassionate authority. Remember back in the early days when we were going through it a little bit more closely, verse by verse, that after the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus taught with authority that amazed the people Chapters 8 and 9, Matthew focuses on his compassionate authority in action. You remember he sees a leper, and he speaks with authority, be clean, and the leper is cleansed. The focus is more on his authority when he comes to the or the centurion, Roman centurion comes to him and asks that he would heal his servant. And Jesus starts going and the centurion says, I understand authority. You don't need to come. Just speak the word from where you are. So Jesus heals from a distance because of his authority. Then Matthew goes on to tell us about how all kinds of people with all sorts of diseases come to him. He heals them all. He has authority over all of them. There's nobody who's an exception Nobody that's beyond his authority to heal. We then see how he crosses over the lake. He comes to two demoniacs who are filled with a legion of demons, unclean spirits, supernatural beings. Jesus speaks with authority, and the demons are cast into a herd of swine and are destroyed over a cliff. As if that's not enough, he comes to a paralytic, is let down through the house and through the tiles of the roof. And before he heals the paralysis, Jesus forgives him his sins in the Jews say, how can he do that? Only God can do that. But Matthew says, because he has authority on earth to forgive sins, he demonstrates that by showing that he can heal the paralysis. Again and again and again, Matthew has shown Jesus' authority, his compassionate authority in his mission. So you come to Matthew 28, and this is now the climax, the final climax of his authority. Jesus now says, all authority is given to me. Notice that he is saying he has authority because of the resurrection that he did not have before. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. And uh we as Christians I think kind of shy away from that. We say, well, whoa, wait a minute. He didn't gain authority. Jesus always had authority, didn't he? didn't have something new that was yes he did. He says here, all authority is given to me. And that's not the only place that the New Testament says that For instance, you go over a few pages to the book of Acts and you see where on Pentecost Peter preaches the first Christian sermon. And as he declares Christ, the risen Christ in Acts chapter 2, he focuses on the resurrection. Verse 32, God has raised this Jesus to life. We're all witnesses of the fact. Then he says, exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father, the promised Holy Spirit, and has poured out what you now see and hear. People were speaking in foreign languages. Peter says, this is because of the resurrection. Because of that, Jesus has been given authority to have that gift, to dispense. So it's a gift. It's not something you do something to get. He gives you the gift of the Holy Spirit. You're seeing the evidence of that. Then Peter quotes from Psalm 110. This is the heart of his message. Psalm 110 is the most quoted Psalm in the whole New Testament. And Peter says, For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, in a Psalm 110, the Lord said to my Lord Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. That is going to be the place of Messiah. He's going to sit on a throne until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet. This is in the process of occurring, this defeating of the enemies. They're going to be his footstool. Now that picture is a is a Hebrew Semitic picture of vanquishment. In the ancient Near East, if an army came and you had conquered your enemy, you would put your foot on his neck. And by having his neck under your foot, he was saying, I am helpless before you. There is nothing that I can do. I am totally at your disposal. You can cut off my head, you can step on me, do whatever you want. I am totally at your disposal. That's the picture. So in that day, when Jesus returns, there will be no question. Is it Allah who is the one to submit to? Is it materialism that's the final word in this world? Is it Buddhism? What is it? All of his enemies who have blasphemed and continue to blaspheme him now will be whimpering for mercy at his feet. He will make his enemies the footstool of his feet. And Peter is saying, because of the resurrection, this has now been established as a fact. That is something that is established because of the resurrection. Then he goes on, verse 36. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified. both Lord and Christ were Messiah. Notice that. God has made him. He said, well no no no no wait a minute. He's always been Lord. What do you mean God made him Lord? He's always been Messiah. God didn't make him Messiah. Oh yes he did. When Jesus came, a second person of the Trinity, incarnate, he came on probation. He came with a mission, and that mission was to establish and gain a kingdom, the kingdom of God. To destroy the kingdom of Satan. In order to do that, Jesus had to serve and sacrifice himself perfectly for 33 years. Now I don't know about you, but I can't think of anything that I do perfectly. If I finish a project and I'm satisfied with it, I'll say, well, it could have been a little better, but it's good enough. I'm satisfied. I can't think of anything that I do that I say, I did that perfectly. But for 33 years Every word that Jesus spoke, every teaching that he gave, every healing he performed, every miracle that he did. Every act, every thought, everything he did had to be absolutely perfect, or he would not be declared Lord and Messiah. That's what he had to do. Finally, to lay down his life as a substitutionary sacrifice, totally innocent, in order to take your sin and my sin that he might be raised as Lord and Messiah with a kingdom. The resurrection was God's stamp of approval, God stating He has done it perfectly. On the cross, Jesus, among his last words, were, It is finished. I have done everything perfectly. And at that point, God, after the resting in the grave, raised him up to say, Amen. You have done it perfectly. God has made him to be Lord and Christ Messiah. Not only that, the Bible even says that he was in a new way the Son because of his resurrection. That's going too far now. No, take a look at Acts chapter 13. Now get Paul. Paul's preaching the gospel. He says we tell you the good news. What God promised our fathers, he has fulfilled for us their children by raising up Jesus. There it is, the resurrection. As it is written in the second Psalm, you are my son, today I have become your father. He said, No, come on. God didn't become Jesus' father when he was raised and dead. He did in this sense. He became the Father in new Jesus became the Son in new power as the Son. There is a power in his sonship. that is established by the resurrection that was not there before. He said, well that's just your interpretation of it. No, take a look at Romans 1. 4. Romans 1:4, Paul says when he greets the Romans, talking about Jesus, and who, through the Spirit of Holiness, Jesus, was declared with power to be the Son of God when By his resurrection from the dead. Jesus Christ our Lord. Now how is that? Because when Jesus came as the Son, it was so that he would bring to God a nation of sons, those who would be related to God through sonship. He became, he was the Son in power, so that by his resurrection he freed us from the dominion of death. Satan could no longer hold us in the chains of death. Now he is the Son in power to be able to establish that kingdom and call you and me out of death into life in it. So that is what Jesus is referring to when he says at the beginning of this Great Commission, the words we kind of glide over quickly, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. because of and by the resurrection. Well you see, that kind of changes the perspective. You remember our purpose from Ephesians chapter 1. And in that purpose, we talk about how God's purpose for you and for me is we might know Him better, we might know our hope, and that we might know His power. Well, do you remember how he states that power in Ephesians chapter 1? He talks about that power in conjunction with the resurrection. He says that power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come And God placed, at this point, God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything. in every way. You see, when you understand the Great Commission in that context, it changes the focus of our attention. Because now we see that our salvation is not ultimately about us. It's not ultimately about you Being delivered from hell to heaven and being granted forgiveness of sins, all of that is true, and it's wonderfully true. But it's not the focus. The focus is all authority has been given to me. It is for his praise and glory. For instance, take a look at Ephesians chapter 1, who I just read. Go back a few verses where he's talking about the gospel. Paul says he predestinated us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will. to the praise of his glorious grace. Go down a few verses. Verse 11, in him we were also chosen, having been predestined. According to the plan of Him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of His will, in order that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be for the praise of His glory For the next verse, 13. You also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, deposit. Guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession, to the praise of his glory. So the gospel is not simply saying God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. The gospel is God loves his son. And is determined to have him set up as the head of all things, and he has called you to participate in that movement. Now that changes the perspective that we have on the Great Commission so often. It is not something that God did, that Jesus did as a kind of an afterthought after he did all the things he did and he says, Oh, by the way, I want you to go out and tell this good news. That the nations will hear it and receive it. It is simply the climax of all that he's been doing. It is the continuation of his mission. through you and through me to the praise of his glory. So You see now why, after Jesus says, All authority is given to me in heaven and on earth, the next word is therefore. That's what connects the foundational truth of the authority, the dominion of Jesus Christ, with the command of the Great Commission. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore, go and make disciples. You see, the larger your vision of Christ, the more you are compelled to join him. in his loving conquest of the nations. The more you exalt in him, seeing his majesty and authority, the more you praise him, the more you adore him, the more you worship him. The more you will want to exalt him, that is, you want the nations to see Jesus for all that he is You want for him to be displayed to the people that are in your family and in your life who are bankrupt without that vision and without that savior. You want the world to see him for all that he is, that he will get the praise of their lives for the praise of his glory. Therefore, your life is not simply purpose-driven, the purpose-driven life, it's the person-driven life. And we are a driven people. We are so busy and we are so driven, but the sad thing that I find so much among American Christianity is we are driven more by principles than by a person. We're driven by the principles of the gospel and the principles of our convictions and so many principles. And Jesus is in danger of being marginalized as a person. And when Jesus becomes marginalized, we become exhausted rather than energized. I heard a little while ago about a kid, a little kid, learned a chorus. He is exalted. He is exalted on high. But this kid didn't understand the word exalted, so he thought it was a little different. He went around singing, he is exhausted, he is exhausted on high. And some of us feel like that's probably what I would think. I'm exhausted. I'm exhausted on high. And you see, we are exhausted when we're driven by principles. But when you see the vision of the majesty of Jesus Christ, he is exalted because you exalt in him. And you and I need to recapture that vision. A friend of mine I used to work with on staff, David Bryant. Has spoken, written a lot on this. He recently said Jesus is making little impact on our nation because he is making so little impact on the church. He went on to say, he has become our mascot to inspire us rather than our monarch to rule us. Now they've sometimes given to hyperbole, and I thought it's nice you put these two little M's together, and uh it's kind of nice, but isn't that overstating it And then David said, I'm from Ohio. And he said, in Ohio, in football, we have Obi the Tiger, and he's the mascot. He says, when things are looking grim for Ohio, then he says we bring out Obi, the tiger, and Obi rejuvenates the crowd. He gets us pumped up, fired up, and then Obi leaves the field and we get back to the game. Our game And he said, I find in the American church Christians come together on Sundays out of their busy lives and all they're doing, and we'd bring Jesus onto the field to inspire us. We bring Jesus to tell us how life is meaningful and he's with us and he'll accompany us and he'll give us the power. And then we send Jesus off the field and go back into Monday. Because he's not the monarch, he's simply the mascot. We go back to our own games, our own agendas Jesus gave us the sacrament of the Lord's Supper so that we would periodically be seeing a larger vision of Him. That as you come to that sacrament, each time you come, there's a little deeper sense of your need, your spiritual poverty. And Jesus becomes a little larger as a Savior. Let me ask you something. Is Jesus growing in your vision? Is Jesus larger to you in your vision now than he was a month ago or a year ago? If I were to sit down with you and to ask you, how has Jesus become larger to you than he was April a year ago? What would come to mind? What would come to my mind? Do I have a vision of Jesus? That is growing larger, that I understand all authority is given to him, which means that he is a happy Lord Messiah. Because he does whatever he pleases and he never says, I will do this. And someone else says, No, you won't. For they will be the footstool of his feet. Are there ways, corners of your thinking and of your lives that you think I'm seeing the implications of what he is and all that he is and his power and his glory. I'm seeing that more as it applies to this corner of my life. As it applies to this thing that I do in my work, this thing in my family, is he growing in my vision? All authority is given to him. Now, we need one another to help us to grow in that enlarging of our vision. I need you, you need me. So let me ask you this. How much do we speak of him after our worship service? If you were to walk around the sanctuary, the gymnatorium here, and just listen, how often would you hear the name Jesus? Now, don't misunderstand me on this. I am not saying that it is wrong, it's sinful, uh, you should feel guilty if you're talking about something else. I'm not saying that every word and every sentence ought to be about Jesus. But if we have just spent an hour worshiping him, praising him, hearing about him, and after all of that, We don't say to somebody who also loves him something about the vision of the glory of the goodness of Jesus Christ. If we don't do that here, why in the world do we think we're going to do it on a Wednesday afternoon with a bunch of people that don't give a rip about who he is and don't even want us to hear him, hear us talk about him I mean if nothing else we'd think we need to practice talking about Jesus with one another. But you know the problem is we have this thing that says, Well if I talk to you about Jesus, you'll think I'm just trying to put on spiritual airs, I'm trying to impress you. And so, you know, I hear you talk about Jesus and I start feeling a little competitive. Well, he's not going to outdo me, so I'll think about, you know, what can I say about Jesus? And the whole thing becomes artificial. I'm saying we need to be able to talk about Jesus because we've thought about him, because he has spoken to our hearts in the service. And we need to be able to listen. I need to just listen to you talk about Jesus and not try to compete with What do I have to say? We need to have a climate of worship at Columbia Presbyterian where our vision of him is growing. We are free to talk about it. We're free to listen. If we don't have something to respond and say, thank you. I needed that. Whatever it is, so that together we are enlarging our vision of Jesus Christ. Amen. Brothers and sisters, whatever it takes, that's the foundation of the Great Commission. It is the compelling vision Of a Jesus whose authority is over every square inch of life. All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Therefore, go make disciples. We need to see that he is the center of all, and that doesn't mean he is the center of my life, all my interests, and all the things that concern me. We need to see he is the center of all. That is, he is the center of the cosmos. And that my engaging in that means that I am being swept up into his mission and his concern. that it is swallowing up all my petty ambitions that are caught up in shaping my life and shaping my values and shaping my passions. by the inexhaustible majestic authority of Jesus Christ over the world, that I am caught up in his mission. which he is by his mercy continuing to accomplish through you and through me and the privilege of that All authority is given to me. And when Jesus says, That man is mine There is no one in heaven or earth that says, no, you shall not have him. He's mine. I got my hands on him. Nope. He's mine. That woman is mine. I am bringing her into my kingdom. And you can't touch her. For ten years, we've shared the gospel with certain neighbors in our neighborhood. For ten years, there has not been a particle of interest. I come back running last week, and the wife is in tears, and she says, let's talk. And we talk about Jesus. Because God is sovereign. And when he puts his finger on someone, nothing will prevent him. In his merciful activity. And he brings you and me into that process. Isn't that amazing? All authority on heaven and on earth Has been given to me. Therefore, go. And then you're going. Make disciples. I'm preparing the way. Let's pray. Oh, Father, enlarge our view of Jesus. Show us a Jesus that is not simply the center of our lives, but who is the center of the universe. And we are so glad that you who do whatever pleases you, do what pleases you perfectly. And so you are the one who runs the universe. And we're so glad. We're so glad, Jesus, it is you running the universe. And all your kindness and your compassion, your holiness, with absolute authority. Bring our hearts to be caught up in that, that we would shed our petty ambitions that are aside of that, that are not tied into that. That we look for ways to speak of you to people who so need to hear about you because you're so worth talking about. So, Lord Jesus, change our hearts. Only you can do that. Change our hearts to give us that larger vision. So thus Paul says in 2 Corinthians, we contemplating you, as we behold your glory, we are changed from one degree of glory into another. As by the Lord the Spirit. In Jesus' name. Amen.