How do you evaluate a sermon? What makes for a good sermon? You ask one person, what makes for a good sermon? And they may say, well I like a sermon that gets to my emotions, one that makes me laugh or makes me cry, or preferably both, maybe close together. So I feel something that touches me. For another person says, uh, I want a sermon that gives me insights. Insights into the Bible, insights into life. How to live better. Somebody else says, yeah, I want a sermon that's practical. Got to be able to know how to use it. And uh somebody else says, no, no, no, to me a sermon isn't a sermon if it doesn't show me Jesus. I want to understand more about the gospel. I want to see him and I want to have a sermon that draws me to repent and to believe. Now it's interesting. What if you ask Jesus? What we've been looking at for the last two years is a sermon. It's kind of the definitive sermon. The sermon that Jesus preached there on the mountain by Galilee. And it seems to me quite clear that in Jesus' mind, a sermon wasn't a sermon if it didn't call for a response. All through this sermon, Jesus has been calling for a response. These things are all involved. It's practical, it's insightful, it touches your heart. But now the body of the sermon is done But Jesus isn't finished. What he does in the last half of chapter 7 is to give you four warnings. Four warnings that says basically, if you come from this sermon and say, wow, that was a powerful sermon. But it doesn't cause a response, an action of the heart of repentance and obedience. It's not just worthless. It's counterproductive. Some of you have heard hundreds of sermons. Some of you have heard thousands of sermons. Some of you would probably be shocked to count off how many sermons you've heard through your life. And there's a danger in that when you've heard so many sermons, you can begin to look at them as Another experience, some thoughts. Was it a good sermon? Did it touch me? Did it give me something to think about? But not necessarily to feel compelled to respond. In repentance and faith. Let me tell you, if you fall into that, if you find that you have been Drifting into the mode where you hear sermons is something to kind of file away. Maybe I'll think about it later. But it never gets to your heart and to a response. Of repentance and faith, sermons will have a very deadening effect on your soul. And that's what these last four warnings are about. Jesus gives four warnings that are in each case they involve an invitation In some cases, it's explicit, in others implicit. In the first case, the one we're looking at this morning, it's a very explicit invitation. Look at the first word. Enter. And so Jesus gives in this first warning the invitation, enter through the narrow gate. For wide is the gate, and broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many enter through it. But small is the gate and narrow the road that leads to life, and only a few find it. Each warning is given in terms of two alternatives, two polar opposites. And Jesus is saying that there's a point of decision now, once you've heard everything that I've said, you must choose. You will put yourself in one of two camps and not to decide is to decide. You can't be kind of a little bit on the broad road, a little bit on the narrow road In all the four warnings that you heard Tim read, you are in one or you are in the other. So Jesus gives these invitations, as I've said to you in the past. A good sermon has both a what and a so what. And Jesus is driving home the so what now. So let's look at this first contrast, the broad contrast. and narrow gate and way in terms of the what and then the so what. First of all, the what, the broad and the narrow ways, actually there are three contrasts that you have in this sermon. Verses 13 and 14. The first contrast is between it being broad and narrow. Broad versus narrow gates and ways. First blank. Enter through the narrow gate. For, contrast, wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction. Many enter through it, but small is the gate, and narrow the road that leads to life. And only a few find it. Picture in your mind an eight-lane highway This broad highway that's going through this very broad gate. Jesus says that's the first alternative. A lot of traffic headed through that gate. In contrast to that, I think of a road in Pennsylvania that I often travel, and it's a very pretty little country road, and there's one point where it goes under an overpass, very old railroad. and you see a sign both ways, yield to the other side. Which always kind of amuses me because both sides are to yield. I guess, you know, if that really worked, you'd have cars just parked on either side, waiting for the other one to come through, because there's only one lane. It's a very narrow underpass. And Jesus is saying, that's the way I'm talking about. It's very narrow. Only one can get through it at a time. It's involving here both gates and the way. Both are narrow, or both are broad. And first of all, I want to look at the gate and then think about the way. The gate, that is, the entrance Jesus is saying to the kingdom is a narrow entrance. And that implies that there's just one way into the kingdom. There's not lots of paths that go up the mountain to God. There's just one path, one gate, one entrance. Why is that? Because Christianity is not about views, it's about news. It's not about people's opinions or stories It's about what God has done. It's not just what Jesus teaches. The central part of Christianity is what Jesus did. And that is unique. In every other religion, the focus is on what the leader taught, what Confucius taught, what the Buddha taught, what Muhammad taught. In Christianity, in stark contrast to that, it's what Jesus did. What did he do that is unique? Jesus here says that there is a gate to enter, to get to the kingdom. In John chapter 10, he tells us what that gate is. You see it up there, therefore Jesus said again, I tell you the truth, I am the gate for the sheep. All whoever came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved. He will come in and go out and find pastor. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life. And have it to the fold. Four chapters later, he describes even further in John chapter 14, verse 6, Jesus said, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. He doesn't say, I teach the way, I show the way. He says, I am the way. I am the gate. In order for the sheep to get into this sheep pen where it was safe so that it could go in and out to find pasture, it had to go through the gate. Jesus says, I am that gate. There is no other gate. There is no other way. Why? Because Jesus' understanding of our need is unique The world looks at Christians who say there's only one way to God, and they say, what an obnoxious, arrogant thing to hold. Only one way? Don't you realize that we all have to find our own way? Every person has their story. Every person has to find How can you people say that there is only one way and you're going to presume to tell me what my way must be The problem with what seems like a very tolerant attitude is that it says that Jesus was wrong. People generally like to think of Jesus as wise, what he taught was good. But if you think that there are many ways, then you're saying Jesus is dead wrong because Jesus said the problem is not that you are ignorant, the problem is that you are dead in sin. You are helpless and hopeless, and you're not able to lift your finger to save yourself from the judgment that you deserve for ignoring God's ways. So Jesus says he has come so that he would live the Sermon on the Mount. That Jesus would fulfill all the things that he taught. And then that he would go to the cross and suffer as if he had broken every single command. And you and I who have broken every command would then receive the record of his perfect living, given freely to us. By going through that narrow gate which is him, and he would suffer for all the things you and I have done wrong. You see, it really gets down to what is the basic problem in the human condition. And Jesus says the problem is you're dead. And you need a deliverer, you need a savior. I am that one. And so you must enter through that narrow gate. You must admit your spiritual poverty and see, I need Jesus. Having gone through that one gate, the road itself, he says, is narrow. The Greek that is used here is a word which means constricted, hemmed in. I think of the contrast between this broad plane and you're not even sure where the road is and you can sort of wander off this way or that way because it it all looks like it's the road. It's so broad In contrast to that, there's something like maybe Franconia Notch or something that maybe you've seen. There's this narrow trail that has sheer cliff walls on both sides. And there's some places where you can barely pass through. You can put your hand on both sides of the walls. And sometimes you feel really constricted. You feel hemmed in. But you know what? There's no question where you go. It's absolutely clear you follow the path. And Jesus is saying, if you become my disciple and follow me, you're going to at every point in your life go against the grain of the culture. You're going to feel hemmed in. You're going to feel hemmed in because when you are done really dirty and somebody betrays you and hurts you and you say, man, I want revenge And you think of all the stories there are, and all the movies about revenge, the sweetness of revenge. And Jesus says that's an island option for you. You need to forgive. You need to return love for that evil treatment. Hems you in, doesn't it? Feel constricted And your friends say, well you know, when a marriage is dead, you ought to just bury it and move on. And my marriage feels dead and I just feel like, why do we keep trying? Why do we make each other miserable? And Jesus says, when you come to that place, then you are at the place where you need to learn more about the cross than you have ever known. You need to learn more about what love really is, how to love and forgive a sinner and be forgiven. And you're going to feel so hemmed in. You're going to feel so constricted on that narrow road that says, it's not about me and my pleasure. It's not about doing what I want because I don't belong to myself. I belong to my Jesus. Who's given me life and he's given me that road, that narrow constricted road that seems to hem me in, that road that says That my treasures aren't all here on this earth and accumulate and get them all and enjoy them all while you got it now, but it's as I look on ahead to the treasure that's Jesus and what I have in his kingdom And I put him first. And I deny myself. And I experience him on that road. It's a narrow gate. It's a narrow road. The second contrast is between the many and the few. Another way of saying what Jesus says here, I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved. Excuse me, referring to the wrong verse. Another way of uh of um looking at the contrast where Jesus says, Enter through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many Enter through it. But small is the gate and narrow is the road that leads to life, and only a few find it. It's another way of saying that this way is unpopular compared to the other way, which is so popular. Do you ever wonder sometimes why, if Christianity is true? Do so few people believe it? You ever wonder if if if God is really the one who made the world and and Jesus is the one and the only way, why do so few people Follow him. And in particular, why are so many intelligent people so dead set against Christianity? Why does it seem like the professors, the writers, the movie producers, the anchor people on news, on the television, media, some Why is it that it seems like these people all view Christianity as something narrow, something that is antiquated, that is obstructionistic That is just so out of touch with reality as it is. Why is that? One thing, you know, that really helps when you're in a situation like that is to look to see whether the Bible addresses it. And one thing I find very helpful is that Jesus said it would be that way. That does not contradict in any way Scripture. Jesus said, many are going to go through the broad way, but few are going to go through this way, relatively speaking. So Jesus anticipated that. That's exactly what he said would happen. Because as attractive as Christianity is, as good news as it is, There is the bad news that must be faced, and that bad news is humbling, and that bad news is offensive to human pride. I was talking to a woman last night who struggles with I'm not so good, but you know, there's this idea that the the evil things I do are not really me And I said, no, no, no. It's the other way around. The evil things you do really do show you what your heart likes. It's the goodness about you that's strange. And in this case, is the case of another woman I was talking to, she she saw that and she trusted Christ. Her life was changed. The woman I talked to last night just looked at me and she said, Man, that is really heavy. I said, it's only when we get in touch with that absolutely devastating, humbling message. You think you got problems. The corruption of your heart is so much worse than you and I understand. But Jesus' grace The fact is, the wonderful news is there is a gate. And the gate's still open. And Jesus is still inviting you to come through the gate. But few choose to do that because it's so humbling It so takes away any ability to call attention to what I've done. The Ten Commandments are so narrow. Only one God. Do not covet. Do not lie. All the things that hem me in. You know, it's a strong temptation that we all have. You have it, I have it And a temptation is simply this. When I am struggling with a conviction, and I'm trying to re-examine what is it that I believe. To ask myself, how many people agree with that? How strange is this view that I'm holding? Now let me tell you, if you hold a view that's so strange that nobody else holds it, that's something to look at. You may want to re-examine. Because if no other Christians you know hold it, church history hasn't held it, that's a red flag for ya But the danger morphous is the opposite to say, if only a few people, if only Christians Agree with me on this. How can all the rest of the world be wrong? I need to bend and adjust and adapt this view. It's got too many sharp edges. Brothers and sisters, resist that temptation. That temptation is from the pit of hell to cause you to compromise on the way that Jesus has called you to come. There is no freedom in going in the broad way. Samuel Butler wrote a novel back in the 19th century, kind of a classic called The Way of All Flesh. I read that thing recently, wondered what it was about. The scathing attack upon hypocritical 19th-century British evangelicalism. And in that novel, the hero, who suffers at the hands of hypocritical evangelicals, finally comes to a place where he decides there are two ways to know truth. The first is, he says, that which commends itself to the majority of prosperous and successful people. And secondly, instinct. In other words, my gut feel of what's right. And Jesus is saying it is exactly the opposite. Jesus is saying that which commends itself to the most people is not the way I've taught. And it is not your gut instinct. It is my truth. He gets into that in the next morning. Now, this is an extremely powerful deception. Let me give you an illustration of just how powerful that deception is. I've said to some of you in the past, I probably became a Christian just before my senior year in high school. And as a one-year-old Christian I know some of you can't imagine me as a one-year-old Christian. Brand new Christian. I decided to go to the University of Pennsylvania, which was hardly a Christian school. It was a very secular school, but what was even more naive was I took Bible courses there. And one of the courses I took there was a course in Old Testament. It was taught by a man by the name of J. B. Pritchard, whose books on uh ancient Near Eastern text is the definitive text still used and his books are still in print, and he taught Old Testament. But J. B. Pritchard did not believe the Bible was God's word. He did not believe in the supernatural. He did not believe that Jesus was God come in the flesh. And he used every possible opportunity to blaspheme the God of Scripture. to discredit Scripture and to mock God. He referred to the little Israelitish deity of the Old Testament. And here I was as a new Christian. And I would sit in that class and I'd take my notes, and every once in a while I couldn't stand it anymore. And I'd put up my hand and I'd object or I'd ask a question and he and I would sort of go at it for a little while and everybody kind of enjoyed this watching this world-renowned archaeologist make min mincemeat out of this naive Christian sitting in the class. But I kept doing it because I had to. That class was one of the reasons, by the way, I went to seminary, which is one of the reasons why I wound up where I am. But in that class, there was one day I remember asking a question, and he and I were starting to go at it in the usual way. And I'll always remember the response that he gave me After trying to deal with what I was talking, whatever it was, I have no idea, I don't remember now, he got kind of exasperated. He looked at me, pulled his glasses down, and he said, Mr. Harris Do you realize how few people hold your position compared to how many people hold my position? And I thought, you dirty rat, you have just moved from discourse on the issue to intimidation. And I want to tell you, I felt a palpable scorn from the rest of the class. Winning by intimidation. You will experience that. You have experienced that. You teenagers, you kids, nobody wants to be the one person holding a position that seems so foolish. Do you realize how few people hold your position? compared to how many people hold my position. Who do you think you are? Jesus says, Narrow is the way that I've called you to. Have you ever counted the cost of following a narrow way? A narrow-minded, truth-focused Jesus, rather than, hey, no big deal, let this person find their way, give that way. Who really cares? Some of you need to reckon with that cost. Because you haven't, you're still trying to believe that the way you're following can be popular, that you can somehow fit in And you need to come to that place where you say, this way is narrow. But it's true. It's the way of life. And that is the third contrast. The third contrast is between the outcomes. Now, before I say something about the outcomes, let me just say a word about what you see there under the second point about post-millennialism. What does this mean about post-millennialism? What I'm raising there is the teaching that um that a number of Christians have that says simply that before Jesus comes, most of the nations, the vast majority of the world, will become Christian. That's not a a really outlandish, impossible view, the power of the gospel. Christians in the past, many believed that, were some of the great Christian leaders This verse does not seem to support that. So let me say, on the one hand, this verse is a real problem with the idea that most of the world is going to become Christian. that in fact Christianity will be the norm and that unbelief will be the exception. However, I don't believe this verse disproves that position. Jesus is speaking about the narrowness of the way, the fact that relatively few are going to find it. There could be In the providence of God at the end times, the times we're moving into, the times we're part of, there could be a great worldwide revival. This verse does not exclude that. The book of Revelation talks about myriads of those before the throne that no one can number, a vast multitude. But it is a problem for the view that the majority of the nations will become believers. Personally, I think there will be a growth of the kingdom and committed believers and a growth of unbelief that is virulently opposed to and is persecuting the church. I think what is going to diminish is that in between doesn't really matter, crowd. We're going to see toward the end more either powerful following of Jesus and more opposition. That's just my view, but I'm just saying this verse relates to it. It doesn't prove it one way or the other. Final thing is the destruction versus life. The last contrast. Destruction versus life. Enter through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction. And many enter through it, but small is the gate, and narrow the road that leads to life, and only a few find it. Oh, what infinite delight and misery are packed in those two words, destruction and life. For all eternity. Picture this wide, broad road that seems so sensible that all the world follows. Everybody does it. This is what you can expect. It makes sense. It's just likely, it's just what seems to be true And you picture that road, and it's heading up the mountain, but the peak of that mountain is not God. It's the crater of a volcano. I stood at the edge of the crater of Vesuvius, and they said, someday It's gonna blow again. Probably not today. Don't worry, but it is gonna blow. And you picture that road going up and it just drops off the edge. That's what Jesus is picturing. It's a way that leads to destruction. And in contrast to that, there's this hemmed-in way between the cliffs and the rocks And sometimes it seems to pinch, and sometimes it causes calls for self-denial. And it says, Your way, you want to go this way, but Jesus says, No, trust me, child, come with me this way. But you see a light on ahead. And as you keep going through the forest, that light grows brighter. And you see that at the end of that light There is a new Garden of Eden that this path leads to. In fact, you find that it is a renewed, reconstructed heavens at earth. And in that heavens and earth there is every manner of delight, every manner of the treasure of all your heart, and Jesus is at the focus and at the very center of it, and he is the one who is the exquisite Fulfillment of every delight of your heart, and the road has led to life. The soat of this sermon is very simple. Enter the narrow gate. It's not something to discuss and analyze. And what about this passage? And what about those things? Jesus simply says, hear my word, trust me, enter you now. Jesus Christ stands here and he calls every one of you. Count the cost of what this road means. If you've never come into the gate, now he says, Come. It's a command, it's an invitation. It is Gently given. It is sovereignly given to you, to you, to every one of you. Come Enter the gate now. Come walk along this narrow way to life with me now. Let's pray. Lord, Lord, give us hearts to see Jesus calling. Come, enter through this gate now. To not think about it and put it off and say, yeah, interesting idea. The Lord just to think in our mind the images Of destruction and life. To long, to long to follow you To not expect that we will ever be in the majority to look and to see that as Our brothers and sisters in other countries, sometimes less than 1% Christians, sometimes suffering because of their faith, feeling so alone. And yet, Lord, the end, it's life. And so we pray, grab a hold of each of us. Take our hearts, call us to follow Jesus this week. With no compromise, with a sense of your presence and your power with us in Jesus' name. Amen.