A couple of months ago, I received this letter from uh Orthodox Presbyterian missionary Dr. Jim Knox, who works in in uh Uganda, in uh Karlamujia with Altrakarico that a number of us know. He'd been preparing for fifteen years to become a medical doctor and be trained to be able to get to Uganda to work among the people there. He's very excited to go. This was his first prayer letter that he sent home. Received it back in May. He talks about how he's very glad to be there, but then he says at the beginning of the second paragraph, the difficulties are at times overwhelming. He goes on to talk about one of his first cases that he saw was a two-month-old girl with a bacterial meningitis. He said he had never seen so many bacteria under a field and microscope and she died that evening. Just uh very soon after that he had a two-week-old girl with spina bifida. uh told the mother what she could do. She decided not to do it and simply brought the little girl back to him later just in time to see her die. He said even more discouraging, however, was the fact that we had recently to fire to let go one of the Karamojan staff that worked with the clinic. And the reaction to that was extremely discouraging. The community got up in arms. They filed a series of complaints against the clinic saying they should have an ambulance, they should have more efficient admitting procedures, they should be giving out more free things And in fact, things got so bad that they finally closed the clinic. And at the time he wrote this letter, the clinic was still closed. Now he talks about a number of the joys and things for which he is thankful, but a great discouragement. Discouragement How do you handle discouragement? Disappointment? Rejection? If you're like me, I have a kind of a default position to move to self-pity. Why am I putting up with this? I don't deserve this. Here's a guy who sacrificed a lucrative career here in the States. Puts himself out and what's he get? Complaints? Criticism? Or maybe you're the kind of person that just goes to bitterness Or to lash back at your accusers, or or maybe you're the kind of person that just goes into passive depression. We have different ways that we deal with discouragement. How do you deal with discouragement? Well, when you read the Gospels, it's very important to realize that Jesus had feelings. He was not made of stone. And so rejection and criticism affected him. And when you go to chapter eleven and twelve of Matthew We have finished the second teaching section in Matthew chapter 10. So in chapter 11, you're back to narrative for two chapters. And as you read chapter 11 and 12, I hope you got to. I asked you if you if you get the CPC announcements. to try to read it before today. If you didn't get to read it, you don't have to leave. You can stay here, but just would be helpful if you had read it. That was supposed to be a joke, guys. Anyway, you read through chapters 11 and 12, and you find that Jesus is constantly being criticized. Everywhere he turns, he's hearing one message. You are a failure. He hears it from the religious leaders who should have been his greatest supporters and companions. He gets it from the crowds who he has been healing and teaching, and he even gets it from his own family. Now, because this is a new section, I've given you in your bulletin outline a box, just kind of so you can see the context, see where we are. We've gone through the first narrative section, chapters 1 to 4, his birth, beginning of his ministry, then the first teaching section. Remember Matthew? organizes his material into blocks, alternate blocks of narrative and teaching, works and words. When I first read Matthew, I thought it was kind of a semi-random collection of the things that Jesus did and things that Jesus said, and as I began to study it more, um, particularly in preparing for this series I began to see that Matthew has in fact very tightly and very purposefully organized his material into these blocks of teaching and narrative. Sermon on the Mount goes then back into more narrative, his compassionate authority in action, beginning of some criticisms, then back to teaching. Teaching now on the commission to the disciples for ministry with warnings and encouragement. Now we're in the third section of narrative. And in this section, as I said, Jesus is constantly criticized. He's constantly hearing the message, you are a failure. So when I came to read chapters 11 and 12, I should have expected that it was a coherent unit, but I didn't. I read it. And if you read it in the last couple of days, you may be tempted to think that it again is a a collection of things that aren't necessarily moving in tight organization on a coherent message, but it is. And as I began to see that message, there are a lot of things going on in these two chapters. And we'll spend till the end of August on these, me sharing it with also Steve and Tim. But the one thing that particularly leaped out at me as I looked at this, the first reading, was this coherent message of Jesus. Being told you're a failure, the criticisms, and how different Jesus is from me. How differently he responded to that m message, to that discouragement, from the way that I would respond to it. And I told you I was struggling with last week's message. So as difficult as last week's message was that's how excited I as I was about this message. I couldn't wait to get to this one Because it really meant a lot to me, and I hope it means something to you, to see Jesus as our model as well as how different He is from us how his heart is revealed in the unique way he responded to discouragement. Three things I want to point out to you about that. Number one Notice his persistence. Notice his persistence in the face of discouragement. Everyone's saying he is a failure. His cousin John, who's in prison, sends messengers and says Jesus, you're not doing what we thought. Here I am rotting in prison, and I thought you were coming with power to bring in the kingdom. And then how these words, think of Jesus and how these words must have stung. Are you sure you're the Messiah? Maybe we should be looking for somebody else. Maybe you're not the one. And then take a look, verses two and three. When John heard in prison what Christ was doing, he sent his disciples to ask him, Are you the one who was to come? Or should we expect somebody else? And then there's the crowds who have seen his miracles. They've seen amazing, astounding signs and wonders of healing, lepers, blind people, raising the dead even, the crowds are critical Jesus says that the crowds are saying, ah well John, you know, he he never had a good time. He was not a party man and um think he had a demon. Jesus, you're too loose. Seems like you're always partying and you'd hang around the wrong crowd. So he says, you you know, you weren't happy with John, you're not happy with me. You're criticizing whoever it is that's trying to bring you God's word. Then there's the religious authorities, people who knew their Bibles the best. And you see in eleven chapter eleven and twelve they escalate their criticism, which began back in chapter nine, but now these criticisms escalate. Escalate to the point where they say to Jesus after he heals a demoniac, well, he's doing this by the power of the devil. He's in league with the devil in doing this. What an accusation That's from the people who should have known their Bibles better than anyone and welcomed Messiah. Now what's his response? Again, if it was me, I would indulge in self-pity. I would say, you know, every day I get up, I give myself, I don't Take vacations and do what I would like to do. I just serve these people and look what I get for them. You know what? Why bother? Why try? And yet look what Jesus does. Matthew tells us in chapter 11, verses 25 and 26. Matthew says, at that time, at the time that he was getting these criticisms and this rejection, at that time Jesus said, it's really praying. He said, I praise, or the word could be translated thanks, I praise, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth. He's thankful. Because you've hidden these things from the wise and the learned and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father. But this was your good pleasure. He understands the human heart He understands that God's way is to not reveal himself to proud, self-sufficient people. But rather to display himself sovereignly to those who know that they are lost without him, those who are humble. Jesus is thankful. You know, you think about what it is that discourages you How do you respond? Do you thank God? Father, I thank you. This is the way you display yourself. You display yourself in ways that don't make sense to us, but show that you uniquely can work sovereignty in people's hearts to respond. Then notice he he goes on and he finds his unique relationship with the Father to sustain him. He's on talking about how only he knows the Father, only the Father knows him, and that there is that unique, precious relationship That says, I know my identity, I know who I am. I don't need people to respond to me to do something in order for me to be at peace. And Jesus shows his strength. In that sense of well-being, in knowing who he is. And then we see that he affirms That God has given to him a substitute family when his biological family has rejected him He says at the end of chapter 12, here's my brothers and sister and mother, those who follow the word of God. This is my spiritual family. And he finds comfort and strength in that new family, the spiritual family of faith, of which he is the head. There's no indication of doubt, of discouragement. Of second guessing, he is stable in God's ways, stable in his identity, stable in a sense of God's sovereignty. Stable in God's giving him a new family. And so he persists unflinchingly To the mission that God has given to him. Not varying. If he had varied in the slightest bit, if he had shown any bitterness. You and I would have been lost forever. He would have disqualified himself But Jesus continues to persevere and persist in his moving to the cross, where he will experience the final ultimate rejection. Of his own father, to take that rejection in your place and my place So how do you handle discouragement? Are you able to hide in Jesus, find your strength and his ways and your identity in him? In knowing that it's okay whether people accept what you seek to offer or not In the case of Jim Knox, how the Karamojans respond to the things that they come to offer. Do you find support in the family of faith that God has given to you? Are you in a small group? Are you in a home fellowship group where when you are discouraged, you can be reminded by your brothers and sisters of the gospel and to be encouraged? You'll hear a more about that. um at the end of the service, but can you find in yourself the um find in your group the encouragement for that? Um this this week I experienced some discouragement and uh I was so glad that just um within an hour or so of that um One of my brother elders called simply to encourage and to comfort me. And that means a lot, you know, to have someone else with skin on be able to share with you comfort and the encouragement of the gospel. Jesus says he has in the face of the rejection of his biological family, here is a new family of faith, of which you are a part too. And so you see Jesus in response to the rejection and the discouragement, his persistence. But not only that. Secondly, I want to call attention to his strength. That is his strength. Now again they would um put him on the defensive Um John puts him on a defensive man, you know, are you sure you're the Messiah? Don't seem like you're doing Messiah kind of things. The crowds are critical of him. He's too loose. You're having too much fun. You're too free. The religious leaders criticize them. You shouldn't be doing this on the Sabbath. You shouldn't be doing that on the Sabbath Criticism, criticism, you're in league with the devil. And yet, again, notice how he responds. He does not respond about himself His concern in the strongest possible terms are the peril that these people are placing themselves in by their rejection. So he warns them for their own sake. Notice that in chapter 11, as he talks about the crowds, verse 16, to what can I compare this generation? They're like children sitting in the marketplace calling out to the others, we played the flute for you and you didn't dance. We sang a dirge and you didn't mourn. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a demon. Son of man comes eating, drinking, and they say, Heh! Here's a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. But wisdom, in the long run, is proved right by her actions. You're like petulant children. Nothing pleases you. Play the game the way I want to play it. You want to call the shots. And so he goes on to say, you are unrepentant, you are stubborn. You have seen in Capernaum Korazan Bethsaida the hometowns of of um where he lived in northern Galilee. You've seen my miracles, you've seen my healings, you've heard my teaching. You're thrilled by seeing the wonders, but you don't want to follow me. You don't want to repent and admit your need for me. He warns them that that kind of unbelief in the face of uncontrovertible evidence is worse than the immorality of Sodom and Gomorrah. It says in the day of judgment it'll be better for them than it will be for you, who have seen my works and seen who I am. You know that I am sent from God, and yet you refuse to give yourself to me. And then the religious leaders who say he's in league with the devil. Look in Matthew twelve. They brought to him a demon-possessed man who was Blind and mute, and Jesus healed them so that he could both talk and see, and all the people were astonished and said, Could this be the Son of David? They're always asking, Could this be? Maybe it is. But when the Pharisees heard this, They said, it's only by Beelzebub, Prince of Demons, that this fellow drives out demons. He's in league with the devil. And Jesus issues to them several very severe warnings. First of all, he points out how illogical their accusation is, because he says, why in the world would Satan cast himself out? Be at war with himself. That's ridiculous. And then, um, since you guys have people who claim to be exorcists, if you claim I'm doing it by the power of the devil, Who do your guys do it by? What what's the power that they get? Why is theirs from God and mine's from the devil? They more godly or you know, what's the difference? And then he says, and if you are in fact stubbornly, knowingly distorting what I'm doing, taking what is clearly the work of the Spirit. And saying that it is the work of the devil, that shows your hearts are so hard you are blaspheming the Holy Spirit. And that knowing hardness is unforgivable. We'll talk about that later, but it's not that it's not that the sin is itself unforgivable, it is the hardness of a heart that has come to the place of knowingly twisting What God is clearly doing to attribute it to the devil. And then he um It says that your words, evil words, are simply revealing that you have evil hearts. Wake up! See what it is that you're doing. Repent before it's too late. Then it's interesting, you kinda have to smile. The next thing Matthew says is that some of the Pharisees then say, Well, uh teacher, we want to see a miraculous sign from you. I mean we're open. You know, but we just show us some miraculous sign. It's kind of like, you know, where have you guys been for the last year? Every day Jesus is doing miraculous signs. Well, no, you know, those those don't quite count You know, we we we want to have you stipulate a particular one. So Jesus says again, this is a wicked and adulterous generation that asked for a miraculous sign. But none's going to be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah, and he talks about judgment. He's warning them, pleading with them. It talks about how their self-righteousness, there, you know, we don't need you, we will keep the law, we will be good enough, our lives are okay without you. Thank you very much. He says, yeah, your lives are like a person who had a demon and he cleans out the demon. He drives out the demon, but he doesn't have anything to replace it with. So verse 45, then it goes, the demon And takes with it seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and they live there, and the final condition of that man is worse than the first. Warning. Pleading. Do you see? Your righteous moralism is worse than unrighteous immoralism. Because it is so self-sufficient. You people are too proud to admit your need of Jesus. I wonder if there's somebody here this morning that the Holy Spirit uses these words of Jesus 2,000 years ago. To say the same thing to you. You come week after week, you hear the sermons, you associate with Christians But in your heart, you're too proud to admit your personal need of Jesus Christ as your own Savior and your own Lord. And Jesus is warning and pleading with you this morning. Recognize your arrogance. Recognize your need of Jesus Christ and come to him before it's too late Come. There'd be somebody that would be thinking that this morning, a need to recognize that. If you want to talk, come to the door and just tell me, I'd like to talk about that. You see again how different Jesus is from you and from me. He doesn't respond in self-pity, he doesn't respond in defensiveness. He responds in calm self understanding and security, the confidence in God and his ways so that he is able To offer the warning and be concerned for them. But the most amazing thing of all to me is in response to the criticisms, the rejection, the discouragement, is his gentleness. That's the third thing. His gentleness Contrast these severe warnings that I have just illustrated to you with his response to the humble and the weary. The people who recognize that they have needs. To John Who's in prison? He recognizes that John is not an unbeliever, but he is struggling with doubts in a discouraging situation. So he answers John by what he has done, gives illustrations, quoting from Isaiah 61, and then notice what he says in verse 6: Blessed is the man who does not fall away on account of me. John, come on. Buck up. Take heart Blessed is the one who will not fall away because of these discouragements. I know what I'm doing, John. Hang in there. Blessed are you if you hang in there. A gentle word of encouragement, not, John, come on. You know better I can't believe that you're struggling with this. You've had direct revelation, John. Come on. Gentle. So gentle. Then of course the classic passage that Rick read from the end of chapter 11, where he looks to the weary and he says, Come to me. All you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke and learn of me, because I am gentle. I am gentle and humble of heart for my yoke and you will find rest. I will give you rest, and you will find rest. For your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. A gentle invitation, not caught up. In the defensiveness or the reaction, the discouragement and the attacks, but a heart that is gentle For those who are weary and burdened. You see, at the very beginning of the next chapter, the disciples are walking with him and they're hungry. And they start to pick some grains and the Pharisees are ready there to criticize. You're not supposed to pick grains on the Sabbath, that's working. Jesus says, Go ahead, pick the grains, guys. If you're hungry, eat. Gentle. Guy comes on that Sabbath day with a withered hand and Jesus sees him, has compassion on him And he heals the hand. He doesn't say, well, Saturday, Sabbath, come back on Tuesday, see me then. Maybe we can deal with it then. Immediate compassion that the Pharisees can't relate to. Gentleness. In fact, Matthew says there Describing the commentary on Jesus' ministry in verse 20, he says, A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out till he leads justice. to victory. A bruised reed he will not break. Here's a here's a bruised reed from my backyard. See there He's bruised. In fact I I had was longer before and the bruised part actually fell off. But there it is. You know, see, Jesus doesn't just say, uh snap it off You know, a bruised reed he will not break. He will strengthen it. He will hold it up. You know, he'll keep it. What tenderness. Or or there's a uh a candle and you know the candle's beginning to sputter and looks like it's gonna go out. The wick is short and it begins to smoke and And and Isaiah, Matthew quoting it says he he doesn't just blow it out. He he tries to keep it going. He strengthens the wick. He there's this picture of inestimable gentleness of Jesus who's being so criticized and defamed And that gentleness is a gentleness that you and you that would put it out. Gentleness that you and I need. A gentleness that he gives to his spiritual family, those who he calls his brothers and sisters. A gentleness To carry your burdens. What burdens? Your sin burdens. The burdens of performance. The burdens of never being able to live up to the standards. The burden of being afraid that when you read the Bible all you'll see is more things that you're deficient in. More things that God expects you to do and you say, and I can't do them and I don't do them and I don't want to do them and my heart is mixed. And Jesus says, Come to me. Come to me for rest. Why is the yoke easy and the burden light? We'll talk about that next week. But Jesus comes to receive you and he says, I've taken that burden. I've borne it. I went to the cross, suffered the ultimate rejection so that you could have forgiveness. And I would take away the sin burden that you bear, the shame, the guilt. I've taken it. Come, come to me Not only the the sin burden, the root of all of our alienation to God, but all the burdens that you bear, the daily burdens, all the things that You bring here as weights this morning. You try to enter into joy and the singing, but your heart is heavy. And Jesus says, come, bring me that burden. Come. I'm gentle. I want to take that from you. I want to bear it for you. All the burdens of your life, all the discouragements, the feelings of failure. The rejection, the criticisms. George Matheson was born in Scotland in the nineteenth century, a man with weak eyes and a very sharp mind. As he grew as a child, it was clear that he was gifted mentally, but his eyesight continued to deteriorate. At the age of eighteen, he was engaged to a woman that he loved, and of course they planned to get married, but at the age of eighteen, she broke off the engagement. Decided that she couldn't imagine life with a blind husband, rejection, discouragement Where is God in that? He had a sister who loved him very much. In fact, she cared so much for him that Given his scholarly bent, she learned Greek and Latin just to help him in his studies. And so he decided he would become a scholar, biblical scholar, and went to seminary. But it turned out that that was not to be. Couldn't make it in that. So he became a pastor. He memorized his sermons Because he couldn't see his newts. Pastor Church in Edinburgh grew to nearly 2,000. He was experiencing some blessing. At the age of forty, his sister had fallen in love and got married. The day of her wedding Matheson was feeling deep discouragement and depression. He was praying because, Lord, where are you? Who's going to take care of me? Who's going to help me? Where's my life going to go? Not going to live with my sister and her husband. What am I going to do? He says as he was praying that, words came to him that he began to write down. Words that came to him Almost as if it was a dictation, but he said in just a very few minutes, he wrote down these words. Oh love. That will not let me go. I rest my weary soul in thee. I give thee back the life I owe, that in thine ocean depths its flow may richer, fuller be. O light, that followest all my ways, I yield my flickering torch to thee. My heart restores its borrowed ray, That in thine sunshine's blaze its day may brighter, fairer be, written in his darkness. O joy, that seekest me through pain, I cannot close my heart to thee. I trace the rainbow through the rain, and feel the promise is not vain, that morn shall tearless be. O cross, that liftest up my head, I dare not ask to fly from thee. I lay in dust, life's glory dead, and from the ground their blossoms red life that shall endless be And he is the same gentle Jesus for you. Isn't Jesus amazing? What would you do without him? Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, how different you are from us. How we thank you for your persistence. How we admire your perseverance. Who accomplished your mission perfectly in the face of rejection, misunderstanding, criticism, and discouragement? How you went faithfully to the cross, even the death of the cross for us. Lord, we'd be lost without you And we so thank you for your gentleness. Lord, we want to come to you in our weariness. In our discouragement, whoever is weary and discouraged, who is filled with burdens here, Lord, to bring those to you this very moment and lay them at your feet. To believe that you are sufficient to take our burdens, who have borne the burden of our guilt on the cross. That you care for us day by day in our weariness and our burdens. And so we offer ourselves to you. We not only admire you and love you and trust you, we worship you, and we pray that you would make us more aware of you. Each day this week, each heart-heavy moment, to trust you and to rest in you. Amen.