Thank you, Jaime. Well, Al's back in the pulpit, so it means summer must be about over. Back to the regular schedule next week. Middle hours start. And that means we are back to our study of the Gospel of Matthew. In particular, you remember that in June we concluded a nine-week study of the Beatitudes. And I want to look at them one more time this morning before we go on to our next study, four-week study of the next four verses in Matthew chapter five. Which are critical verses for CPC for this year to shape our vision and the direction and our priorities of where we believe that God is taking us directly from the instructions of those verses. But I want to again set the context for that by looking at a review of the Beatitudes and seeing how that is the foundation for Jesus' teaching of our being salt and light in our community. Also, next week, as I begin that study, that will also begin not only the regular middle hour classes, but also the sermon discussion opportunities. an attempt, a pilot project of giving an opportunity in the middle hour for particularly those that come to the first service to be able to discuss the message, get your feedback and talk about application of that. So let's look again at that hillside. You see the Beatitudes, first part of the Beatitudes there. You remember it's a little dim here, but maybe as the lights fade you can see. Down there is the Lake of Galilee. Jesus is down there speaking up to this crowd. It's a large crowd because Matthew tells us that Jesus has been Healing and teaching about the kingdom of God. People have seen his miracles. They know that this is no ordinary man. He has no ordinary message. He's teaching about God's kingdom. And he begins now the world's most famous sermon in which he unpacks this idea of kingdom living. He begins with what we call the Beatitudes, eight descriptions of the citizens of this kingdom, his disciples. You remember those? PMMHMPP. And I don't know how many of you not only memorize them but review them, but We're going to review them again this morning. Remember, P-M-M-H-M-P-P-P, pure in heart, mourn, meek, hunger and thirst for righteousness. Merciful, pure in heart, peacemakers, persecuted. Those are the characteristics. Those are eight supernatural, distinguishing characteristics of every Christian. They are not things that you can decide that you want to be, and therefore you simply need to make yourself do them. They're not about behavior change. They're about heart change. During our vacation, Kathy and I, back to our usual spot on Cape Cod, and we spent a lot of time in the mornings talking about our marriage. Talking about what was good about it and what things we wished would change. And one time when we were talking about that, we reflected that after thirty-nine years of marriage, We are way beyond the behavior stage change. We are beyond the, you know, I just wish that you would change this. That would help. Oh, okay, fine. I'll I'll work on that. I'll change that. You know, you get to a point where you realize, I wish you'd change this. And my response is, honey, I can't change that. God's got to change my heart to change that. And one morning I was out reading and praying, and it occurred to me That the work that Jesus Christ wants to do in my life is so big, it is so radical, it is so transforming. That it is sheer arrogance for me to say, well Lord, um I'll work on that. I'll you know I'll get that one done. You know, maybe I'll take a week or two, but I cannot change my heart. And the Beatitudes are designed to show you and me that truth. Jesus is coming to us to change our hearts. And the order in which the Beatitudes are displayed help to demonstrate that. You see that what he does, the particular order in these eight and first point, eight basic descriptions of a Christian. Is significant. Notice the progression. First of all, you need to admit your spiritual bankruptcy. The realization I simply can't change myself. It is vain and proud and self-deceptive to think if you just tell me what's wrong in my life, I can change it. I am hopeless without Christ's forgiveness. Based on the fact that he lived a perfect life. And that he went to the cross to take The burden, the debt of your sin and my sin be cursed in your place and mine so God could say, I forgive you. As you saw up there on the screen, the quote from Loveless's book, based not on what you do, but only on what Jesus Christ did for you. The only person who is desperate enough to want that is the person who realizes there's spiritual bankruptcy. But it's not just a matter of agreeing with God. Nobody's perfect, and I'm not. But the second characteristic is that you mourn that, you grieve over that. You grieve over your sin. You grieve over your self-centeredness. You grieve over your desperate desire for control. And you grieve not only for that in yourself, you grieve over the brokenness of this world. These things affect you. You hate your sin. You hate the brokenness of the twisted world that we're in. The result is the third characteristic, you're gentled by that. You recognize your need for God's mercy. And you're gentle in your relationships with other people so that you are less arrogant and judgmental. If you see a church where people criticize and compete and compare and homeschoolers and Christian schoolers and public schoolers buy for who's the most faithful and which one is following God and Criticize and put down the others, or where people who are by temperament culturally conservative criticize those who are by temperament culturally liberal Then you're dealing with a church where people have not been gentled by a realization of their spiritual bankruptcy and their need of Christ and his mercy alone. And so we have a desperate need for God's grace, and that gentles us, but that doesn't make us casual about sin. In fact, the fourth characteristic is that we hunger more for h for and thirst for righteousness. Not only to be righteous, that is, not to be right, but righteous, to have the character of Christ imputed to us. To be in a right relationship with God, to long to see all things that are twisted and broken, brought into that right relationship with Him. And that leads to three specifics. You are more merciful because you know that your only hope is mercy. You are pure in heart because your heart has been captured by a superior affection to the lust for self-gratification in the idols that you pursue. You're a peacemaker because you don't delight in seeing people bicker and putting each other down. You want to see peace and you're willing to be involved in it to make it happen. And what's the result of all this? You'll be persecuted. That's an amazing insight, you stop to think of it. You would think that Jesus, in teaching this, this radical new teaching If somebody just heard this, they would say, and people will love you for this. I mean, you will be such a wonderful person. You'll be like what people would like to be. Wouldn't you like to have a friend like this? And yet Jesus says, they're going to hate you for that. People are going to hate you because you will remind them of their sin and their choice to sin. And you will remind them of me and my perfect righteousness and the fact that they refuse to come to me and acknowledge me and trust me and declare their need for me. And so they'll try to bring you down. They'll try to make life harder for you. They'll even persecute you. You'll be rejected. You will taste hatred. It has that for an incentive to follow these eight characteristics of his kingdom. Jesus needs to take a course in marketing. And yet, it's at that point that I want to emphasize what we have not spent a lot of time on, and I want to I want to focus on this in conclusion. Do you remember when I started? I said the good news of this is that Jesus begins the very first word of his most significant sermon with the word blessed or happy. In fact, every verse, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 12. 3 to 11 and verse 12, which says, rejoice, all the rest begin blessed or happy. And so the second thing I want for you to notice about this message is that he declares eight resultant blessings with reasons that were true then and are true now. Eight resultant blessings with reasons that were true then and are true now. Every beatitude has three parts to it It begins with the same word, happy or blessed. Then you have a description of the characteristic, and then you have the reason why the person is blessed or happy. Now, I said at the beginning of the series that this word blessed could also be translated happy. Let me say a little more about that. It's important to be clear on the meaning of this word. It's not the same word as the other word, blessed. such as blessed be God or the ironic blessings, the benedictions. That word means to speak well of someone or to give a good word. That's not this word. This word makarios is a word which has at the root of its meaning to be free from daily cares and worries. Now, what's significant there is it does not primarily refer to your emotional state, but rather to your condition, your situation. It means free from daily cares and worries. It was used of the gods at that time. They are makariots. They're free from the worries, the cares that we have. It means to be in an enviable situation. So Jesus is saying, these are the people who have it made. These are the people who enjoy the rich life, the full life. That's what it's talking about. And so what it What it refers to is a situation, but it's interesting that the word as it was used over the centuries up until the New Testament time gradually took on the meaning not simply of the situation that was enviable free from worry and stress, but the happiness that was produced by it. So it has both ideas in mind. Your condition, your situation, no matter what your emotional state is. And the happiness that you can have by living in that and understanding that situation. When I was teaching last month at Westminster Seminary, I was staying at a hotel in Chestnut Hill, Chestnut Hill Inn, and outside there was a sign. And I read that sign, and I thought that sign sums up the philosophy of life of today's secular world. Very, very simple. Three things it said. Live well, love deeply, laugh often. Yeah, isn't that I mean you read that and you say, yeah, that's life, you know? Live well. Come to our restaurant, to our inn, yeah Love deeply, laugh often. And so, in a world where people would say, I'm not sure that evangelicals do that. Jesus is saying, let me tell you how to live well, to love deeply, and to laugh often. Let me tell you about the full life. And our focus is not simply, you see, on what we ought to be like and how we Can't be that apart from him and how we desperately need him for that, all of which is absolutely true. But we also must focus on the blessing that Jesus says, that he promises. That makes us happy. The focus of your life this morning, whatever your situation, that brings you into a place of happiness. Now, take a look at this picture up here. There's kids. Happy. Carefree. Are you happy this Labor Day weekend? You know, it's a transition point. And and maybe you say, well, you know, I had a got a chance to get away for a little bit and the weather was pretty good, didn't have any major injuries. Yeah, had a good month. Pretty happy. Going into the fall, schedule looks like it's manageable. A little hectic, always is, but yeah, I think it's manageable. Or maybe you're saying, oh, I didn't get away. I'm still under a lot of stress, and the fall looks worse. You see, when I ask, are you happy? Our minds tend to go immediately to this world's circumstances, don't they? And what Jesus wants to do is he's trying to push you and me beyond that. To say, let me tell you about a happiness which transcends circumstances, which are so fragile. Because no matter what your vacation was, it wasn't perfect. We had an exceedingly good time. Perfect? No. You can always fret about something And if you don't fret about what is, maybe you'll fret about the forecast of what it might be tomorrow or the next day. Our circumstances are so fragile. But Jesus here gives to you eight blessings. Eight things That describes a situation which, if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, is absolutely true of you. You and I don't focus on those things very much, and so we are not as happy as we could be. And Jesus wants you to get in touch with this. So notice the eight descriptions and the connections. The first, he says, is that yours is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed, happy are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now notice that that's also the last blessing. He says in verse 11, Blessed are you when, or excuse me, verse 10, blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now, in Biblical literature, that's called a frame. Jesus gives you eight things, the first and the last are the same. That's called inclusive. That means everything in between is included in that. So everything is about having the kingdom of heaven, because that's the frame. Begin and end. The other things in between are particulars and specifics about that. So the first thing that he says is that God is restoring Eden and bringing his kingdom, which is going to be a restored heavens and earth. which is ruled by him and is under his care and control. And you are a citizen in that kingdom. Therefore you are under his care and control, and you're like a contented lamb. That can sit down and be at rest. Blessed, happy are you, because yours is the kingdom of heaven that He will rule and transform. And so some of the specifics are that secondly he says you're comforted when you mourn. Whether it's mourning your sin. Personal grief, a loss in your family, bad news, health, schedule, job, broken world around you. He is your comfort. And again, notice The way God speaks of comfort. Remember in Isaiah 40, Israel in bondage, in exile in Babylon. Comfort, comfort you, my people. And what's the comfort? The comfort is not empathy or sympathy. The comfort is rescue. The comfort is that Jesus binds up the brokenhearted, and he says, I have come to set you free. And I have come to end the curse ultimately. And so whatever you're going through now that weighs your heart and causes you grief and causes you anxiety and mourning. The comfort is not simply that God is with you. What a great comfort. But this God who is with you is going to ultimately remove the curse and all cause of the grief. That's comfort, the hope of all mourning removed. Thirdly, he says That you who are dispossessed will become possessors of all the gentle. The word used in Psalm 37, for gentle, there is a word which at its root means the dispossessed. And he says again and again in that psalm, you're going to inherit the earth, you'll inherit the land, you'll inherit the kingdom. God is in the place now where he had given an earth. For Adam and Eve to rule gently, very significant understanding, description for environmental theology. Rule gently. But they thought God was holding out on them, denying them the best, and so they grabbed it to take from the tree, and the earth became an enemy. The earth was now a place that you had to fight, fight for your rights, scrap, and see what you could wrench out of it for some happiness. Jesus comes and he says there's a new way. The gospel way, which is to live by faith in God, in his promises, and his provisions for you. And living gently, as one who trusts him in his promises and provisions. The promise is that you will have it all. In that day when he restores the new heavens and the new earth, you'll inherit that. And it will be infinitely beyond the blessing of Eden because you will not be on probation. You can never lose it. You inherit it forever. Begin to see why this is something that will make you smile, why this is something that outweighs the troubles and the trials that you're going through. Jesus says, this is the inheritance of the people that belong to me. So fourthly, he says, you who have a deep hunger and thirst for righteousness. To be righteous, to be in a right relationship with him, all these things he says, I'm going to give you deep, deep satisfaction. You're going to have all that. You're going to see all things set right. You're going to taste some of that now as first fruits by the Spirit in the church and in the kingdom. And one day it will be blindingly apparent all things have been set right. And his ways are vindicated. And you're part of that. Hit everything in its right relationship, and you will be deeply, deeply satisfied. You will be merciful because in that day you will be shown infinite mercy. Do you remember Jesus' parable about the day laborers? The guy went out and hired some people that were standing around looking for a job and he says, well, come on in my vineyard, and some of them weren't were hired at nine in the morning and so they worked from nine till six and then he went out again at noon and hired some more and they worked from twelve to six and they went out again at three o'clock. Hired some more and they worked from three to six and he went out again at five o'clock and hired some more and they worked just one hour from five to six. And when he went to pay them, he paid them all the same wages And you read that parable, and most of us are inclined to identify with those that work from 9 to 6 and say it's not fair. Why did those guys get the same as those that only worked an hour? We miss the point of the parable. Jesus' point in the parable is: you're all one-hour workers. Your only hope is mercy. And the gospel comes and it says to you and to me, God's been merciful to you. He cursed his son Jesus. And right now you know the verdict that will be received when you stand before his throne. Infinite mercy. Not justice. Not getting what you deserve. But infinite mercy. And when you grasp that, you can't help but be merciful. The way that you know that you belong to Jesus. is when you see a growing desire to be merciful in your heart. Jesus says, that's a blessing. Because it's living in the hope of mercy rather than judgment and cursing and disapproval. Your heart is set free. And so the sixth blessing he says, you see God. Those who are peacemakers are called. Excuse me, those who are pure in heart will see God. Now, how can you see God who's invisible? You remember Psalm 24 speaks about the pure in heart. Standing in his holy place and seeking his face. Psalm 73 says that God is good and near to the pure in heart. And Jesus, God Himself has come near. And you realize that when you look at Jesus, the incarnate Demonstration of the very presence of God. That when you see what Jesus is like, you see what God is like. When you see Jesus draw near in him, God has drawn near, and you see God in him And this morning, if you realize that Jesus Christ is merciful to you and he is with you here, and his presence and his protection is for you, and you see him in your mind's eye, in your faith. And as you hold the elements in a few minutes and you see in that Jesus Christ coming near to you, you see God. But finally he says, not only do you see him, you see him as your father Blessed are the peacemakers, for they're called the sons of God. The Spirit whispers to you as you hold those elements. Go ahead. Call God Father. Go ahead. You can do it. He's given you the right. Whatever your situation. However, you lived in this last week, whatever you did that you shouldn't have and didn't that you should have, you can call him Father. You see God as Father. And so as Father, you realize that he says to you, Come, my son, for you are always with me, and everything that I have belongs to you. Now if that doesn't make you smile, I don't know what will. Do you see what Jesus is doing? Maybe to see it better, we need to realize a basic principle of life. You and I can only focus on one world at a time. We can only look for our happiness in one world at a time. And our constant gravitational pull is to look in this world and its circumstances to find happiness. What Jesus is saying in this is, blessed are the poor in spirit, beginning in the end, because theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Set your eyes on the kingdom. See in my kingdom the things that I have given to you that are more permanent, more abiding, more real, more substantial. than all the fleeting problems and trials of this world, what can make you gloriously happy? And that happiness that fixes itself on him and reflects back to him his own happiness. Carolyn Custis Jeans puts it this way in her new book. She talks about walking with God. And she says that life is to be a long walk with God. Living in His presence Going his way, learning to see the world through his eyes, getting to know his character, so that trusting him in the dark stretches won't be quite so hard. She tries to see God as the center of everything. She lives with a profound confidence that He holds the whole world, including her, in His hands. Eugene Peterson described it like this. If we live by mere happenstance, looking at what is biggest, listening to what is loudest, doing what is easiest, we will live as if God were confined to the margins of our lives. But God is not marginal. He is foundational and central. The person who lives as if God sits on a bench at the edges of life waiting to be called in on emergencies. Is out of touch with reality and so lives badly. And I would add, unhappily Lacking joy, lacking the blessing, the peace that Jesus promises for his disciples in these beatitudes. Let me ask you, where's your heart fixed this morning? Where is it fixed Isaac Walton, a couple of centuries ago, described a pastor who was known for his godliness and his joy, said this of him. Of this blessed man, let this just praise be given. Heaven was in him, before he was in heaven I shared that with my wife, and she said, you better say that twice. Think about that. Of this blessed man, let this just praise be given. Heaven was in him. Before he was in heaven. Is heaven in you? As the first fruits that you'll be in heaven because of Jesus Christ? Now, next week we're going to look at the fact that we don't live that alone. And that's the foundation for how we live in this world. And Jesus will show us that how we are to live is very different from the way much of evangelicalism. is trying to lead us to live today. But finally, this message doesn't end with a story. It ends with a meal Because when you and I look at our need, it is for his forgiveness for our lack. That's the next blank and the last blank: his provision. for our blessing. His forgiveness for our lack, his provision for our blessing. And so as you come to take these elements May they jerk your head away from the transfiction with this world To the kingdom where Jesus reigns, to the new heavens and the new earth, to the mercy that you will receive because of his cross. And for the fact that he through these elements draws near to you, as near as the bread that you eat and the juice that you drink, to say It is my death for you. It is my provision for you. Come and be happy in me. Let's pray. And so, our God, we come to confess that we complain And we grouch because our eyes are so fixed on this world, and people can take our happiness, and we give them the power to rob us of joy. But you come here this morning, Lord Jesus, to tell us that you have the power to transform our lives, to forgive us, and to give us a hope that nothing Can rob the joy of. To live in that hope, to live this week with our eyes fixed upon you And so that we are aware of our inheritance. That you have given to us a kingdom, a new heavens and a new earth, the declaration of the verdict of Forgiven, innocent, righteous. But we can't see that unless you show us And so use these elements. Turn our hearts now from ourselves to see you, to really see you, Lord Jesus In your name we pray it. Amen.