And we'll see a whole lot of those in a lifetime. Or you brought forth the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting. Or whether it's MacGyver who's dumped into a tank of water in a straitjacket and somehow he's able to get out of the straitjacket and emerge back up, there's always one last trick that the hero can pull out of the bag. The worst things you've done, the things you're so ashamed of that you've pushed them down into your subconscious so that you barely ever think of them anymore. And you're overwhelmed with ashamed of how rotten you can really be. Well tonight we are going to observe the man-marked passing of another new year. Remembering that through this psalm, God Himself is now speaking to you through His Word. Seems like it just took down the lights from last year and put 'em back up and now you're almost ready to take 'em down again. On those who would break his covenant. And you're ashamed to utter them, but he already knows them. You see that same word mourning used again in verse 14. It's the same word that you see back in verse 3. And so he's saying, well, we've been here in the wilderness for 40 years now. Don't say it's for other people. As you've afflicted us. is going to be a whole new kind of clean and wholesome earth that you and I don't even know or experience here on this earth. Read to you one incident out of what I think is one of his best pictures of heaven anywhere in all of his writings. coming to hear that. It's not an easy thing, is it? But I hope it'll help us each to remember that that's the only way that you and I can live with eternal perspective. And that's precisely what Psalm 90 tries to help us to do. We're going to take two weeks to consider this psalm. From everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Though in the morning it springs up new, by evening it is dry and withered. Now that's the name that's used there. Our days pass away under your wrath. And escape. In verse 14, the moaning and the terror of verses 7 and 8 and 11, and the joy of verse 14. Who of us wouldn't be terrified to think of every rotten thing that you have done being exposed before the awesome gaze of a holy and pure God? And be glad all of our days. For in verses 9 and 10 we read that all our days pass away under your wrath, and we finish our years with a moon. For as many years as we've seen trouble. For 2 Corinthians chapter 4, we read in verse 16 and 17, therefore we do not lose heart. I said, why do you always say that? It's our iniquities, our secret sins set in the light of his presence. It's not going to be our sins that will be displayed. And this Revelation 21 describes it. The new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. That's the splendor of Jesus Christ that's adorning you and me. And you read at the end of Paralandra, at the beginning of heaven, in all of the fullness and the newness of the recreated creation, and at one point the king laughed. And the birds began clapping their wings and the beasts wagging their tails, and the light seemed brighter, and the pulse of the whole assembly quickened. And new modes of joy that had nothing to do with mirth, as we understand it, passed into them all, as it were from the very air, or as if there were dancing in deep heaven And some say there always is. Next week we will consider verse 17 in the light of the first 16 verses. I want you to note, if you are not particularly familiar with it, if you are, you'll remember, that this psalm is a statement of the utter contrast. Between the eternity of God and the brevity of man. And that contrast is between God's anger and between his compassion. That's the third point. saying, Return to dust, O sons of men. Or like a watch in the night. Ephemeral, if you're not familiar particularly with that word, refers to the life expectancy of a soap bubble. That's ephemeral. That's contrasted starkly with God's eternality. The Lord's duration in verses 1, 2, and 4. That's what a thousand years are in the light of your existence. Job said, My life is swifter than a weaver's shuttle. They're like the new grass of the morning, though in the morning it springs up new. Like you're just throwing away the bones, doesn't it, you know, and now here all Christmas seasons come and gone. Swiftness and the psalmist says that you sweep us away, and the idea is like a flood. A time like an ever-rolling flood bears all its sons away. He says, Oh Lord, my heart is sick, sick of this everlasting change, and life runs so tediously quick through its unresting race and varied range. And on and on. The second contrast is between God's anger and his compassion. Terrified by your indignation. For your wrath is as great as the fear that's due to you. the holiness and the power of the one that you and I have so carelessly provoked and offended by our insolent disobedience. Lord, help us to gain wisdom to see how to live life to the fullest. The amazing compassion that's described in verses 13 to 17. Because every time you go to an adventure movie, you see a hopeless situation. Whether it's Indiana Jones stuck down in a tomb with hundreds of writhing poisonous snakes and finds one last hole to get out By which he becomes your master, your Lord, and your Savior, because your pride has prohibited you from acknowledging that without him you are doomed. Apart from his having sovereign mercy upon you, is something that humbles you too far for you to be able to admit that you need that kind of a savior. Things aren't getting any better for you. So that for the first time in your life you would face the reality of your utter hopelessness before Him. And ready to save. He's turning in compassion in verse 13 in answer to that prayer. That we may sing for joy and be glad all our days. It's the morning of the resurrection, when Jesus, the bright morning star, rises from the dead and defeats death, the final enemy. And it's the contrast of the word mourning. And because of that, he satisfies us in the new morning, the resurrection morning, with his unfailing love, so that you and I can sing for joy. They quickly pass and we fly away. Of sorrow in the wilderness. Because of Jesus Christ, you see, our light momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. And so you and I do not have simply as many days of gladness as we've had trouble and sorrow. That far outstrips the 70 or 80 puny years of trouble and sorrow that we experience here. I have a friend that, if you ask him, how are things going? Because I know that ahead of me is an eternal weight of glory that's going to far outstrip the worst of my troubles here now. No matter how long they may seem to last or how deep they may seem to go. He says, may your deeds be shown to your servants and your splendor to their children. Because you see, this is contrasted again with verses 7 and 8. Weaken faith saint in this auditorium. And they will be his people. It's so clean and it's so pure that it's a whole new kind of levity. It C. Or as a man setting foot on an island may make a false step, he steadies himself, and after that his journey begins. loud and deep and long, until in the end Ransom laughed too, though he had not seen the joke. You sure think strangely. How in the light of all of the history of this world, that the whole of the history of this world under its curse It is but the wiping out of a false start in order that the world may then begin. You would not call that steadying of himself a last thing, would you? And you realize that you are utterly hopeless without me. Because the prayer, relent, O Lord, that word relent in the Hebrew is literally turn. Of eternal life with him. Now I know that some of you call these Harris's annual death sermons. Or because there's a certain reputation to these, you know, and so people say, you know, that that one before New Year's, you know, always reminds me I'm going to die, and I'd really rather avoid We are cut off by God's wrath for our inexcusable disobedience. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, for as many years as we have seen trouble. May your deeds be shown to your servants, your splendor to their children. Eternality. And our ephemeral lives, literally in verses 5 and 6, he gives that picture as if we were born in the morning and die by evening. When my heart beats too quick, I think of thee, and of the leisure of thy long eternity. To look forward to death, hoping that it's quick rather than slow. And so there is a certain repulsion to our being reminded of the fact that we will be swept away from the sleep of death all too soon. Because the reason is presented in verses 7 to 11 of Psalm 90, the first part of that second contrast. That's the mystery. That we have done against the Holy God. Would himself decide to have compassion on the sinner that has so provoked him. Your hope and your CDs, your insurance, your pension plan, your health, your strength, your cleverness, everything else that you think will be enough to get you by. And there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away. But only when you and I have sufficiently trembled and despaired at his anger and his wrath can we begin to appreciate what his compassion means. And then that leads to the third contrast in this psalm, which is a contrast between I think I'll leave that till next week. The length of our days is seventy years or eighty if we have the strength. For they quickly pass, and we fly away. That we may gain a heart of wisdom. Satisfy us in the morning with your unfailing love, that we may sing for joy and be glad all our days. So swift you can hardly see it move. Change finds no likeness to itself in thee, and wakes no echo in thy mute eternity. Self-wearied Lord, I come, for I have lived my life so fast. And some of you don't like me for remind some of you don't like me for reminding you of that year by year and may dislike me for saying it now and wish that I could speak of something more consistently upbeat. And we can never look at it as anything but that. We were made for life and not for death. Gives us a glorious contrast to the hopeless situation of verses seven to eleven. And there is utterly no escape. Is that this God Himself would have mercy? Perhaps you've been religious for years, but you've never been able to close with Jesus Christ in a relationship to Him You always want to think that there's something you can do. Is a prayer pleading the promise of Deuteronomy 32. And this verse is pleading that. And to turn his anger into compassion toward you. Verse 14. And that terror is then brought in verse 14, and he says, Satisfy us now in the morning with your unfailing love. Because he has taken away the brevity and the hopelessness of man under death. Let's give it now to the Lord. Then unexpectedly the king laughed. Death has been put away now. Did you ever look at the beginning of this new year? And terrified by your indignation. For your wrath is as great as the fear that is due you. Establish the work of our hands for us. Contrasted to that? Farewell, vain joys of earth, farewell all that is not his. O in the bosom of eternity, thou dost not weary of thyself, nor we of thee. But our days move so quickly here. I don't even need the Bible to back me up on that. The reason you see that the Bible tells us that we die is not because of God's arbitrarily flaunting his power to take away our life. Rather, the reason that we die is because God's anger is on us for our sin. Let alone that he doesn't let us live longer. You and I are sealed behind steel doors in a flaming inferno that's been fueled by the sovereign wrath of a holy God. Death is inevitable. Now you need to understand that there's one barrier to you and me finding that avenue of escape. Because the prayer of verse 13, Relent, O Lord, how long will it be? Do you find yourself in that situation this morning? Lord, you are my only hope. Then your deeds will be shown to your servants, and your splendor to your children. And that splendor will make us glad, brothers and sisters. Is but just the false step of the beginning of eternity with our Father. And then I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and ye will live with them. And the reason you don't like to be reminded of it is because you were made for life, not for death. But the good news is that if you come to him, just that simply this morning, confessing your sins, those secret sins which are in the light of his presence, Who can pause to consider the time that we mark tonight without some reflection on the passing of our own lives? This morning, on the basis of the Word of God, I want to invite you and charge you to humble yourself before Jesus. The joy and the love that's described there. All our days pass away under your wrath. Eternity of gladness before us that far outstrips in its splendor those few days of sadness and trouble. S. And so you notice the first contrast. Abandon your children and grandchildren, not be able to watch them grow up, and to develop down through the generations of children and children's children. Verses 7 to 11, the whole picture of his anger there is intensely personal. Lewis tries in a number of his books to help us to see something of that. But who can live wisely without recognizing our mortality? Lord, you have been our dwelling place throughout all generations. Verse 14, we'll sing for joy and be glad all our days. That's very personal. He says, well, because he says, I figure in the light of 2 Corinthians 4, 17, no matter how bad things are going for me here, on the balance, they're pretty good. It's for you. Our whole culture tries to help us to ignore it, but unless we can see it, and you may not thank me for calling attention to it And you need to see that the situation described here in verses 7 to 11 is truly hopeless. See if you can guess it between now and next Sunday. They're getting more complex, and you can't figure a way out. Now you notice I gave you a little help there. Your life and mine. You are El Olam, the everlasting God. You aren't made to miss seeing what would happen in the years ahead, or to leave your loved ones behind. And so verse 12 then says: Teach us to number our days aright. These verses are all in contrast to what you see in the verses before. Literally, the word means something which is born and dies in the same day. Why, we're not now very far from the beginning. Our iniquities are set before you, even our secret sins, in the light of your presence. It's saying, Lord, you are eternal. We finish with a moan, whether we're seventy or eighty years, and that's all we get, the spans but trouble and sorrow. And so there's that modest prayer in verse 15, where he prays, Lord, make us glad for as many days as you've afflicted us. And particularly, I'm sure, is in Moses' mind writing this is the wilderness experience of forty years of God's anger against his people. And God himself will be with them, and he will be their God. But not only another new decade, but this time the last decade, the beginning of the last decade of the second millennium after Jesus Christ. His wrath is inevitable. But of course, we know that in the New Testament this becomes far outstripped The victory has been accomplished. It's an intruder, a stark invader into what God had intended for us. Come to him on his terms and not your own. How many days? And he spells it all out in that chapter. Let's pray. You sweep men away in the sleep of death. Whatever you are like, the weakest, newest, most You turn men back to dust. How does that make you want to live this week? How long is it going to be? When he speaks of that place, he says, I saw the holy city Deuteronomy 32, 36 said, God says, then I will hear and have compassion in your hopeless situation. You see in verse 5, we are swept away like the new grass of the morning. His body was very big, and his laugh was like an earthquake in it Yes. Lord, you've been our dwelling place throughout all generations, before the mountains were born. The wrath that we deserve. In that day, rather than our sins in his presence, Moses says it's going to be his deeds of righteousness in our presence. If you belong to Jesus Christ, you will have that same splendor of his righteousness. This week we're going to be considering the first 16 verses of it. You were not made to be cut off, to suffer the pain of cancer. No fear of God can be greater than the actuality of his wrath, he says. At least give us as many years of pleasure in the land as you've given us. He says, I always answer, on the balance, pretty good. And then Ransom asks, and he says, Is this then the end of history? Remember verse 7: We're consumed by your anger, we're terrified by your indignation, our sins are set before you That he lets anyone live, because of the way that we have offended his righteousness and the wrath that we deserve. Verse 3: You turn men back to dust, saying, Return to dust, O sons of men. You've been in a bad situation in your life, and you've tried to make the best of it, and it's gone from bad to worse. But now this is a mourning that is unfolded in the New Testament. For a thousand years in your sight are like a day that has just gone by You know that is reality. I wrote in ephemerality for you because I didn't want to take the time to have to spell the word. By evening it's dry and withered. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. And what Moses is saying here is that if you and I really understood And he will have compassion. Our ephemerality versus God's And so if you haven't already done it, please turn to Psalm 90. And soon God, who is unlimited by time, will sweep us away, and we will be past tense. Verse 15 shows us again in the light of the New Testament that this gladness is going to far outstrip the sorrow Those are the second two blanks. Every avenue of escape of this wrath has been sealed off. That's another momentary blip in the light of eternity that you have to offer to Jesus Christ. 36. Establish the work of our hands. He's writing today, perhaps he'd say, My life is swifter than a spreadsheet on a PC. That this God Himself, who is determined to judge that sin, Relent, O Lord. Think of how long ago Thanksgiving was. Now look how he describes that. What do you have that's put before God's presence in verse 8? You are what? They're put up here on the overhead projector for everyone to see. Between his anger and his compassion. Is this then the end of history? And then he says, basically in that verse, when you've come to the end of all of your man-made security. You see, we're not used to really hopeless situations until we face them in our own lives. Lord, my life is very, very brief. Your deeds are going to be shown to us. That's what's captured in that song uh hymn that we sang, Sim 26. But of course, the hero always gets out of it. It's at the end of Paralandra. Just like a passing watch. And the prospect of the fact that there is no escape, no hope. And uh I don't know whether the ranks are depleted this morning because of the ice. Before the mountains were born, or you brought forth the earth and the world Frederick Faber, in his poem, The Eternal God, reflects on this But in that day The only way of escape that is presented In verse 14, we have the contrast of between verses 7 and 8. And so now then, rather than God turning in wrath, in judgment to death How long has it been since last Christmas time And our life flows with such Your eternal being, our brief span. Have compassion on your servants. Lord, you have compassion, or else I'm lost. Can you imagine that As when a man lies down to sleep, if he finds a twisted root under his shoulder, he'll change his place, and after that his real sleep begins. But because of Jesus Christ and his resurrection, you and I have an infinite number of days of gladness set before us. Yet their span is but trouble and sorrow. Who knows the power of your anger Amen. And then he describes Teach us to number our days aright. Perhaps Jesus Christ has brought you to that place this morning. And that's as true for you as it is for me. Did you ever look at time that way? You see what he says? Dear God, be thou my only mirth, thy majesty my single timid bliss. Now I remind you again, you need to really feel the hopelessness of verses seven to eleven in order to understand. And in Jesus Christ, this prayer too has been answered. You turn men back to dust For a thousand years in your sight, or like a day that has just gone by, or like a watch in the night. Because back in Deuteronomy 32. And let me just We finish our years with a moan. Now, why is that terror turned to joy? And how does that make you want to live in this next year? And the Queen laughed as well So let's read Psalm 90, noticing at least the first two contrasts that I've called your attention to. You see You were not made to Between God's anger and God's compassion. And I believe that though it's difficult for us to begin to imagine that And this time not only another new year, but also another new decade And that brevity is stated here because of man's sin. We are consumed by your anger May the favor of the Lord our God rest upon us. Turn, O Lord, how long will it be? They are like the new grass of the morning El Olam. Though outwardly we are wasting away, there it is again, verses 9 and 10, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day. And he himself will wipe every tear from their eyes. How long will it be? Death is the inevitable outcome of our ignoring God's clear commands. And so you see in verse 13, a cry for that mercy. That's splendor. You know, unless we can face that and say, yeah, I am going to die But then verse 13 to 16. And in that you would finally cry out with verse 13: Oh Lord, relent. The length of our days is seventy, maybe eighty if we have the strength, but their span is but trouble and sorrow. And so death is an abnormality. For James 5:11 says that the Lord is full of compassion. Their splendor to your children. He says, I do not call it the beginning, said Tor the king. Now that years bring me nearer home, grace must be slowly used to make it last. And yet, before you get too angry at me, you need to see the reason that the Bible tells us why that's true. Look how he spells it out. And you will find a loving, forgiving, and willing Savior ready to take you. In that day, you and I will see the measure of the love and the grace of our God. Now this psalm, before we read it, We may again a heart of wisdom in the light of what it is. But every once in a while they pop up And it's not only brief, it's full of pain. Make us glad for as many days. And in Jesus Christ, you and I are but on the brink. But then there is a second contrast in this psalm Something which is ephemeral is very fleeting. Our life is so brief. Verse 13 is a contrast to verse 3. What a hope and prospect. We are consumed by your anger. And that barrier is our pride. Give Him your attention And the king responds, the end 36, God described the hopeless situation. Remember that name from this past fall? They quickly pass, we fly away. They're going to make us glad. We spring up in the morning and we die in the evening. You sleep men away in the sleep of death. Have compassion on your servants. Because of another contrast Because verse 16 gives us a glimpse of that. And we are in a hopeless situation. And it's moving on all too quickly. And that gladness It races by so fast, doesn't it? But that's reality. Who knows the power of your anger? He spells it all out, the cursing. We'd be amazed that he lets us live it all.