And especially those of you who are visiting today, it is a real privilege and honor to have you with us. And if any of you kids from VBS are here, I am so glad you're here. And I would also like to specially welcome The groom's family. What a blessed privilege it was to get to meet all of you over this weekend and to have you worship with us this morning as well. This morning our sermon is part of our series on the church, and we're going to be looking at church membership. Which can be something of a a tricky topic in today's world, at least in in the West, in America. But we are going to take a deep dive into this. We're going to begin with the text for this morning. Acts chapter 12, verses 1 through 5. If you brought your Bibles, please turn with me to Acts chapter 12. Usually I have a bookmark, but in all the excitement of wearing a t-shirt to church, I forgot to put my bookmark in. Now I found it. Please join me in prayer. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. Lord, we thank you that it is utterly reliable. We thank you that it is authoritative and that it speaks truth in life. And Father, we confess that we are like easily distracted children, chasing the bright and the shiny and the noisy. Lord, help us to be men and women, boys and girls of your book, as we were described in centuries past, people of the book. People who hold our Bibles dear, because in the Holy Scriptures, that is where we hear your voice. That is where you reveal yourself so clearly. And while we see your wisdom and your power and the declarations of the universe, of nature, of the stars, of the mountains, of the birds. Lord, your wooing, wonderful, majestic voice comes through in the scriptures more clearly than anywhere else. Teach us to know it, to meditate upon it, to understand it, to live it, to speak it. And Lord, bless it this morning. And Father, as we come asking you to bless the reading of your holy word, we pray too that you would bless the preaching that follows. And in as much as the preaching is faithful to who you are and what you've said, bless that as well. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Acts chapter 12, beginning with verse 1. About that time Herod the king laid violent hands on some who belonged to the church. He killed James, the brother of John, with his sword. And when he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter also. This was during the days of unleavened bread, and when he had seized him, he put him in prison, delivering him over to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending, after the Passover, to bring him out to the people. So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the church. This ends the reading of God's Word. So you might think that is a strange text to preach about the church. How many of you would like to join this church now, knowing that uh King Herod and his uh modern-day ilk might want to come and drag you off and put you to death? That's not why I picked this text. The reason this text came to mind is something of a long story, and I'm going to share it with you. For those of you who enjoy homiletics, and we have a number of seminary students here, this type of sermon is called the Bunny Trail. Not entirely, but I want to tell you a little story. Many years ago When I was young, I love the fact that I can say that now. I'm I'm I'm just at the very edge of my mid-50s. I can't say that next year Many years ago, before the internet became a big thing and Amazon. com was a great way to buy used books, I was constantly haunting used bookstores. And I found one day a series of two books that bore the unlikely title of Peck's Bad Boy, volumes one and two. And what intrigued me about these two books is that they were facsimile reprints of 19th-century works. I've never heard of them. And this is way before the days of print on demand, where you can take any classic work that's ever been in print, go to Amazon, Order it, they will literally have the computer print it up, bind it in a soft jacket, and or sometimes even a hardback, and mail it to you within three days. Amazing. But this is before all that. So I thought, what in the world is the deal with this book? So naturally I bought both volumes. And I read them. Peck's Bad Boy is a testament to the ubiquitous nature of poorly behaved young boys. That's not something that started with Calvin and Calvin and Hobbes or Dennis the Menace or Beavis and Butthead. or Bart Simpson. This concept of a poorly behaved little boy goes way back. Shortly after Huck Finn, in the eighteen eighties, a newsman, author, and part-time politician with the last name Peck wrote a book in Chicago called The Bad Boy and His Paw, P. A. And that book is about this young miscreant's adventures, often bordering on cruel pranks, many of which at his father's expense. Now his father was a tortured soul. His father was a Civil War veteran who had had the ignominious and much despised job of being a settler. S-U-T-L-E-R. And I encountered that word reading those books decades ago and I had no idea what it meant, so I'm going to tell you what it means. A suttler was someone who back in those old days, those days of rifled muskets and sabers, was sort of like a non-commissioned warrant officer in the Union Army. And he would go wearing uniform because he had to go through picket lines, he would go from camp to camp with his wagon selling things like sugar, magazines, playing cards. candy at exorbitant prices. So the soldiers both loved him and hated him. And The bad boy's paw was a loved and hated figure in Chicago, a city full of Civil War veterans And he had what I learned from my days as a chaplain in the State Guard in Vermont and training I received through the VA. He had PTSD. He would have been in the battlefields. He would have been there when camps got overrun. But he lacked any kind of appreciation or support. One of the themes that runs through those two volumes is the bad boy's paw desperately Trying to overcome his alcoholic problem. They didn't call it alcoholism back then, he was a drunkard, and desperately trying to find a church that would have him because he wanted to belong. That word belong. When I read that word, and that word kept coming up throughout the book, and keep in mind, this is almost 30 years ago, before my beard was turning white. That word kept hitting me. Belong. Because we don't use it anymore when it comes to church And it inspired a line of questions in my mind. Did we frequently talk about belonging to a church? And did we stop at some point? And indeed, in the English world, going back to the Puritan days, in the 16th century, you can find many references to people saying, if you ask them where they worship, they would say, I belong to St. Paul's. That was how the answer was given. For hundreds of years. And sometime, and if any of you seminary students here are interested in working on your demon, this would be a fabulous topic. At some time after World War II, things changed profoundly when the consumer mentalities begin to take over our attitudes towards worship and church attendance. And all of a sudden the possessive arrow changed direction. And no longer did we say, I belong to that church, now we say, that's my church. And so now if you go up to someone and say, hey, where do you worship? They say, oh, CPC is my church That's not an insignificant shift. Words are important. And in my own life, as I struggled with what it means to belong to the church, A line of questions inspired by a very naughty fictional boy from Chicago. I came to think differently about belonging. And this text is one that has always bubbled up to the surface of my own understanding of what it means to be a member of a church. It means I belong to a church. About that time Herod the king laid violent hands on some who belonged to the church. And there we see it as clearly as anywhere else in Scripture. That word for belong is a very simple word, and it could be translated that are of or part of or of the essence of, but in this sense it's translated this way almost in every major English translation because this is what gets to the heart of it. You are a possession of the church. The church is not a possession of yours. Do I think that way? And if I'm willing to think that way, I'm going to have a radically different set of notions regarding how I perform my duties as pastor. When I understand that I belong to the church, the church does not belong to me. And what does it mean that I belong to the church? Because this notion runs throughout your Bible. We get added to the church. We don't get a membership card. We become a part of it in the book of Acts over and over again. And as I've been r wrestling with this over the years, I've developed uh uh three ideas that help me understand what this means to belong. And we see Hints of them in this text, but I'm going to be going more broadly and grazing throughout the Old and New Testament as we support these notions. The first thing about what it means to belong to the church is that church membership is recognizable. So if you have uh you'll notice that partly because of VBS, uh your sermon outline is pretty sparse. It just has one, two, and three. So for number one, you can write church membership is recognizable. And it's not that I was running out of time, it's just that I spent a lot of time this week stressing over whether or not I should wear a t-shirt. Church membership is recognizable. People knew if you were a member of the church. They didn't wonder. And when we look at the church in the New Testament, when the Apostle Paul writes to the Philippians, And says, hey, this letter is to you, the saints of Philippi, the church of Philippi, together with the elders and deacons. He immediately goes on to say, every time I pray for each one of you. So he's not just writing generically to people. When he addresses the church, he is addressing a concrete specific group of people he knows by name. Go back to Psalm 87. Psalm 87 is a remarkable text that foretells the day. When the work of God in bringing a people to Himself will go way beyond the ethnic contours of just Israel. And we read there that in that day, in that great day, realized on Pentecost in powerful ways, fully experienced on the great day of Christ's return. It will be said, this one and that one were born in Jerusalem. The Lord himself will record them in the register of his people. Now you might think, well, that's a very spiritual way of saying things. Yes, it is. However, there actually was a register in Jerusalem One of the reasons, very significant reasons, that it became very difficult for people to establish their Jewish identity after the Assyrian conflict. is the records that demonstrated, the records, the concrete, tangible records that demonstrated family lineages were lost. There is no one alive today who can with any authority say, I'm of the tribe of Issachar. But there still are people who can say, I am of the tribe of Judah. And I am of the tribe of Benjamin, because those records were not lost. Because the Babylonian captivity proceeded a little bit differently, and records were gotten away to Egypt. They kept registers and records. They kept lists. In the New Testament, we see the echoes of this very idea in Paul's letter to Timothy, when he says again and again to the deacons He says, enroll such and such a widow. Put their name on a list. They are known. They are recognized. Now we live in a day and age when we sort of cherish our anonymity, we cherish our uh ability to come and go sort of as we please, to be known to the extent that we want to be known. But church membership in its essential and vital biblical sense begins with being recognized. And that's why it's so important that faith is publicly testified. And that's the reason in the Puritan and Protestant Reformed tradition that we as a congregation are part of. Joining the church involves a public profession of faith, which is what Adam just did. Did you hear those questions? Do you believe you're a sinner? Do you believe Jesus is a savior? Do you believe that the Holy Spirit helps us to live in a way worthy of Christ? Will you support the church and be a part of it? Will you submit yourself to the church in a biblical fashion? That's a public testimony. And we've all made that. And we are recognizably, publicly, by affirmation. We are Christians. And I'm not for a minute saying that there are no other ways to publicly testify, and that people who have not done so are not Christians. Absolutely not. The Bible does not give us a concrete specific, this is how you add people to the church. That'd be nice if they had a chapter like that. But it makes it clear that people are added to the church, that upon their addition they belong to the church. And it's recognizable. Well, the second thing. that I would say about church membership and what it means to belong to the church is that church membership is interdependent. Church membership is interdependent. So your point one, if you're taking notes, is that church membership is recognizable. Secondly, church membership is interdependent. And by interdependent, I mean two things. I mean this. I mean first of all, you need the church, and secondly, the church needs you. Let me talk for a minute about how you need the church. In 1 Peter 4, verse 10, we read: Each one of you should use whatever gift he has received to administer God's grace in its various forms. as you one another each other, as you love one another, serve one another, exercise your gift of hospitality. Now Spiritual gifts are something that the Bible makes very clear, are given to each one of us according to the Spirit. Each one of us, every one of us has a spiritual gift. Maybe you've got two or three. No one's got all of them, but you all have some gift. Now have you ever stopped to ponder that on the basis of 1 Peter 4, verse 10 alone You cannot faithfully exercise your gift without a community of Christians to whom and with whom to exercise them. Because God called you to administer God's grace in its various forms. through the use of your gift to administer to others in your community groups. Take a deep dive into 1 Peter 4. 10 this week. You cannot be faithful as a Christian if you have spiritual gifts and you look at the church simply as a place to get fed and then go give your life on your own. I mean that would be great, but we are not a fast food restaurant. We're the kind of restaurant where you come and you sit down at a table and you're not given a menu, you're given an apron. You get put to work. Bilver Mullen was an old Orthodox Presbyterian church missionary and church planter to Upper Michigan. And Bill Vermulen visited this church back in the 80s. That's where I met him, and he became something of a mentor to me when I pastored my first church in Vermont. I had Bill Vermulen come and do a conference. He spent a whole week with us and helped us as me as a young pastor and the session and the deacons really think through what it means to be a church. And he's a fascinating guy, Bill Vermulin. Because he and his brothers had inherited and operated for decades a uh, well, he was an undertaker. They had a mortuary. And he was called to the ministry when he realized I would rather spend my life figuring out how best to get people into heaven rather than how best to put them in the ground. And Bill Vermulen was a remarkable guy, but he said something to me that I've never forgotten. He said, Bob, a lot of people are going to come to your church. But they're not going to stick around unless you give them a job. Because we are designed to work. You know, God created work and gave it to Adam as a gift in Genesis chapter 2. What does Genesis chapter 2 come prior to? Genesis chapter 3. Sin. Work is good. It is holy. It is righteous. And we have been given gifts by God and opportunities to use them in a body which we are recognizably a part. And we need the church to faithfully use the gifts we've been given. I want to share with you another thing that's impressed me very deeply. It involves another character from my past, a man by the name of Colonel Grant. My first internship was at a church in Abilene, Texas. And Abilene, Texas is where every single woman older than you just goes by mama. Makes it easy to be a pastoral intern, you only have half of as many names to learn and I doubled down on that. Uh I took that with me to Rochester when I interned there and got some real interesting looks from older women. There was a fellow there, Clyde Grant. He was a retired colonel, U. S. Army. The Pacific Theater of World War II, history buffs, that wasn't just the Marine Corps. And he was a postmaster general after the war, and he had a ranch that was measured in sections. Now in Texas everything is big. A section, in case you're curious, is a square mile. So his ranch was not measured in acres, it was measured in square miles And each square mile, and let me tell you something, a square mile is a big piece of land. A very big piece of land. And Each section was cordoned off in a huge square by barbed wire, and there was a gate in the middle, only in the middle, one gate on each mile-long fence right in the middle. And Clyde Grant used to take me and my older brother had come to live with me because he was overcoming a drug addiction. And he would take us on some Saturdays to tour his ranch, drive around, and take us to these little fishing holes that hadn't been fished for literally 50 years. We caught monster fish out of tiny little creeks. It was amazing. On one occasion we were driving through, we drove through a gate and drove about a quarter of a mile down, and it was getting we were done with the day. We had a couple of really big catfish and bass we were going to cook up for dinner. And we were driving back home and driving along the fence line, because he only drive along fence lines there. He'd get lost on his own farm if he didn't. Driving along the fence line, we came across a herd of sheep. And the herd of sheep had probably, I'm going to just say it was 100 sheep because it's biblical. I didn't count them. 99 sheep on our side of the barbed wire fence, one sheep on the other side. That one sheep had failed to get through the gate when the others did, and the herd, in a sense of solidarity, was trying to stay together. And Clyde Grant, who was driving, he said, Uh, it's too bad, that guy won't last. And my brother and I, you know, suburban kids, you know, I grew up hunting and fishing, but not on a farm. Say, what do you mean? They said, oh, the coyote's gonna get him. So what do you mean? Well he's separated from the herd So, well, can we go back and get him? He said, No, by the time we get there he'll be dead. We probably it takes half an hour to go back up through the gate and get down there, and that guy's probably got fifteen minutes to live because he got separated from the herd. I was 22, and I was a pastor, training to be a shepherd. And I have over the years of my ministry, watched sheep get separated from the herd, and watched the coyotes of this world tear them to pieces. It happens when kids get a new friend group in middle school or high school. It happens when they go to college. It happens when a grown man takes a new job and makes a different friend. It happens when a family moves and a mom who had been a faithful part of the church. Becomes part of a new clique in a new neighborhood. We all need constant reminders that what Paul wrote to the church in 1 Corinthians When he said, do not be deceived. Okay, and whenever you see that in the scripture, that's a clue. A clue that this is something you probably will think if left on your own. Do not be deceived. Bad company corrupts good character. Temptation often leads to sin. Sin always leads to death You need the church. You need the fellowship of believers. You need the opportunity to grow in the exercise of your grace. You need one another. The church is interdependent, and the church needs you. You have gifts that I don't have. You have gifts that the people around you don't have. You have experiences, you have a testimony, you have a witness that is unique to you And God brought you here to be a part of this people because you are uniquely suited to be a heavenly blessing to the people here right now. Even when you come to church struggling with a migraine and it's rainy out and you don't like the preacher that much, every once in a while he wears a t-shirt. You are needed. You are needed. Interdependent Here at Columbia Presbyterian Church, we recognize one another, publicly professing, and we double down on the fact that we need each other. And lastly, church membership is also committed. And I had a long conversation with Edward. pastoral intern about this and he suggested the word disciplined and I I think that's actually in many respects a better word. But I was having trouble making the grammar work in my head. It was easier to say recognizable, interdependent, and uh committed. Because disciplined, I don't want you to think that I I know that Full disclosure. In ministry when I was a teenager, 20 years old, I was here at this church teaching middle school, Sunday school. I don't know if any of you here are still victims of that educational experience. That boys' middle school class had been through in one semester had been through three teachers. And uh They were a rowdy bunch. It was about 15 middle school boys who were pretty they were pretty tough. This is the this is 1988-89. And I had been an aide, I was a college student, I'd been an aide in Irene Calvert's uh two-year-old Sunday school class. And it was wonderful. And I was asked to teach this class. And I said, sure. And as my classroom management, I decided to take a very large stick And on that large stick, and it was a stick about yo big, diameter of about here, and I wrote on it with a sharpie, Proverbs 20, 30. And I got into class. I also had a a very, very, very fine model Ferrari, cast metal scale, probably back then a $30 model, probably, you know, the real expensive kind of car reproduction. So I had this fancy Ferrari and this stick that said Proverbs twenty thirty. And I walked in and I said, Guys, I babysat a lot of you when you were younger. You know me, I'm Bob, I'm your teacher. Let's get started. One of them immediately said, What's with that stick? I said, well, that's my Proverbs 2030 stick. What's Proverbs 2030? If you have a Bible, look it up Blows and wounds cleanse away evil and beatings purge the inmost being. I had no problem managing that class. One of those kids got a little spicy, I would just kind of look over that way and Quiet. I'll tell you about the Ferrari later. But that is not the extent of what I talk about when I say church membership is discipline. Adam's starting to sweat, thinking, oh boy, what have I got myself into? It's disciplined in the sense that if you want to be a long-distance runner, you have to discipline yourself to be able to run a marathon, or a half marathon, or even a 5K. You have to discipline yourself. It's in that sense committed is not just discipline you receive, it's committed. You are engaged. Think about what Paul writes in Ephesians chapter 4. Make every effort. to maintain unity, the bonds of peace by the Spirit. Every effort. Have you ever stopped to ponder that if you are going to be united with me, it's going to take every effort from you Every fiber of your being is going to have to be determined that you are going to find a way to get along with little Bobby Burkis. That's Peck's bad boy that lives deep inside me, sometimes right on the surface. Have you ever paused to wonder that, according to the Bible, which I believe is utterly true in everything it says, for you to have a happy marriage, you have to expend every effort. Not just half of them, not just 80%, that if you're going to be a part of Columbia Presbyterian Church, it is not going to be easy, But it will be good. It will be very good It will come despite sacrifice. It'll come just like in any other family, at the cost of going through difficult times together. Difficult times. A month or two ago I was meeting with a couple in the church that was talking about kids and they shared with me that they were concerned that maybe Maybe the kid would have problems, wouldn't behave real well. I say, well let me let me offer you some comfort and assurance there. They will have problems and they will misbehave. 100% guaranteed. I guarantee you that if you follow in the footsteps of Adam and join this church, it will be difficult. But it will be good. You will be a recognizable part of a group of saints who need you and you need. And together we will learn submission to the Spirit speaking through his word. That's what church membership is in the New Testament. It is of vital importance. And different churches do membership differently. This series on the church is really about CPC. The way we do church membership is when people are interested in joining the church. We offer them opportunities to ask any questions they have so they can go in with both eyes wide open. Then we have two elders, we'll always meet with them to hear their testimony privately, to go over these membership vows, make sure we're on the same page in terms of the gospel of Jesus Christ our Savior. And then we publicly receive them. They profess their faith to you, and we welcome them into the family. Recognized, interdependent, and committed There are many, many ways to be part of the church. And I know we have many, many saints here who have been recognizably, interdependently, and committed to this church for decades and aren't formally members. I can't tell you how much I appreciate you and love you, and I am delighted to be your pastor. The way we do church membership here is just one way of many. Partly because things have to be decent and orderly, and it's helpful to have a list of members when I go daily and pray for the congregation. I want to invite all of you to consider church membership here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. As a pastor, I need you. Not because it has something to do with tithes and offerings. I don't need them. The Lord provides for me. But I need you. The gifts you have that I don't have. The people around you need you. Your public profession is a deep comfort and a consolation, and a source of praise and pride for all who hear it. And it is a commitment that says to the watching world, I am willing publicly to affirm that I am with these people through thick and thin. And there will be some thick times, like VBS. It's like a 700-layer cake of goodness and mercy. There will also be some thin times. When things don't suit us, we are deeply annoyed. We're frustrated. But through it all we need each other. Amen. If you're here this morning and you are not a Christian, I want to suggest that you do have belonging. The question is, to what or to whom do you belong? The myth of the free agent lifestyle is just that a myth. We belong to whatever group we serve. We belong to whatever agenda we perform. We belong to whatever behaviors and addictions have mastered us. And the invitation of Scripture again and again is that you are invited to belong. to Christ and his body the church. And in belonging to Christ and his body the church. You will have all things needful for eternity. And you will even be able to survive a great famine, the persecution of a Herod, the imprisonment of a leader. Because you will be in fellowship with God and have daily recourse to Him in prayer and communion. And you are invited. To become a part of this church by casting your cares upon the Lord and committing yourself, seeking forgiveness of sins, coming to Jesus, giving your life to Him. That you might belong to him. That invitation is for you. And if you would like to take that invitation, We'll have members of our prayer team up here in the front of the sanctuary on your left, and they would love to meet with you, to pray with you, even as we pray now. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for the fact that we belong to your church, that we belong specifically to that. this church, just as those people in Acts 12 belong to that church that was recognizable. And Lord, while we recognize the universal nature of the church, we recognize too that people are recognized. by their particular local associations throughout Scripture, throughout the Pauline epistles, throughout history. Lord, we give you thanks and praise that by your grace and providence, here we are. Help us to be recognizably, interdependently, committedly. associated with one another as members together of Christ Church here at Columbia Presbyterian. We pray this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen