A very familiar part of the Christmas story are these words from Matthew chapter two. After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea during the time of King Herod, Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and asked, Where is the one who has been born, King of the Jews? We saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. When King Herod heard this, he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him. When he had called together all the people's chief priests and teachers of the law, he asked them where the Christ was to be born. In Bethlehem, in Judea, they replied, for this is what the prophet has written. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah. are by no means least among the rulers of Judah, for out of you will come a ruler who will be the shepherd of my people, Israel. Familiar words, right? And they're quoting if you have any kind of footnotes in your Bible from Micah chapter 2, chapter 5, verse 2 And most of us don't go much beyond thinking, wow, that's neat. Here Micah predicted the place where the Messiah was going to be born, and it was so specific that the rabbis actually uh expected it there and um they quote that when the magi come and that's really neat that the old testament predicted that and helps my faith to believe that that uh prophecy is real and that the Bible is inspired. But we don't usually go much beyond that, do we? Like What was Micah's point? Why did he say that? What's behind it? And um most of us are not very familiar probably with the book of Micah, and yet Micah is a pretty amazing book. You know, Micah has some of the most specific, counterintuitive prophecies about what would take place after his time and particularly in Messiah's time of any Old Testament prophet that we have. For instance, Micah before the event predicted that Assyria would come in, invade the northern part of Israel and take Samaria, destroy it, and carry them away. Micah uniquely prophesies when Judah, the southern port, is thinking Assyria is the big threat. No. No, actually, Babylon is going to come and take Jerusalem. And Jerusalem will be taken and destroyed. And you will go into Babylon. And God will deliver you out of Babylon. All these things, uh, those parts over a hundred years before they took place. And then the climax of the counterintuitive specific prophecies, and there will come from this little town, Bethlehem. One who will be the ruler not only of Israel but of all the world forever. So Micah is pretty amazing when you think about Scripture and whether you can trust it. Think of the prophecies of Micah. There's another lesson too, which is you never know what God is up to and what he's going to do. to cause his sovereign purposes in history, both in justice and judgment, in mercy and in grace, to take place. God is sovereign over history. And you see that clearly in Micah. And that is a very important lesson for you and for me in Christmas season of 2009. I think there are some deeply needed lessons in this precious little book of Micah for us to look at. So I want to do that this morning. I want to see the background of that passage that's so often quoted at Christmas time as part of our Messianic prophecy series. But first, just a very brief overview, historical background for Micah. Micah was ministering in the period between 750 and 700 BC. Over 700 years before Jesus was born, he was a contemporary of Isaiah, and he ministered to the southern portion, Judah, at that time. Micah was preaching to a people who were prosperous and self-confident. The religious situation was somewhat like much of American evangelicalism, which I sometimes call Everglades evangelicalism. Many miles wide and only a couple of feet deep. People that used religious language freely were very religious in their practices. And yet they distorted the notion of God to fit their own purposes. Micah says that God hates orthodox worship When your heart is disconnected, when your life is morally and spiritually bankrupt, it's a sham. Micah castigates that. These are a people who have made God in their own image to fit their lifestyles, much like contemporary religion in America. It's worth reading, you know. Uh it's only seven chapters. Let me commend it and urge you to take a little time this afternoon to read the seven chapters of Micah. um and get the background, a little fill it in a little more of what we're going to be talking about. And hearing that passage from Matthew 2 will probably never be quite the same if you get that background. But because of time, I'm going to pick up the story at chapter 4. What I want to do is to read to you chapter 4, interspersing some comments, so that you can get the drift of it because Chapter 4 is the closely connected background to the passage that is quoted in Matthew chapter 2. And then I want to read the text, chapter 5, verses 1 to the beginning of verse 5, without comment, and then go back and consider those more in detail. So uh Matthew, I mean Micah chapter four, preach so much on Matthew, I'd say that automatically. Micah chapter four, and you see it on the overhead there. Um Micah is talking about two things in chapter four. He's talking about a glorious, wonderful hope that is in the long-range future. But then he also talks about the immediate problems that are going to confront Israel that are rather terrifying and deeply disturbing. So you see, he begins by talking about this kingdom, God's kingdom that's going to come, a kingdom that will be worldwide and gain world attention in the last days. The mountain of the Lord's temple will be established as chief among the mountains. It will be raised above the hills, and peoples will stream to it. It's drawing people from all over the world. In fact, verse 2, many nations will come and say, Come, let us go to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways so that we may walk in his paths. They're not in rebellion. They are attracted. They want to learn his ways. He is ruling over them as a voluntary uh people that are subjugating themselves to his rule. The law will go out from Zion, the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And verse 3 is a much referred to verse, it's a powerful verse, speaking of at this time when God's ruling over the nations He will establish true world peace. He will judge between many peoples and will settle disputes for strong nations far and wide. They will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation will not take up sword against nation, nor will they train for war any more. This is the ultimate hope for the world, true world peace and its stability. This is going to happen when God is ruling over the nations. It's going to be a time when there will be security, no threats. Verse 4. Every man will sit under his own vine and under his own fig tree, and no one will make them afraid. No fear of terrorists, of invasions. For the Lord Almighty has spoken. All the nations may walk in the name of their gods, the pluralism, all these people. But We will walk in the name of the Lord our God forever and ever. He is the true God who is going to bring about this peace, and he is the one who will rule. Verse six, he's going to gather them back, all these his people to himself. In that day declares the Lord, I will gather the lame, I will assemble the exiles, those that I have brought to grief. I will make the lame a remnant, those driven away to be a strong nation. The Lord will rule over them in Mount Zion from that day and forever This is going to continue until eternity. And then verse 8 says, for you, a watchtower of the flock. That's probably a reference to David and his line in Bethlehem and in Jerusalem. Stronghold of the daughter of Zion. The former dominion will be restored to you. Kingship will come to the daughter of Jerusalem. Now this is a glorious, thrilling hope. The people hear this and they're thinking, after all this talk about the sin and the rest of the God's anger toward the nation, what a wonderful, glorious hope, tremendous All of a sudden then, without any warning, in verse 9, he flaps, he flashes back to what is the more immediate situation. And you have here a totally different kind of scene. Why do you now cry aloud? Have you no king? Has your counselor perished that pain seizes you like that of a woman in labor? Your current situation is anything but hopeful. In fact, it's deeply disturbing. Verse 10: Writhe in agony, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in labor, for now you must leave the city to camp in the open field But, again, so counterintuitive. Assyria is at the gates. But what he says is, you will go to Babylon. Babylon's a third-rate power. It's something that, you know, it's we know that they're there, that they want to conquer, but nobody's particularly at this point worried about Babylon as the threat But you will go to Babylon, and there you will be rescued. Bad news, good news. There the Lord will redeem you out of the hand of your enemies. But now many nations are gathered against you. They say, Let her be defiled, let our eyes glow to over Zion. What a taker in all her plunder. the temple and all its gold. They do not know the thoughts of the Lord. They do not understand his plan. He who gathers them like sheaves to the threshing floor. God is over history. He's over the circumstances of the nations. They don't know his purposes, but God has a purpose beyond anything that they see. So verse 13, Rise and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I will give you horns of iron, going to give you strength to conquer. I will give you hooves of bronze and you will break to pieces many nations. You will devote their ill gotten gains to the Lord, their wealth to the Lord of all the earth. Now that's chapter four It's a mixture of the distant hope and the immediate threat and the things that are going to happen that will be um bring terror to Jerusalem and to the people of Israel at that time. In chapter five, you picture that the the camera has been scoping over the the large picture looking down to see the overview. Now the camera zooms in to a particular incident It's the incident of Sennacherib's siege of Jerusalem in 701 B. C. Marshal your troops, O city of troops, for a siege is laid against us. Why do we know that's that particular siege of 701? Because the next statement, they will strike Israel's ruler on the s on the cheek with a rod. That's a Semitic Idiom to indicate insult. The Sennacherib came up in 701 BC against Hezekiah. And if you look back in 2 Chronicles 32, verses 9 to 19, or even a longer version in Kings. You'll see that Sennacherib comes and he basically says to Hezekiah so that all the people can hear, come on, Hezekiah, give up. You telling these people that Yahweh, your God, is going to deliver you, you don't have to worry. Uh I got news for you. Uh you know, I've got ten other nations. They all thought their God was going to deliver them. None of them delivered them. I took them all. I wiped them out. They're all under our rule now And we're going to do the same thing to you, so why don't you just give up right now instead of trying to make this hard? Make it a little easier on you if you just give up and surrender. And he insults God. God can't deliver. God's not going to be able to protect them. And he is figuratively striking Hezekiah on the cheek. He's slapping him in the face. saying there's nothing that you can do about this. Now it's in that moment of abject weakness, the picture of Being totally unable to defend ourselves, to help ourselves, that this wonderful prophecy quoted in Matthew takes place. You have in verse 2 of Micah 5 one of the great butts of the Bible. You know the Bible has a number of those butts. You know, we were dead in our trespasses and sins and objects of God's wrath, but because of his great mercy, he raised us up with Christ. dim picture of you and me and our helplessness and our sin, but God, but his grace. And so you have in Micah 5, 2, but you, Bethlehem, Ephrata. Bethlehem, Ephrata. Ephrata's the region. You read about that in Ruth when Ruth comes to Boaz. It's in that land of Ephraith or Ephrata, an ancient uh the ancient household of David. It's just a little area. Bethlehem was just a hamlet. It was just a two-bit town. In fact, Bethlehem was the the only purpose of Bethlehem was that it provided sheep and crops for Jerusalem. It was a bunch of farmers and sheep herders. And um it only became known because David was born there. Micah says, But you, little Bethlehem, though you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come for me one who will be ruler over Israel. whose origins are from of old, from ancient times. Now he says two things about this one that is coming. First of all, you notice He calls him. Well, let me read the rest of the text because I wanted to give you the whole thing so you see it and then go back. Therefore Israel will be abandoned until the time when she who is in labor gives birth And the rest of his brothers return to join the Israelites. He will stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they will live securely. For then his greatness will reach to the ends of the earth, and he will be their peace. What a magnificent picture. Look at this in a little bit of detail here. Two things he says in verse two about this one who is coming out of Bethlehem. First of all, he says he is a ruler. uh for m you're out of you will come for me one who will be ruler over Israel. The Hebrew is literally the reigning one. And that's significant because The I see it seems to be that this one comes as the reigning one. It's not that he is born to become king. He comes as king. From you comes the reigning one, the one who comes over Israel. And the second thing is even more spectacular. His origins are stated in two parallel phrases. whose origins are from of old and then from ancient times, literally from days of eternity Now, those two phrases can be interpreted in different ways, and a lot of scholars debate exactly how they should be understood. I think personally that what you have here is what's called in Hebrew poetry progressive parallelism. That is, you state something And then when you have a phrase that immediately follows as a parallel, it's either in contrast or generally it's taking it a step further. So I think what you have here is that Micah is saying this one is going to come from the ancient times. His lineage will be from David. He will be from that ancient household. But beyond that His origins are actually from days of eternity. The phrase is used that way a number of times in Scripture. Uh and I think the idea that um Micah is trying to convey to us is that here comes one who is beyond history. This is one who is eternal And that's then contrasted with verse 3 in an amazing statement of the incarnation. Because in verse 3, Micah goes on, therefore Israel will be abandoned until the time. Now, Israel will be abandoned when she's taken into Babylon brought out of Babylon, and then in that period of time she is subjugated to Syria and then to the Romans. As you all know, uh at the time of Jesus' coming, uh Israel was a puppet nation. uh that was oppressed by the Romans, ruled by the Romans. She seemed to be abandoned by God. Where is God on the scene for us? That's why the hopes of Messiah. She is abandoned until the time, notice When she who is in labor, now he's focusing on a girl, a woman, one person who is in labor, who gives birth. And the rest of his brothers returned to join the Israelites. So you have this picture of this one who is the reigning one who comes from eternity, but he comes born as a man. She gives birth to this one who is the reigning ruler of Israel. What a specific picture over 700 years before Jesus' birth. of his nature and of the dual nature of his eternal Godhead and his humanity. Things like that are worth thinking about when you're going through a tough time and wonder, can I really trust the Scripture? What a precise statement of prophecy. Notice then in verse 4, three S's of the things that this one is going to do. First of all, he will stand. He will stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord. He will stand. That's a picture of his stability. You have this image. Here is this reigning one, glorious from eternity. He stands. Nothing, no one, no nation can overthrow him, can conquer him, can defeat him. He stands, and in that strength then there is pictured the gentleness. He stands to shepherd his flock. When the Jews would hear of a shepherd from Bethlehem, of course they would think of David. When we hear about shepherds in Bethlehem, we think of the shepherds who were in the fields, who heard the wonderful message, triumph, and announcement of the angels. To you is born a Savior who is Messiah, the Lord. And this is the one who's born in a manger because he will shepherd his people. He is in fact the good shepherd. John 10 describes this one who comes ruling as the good shepherd who lays down his life for the sheep. Why? Clearly, Jesus says, to take the sin of the sheep as the lamb once for all slain. Remember, if you've been reading Micah, you've been seeing his detailing of the sins of Israel, their idolatry. Their greed, their sexual perversion, their religious perversion of the character of God and false worship. making him in their own image. And Micah goes over again and again the specifics of their arrogant presumption. They're dismissing God as one whom they need to take seriously. And the shepherd is going to come because you and I are that kind of people. And if you sit here this morning and you think I am from a Christian home and I am from a Christian background. And I'm part of a Christian church, and I don't take Jesus very seriously in my life, but that's okay. I don't have anything to worry about, let me tell you You are in mortal danger if Jesus is not your shepherd. Do not think to dismiss him Micah will make quite clear here, he is your only hope of security and peace. I call you to take Jesus seriously and to see what he reaches out his hands to offer to you this morning. Of the peace that can only come by his taking your sin upon himself. The forgiveness that he offers to you. The peace of him and his spirit in your life, and the hope that he describes that can only be yours through him. After this tender picture of his shepherding his flock, Micah goes back to his strength. He shepherds his flock in the strength of the Lord. A strength that is either against you if you are outside of him or it is for you if you belong to him. The strength of the Lord in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And the result of that is two things. that are offered to his people that you see at the end of verse 4 and the beginning of verse 5. The result of his strength and of his shepherding You, his people, in the strength of the majesty of the Lord are that you, says they, they will live securely For then his greatness will reach to the ends of the earth, and he will be their peace. Security and peace. Security. There will be no more wars No more strife, for he will be king over all the nations. He will rule them, and he will shepherd them, and he will be their peace He is their peace. He is your peace. He is your only hope of peace. And so 700 years later. A baby is born in Bethlehem. A weak, crying little infant And you look down at that manger used for a cradle in Bethlehem, and you think, how easy it would be to snuff out his life. He's so fragile. He's so vulnerable. Just a little baby. But Micah's saying, this is the reigning one. You don't snuff out his life. Two years later, the Magi come to Jerusalem and they say to Herod, You've seen the star. We hear there's a reigning one here in Jerusalem. We've come to worship him. And Herod freaks out because there's only one king around here. There's no room for two. And so he sends out his soldiers and he says, snuff out the life of that infant. He's not going to be a competitor for my throne. But you can't snuff out the life of the reigning one. And God delivers Jesus. And Jesus grows and Jesus declares his kingdom. And Jesus lays down his life voluntarily as the shepherd who gives his life for the sheep. So that you and I would have peace. Now, in drawing this to a conclusion I want to be clear that I think there are two applications of what Micah is giving to us. And I think that we as Christians generally fall off on one side or the other, and particularly as American evangelicals, We miss the second side as opposed to the first, because the two applications are first of all a personal application. There is a personal application to this security and peace. Jesus is your only possible security, and he is your only possible peace, and that is So important to know when at the threshold of the Christmas season of 2009, we all are in danger of being sucked into the vortex of the Christmas frenzy. And the Christmas frenzy that threatens our souls is to find our peace and security in the perfect Christmas season that has the perfect gifts and all the things that I want just the way I want them. And so, like we talked about last week, I raise my expectations and I go after those gifts, those things that I need to find my joy, and they are apart from Jesus. We live in a nation of addicts seeking peace and security. This week, Oprah did a special, one of her shows, on addiction. Her researchers claim that one out of every three Americans is in addiction. Addiction to something they simply cannot control in their lives. Alcohol, drugs, sex, shopping, gambling, work. And that's not even to get into the internet and the email and the texting and you know, I mean just things we can't control in bondage to. And many of us here sit as in process for some of us in the recovery of those addictions. And Micah is saying, and Matthew is telling you, there is one who has come in which you can find security and peace. He is the shepherd. Who draws and invites you to say, Come, come into my green pastures. Come, let me lead you beside the quiet waters of my presence. to know your sins forgiven, to know that I can satisfy the deepest longings of your soul. My spirit draws you to me to find quiet and rest. And I'm not trying to be a killjoy and say, hey, you know, forget, don't go out and buy anything. And I'm saying Your joy, my joy this Christmas will only be obtained if my heart is fixed on Jesus as my security and my peace. He will be their peace. Not he plus something else you can't live without. He will be your peace. Do you know that peace? Is that your heart on him to say, I will determine this Christmas to remain in the Word and not say, Meet your Lord after New Year's, get back to you. To find measure peace. But the second application is the one I think is easier to miss. And that's that there is a corporate application to this text. As Americans, we tend to think so independently I was talking to somebody between the services about this. We think government exists in order to free us so that we can pursue life, liberty, pursuit of our happiness, our own lives independently. And so it's difficult to appreciate the stress that the prophets, Micah included, place on how important it is that you have Messiah ruling over the nations. that he is in fact the political corporate majestic sovereign ruler Because without that, there is no security and there is no peace. It isn't just my own personal world. What is ruling my land and this world determines whether my life is good or bad on a much larger scale. Think in terms of security. How much does our government spend on internal security? And yet, this week we have a very high security state dinner With very high security clearance and two people walk in with no clearance, no security, and join the party. Now how secure does that make you feel We have a soldier who in a military camp in our nation guns down his fellow soldiers with plenty of warning, and nobody's done anything. How secure does our government make us? Micah says, he is your security. Christians pray for security, for your hope and my hope is not in the government. Take the global situation. What's going on in Afghanistan? And we go over with sending far more troops and we're going to be continuing that and then there's, you know, um Iraq and the rest of We know anybody knows North Korea and Iran are determined to gain nuclear capabilities And we can have all the negotiations and all the talk. They are headed to get nuclear capability. Where's your security? We're gonna stop it We're going to prevent this somehow? In Afghanistan? I mean, that's in the backstage. What's happening is the deterioration of the government of Pakistan. so that the Wahhabi Muslims can take over Pakistan and instantly gain nuclear weapons. Security? Where's our security? Not in government. There's one coming who is the security because he is the one who rules in the strength and the majesty of the Lord. He's the one we pray to. Take the economy. In the last month, October, we have gone a hundred and seventy-six Billion dollars further into debt. Not million, billion, I didn't say the last year, one month. $176 billion further into debt. We currently owe the nation of China $800 billion. We pay China fifty billion dollars a year in interest payments alone. Security? Where's your security? And you say, Al, are you trying to put a dent in my Christmas season? You're doing a pretty good job of it. Yes. Without Jesus Christ. Brothers, I want us to see Micah's prophecy and feel the weight of it. Micah says, your only hope of security and peace. is in a Messiah who will come and bring the nations before his throne, who will rule the nations. in the peace that He alone can establish. He gives to you and me the first fruits of that in our hearts to long, but the Christmas time of celebration is saying, You've come, you've died, you've risen, you are coming again. You will bring That security. You are my peace, and you will be the peace forever and ever as you rule. Amen. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, thank you that we have a hope. For without you, Lord, what would we do? There is no security. There is no peace apart from Jesus Christ. And yet, you, Lord, show us that even in a prophecy written 700 years before you came, that you are in control of history and the nations. And you will come again and bring that security and that peace. Lord, give us hearts that seek after you to long for that during these next days and weeks. To meditate upon that and find in you, Lord Jesus, our shepherd, who leads us beside the quiet waters. the green pastures, and gives to us words of hope to share with our family and friends and the one who brings true security and true peace and will do it. And Lord Jesus, this next week would be a great time for you to come back. Come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen