At the beginning of Matthew's gospel, noticing the stress that Matthew places on Jesus, the one to be born, that he is the long-awaited Messiah. Matthew chapter 1, verse 1, a record of the genealogy of Jesus, Christ the Messiah. Christ means Messiah, the son of David, son of Abraham, goes down through the genealogy at the end. Verse 16, Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Messiah Christ. Thus There were fourteen generations in all, from Abraham to David, fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and then fourteen from the exile to the Messiah. This is how the birth of Jesus, the Messiah, came about. And he goes on. And so we're looking for these few weeks at the meaning of Messiah, to appreciate more fully why Jesus came and how he perfectly fulfilled all the Old Testament expectations of Messiah. We've seen that Messiah means anointed. The Messiah is the anointed one. There are three kinds of messiahs or anointed ones in the Old Testament. Remember, we said there is first of all the prophet. Anointed to bring God's word. There is the priest who was anointed as the mediator between God and man, and then there is the king anointed to rule over God's people. We saw last week that the prophet Was the person who addressed the basic problem of knowing God The prophet was the one who revealed God to us, what God is like, how to relate to him, what he requires of us. Deuteronomy chapter 18 said that God was going to send a final prophet. One who would fully represent and reveal God, and yet no Jew in their wildest imagination could have imagined and guessed What God, the lengths that God would go to to fulfill that promise, that God Himself would become man, to show us what he was like, to demonstrate it. So that we could see him, we could understand him, we'd see how he reacts in everyday situations, and he would reveal the character of God to us. The people could touch him. They could talk to him. Jesus, the final prophet who is God come in the flesh. But while Jesus brought God shockingly near in representing him as prophet, at the same time Jesus also revealed our hearts. And he showed how distant you and I are from God because of the way we run our own lives and ignore God's requirements of us and the way it is that we're to relate to Him. He showed us that this God is holy and that this God hates sin. Not just sin in general. He hates your sin. He hates my sin. It's a very personal thing. And so Jesus shows that simply being prophet, being an example, being a teacher was not enough. Jesus showed that there was a need for a second office for Messiah, the office of a priest. If the prophet addresses the problem of knowing God, the priest addressed the problem of approaching God. The Hebrew word for priest is the word Kohen. And so if you ever hear of a friend that's their name's Kohen, that means priest in Hebrew, Kohen. And it means literally one who stands up on behalf of another one, one who represents or mediates a person's cause. Priests mediated between a holy God and a sinful people. That's the bottom line description of what a priest came to do. He mediated between a holy God and a sinful people to bring the two of them together. Four times in the book of Leviticus, priests are called messiahs. An example of that is in Leviticus chapter 4, verses 3 to 5. We won't look at that now. You can look on your own if you want, but a number of times, both in Exodus, Leviticus. Priests are called anointed ones. They are called messiahs. You will never know Jesus fully, his person or his work, until you know him as priest. But you will never understand who he is as priest, the priestly Messiah, until you understand something of the office and the function of the priest in the Old Testament. And here is where most Christians in our day are woefully ignorant. I mean, how much have you read and studied about what a priest did every day? We have a general vague conception. But we don't have much of a clear notion of what priests actually did and how significant it was for Jesus to come as a priest. So what I want you to do this morning is that I want you to pretend that you are an Old Testament Levite. A Levite is a person who comes from the tribe of Levi, of the twelve tribes of Israel. One was Levi. They were set apart. And all priests had to come from that tribe of Levi. So you are a Levite. Now all priests are Levites, but not all Levites are priests. The majority of Levites never attained to or were ordained into the office of priesthood. They served in the temple, served in the area, but were not priests But now you have grown up in a family, a priestly family, and you have gone through some years of training for this. And you are about now to enter into the priesthood, the Old Testament priesthood. And I want you to imagine yourself moving into this in order to feel and experience a bit of what it would mean for you to do that. I want you to experience particularly two things, the consecration of the priest, and then what your service would have involved. So first of all, experience their consecration. That's the first point and the first blank. The consecration of the priests And I urge you to use the meditation this week to go through the scriptures that we can't take time to go through now. But use those so that you can see for yourself uh the biblical background for what I'm going to quickly go through. Your office was a very, very holy office. God's people were set apart from all the nations The Levites were set apart from all the Israelites. The priests were set apart from all the Levites. And the high priest was set apart from all the priests Now you as a typical priest are then entering into a very holy office. In fact, the ordination, the consecration, the setting apart of your office Takes 36 verses in the book of Exodus, 37 verses in the book of Leviticus, and then there's another four verses summing it up at the end of the book of Exodus, so seventy-seven verses of all of God's holy word, of all the things God could address, that we'd say, God, why don't you speak to this? Why don't you say a little more about that? I've always wondered about God takes 77 verses to talk about how priests are to be consecrated to their office. So obviously this is something very important to the Lord and he goes into great detail to talk about what it means. We're going to read just the summary of it in Exodus chapter 40. So if you have your Bibles there, you might want to turn to Exodus chapter 40 and let me read to you. The four verses that sum this up in Exodus chapter 40, verses 12 to 15. Bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance to the tent of meeting and wash them with water. Then dress Aaron in the sacred garments, anoint him, there it is, anointing him, making him a Messiah, and consecrate him so that he may serve me as priest. Bring his sons and dress them in tunics. Anoint them, just as you anointed their father, so that they may serve me as priests. Their anointing will be a priesthood To a priesthood that will continue for all generations to come. And then Moses did everything that the Lord commanded him. So now this big day that you have waited for for years has finally come. In fact, it won't occur in just a day. It's going to take you a whole week. To be set apart and consecrated as a priest. For the occasion, you've got to bring along with you seven bulls, two rams, a bunch of cakes, oil, and other things that will be part of this ceremony. It will take a whole week to demonstrate and to impress upon you that the mediator of God's people has to be a holy person, a person set apart without sin. That's the next blank there. He has to be holy to bring a sinful people to God. We begin by washing you And so you strip everything off, you go into this spot, and you wash from head to toe to make yourself clean. And then you put on a sacred tunic. And if you are hundreds of years from Aaron, it's still the same tunic that Aaron wore when he was consecrated. And so you can't help but to think what a holy moment this is, that this robe, this special effid this specially designed garment of which every thread, of which every design has in it some symbol symbolic meaning that we can't go into for detail now. Everything about this, the tassels, uh That when you come there are twelve stones that are set on the breastplate, representing the twelve tribes of Israel. And as you put this on, you feel kind of like a mother, you know, when she becomes a mother and she holds that baby in her arms and all of a sudden realizes I'm responsible for this life. You know, uh you moms, just you know, what a sobering moment that was the first time you held that little child. And as you come and put on this garment and you realize you are bearing Israel You are bearing God's people. What a responsibility this is now. And so you put this on and you think for a bit. But it's time to move on into the service. And so you go into the tabernacle and you go into that holy place there. And you bring along with you that bull and two rams. One bull, two rams. And as you come into that holy place. There's the priest, a priest who's going to anoint you, and as you stand there thinking and praying, you smell this beautiful fragrance. This perfume. It's the holy anointing oil. The priest comes up with a flask of it, and you've got on a special turban. And this turban is very um um absorbent so that when they pour the oil on your head it comes down to the turban and it fills the turban with this perfume. It's it's like, you know, I saw this perfume this week uh heck And hex, a quarter of an ounce of it is a hundred and forty dollars. Quarter of an ounce. Throw it around, man. Have have fun. Well, you know, can imagine the the intensity. I mean that's the that's the quality of this perfumed oil for anointing. And so it comes down on your head and you smell and everybody smells around the fragrance of God come upon you. But before you can indulge in that too long, you're reminded that you've got to take this bull. The bull is walked up to the altar there. And then the priest cuts the throat of that bull, and its blood begins to pour out. And as that blood is poured out onto a basin that gathers that blood, This bull is for the atoning of your sin. Because you as a sinner are entering into this office But you can't mediate between a sinful people and a holy God if you have sin on yourself. And so this bull gives its life, you lay your hands on that bull, and you transfer the guilt of your sin to the head of that bull, and it dies in your place. a vivid illustration of substitution. And then as that bull's blood is gathered there The blood from that bull is sprinkled on the horns of the altar. As a reminder that you who serve at that altar serve covered. Under the blood of the bull that was slain for your sin. And then you turn around to the ram. The bull is for the forgiveness of your sin. The ram is for your consecration to the office. The ram is now slain, and its blood is shed. This is not a sin offering. This is a burnt offering. Old Testament burnt offerings were a symbol of consecration. They were voluntary offerings. A burnt offering was saying, God, I give up my rights and I offer myself to you fully. Take me And the Ram is a representation of that. It gives its life. It dies there on the spot in representation of the fact that you are dying to your rights. And so that ram's blood is shed. Its blood is splashed on the sides of the altar, a sacrifice to God. Then there's the third ram. Now that ram is brought forward, and that ram's throat is cut, and its blood is now shed. That ram is the ordination ram. The purpose of this ram is now to institute you into that office. And so when that ram's blood is shed, the priest takes from a bowl the blood of the lamb out of the cutthroat, he takes a bowl and he dips his finger into that bowl. And then he takes the blood from that ram and touches the right lobe of your ear the right thumb of your right hand and your right big toe made bloody Then the rest of that blood is also splashed on the altar. Not the rest of it, though. Most of the blood is splashed on the altar. And the remainder of that blood. Is splashed on your clothes. And there you stand. A bloody mess. And you realize the cost of this office. With all the beauty of the perfume, the beauty of the garment, the beauty of the tabernacle, there's blood everywhere. Because the office that you're entering into is an office that speaks of the death of sin, the penalty of sin before a holy God. And that your office is an office of death symbolized by this blood as it dries into your garments. That's the first day. The remaining six days there will be a bull brought every morning, and that bull's blood will be shed for your sin. To emphasize to you again and again and again, the priest who represents God's people must be a holy person. There is no sin to be in this person. And so as you meditate through those seven days upon this office, There should be a profound awareness of the holiness of God and the penalty of sin. After the seven days, you now begin to take up your duties. What are they? I think some people look at priests and kind of think of them like preachers, you know. The preacher preaches one day a week and gets the other six off. Because that's all he does is, you know, stand up here and talk for about a half hour. And people look at priests and they say, well, you know, what they did is they, you know, they offered sacrifices and Then they kind of sat around and played cards or something while they waited for the next sacrifice to come along. Well, there's a lot more that priests did besides offering sacrifices. For instance One of your duties is to teach the law. You are the Bible teacher of Israel. You conduct the catechism classes for the kids You conduct the Bible studies, you teach, you apply the law. And because you do that, you also get involved in many court cases. All the difficult court cases are sent to you to adjudicate. Why, well, you're the expert in the law, right? And God's word is the law, it's the civil law for the nation. And so you hear day after day, but he said, but she said, but he took this, but mine, you know, you feel like a mother again, you know. These kids just keep coming and squabbling and squabbling, and you're aware again of sin and of its ramifications and of its destruction because you're involved in it on a daily basis. You administrate the offerings, the first fruit offerings that people bring. And there are various kinds of first-fruit offerings that are given Part of those are for the administration of the cost of maintaining the temple. Part of it is also for all the diaconal care of Israel And you're involved in administrating that. Perhaps you're placed on a diaconal committee, and that's part of what you serve in from time to time. But two functions particularly take most of your time. The first of those functions is determining the cleanness of a holy people. Determining the cleanness of a holy people. All rashes and all skin diseases are brought to you Anytime somebody's got a rash or something, they bring it to the priest to check it out. You've got to determine what rash that is. So you've got medical training from God's Word. And from that medical training and the things that are added to that that you've gained in your training, you are determining particularly what kinds of rashes they are. And the most important one by far, of course, was leprosy. You made the diagnosis of whether a person was a leper or not. And if they were a leper, of course, they were declared unclean of all the unclean. But a person could recover from that, and so they would come back to you again, and you might declare them to be clean again. And so you are being again constantly reminded that this is a holy people. That God's people are set apart and we're constantly declaring this one is clean and that one is not clean. This one's been unclean, but now can bring through this ceremony a restoration to cleanness. Holiness, cleanness, constantly brought before you. And how is it done? The way a person is made clean is through sprinkling. Through sprinkling by water and sprinkling by blood. But the cleansing ceremony always involves sprinkling. And that, brothers and sisters, is why we sprinkle in baptism It is not because we're lazy and the Baptists go to all the extra trouble, and we Presbyterians just like to use little bowls. It is because the Old Testament symbol of cleansing was sprinkling. And that is clearly what is being transferred into the New Testament sign and seal of the mark of Christ. It is the sprinkling of the cleansing of the work of Christ. Sprinkling was a large part of what you did from day to day, week in, week out, year in and year out in your ministry. And then, of course, there is always the sacrifice. And that is the central and heart of what you do, besides the praying. that's offered on behalf of God's people with the sacrifices, there is the offering of the blood of the animals before the altar. Blood offerings for a sinful people. Every morning you offered a year old lamb. Every evening you offered a year-old lamb. Every morning and evening There were weekly sacrifices, there were monthly sacrifices, there were festival sacrifices, and of course the most holy was the Day of Atonement, the Yom Kippur sacrifice offered on that high holy day. There are three basic kinds of offerings. Now people categorize the offerings in different ways. Some talk about three, four, five different ways of categorizing them. Most simply, I categorize them for you in three ways according to the purposes of the offerings. First of all, there was the sin offering, people that came. and brought a sin offering. A sin offering could be on behalf of a priest, a king, the whole people, and they varied. If it was a the sin of a priest or the whole congregation of Israel, if all Israel had been involved in a sin, you offered a bull. It went on down through rams and pigeons, birds, on down to if you were the poorest of the poor and you hardly had any livelihood, obviously you couldn't afford an animal. And so you might offer just a little bit of flour, and that was accepted by God as a sin offering according to the means that you had to pay for it. It had to be precious for you, not cheap. but also something that was reasonable. And that was offered with confession and the cleansing of your sin. Secondly, there were the bird offerings. That's as I described was the voluntary offering, the free will expression of consecrating yourself to the Lord. If someone came and they wanted to do that. then you would on behalf of them offer that ram or that bull as a as a offering, a burnt offering, a free will expression of consecration to God. And then thirdly, there was the fellowship offering, also a free-will offering, usually in response to something of God's blessing. The thank offerings were a kind of fellowship offering that we've talked about from time to time. The purpose here was simply communion with your Savior. So there's the confession of sin, there is the consecration of yourself, and there is the communion with your Savior, is the three purposes, basically, of the offering. Day after day you're killing animals. Day after day you're shedding blood. Day after day you're sprinkling blood, splashing blood. Pouring blood, gathering it into basins, gathering it into troughs, draining it out of troughs for the next sacrifice. Your hands are constantly in blood And you're so aware of the cost of sin, death. Either your heart becomes hardened to it over the months and years, or you become more tender and sensitized. to how holy is this God that we approach, and how everything must be done exactly the way He says, You remember Nadab and Abihu in Leviticus chapter 10, who though they were uh rightfully priests, uh they offered uh uh uh an offering that was not the way God described it to be done, and they were struck dead on the spot, so that God said, That I would be honored before them, and seen as holy. So you're very careful about how you do things, because this God that you serve is an exacting God. He's not a God to be toyed with. He's not a God to be overly familiar with. For he's a God who is strict in his requirements, merciful in what he offers as a means of approach, but exacting in how it's carried out. Well you see, all of this is the background for when Matthew comes, and he says four times in chapter one, Messiah, the priest, has come. And if God astonishes us by saying that He would send the final prophet to bring the final word to reveal Himself. To show himself as the one who came himself to bring that final word, to reveal who he was, we are even more astonished by the fulfillment of the Messiah Priest. Because if the Messiah prophet, Hebrews chapter 1, told us came to bring the final word himself. So, Messiah priest has come to bring the final sacrifice. And the final sacrifice is himself. And so point three in this is the final sacrifice, the final offering. Brothers and sisters, look at what Jesus has done for you and for me. No Jew ever conceived that Messiah would come to do this in their wildest imagination. That Messiah would come as the priest who would offer himself as the final sacrifice for sin. Look at Hebrews chapter 10. Just briefly, let me call attention to a couple things to see why Hebrews 10 takes all of what we've been talking about and gathers it together to show Jesus as this Messiah priest. In Hebrews chapter 10, it begins that the law is only a shadow of the good things that are coming, not the realities themselves. For this reason, The law can never, by the same sacrifices repeated endlessly, year after year, make perfect those who draw near to worship. If it could, would they have not stopped being offered? You see, if the sacrifice accomplished the taking away of sin, then you don't need to keep offering it. For the worshippers would have been cleansed once for all and would no longer have felt guilty for their sins. But those sacrifices are an annual reminder of sins because it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. You offer the sacrifice and you say, from this day forward, God, I'm never going to do that again. And the next month you're back with the same sacrifice. And the same plea, saying again and again and again. You ever find that in your time, confession of sin? You come, you look at Scripture, and it becomes to you not so much a a reminder of your freedom from sin as it is a reminder that you blew it again. Lord, there it is again. I confess it again and again and again. Hebrews is saying The priest constantly offered more and more blood because the sins of the sacrifices could never take away sins. Therefore, verse five When Messiah came into the world, he said, Sacrifice an offering you did not desire, but a body you prepared for me. Now notice that there's two things there about his nature. First of all, he's human because he says he has a body. But you notice he's not simply human because this isn't a body by natural birth. It's a body prepared and therefore he's pre-existent. This is one who is both God and man as Messiah, uniquely qualified as the second Adam of a new race who has come into the world. And so verse six says, With burnt offerings and sin offerings you were not pleased. And then I said, Here I am. It is written about me in the scroll, I have come to do your will, O God. The animals were dumb. They they didn't they they were not obedient, they were not without sin, they were amoral. But here comes one who is now a A new Adam who has not sinned himself and he comes to be eligible by obedience before God as one who is able to be sacrificed. First he said, sacrifice and offerings, burn offerings, sin offerings, you did not desire, nor were you pleased with them, although the law required them to be made, not saying there's anything wrong with them, God's the one that instituted them. But they're deficient, they can't accomplish the purpose. Then he says, here I am now, I have come to do your will. So he sets aside the first, that's the sacrifices and offerings first instituted, verse 8. Sets aside the first to establish the second. What's the second? Here I am to do your will. The new sacrifice The one who has come uniquely into history. And by that will, you see, the fact that he was obedient as active a uh a sacrifice able to fulfill the law in perfect obedience. By that will we have been made holy. through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus the Messiah once for all. It's done. He's made a sacrifice that is complete and definitive and never to be repeated. Now he goes on to emphasize that. Notice what he says. Verse 11. Day after day every priest stands and performs his religious duties. There were no chairs in the tabernacle. You never sat down. From the time that you entered into there, you were either attending the lampstick or the table of the bread of the presence or you were offering sacrifices. Or you were trimming wicks. You were doing something constantly. There was never rest. Every day the priests continue on and on and on. Those sacrifices which can never take away sins. But verse 12: when this priest had offered for all time one sacrifice for sins, he sat down. Psalm 110, at the right hand of God. He's finished. The sacrifice has been made. There is nothing more to add to it. And so verse 14, because why by one sacrifice he has made perfect forever those who are being made holy. Do you see what he's saying there? It's exactly what Ephesians is saying. It is that idea of both sitting and walking. You have been made holy, perfect. You are in the process of attaining, of becoming what you are in Christ. You have been made perfect, you are being made perfect. In fact, he spells it out even more clearly in verses 15 and 16. Verse 15 and 16, he speaks of your walk. The Holy Spirit testifies to us about this. First, he says, this is the covenant I'll make with them after that time, says the Lord. I'll put my laws in their hearts. I will write them on their minds. You've been transformed. You are walking in new power and obedience in Jesus Christ. But you are still a sinner. So verse 17. Then he adds Their sins and their lawless acts I will remember no more. Where have these have been forgiven, there is no longer any sacrifice for sin. You are sitting as you are walking. You are resting in the finished work of Messiah. As you are now working out that work. in an attitude of gratitude for what he has done for you. So verse 20, verse 19, therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus, By a new and a little air opened for us through the curtain. That is his body. And since we have this great priest Over the house of God, let us draw near to God with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts strength. Do you see it there? Sprinkle to cleanse us from a guilty conscience and having our bodies washed with pure water Brother and sister, no matter what you have done, if you come to Jesus Christ this morning, your body is washed. Your conscience is sprinkled You could have been abused sexually. You could have been promiscuous sexually. You could have been unfaithful to your spouse. Whatever it is, he specifies your body has been washed by the blood of Christ. Your conscience has been sprinkled There's no more reminder of that sin. It's been taken by Jesus because his sacrifice is perfect. What keeps you from drawing near? What keeps you? Let's go. Oh, Lord God. Lord Jesus. What a priest. You who offered not a bull or a ram, but who offered yourself on behalf of sinners like us. God forbid that we would seek to offer some additional sacrifice, that we would that we would ignore what you have done for us Lord, if there's any of us here that are still walking in our own flesh and our own attempts to live a good life or to do something apart from you that will be okay in the end, Lord, strip us from such foolishness. We would see it as only the perfect, definitive, once-for-all sacrifice of the only eligible priest in all the world who fulfilled the office's intentions, Jesus. And we would come to you, Lord Jesus, for that cleansing. And Lord, if we have continued to walk in a sully, dirty conscience, feeling dirty all the time. Because we don't believe the completion of your work, Lord, I pray that you would apply that to the heart and to the mind and to the conscience of that one who is sitting and listening this morning Their conscience has been sprinkled clean and their body washed pure by the blood of Christ. Enable us to believe it and to walk in it. In Jesus' name. Amen