It's the morning of the feast of the wheat harvest, about twenty-eight A. D. People from all over the world, the known World are in Jerusalem for that feast, and they are hearing some Jews praising God in their own native tongue, languages that these people had never learned. It's a bit chaotic. There's a lot of people talking at once. And one of the disciples of Jesus, Peter by name, stands up and quiets the crowd. I can imagine Peter up there. Quiet! Quiet! gets their attention, and he says, let me tell you what this is about. This was what was spoken by the prophet Joel. In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy. I will show wonders in the heaven above, and signs on the earth below. blood and fire and billows of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the great coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Peter there is quoting from Joel chapter 2, verses 28 to 32. And that is why I include Joel in the series of messianic prophecies in preparation for Christmas. What is Joel about? I believe Joel is a classic example of one of the primary purposes of preaching, which is to disturb the comfortable and comfort the disturbed In fact, you could use those two statements as the outline of the book of Joel. First thing he does is to disturb the comfortable. The second part of the book is to comfort the disturbed. His ministry began during a time of a national disaster. And what Joel does not say is God isn't doing this to you. God wouldn't do something as terrible as this, or what some people might say, God let this happen. No, he rather says God is doing this to show you that he is involved in your lives. He is involved in history. He's trying to get your attention. He then brings that to a climax, the end of the first section of the book of Joel, in chapter 2, verse 27. Then, after this disaster, and your response to this disaster, and you're crying out to him and his delivering you, then you will know that I am in Israel. I'm not Far off, removed in the heavens, having nothing to do with your daily lives and history and the political and natural events that are going on I am in Israel, that I am the Lord your God, and that there is no other. There's no other one to help you. Never again will my people be shamed. Then Joel moves after that to a future time. Now he comforts the disturbed. He talks about a day that's going to come when this God who is involved in history will show himself with them in a whole new way. That he will be Emmanuel, God with us. In fact, he will pour out his spirit among all his people and dwell in them. He then brings that to a conclusion in chapter three, verse seventeen. Then you will know that I, the Lord your God, dwell in Zion. In my people, my holy hill, Jerusalem will be holy. Never again will foreigners invade her. Now how did God get his people's attention to show them that he was showing them that they were ignoring him and they couldn't continue to do that? What he did, if you weren't picking it up, the verses I had Tim read are a brilliant, specific picture of a locust plague. God sent a terrible plague of locusts. There have been many plagues of locusts throughout history. But the one in Joel, he says, this one was one like had never been seen before and would never be seen again. This was the locust plague to end all locus plagues. Now, the interesting thing about Joel is we have no idea, really, not much idea, when he wrote. He could have written as early as 850 BC, or he might have written after the exile, 400 BC, you know, who knows? There's arguments for either one. But God is getting his people's attention through that little critter It's a grasshopper. A locust. You kids have seen 'em. You see them all around. You may play with them, squash them, whatever, but you know, they're not a big threat Um you say, yeah, I know locust plagues. Every seventeen years we get them around here, you know, plague of locusts, and they're all over and they dig holes and they're obnoxious and they're a nuisance, you know Now I would say I've never seen a locust plague. I've talked to people who have experienced some of that. But it is far more than a nuisance. James Boyce in his commentary on Joel Refers to a plague of locusts that occurred in the same area back in 1915. Let me read to you a couple of excerpts from that In 1915, a plague of Lucas covered Palestine and Syria from the border of Egypt to the Taurus Mountains. The first swarms appeared in March. These were adult locusts that came from the northeast and moved toward the southwest in clouds so thick that they obscured the sun. The females were about two and a half to three inches long, and they immediately began to lay eggs by digging holes in the soil about four inches deep and depositing about a hundred eggs in each. The eggs were neatly arranged in a cylindrical mass about one inch long and about as thick as a pencil. These holes were everywhere Witnesses estimated that as many as 65 to 75,000 eggs were concentrated in a single square meter of soil. and patches like this covered the entire land from north to south as far as the eye could see. Having laid their eggs, the locusts flew away Within a few weeks the young locusts hatched. These resembled large ants. They had no wings, and within a few days they began moving along by hopping along the ground like fleas. They would cover four to six hundred feet a day, devouring any vegetation before them. By the end of May, they had molded. In this stage, they had wings, but they still did not fly. Instead, they moved forward by walking, jumping only when they were frightened. They were bright yellow. Finally, the locusts molded again, this time becoming the fully developed adults that had invaded the land initially According to a description of this plague by John D. Whiting in the December 1915 issue of National Geographic Magazine, the earlier stages of these insects attacked the vineyards. Once entering a vineyard, the sprawling vines would in the shortest time be nothing but bare bark. Now let me show you a second picture. There's a picture of the cloud of Lucas. There's actually a couple of people down here. There's nothing green. If you saw this picture a little clearer, you would see that this is just a cloud that obliterates the sun. It's like dusk. There's nothing but millions of locusts traveling there in the sky and on the ground and all around When the daindeer morsels were gone, the bark was eaten off the young topmost branches, which after exposure to the sun were bleached snow white. Then, seemingly out of malice, they would gnaw off small limbs, perhaps to get at the pith within. Whiting describes how the locusts of the last stage completed the destruction begun by the earlier forms. They attacked the olive trees, whose tough, bitter leaves had been passed over by the creeping locusts. They stripped every leaf, berry, even the tender bark. Now, let's see the last picture here. Here's these people, and here's the locusts. This is when they're wing stage. They have four stages that Joel describes precisely And these are where they're flying, and they're just like all these little they're like little tiny birds and they say that if you're in that, it's like a snowstorm. This is because the wings are translucent, kind of white. But you you can't see the sun. All you see is millions of these things flying around. They land on you, they're in, they get into houses, though any crevice. come down the chimney, th in through uh Vern was telling me they would come through the wind the light fixtures, turn on the lights, you roast them, they pop like popcorn. They're all over the place. They ate away layer after layer of the cactus plants, giving the leaves the effect of having been jackplaned Even on the scarce and prized palms they had no pity, gnawing off the tender ends of the sword-like branches and diving deep into the heart, tunneling after the juicy pith. This is precisely what Joel describes in chapters 1 and 2 of his book. An army of locusts coming to invade the land. Now, what's his point? His point is this didn't just happen. This wasn't some result of an impersonal law of locust plagues and the waves of them through history. This was a personal act of God. This was God trying to get the people's attention, saying, Hello, I am God You don't live as if I don't exist. You don't come and worship me on Sunday and the rest of the week. Your lives are morally and ethically degenerate. You live as if I don't matter. I am trying to get your attention. And so God calls them to repent in look in Joel chapter 2. In verses 13 and 14, he invites them. He doesn't say, this is just something that happens and like Allah, I simply control it. There's nothing you can do but submit. God invites them to change the course of history. He says, Come and turn to me. Rend not just your clothes, rend your hearts and come and seek me. Saying to yourself, maybe God will have compassion. God is a personal God. He's not impersonal. So the people do that. They in fact do repent. There is a revival and there is an awakening. The result of that is that God ends the plague of locusts. And the climax of that in the first part of the book is verse 27. Then you will know, you see, that I am in Israel, that I am the Lord your God, that there is no other, no one else could deliver you from this. Never again will my people be shamed. We live in a time that says that there are laws of nature And that's all that governs what happens in history. Back in 1755, during the time when humanism and the Renaissance had really gained a hold of Europe and people were uh quite taken with themselves and the um accomplishments of man and science and all these things, uh God again uh spoke. In seventeen fifty five there was an earthquake that hit Lisbon, Portugal. Now, if you've ever been in an earthquake, 30 seconds can seem like the longest 30 seconds in your life. This earthquake lasted six minutes. For six minutes buildings toppled and fell. As a result of this, a huge tsunami came in upon the land and drowned hundreds and thousands. Then the fires began that came from the devastation of the buildings collapsing. In the space of a few days, 60,000 people perished. People who had not thought much about God at all, all of a sudden were asking, where's God? Why did God let this happen? In fact, everybody was speculating on God's purpose in it, except a few people like Rousseau and others who were saying it's ridiculous, don't even talk about God. In our day When things happen that are either natural disasters or economic disasters, we treat those things as if they are simply impersonal happenings, chance happenings. Joel tells us that is a big mistake. Joel's message is that the Bible teaches On the one hand, there are laws that God has established, but God is personally in those laws, operating in the events of history. Whether natural disasters and horrors to get our attention, or in blessings in order to show that He is in with His people involved in our lives. After this point, Joel picks up now and he goes to a distant future. He now is comforting the disturbed. And he says, but that's not what I'm just all about. There's coming a day when I will show you beyond anything you can imagine that I am in Israel, that I am Emmanuel God with us. And in that day, there will come a Messiah. God with us, Emmanuel. And he will be born. He will live. He will die. And Acts 2 tells us, because he was born, lived, and died, and rose again. He was given the Spirit, God's presence, to give and pour out to his people. So Joel chapter 2 Says, afterward I will pour out my spirit on all people. This is not just for Israel. This is now a cosmic, a universal thing. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy, your old men will dream dreams, your young men will see visions. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days. That's of course what Peter's referring to in Acts chapter 2 and verse 16. This is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. So, because Jesus has come, died, risen, and his Spirit has been poured out, you are the ministers of Columbia Presbyterian Church. You don't have three ministers who are teaching elders or five stap pastoral staff ministers. We are equippers because you are the ministers. God's Spirit has come upon you. He is living in you. God is here this morning. Living in each one of you who have given your lives to Jesus Christ. And therefore, you are the ones who bring His presence into your world. In your neighborhood, in your family, when you visit together this holiday season, at work You bring God's presence to those people by your bearing his spirit in their midst. You have different dreams, Joel says. You now dream new dreams. You have new longings and passions. You dream about what could happen in Howard County if the gospel began to run wild and God's presence was manifest in new and irresistible ways. And when you see Columbia Presbyterian Church on the front page of the Flyer and Howard County Times, you say, that's an opportunity for the gospel. Amen? So let me clarify something that I said last week and make sure you don't misunderstand me. When I talk from 2 Peter chapter 2 Saying that when I was applying Hosea, I was not saying that our neighbors are pagans who are persecuting us. What I was simply trying to say is when people give us a hard time, our response Is an opportunity for the gospel to display a love that first confuses and may attract the person to see Christ's love, the Hosea kind of love we talked about last week. That's the opportunity that you and I have. It is not a statement about who these people are Now next week in the middle hour we're going to talk about this whole thing that we're in, to see God's presence in the midst of it. What does this mean for us? How do we read these circumstances as spirit-filled people to bring his presence into this situation? But let's be very careful before we talk about persecution or before we talk about some spiritual battle that you and I are victims in. That is not the point. Hosea says, you and I have an opportunity in our situation to minister Christ's presence. Notice that he also says Both men and women, old and young, every nation, every gender, both sexes. You women are filled with the Spirit as much as we men. I thank God for the uh study that you've been doing this past fall in Carolyn Custis James books, which challenges you women. To be thinking about that. And thinking theologically, how to use your gifts to build up the body. I challenge you to think about that and to do that, or if you haven't read it, to read the book. Are you using your gifts? Whoever you are here is part of the body of Jesus Christ, the Columbia Presbyterian, how are you using your gifts to build up the body? Joel says that he has poured out his spirit so that you bring God's presence in your ministering your gifts within the body. How are you doing that? If you're not, you're missing out on what God intends as the purpose in your life. The interesting thing is that when he goes on, in verse 30 of Joel chapter 2 He goes on to describe not simply the church being built up or evangelism. He then begins to talk, he re returns to this idea of God's judgment and doing spectacular things. In Joel 2. 30, I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth. Blood and fire and billows of smoke, the sun will be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood before the coming of that great and dreadful day of the Lord. And I think that the idea of the the sun being turned to darkness, Joel uses that three or four times in his book. He's not talking about some um eclipse or the sun being turned black or some Cosmic supernatural thing. He's talking about a plague of locusts. And I think what what he's saying here is in this new age when the Spirit is poured out on all people, Peter quotes that verse in Acts 2 He is saying God is continuing to manifest himself through horrors and wonders to warn people, warn the nations, warn you who put God on the periphery of your life. God is here and he will not be ignored. He particularly will not be ignored by people who name his name and either bring honor to him by demonstrating the transformed difference that the spirit in a person who is a disciple of Jesus Christ makes, or to disgrace him by saying, I can call myself his disciple, and it doesn't make any difference God is in our midst displaying Himself in signs and wonders to show, signs that are sometimes Terrible natural disasters were signs that may be simply looking about us and seeing economic disaster. That we as Christians read those signs and we respond to them. The C. S. Lewis once wrote God whispers to us in our pleasures. He speaks in our consciences. And he shouts to us in our pain. Pain, he says, is the megaphone of God to awaken a deaf world. If he's writing today, he'd probably say it's a 150-watt amplifier. It says, hello, I am here, I am your maker, I am your only redeemer, I will not be ignored. The last verse, verse thirty-two, says, There's hope. There's hope. Because whoever calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be deliverance, as the Lord has said, among the survivors whom the Lord calls. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord. Have you called upon the name of the Lord? In your situation, maybe you don't recognize the depth of your sin, but you know that your life is chaotic and out of control. Whoever calls on the day of the Lord or upon the Lord will be saved. That's a promise for today. But there's no promise there for tomorrow. I've been talking to a fellow who has continued to resist the Lord. And we've had a lot of pretty deep discussions about his relationship with Christ. And right now he's going through a very tough time. He's losing his family and everything that he holds dear. We talked together this week. You told me how bad things were. And I said, you must feel awfully alone now, don't you? And there was silence. And he said, Yes, I am profoundly alone. And I reminded him Do you know Jesus is still here for you to call out to him? Again there was silence. And then he said, I know. But he still hasn't cried out. Whoever calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. But you need to call upon the name of the Lord. And if you're filled with the Spirit this morning, you need to be interpreting the events in people's lives so that they see, do you understand? This pain, this difficulty, that's God trying to get your attention. Do you see what he's doing? Do you see so that you don't turn bitter and say, why is this happening to me and all the rest of this? No, do you see? This is his beckoning, this is Joel to come, turn your hearts to me. For whoever calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved, and that's given to you right now This holiday season, when you're with your family or with your neighbors or with the people that you do commerce with or in your business or whatever it is, you're the bearer of that message, both the warning and the invitation. And what Joel does is something really interesting. These these books are so so beautifully put together. Now Let me just say for those that want to make sure that they're able to eat lunch and you missed the first blank and so you know you gotta make sure it's filled out. I had people asking I still another blank I missed in the first service The first point was future age, the New Testament age of the Spirit. Now I'm at the second point, the final judgment. Chapter 3 speaks of the final judgment, the day of the Lord. What Joel does now is he says, I am going to gather the nations down in the valley of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat means the Lord judges. And therefore I will enter into judgment against them concerning my inheritance. So God's bringing all the nations together. In verse 14, he refers to it as the valley of decision. Multitudes, multitudes, the nations gathered in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. God sits as judge over the nations. This is the final day. And how does he describe it? Verse 15, the sun and the moon will be darkened. Boy, you think you saw darkness before. Now there is deep. Nerve, shattering darkness, the stars no longer shine. The Lord will roar from Zion and thunder from Jerusalem. The earth and the sky will tremble. That's a lot more than a locust plague. That is the day of the Lord's judgment upon the nations who have ignored and forsaken him. It seems absolutely hopeless in its despair and darkness. And then you have in the middle of verse 16, a wonderful butt. But the Lord will be a refuge for his people, a stronghold for the people of Israel. Is he your refuge? Is he your stronghold in whatever you're going through now? He says, I'm here for you. I am your stronghold. I am your refuge in the deepest, darkest despair. You see, and then he ends that with that same refrain in 317. Then you will know that I, the Lord, your God And Emmanuel, I dwell in Zion. I am with you in my holy hill. Jerusalem, God's people will be holy, and never again will foreigners invade her. And then he describes a beautiful mountain that drips with fatness and sweetness and lusciousness. In verse 18, and contrast that with desolation, like after a locust plague, in verse 19, he says, the choice is yours. Which is it going to be? You gonna live on that mountain with me in all the delights that your mind cannot even conceive of now? Or will you be in that desolation of which a locust plague is but the dimmest picture in the hell of my absence? See, Joel is basically saying, as a locust plague is the dimmest picture of the final judgment. So the Holy Spirit in our lives is the dimmest picture of what the presence of God will be in heaven. So whoever calls on the day on the name of the Lord, he can be taken from the desolation to the beauty of heaven. Which will it be? It's interesting that in verse 20, he does not say that these people get this because they're good. Judah will be inhabited forever, Jerusalem through all generations. Their blood guilt which I have not pardoned, I will pardon. So the last blank is they're not there because they're good, they're there because they are pardoned through Emmanuel, God with us. Jesus, who came to bear their guilt, your guilt, my guilt, take it away so that his Spirit can come and live in us as simply the first fruits. Of what it means to have God with us in that day when we shall go to be with Him in a new heavens and a new earth, in which His presence dwells fully with us forever and ever. And so, brothers and sisters, as you think about this holiday season, the main thing, Joel says, is to know him as your refuge. The main thing is to know he is here with you and for you. Whether it is in the economic collapse or whether it is in personal difficulties and tragedies. I'm here, he says. And the basic problem of America is that we have a Christianity that has lost, by and large, the person of Christ. I was reading an interesting letter from David Bryant, fellow who I knew back years ago in Inner Varsity. Who ministers around the nation, particularly to seek to call people to renewal, revival, repentance. Let me read you an excerpt from his letter. Fundamentally, in much of the American church today, the Lord Jesus Christ has ceased to be the chief focus of his people. There is a crisis which I call the crisis of Christology. Jesus has become our mask more our mascot than our monarch. Christians today are occupied with many other agendas, political, social, cultural, relational, congregational. For example, extensive research in the June New Yorker magazine on the New Evangelicals outlined 29 major issues about which millions are currently concerned. But in the process, Christ has ceased to prevail as our overriding, consuming passion. There's a sobering shortfall in how we see, seek, savor, serve, share, and speak about God's Son for all that He is. This crisis has decisively diminished both the inner vitality and the outward mission of many churches. We may be purpose-driven, but multitudes are not person-driven. As one Christian leader observed recently, the reason the church is having so little impact on our nation is because Christ is having so little impact on his church. That's the message of Jeobel. God says, I will not tolerate being ignored. I will do whatever it takes to call my church back to myself. And so, isn't it ironic that at the time when we celebrate the incarnation, we are most tempted to forget the person of Jesus in all the distractions. Come. Come, you who are spirit-filled, bring the warning and the invitation to your family, your friends, your co-workers. Interpret the things that are going on in their lives that they can make no sense of to show them God's fingerprints and his voice. For Joel 2. 32 is still in force. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. The promise is for you, but it's only for today. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, open our eyes to see beyond our secular culture that says God's nowhere on the horizon. To see that you are intimately involved in the daily affairs of our lives, whether pain or pleasure. You are here involved in us. You fill us with your spirit, that we might be intimately involved with you. That we might prophetically speak in the lives of our friends and family the word of the Lord's warning and invitation. Oh Lord forbid that we would miss that opportunity, that we would become bored with the gospel at Christmas, rather than involved on the front lines of declaring the message of Joel. That you might know that I am here with you. So Lord, open our eyes to see that. And this week to live it by faith available to you in Jesus' name. Amen.