Monumental indeed. Every year since nineteen seventy-nine we have looked at one or two messianic prophecies in the Old Testament, that is, predictions. Some rather amazingly specific and counterintuitive about the Messiah That God would send into the world to address every problem. To address every problem on a global scale, universal peace and justice. To address every problem that is intensely personal and private in your life. Every problem you have Jesus is the answer. Ultimately, when you bore down to the core of it He is the answer to every global personal problem. That's true. Believe that So we have been looking at these hopes, these promises of what God was going to do to address the brokenness of this world. We started in Genesis 3. Worked our way to the Psalms, then from the Psalms into the major prophets. We spent several years on Isaiah. I think we spent three years just on Isaiah 53 Prophets before God brought his people into the exile in Babylon. Then the prophets during the exile, when it seemed that God had abandoned his people and had lost. Daniel, Ezekiel, and now finally the prophets after the exile. There's only three of them. Hagi, Zechariah, and Malachi. Last three books of the Old Testament. They're s somewhat chronological, not alphabetical, but they're not totally chronological. You could ask Dan about that Anyway, it was just as God had predicted that in five thirty-eight BC Cyrus of Persia permitted all of God's people to return to their land, to go back home, to build the temple. And in fact, a minority went back, about 50,000. James Boyce says 42,360. Not sure where he gets it, but he always has a reason. And those people went back to build the temple. They went back eagerly. They began to construct it. And then they got distracted and discouraged. And they became more concerned for their comforts than for the place where God would reveal Himself. Sound familiar? So God raised up Haggai, Zachariah, and Malachi to speak to that. Haggai says almost nothing about the promise of Messiah, the only reference in Haggai, short book. is the one that's very familiar to us because of Handel's Messiah, where God says, I will shake once again the heavens and the earth, and the desired of all nations will come and he will bring his glory to this place. That's about it for Messianic prophecies. So, because I only have three weeks to finish the Old Testament, we're going to focus on Zachariah Malachi. Zechariah is a much longer book. It's also a much more difficult book. One of the most difficult portions of the Old Testament for interpreters. Is divided basically into three parts. The first six chapters are eight visions that are dramatic, vivid, spiritual pictures. Chapters seven and eight are his historic interlude. And then chapters nine to fourteen Deal with prophecies about the future is by far the more most significant part of Zechariah. It's also the most difficult part to interpret. Since I only have two weeks to give to Zechariah, I have decided to focus on two images that I think are the most significant things that he states. Two images of the Messiah to come, whom Zechariah pictures primarily as a shepherd, but as a shepherd who is also a priest and a king. Now, when Israel went back to the land, they were led by two people, Joshua the high priest, and Zerubbabel, who was the governor, roughly priest and king. And what Zechariah does is he says, you see these two godly men, they are but dim, dim pictures. Of the shepherd priest that I am going to send, who is also the shepherd king. Now, what he does is divides the picture of this shepherd, priest, and king into two parts, his humiliation and his exaltation. So this morning I want to look at his humiliation, the priest who gives himself as a sacrifice. For the sins of his people. Then next week we will look at the shepherd king in his exaltation, the one who will rule the earth forever. And today, under the humiliation, I want to look at three prophecies that are vivid pictures of that humiliation. And simply try to open up to you to see what God spoke through this prophet 500 years before Jesus Christ was born. So three pictures of his humiliation. Number one, that he is the devalued one. He is the devalued one. Now, first let me set the scene for you. God does here what he often does with the prophets. He has the prophet act out dramatically the picture for the people to see. So Zechariah in Zechariah chapter 11 portrays himself as acting as a shepherd. He is going to shepherd the people Israel. But they don't want a shepherd. They don't listen to him. And so he shepherds them, knowing that they're going to reject him. and that they will in fact suffer great slaughter in the days ahead, in a number of different ways in the futures, from Syria, from the Romans, and on down through history. But at a certain point, Zechariah is becoming weary of this in Zechariah chapter 11. And you have a dramatic moment in verse 11. Zechariah is it's like he's telling them about what is to come, and then he stops. And he looks at them and he says, What am I worth to you? And that's where we pick it up in verse 12. I told them, if you think it best, give me my pay. If not, keep it. So they paid me thirty pieces of silver. And the Lord said to me, Throw it to the potter, the handsome price. Talk about sarcasm. The handsome price at which they priced me. So I took the thirty pieces of silver and I threw them into the house of the Lord to the potter. Thirty pieces of silver. What's that worth? We don't have any good way of knowing, do we? Is that a good price, bad price? Well, a clue to that is in Exodus chapter 21, in verse 32. One of the laws from the Torah. If a bull gores a male or a female slave, the owner must pay a fine of thirty pieces worth shekels of silver. to the master of the slave, and the bull must be stoned. So thirty pieces of silver is the fine for maiming a slave. It's less than the worth of a slave. And this is God's prophet, the one who has come to give them words of life and to deliver them from death. And they say, this prophet's worth less to us than a slave. And so he takes that money and he throws it into the temple. Keep it. It's not worth it. Do you ever feel devalued and worthless? The eyes of people that you care about. And that you wished, cared about you. Have you ever done something thoughtful Sacrificial at some cost to yourself? Did it out of kindness? Did it to help someone, someone in your family perhaps? And they don't even mention it. You feel taken for granted. You feel worthless in their sight You feel devalued. Did it ever occur to you at those times that Jesus understands that feeling? Did it ever occur to you when you're feeling so worthless in the eyes of people who you wished cared for you? That Jesus says, I understand, my daughter. I understand, my son. I came from heaven and gave myself for my people to teach them, to warn them, to save them. And they didn't even think I was worth the price of a slave. This, of course, is dramatically fulfilled in the person of Judas. Matthew tells us explicitly that what Judas did in Matthew 26, 14 and 15, and then particularly Matthew 27, verses 3 to 10. Was in explicit fulfillment of Zechariah chapter 11, where you see Judas, the false shepherd. Saying to the priest that thirty pieces of silver was worth more to him than the life of Jesus, his master. Of course, when Judas saw what was happening to Jesus, he changed his mind. He realized Jesus is actually of infinitely more worth than thirty pieces of silver. He tries to go and return it and they say, That's your problem. We have them now. And so the Bible says Judas threw the thirty pieces of silver in the Lord's house. And because that was blood money, they couldn't put it back in the treasury. So they're very careful to follow the law. And they use the thirty pieces of silver to purchase a field, the potter's field, to use to bury indigents, people who can't afford a grave. And Judas, realizing the error of his valuation, weeps bitterly and hangs himself. What's Jesus worth to you? Is He worth every fiber of your being this week? To live for him, to serve him, to obey him, to pour out your love for him, because he is worth it. Remember my friend Gary, the appliance repairman. Jesus wasn't worth very much to him for many years until he lost his son. What's Jesus worth to you? Zachariah says that this one, the shepherd who gave himself was seen as cheap and worthless in their sight. Now the next picture that he gives in chapter 12, these three pictures are in chapter 11, 12, and 13. In the next picture, you have a contrast and a comparison. For in chapter 12, you have also this rejection of the shepherd, priest. But in this case, the people come to see the error of their ways before it's too late. For Judas, it was too late. Someday it's going to be too late for anyone here who does not value Jesus to see before God comes in judgment and to make all things right in the world. What the worth of Jesus really is. You still have time, but there will be a day when it will be too late Chapter 12 is a picture of people who realized the error before it was too late. And you have in chapter 12 the picture of the pierced one. The pierced one. Here God pictures Himself pouring out on His people grace and supplication because they realize their terrible mistake in crucifying their Messiah. This, incidentally, is one of the most compelling passages in all the Bible for the argument that there will be a worldwide conversion of the Jews before Jesus returns. Look at chapter 10, chapter 12 and verse 10. God says, And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and supplication. They will look on me, the one who they have pierced. They will mourn for him as one mourns for an only child. And grieved bitterly for him as one grieves for a firstborn son. When that day the weeping in Jerusalem will be great, like the weeping of Hadad Remon on the plain of Megiddo. Now, notice a couple things here. First of all, notice that God says, and it's very clear from verse 1, all of this is the word of the Lord. God says, I will pour out on the house of David, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, spirit of grace and supplication. They will look on me, the one they have pierced. Then notice the next two references are to him. They will mourn for him. They will grieve bitterly for him. That's a very strange combination, isn't it? God is saying, my people pierce me when they pierce him. So this one who is the shepherd is so closely identified to God that to pierce him is to pierce Yahweh, the Lord himself. This is one of the most, the clearest and most explicit statements of Jesus' deity that you can find. Because John 19, 37 says quite clearly this refers to the piercing of Jesus. But in Zechariah twelve, God says they pierced me when they did that. So you look at John chapter 19 and verse 37, and again you have the New Testament saying that this is an explicit reference to Jesus. By the way, it is alleged that there are over 60 references in the New Testament to parts of Zechariah in fulfillment of prophecy. These are just a couple of the clearest. John 19, 37. And as another scripture says, Zechariah 12, 10, they will look on the one they have pierced. That was stated after Jesus had died on the cross, when the Roman soldiers thrust a spear into his side. Now, just as kind of an aside in this, this morning that you have in verses 10 and 11 of Zechariah 12. Some people think that is a mourning of the Jews because they are saying, Oh, now we realize too late. that we have rejected and crucified our Messiah, but there it's a morning of anguish and judgment. I don't believe so because it begins in verse ten, I will pour out on the house of David the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit the spirit of grace and supplication. And the mourning that you see described in verses ten and eleven is deep personal grief. It's not just remorse, it's the kind of grief as if it was your firstborn son that had died. It's the kind of grief it was your only child that you had killed. This is a deep mourning of the people of God. What have we done to the Messiah? But it's in grace that they are mourning. It's specifically the Jews, that's clear from verse 11. And it is in the future. It's not something that has happened. But then you see the connection with it to chapter 13, verse 1. He goes on, and in 13, 1 he says, and I believe these are connected, on that day. A fountain will be opened. Now the word opened is the word dug. And the word dug The root of that word is the word pierced, the same word that you have in chapter 12, verse 10. The one whom they pierced. So when they pierced this one. They, in effect, pierced a hole for a fountain to produce cleansing. 13. 1. On that day a fountain will be opened, it will be pierced, it will be dug to the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to cleanse them from sin and impurity. So you have sin and impurity. Now do you remember what John 19, 34 said, just before it said this is in fulfillment of Zechariah? John says They pierced his side, and what came out? Blood and water. A fountain of blood and water. Blood for the atonement of sin. Water by sprinkling for purification. That's what you have pictured in Zechariah 13, verse 1. Does that give you goosebumps? Zachariah says they pierced this one, so closely identified to to God Yahweh himself, that God could say, You pierced me when you did that. And when you pierced me, out of the side of this one came a fountain. Of blood to atone for sin and water for purification So, does this refer to the future conversion of Israel? I believe it's a very strong case. To say that Israel will see in this one whom they pierced, the fountain of atonement and cleansing before Jesus returns. That's a strong statement, but I believe that Zachariah is inescapable in that This is where we got the hymn that Rick had us sing just before the hymn the sermon here. There is a fountain. Filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. So if you ever wondered when you sing, why in the world a fountain filled with blood, where does that come from? It's Zechariah 13:1. It's what happened when they pierced Messiah, and from his body flowed atonement and purification. But he goes on. The third picture in chapter 13 is of this Messiah, the priest shepherd, as the smitten one. The smitten one. God's continuing to speak of the cursing of this shepherd. And he says in Zechariah 13 in verse 7, I had skipped in these verses because they're on time to explain them all, some of its difficult things. Take a lot of time. I'm just giving to you some of the highlights of this book and please take it this afternoon. Go home and read. At least read chapters nine to fourteen because we'll be taking from nine to fourteen next week. about the exaltation of the king, but it'll fill in some of the parts I can't cover now. You get down to verse 7, and God says, Awake, O sword, against my shepherd. Against the man who is close to me, declares the Lord Almighty. Now again, notice that this one is described as the shepherd. He's described as close to the Lord. So he is a true shepherd. He has done nothing wrong. He's done nothing deserving of cursing or smiting or execution. But notice it is God who commands the smiting. It's not just that Israel pierces him. God is calling the sword to smite the shepherd who is close to his heart. Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. What's that referring to? I believe it's referring to a near and far picture. God saying, Take this one close to my heart. Smite him. He's done nothing to deserve it, but smite him. You can't make sense out of that. Why is Zechariah picturing this true shepherd? who is so close to God that you can say when you smite God that you're smite when you stretch smite the shepherd you're smiting God. God's commanding it. He's saying, let it be done What a profound mystery. No one at that time could have made sense out of this. But the picture is of the sheep scattered and great judgment and anguish He goes on. The end of verse 7. I will turn my hand against the little ones. In the whole land, declares the Lord, two-thirds will be struck down, this referring to the Jews, and perish. Yet one third will be left in it. This third I will bring into the fire. Okay, so there's judgment and anguish and uh suffering. But then it turns. Second part of verse nine. I will refine them like silver and test them like gold. The result is that they will call on my name and I will answer them. I will say, They are my people, and they will say, The Lord is our God. What in the world is that referring to? You don't have to guess very much. For when you turn to Matthew chapter 26 and verse 31, The night that Jesus was betrayed, he told his disciples, This very night you will all fall away on account of me, for it is written in Zechariah 13. I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. So when Jesus was taken prisoner, The disciples all fled in terror. They hid. They were terrified what was going to happen to them. And they hid in terror for three days. Days of anguish. But then Jesus shows himself to them alive from the dead, triumphant over death. And they say, My Lord and my God. One week later, Thomas almost quotes Zechariah 13, 9. My Lord and my God. And Jesus says, peace to you, you are my people. That's the abbreviated fulfillment. But Zechariah, I believe, is saying that's the foretaste of a much larger picture, where two-thirds of my people, the Jews, will be killed. In 70 A. D. , the Jews were smitten and scattered. July 17, 70 A. D. was the last sacrifice ever made in the temple. The Jews were slaughtered, they fled, and they have been scattered ever since. One third, he says, will remain. And in that one third, out of that, before Jesus comes back, he is saying, they will come to say In mourning, we have pierced the Messiah. We have slain him And God will purify until they finally cry out, His people gathered with the Gentiles, with you and me who have also seen that He was pierced and smitten for my sin, not for anything he had done. And as we see that, and the Jews see us coming to that realization, coming to Jesus, instead of writing them off, they come to see it and they mourn also and they cry also, and God says, You are my people. And they say, You are our God. Now that was written, I remind you, five hundred years. Before the birth of Jesus Christ. That was like somebody writing in 1510 with that amount of specificity what was going to happen in 2010. Again, does that make goosebumps go all over you to think the picture of God Statement of the shepherd who would die not for himself, but on behalf of his people. And the picture of what that would produce. So, brothers and sisters, these are amazing and specific prophecies. Of a Messiah who would come and be seen as worthless by his people. Who would be pierced by them, but not only by them, but God Himself behind it, causing the execution and the judgment. for the innocent one who would die in place of his people. A good one, good man So close, and he specifies as the man, so close to him that when you smite this man you are smiting God Himself And that would issue forth in a fountain of judgment and blessing. A fountain of blood for the atonement of your sin. And a fountain of fountain of purifying water to make you holy and pure in his sight. Until that day, when we see him face to face, and we cry out, My Lord and my God. And he says, You, you are my people. I state this to encourage your faith In whatever is going on in your life now that you can't figure out and you don't see God on the scene and you don't know what in the world He is doing, remember the prophecies of Zechariah. No one but God could have written that and fulfilled it. And it's given also to deepen your love for the Lord Jesus. To deepen your sense of his worthiness, so that this week, with every fiber of your being, you want to serve him. And worship him and live for him. Let's pray Lord, only you know the future. Only you Could predict with such specificity the future. Because you also control the future. And sometimes it seems to li to us that our life and personally or that our life as a nation, uh, the world seems out of control. But you are assuring us through these prophecies, it is all working out exactly as I've designed Judas did not act independent of my will. The Jews who crucified my son did not act independent of my purpose. The disciples who in panic scattered when Jesus was arrested were not simply on their own. All of these things you coordinate for your purpose, and you are doing that in our lives. You are taking all of our pain and rejection and confusion, discouragement, and you are working it for a larger purpose That only you can see. But by the encouragement of this prophecy and the picture of a Jesus who loves us in the way that you describe here. We rest. We tell you we love you. May there be no one here who would devalue you Until that day when it is too late to see your true worth. Draw such a one to yourself Cause us to see you, to value you, to love you, and to trust you, who have given yourself for us. In Jesus' name. Amen.