So what's with Amos? Where did Matthew go? Well, that's because we are now entering our annual holiday break from the regular exposition of a series to look at The Old Testament prophecies of Messiah to come. The prophecies of the hope of the one who would turn back the curse and bring his kingdom. of beauty and peace and love. We have been doing this for 30 years. 1979 began the series. And this is 30 years doing it. And this is one series I will actually get to finish, because I will finish it next year with Malachi. We will actually get through. We'll cover the entire Old Testament messianic prophecies. And that's why I can't stay until Christmas of 2011. I wouldn't know what to preach. See, so we'll be done Well, uh this year we're looking at Amos and Micah. And then we'll look at Luke for a couple of weeks. So uh why are we beginning three weeks before Thanksgiving? Well, part of the reason is because our precious granddaughter Sadie out in Denver is going to be having some corrective surgery at the beginning of December. So my wife and I will be out there for a week. Tim will be preaching while I'm gone. And there are other things that back it up and back it up, which would get too complicated and not worth going into, so all I can do is say, just show up. And there'll be something here from God's Word for you each week. But I'm doing just one week on Amos. And Let me let me also mention that in case you think that it's it's too early for a Christmas message I went to a hardware store this week because I'm still mowing my lawn and needed a new blade. And where all the lawn mower and hardware equipment was supposed to be it was all Christmas stuff So uh I guess they don't think it's too early for Christmas. But on the other hand, remember, some of you might remember, I actually preached through the book of Amos back in 1984, 25 years ago. Anybody here remembers that? I'm not going to ask you if you remember it. You were here. You remember 1984. Well, we did a number of um messages on Amos. And I preached this text of this messianic prophecy in July of that year. So it doesn't have to be at Christmas. It's it's a precious, precious text that teaches you and me that we live by hope. We live by hope as Christians. We live by faith, but sometimes we forget that we live by hope. Now let me uh quickly give you a bit of background. Last year we did Hosea. Amos is a contemporary of Hosea, so just plug in all the stuff from Hosea, but in case you don't have that on the top of your head. Let me tell you, Amos preached in the 8th century, about the middle of it, 750, 740 BC. Very unusual time because it was a time when the big threat of the Mideast was Assyria. Assyria had a mighty, ruthless army, and they were conquering nations and burning and laying them waste wherever they went. But At this particular time, Assyria had some internal problems that they had to take care of, so they backed off of all these conquests, and there was a reprieve. Add to that the fact that in Israel and uh Judah there were rather stable governments, which was a change. And so it was a time of prosperity. In fact, people saw it as a real golden age. It was the best times that they had lived in since Solomon. It reminded people of the days of Solomon. Uh the stock market was way up, uh production was up, um people were enjoying the good life. They seemed like they were at peace and in security But the problem was, well there were two problems. One was that it was only the wealthy that were enjoying this prosperity. They were controlling the markets. They were living off the backs of the poor. The poor were just eking out a living and not sharing in all this prosperity. And Amos condemned that. He condemned their greed and their injustice. The second thing was that they were making up their own religion. They wanted to change what God said in his law to a religion that fit them. You know, that's what we do today. I want a religion that fits me. It suits me. It doesn't demand from me something I'm unwilling to give, but it makes me feel good. And that was kind of the spirit of that time. Amos condemns, as I said, the greed and the injustice. For instance, in chapter 4, verse 1, he says, Hear this word, you cows of Bashan. on Mount Samaria, who are the cows of Bashan? Um well he says, you women who oppress the poor and crush the needy. Now before you women get all upset at this gross insult, the cows of the Shan were pampered cows. So they were probably particularly plump, but they had nice soft leather and they were well fed and well taken care of. And Amos is saying, you people are like well-fed cows who pamper yourselves and say to your husbands, bring us some drinks. And then he goes on to castigate them for their lack of compassion and care. In fact, um The whole book, every chapter, are warnings to it begins with um verse 2 of chapter 1, hear this you elders. Listen, all you who live in the land. Has anything like this ever happened to you in your days? Or in the days of your forefathers? And then he talks about the six heathen nations and how God is going to bring judgment upon them. His anger is coming upon them. And they're all probably kind of cheering, you know, like, yeah, they deserve it. Eat them, yeah, Moab, oh yeah, boy, I outtime those guys, you know. But then he ends up with the number seven and says, Woe to Judah Woe to you, because you are going to endure the same thing you're going to endure God's wrath like a noise that's like that of chariots meat keeping leaping over the mountaintops. God says his judgment is going to come upon them. Verse 5, I will send fire upon Judah that will consume the fortresses of Jerusalem. He says in chapter 6, in verse 1. Woe to you who are complacent in Zion, to you who feel secure on Mount Samaria. saying, you know, we've got a strong army, we've got a stable government, got a lot of money, um things are gonna go well. There's nothing to worry about And yet in just 20 or 30 years, the land would be laid waste, and it would have essentially its history come to an end. Do you ever think about how you might look back at 2009 in 2020 or 25? The Lord's not come back yet. You think of the things that could happen and think, boy, yeah, I remember 2009, boy, we we were pretty complacent. We thought we had dodged the bullet of another major economic breakdown. We had uh held terrorists at bay. We were working our way through North Korea and Afghanistan and Iraq. Yeah, you know, it was times when we thought we were gonna lick it And something comes totally unforeseen. And God says, I was warning you. I was calling you as my people. You, my church, that was looking more and more just like the world, but using religious language to comfort yourselves. And so he says, you who are complacent of calling it to account. Now, as I said, every chapter is unremitting gloom, God's anger, his justice, that will Come against Judah and Israel. Amos was from six miles south of Bethlehem. He preached mostly to the north. And after nine chapters of all of this, even in the ninth chapter, as Tim read in verse 10, all the sinners among my people will die by the sword. All those who say disaster will not overtake or meet us. And then all of a sudden In chapter 9 and verse 11, there is a breathtaking change. Suddenly, without any warning or any transition. Amos begins to describe a time where God is going to pour out grace and mercy, restoration, renewal. Bring about a new Eden and beyond a new Eden totally unexpected. What's that about? It is the statement of promise of the Messiah and a reminder to you and me: we live by hope. It is a series of five promises that began to be inaugurated in their fulfillment on Christmas morning. When Jesus was born as Messiah, and still await their complete fulfillment 2,000 years later in our own day. So I want to look at these five promises. I want to look at these verses by means of three or four questions. First of all, what is the kind of world that Amos is describing? It will be. Who is going to make it happen? When will it happen? And kind of a so what? First of all, then when is this going to, or excuse me, what is this going to be, this world? Five things he says in five verses. Very easy to follow. First of all, notice the first is about the king, in which there will be no more ruin. Verse 11. In that day. I will restore David's fallen tent. I will repair its broken places, restore its ruins, and build it as it used to be. Amos begins with a person. The person is the key to this. It's the new David. And he says, his tent is in ruins. His household is has been deteriorating. It will, as I said right then, it's stable, but it's going to deteriorate. But God says there's going to come a time when I will restore it and I will rebuild his rule and his dynasty. Now he probably uses this image of a tent. It's the same word that's used of the booth uh booths in the Feast of Booths or the Feast of Tabernacles, just crude little shelters. So it's a very humble, simple dwelling. And it was at the feast of Booz or Tabernacles that Jeroboam, the northern king, instituted demonic worship. So Amos is using this ironic twist and he's saying, I'm going to bring an end to that, and I'm going to restore the true worship through this son of David, the true son of David, who is going to come. And his dynasty will be established. Secondly, notice what he says about the nations. The nations, there will be no more enemies. In verse 12, so that they may possess the remnant of Edom and all the nations that bear my name, declares the Lord, who will do these things. They, that is Israel, are going to possess the nations, he says. Even those who were their most sworn enemies, like Edom. They were lifelong, bitter, sworn enemies. And he says, the nations are going to be called by my name. People from the different nations will call themselves Messiah's ones or Christ's ones, Christians. And if even Edom can be included, then nobody is beyond hope. Some of us are going to a conference next weekend in which we'll hear among other speakers Lauren Winner, well-known author. Her first book was Girl Meets God, in which she said she described herself as a young Jewish girl. Who fell in love with Jesus despite her best efforts not to I wonder if there is somebody in the room here this morning who cannot imagine yourself as a Christian. You can imagine coming and hearing. Or maybe you come under some pressure, it's required, but you can't imagine yourself belonging to Jesus Christ. Hemos says, there are people who are as foreign enemies that in that day will be brought, like C. S. Lewis, perhaps, kicking and screaming into the kingdom. Compelled by His grace and mercy to acknowledge your need of Jesus Just this week I was reading about a Muslim country in which a Christian was in a car, pulled up to a stoplight, and a Muslim pulled up beside him. And what do you think happened next? Well, the picture we often have is, I don't know, I guess the Muslim pulled out a gun and shot the Christian or something? No. The Christian on impulse had a New Testament sitting on his front seat. He grabbed the New Testament, got out of the car, ran around to the driver's door of the Muslims car gave him the New Testament and said, This is a gift to you from God. Read it. The Muslim was absolutely stunned and said, just this morning I prayed that God would show me how to know him. He took the New Testament and read part of it and gave his life to Jesus and is now following Jesus in a country totally closed to the gospel. Amos says, even Edom, there's no place the gospel will not go and will call themselves by my name. We heard in the middle hour from Robert and Lois Carr. About God's work in the slums of Nairobi and Kenya and Uganda, where God does amazing things to bring people to faith. Amos is saying, I see that day, sometime in the future. The third picture that he gives is that of the earth Which will no longer be cursed. Verse 13, The days are coming, declares the Lord, when the reaper will be overtaken by the plowman. and the planter by the one treading grapes. New wine will drip from the mountains and flow from all the hills. Now once again, I didn't hear any chuckles when I read that verse. But there's humor there. And don't miss it. So many times, as I said, I said last week, we we miss these things that where God is either saying something tongue in cheek or saying something, and you ought to be You ought to be laughing at what he's saying. Because look at the picture. He's saying the days are coming when here's a guy, he's reaping the harvest And hot on his tail is the guy coming to plant the next crop of seed because the land doesn't have to recover. This is going to be turning over. But then the next picture is here is a guy who is uh planting grapes. So he's planting a vineyard. And before he can get down at the end of the field, the guys behind him treading the grapes. They pop out of the earth He's kinda like, you know, he's planting, pop, here's a bunch of grapes, pop, here's another one. And this guy's coming along and he's beating the guy who's planting them, treading them down, and he says, it's gonna be so lush that when you look at the mountains on which these vineyards lie The streams are not going to be water. They're going to be wine. Wine's going to be flowing down the mountains. Somebody told me after the first service, if you had said chocolate, you'd have gotten my attention But it's going to be beyond what you can imagine. No more curse It's going to be a lush, fruitful, beautiful land. And he uses image of Exaggeration to say you can't imagine what this is going to be like. Fourth picture, the people are no longer going to be exiles or aliens Verse 14, I will bring back my exiled people Israel. They will rebuild the ruined cities and live in them. They will plant vineyards and drink their wine. They will make gardens and eat their fruit. This is in stark contrast to what he had said in chapter 5, where he said, You're going to plant your vineyards, but you're not going to drink the wine. You're going to plant your gardens. You're not going to eat its fruit. Because I'm going to take you out of the land. Now he's saying you're going to plan it, you're going to enjoy it, you're going to enjoy it in peace, you're going to celebrate Thanksgiving And it's all going to be a place where you are at home. In fact, he emphasizes that in the last one. The fifth statement is this will be home, never again conquered or destroyed. Look at verse 15. I will plant Israel in their own land, never again to be uprooted from the land that I have given them, says the Lord your God. No matter how good something is here, it doesn't last. There's always something to bring it to an end. Vacations come to an end. The Plymouth colony that we think about at Thanksgiving, and the blessings that came as that colony began to flourish in a few years deteriorated, fell apart. Nations are invaded no matter how secure they seem to be. Camelot has within it the feeds of its own destruction. But not in this kingdom, not in this land. It will never be uprooted. It will never be destroyed. This David whose tent is going to be restored, is going to rule in this kingdom forever and forever. Now who is it that's going to accomplish this? Who will make it happen? It's certainly not any mere man or any group of humans, no administration, no new government. God says again and again, you notice verse 11, I will restore, I will repair. And he's going to do it when it's least likely. Again, look at what he says there in verses uh eight And 8 to 10, surely the eyes of the sovereign Lord are upon the sinful kingdom. I will destroy it from the face of the earth, yet I will not totally destroy the house of Jacob, declares the Lord. For I will give the command and I will shake the house of Israel among the nations as grain is shaken in the sieve. Not a pebble will reach the ground, only the pure wheat will get there. All the sinners among my people will die by the sword. All those who say disaster will not overtake or meet us, I will do it. I'm going to restore this. Verse 12, I am going to do these things. Verse 14, I will bring back my people. Verse 15, I will plant them. I have given them. Every man-made utopia ends in disaster. Disillusionment falls apart. But this is the kingdom that God Himself is bringing about through the Messiah, that's the hope. And nothing will ever destroy it. And I say it again, brothers and sisters. You live not simply by faith, not simply by obedience. You live by hope as a Christian. When you read the news, and you see the things that make you sad, and it seems like Christianity is on the retreat. It seems like Christian values, gospel truth, where is it to be seen in the public square? It is by hope. The day in which Amos preached this was a day where God seemed to be nowhere on the scene. Maybe things in your own life. Cause you to say, where is the hope? Where is the power of the gospel? He calls you to live by hope. I will do it. I will accomplish these things. This is speaking about a society. The hope of this society is not in a new administration. was rather intrigued of that fact this week when after the new administration that's come into power that in which so many people place such hope it two states elected Republican governors where the Republican Party was declared dead one year ago. And one of those governors said, People are tired of politics as usual. So, hmm, where have I heard that before? It's not by an administration. It's by a whole radical change of human nature. Led by Messiah. That's your hope. And that's my hope. When will it take place? When will it take place? Well, as I said, Amos preached this somewhere around 750 or so BC. About 750 years later. Jesus was born, six miles north of where Amos was born. Jesus grew and he declared. That he has come to bring God's kingdom and to display a supernatural compassion and power, and we've seen that in these last weeks and months looking through Matthew. Astounded by Jesus' limitless compassion and power to heal all the sick, to even raise the dead. We saw last week that he knows your heart and he knows my heart. He knows the deepest problem of human nature. He knows that the problem Of human nature is the human heart in its root. And he's come to address precisely that problem. To take your sin and my sin, to bear the penalty of that, as a substitutionary sacrifice upon the cross. To be killed and to rise again. And when he rose The disciples, in their amazement, were filled with the Spirit. Pentecost came. They began to declare this gospel, good news to the nations. And one of the big questions at that time was, when these nations come to know Messiah, do they need to become Jews? Do they need to be circumcised and live under the Mosaic law? And so they held a big council in Jerusalem. And at that council, they debated this. Do the Gentiles need to become Jews or do they not when they come to follow Jesus? And in that council recorded for us in Acts chapter 15, James, the brother of Jesus, stood up And he declared to those people the answer to that problem by quoting from Amos chapter 9, the exact text we've just considered. Look what it says. Acts 15. When they finished, James spoke up. Brothers, listen to me. Simon has described to us how God at first showed his concern by taking from the Gentiles, the nations, some people for himself. The words of the prophets are in agreement with this as it is written now from Amos chapter 9. After this I will return and rebuild David's fallen tent. Sound familiar? Its ruins I will rebuild and I will restore it, that the remnant of men may seek the Lord and all the Gentiles, all the nations who bear my name, says the Lord, who does these things. That have been known for ages. It is my judgment, therefore, that we should not make it difficult for the Gentiles who are turning to God. This is what is happening. The Gentiles are turning and they should not have to be circumcised. So Paul a few years later writes in Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 6, this mystery is that through the gospel the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel. Members together of one body, sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. But you look around and you say, but I don't see. This promise of Amos fulfilled. I don't see the curse removed. I don't see this place called home. I don't see these things. When's that going to happen? Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1, you also were included in Christ when you heard this word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal. Stamp, a down payment, the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance, the inheritance of Amos chapter 9. A deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession to the praise of his glory. The Holy Spirit is the down payment in your life. When you came to Jesus Christ and placed your trust in him, the Holy Spirit came to live in you. And what does that Holy Spirit do? He begins to transform your life in accordance with the first fruits of that new heavens and new earth. Just a taste. And the church is to be the pallid project of the community in which there is peace and joy. And we treat each other according to grace, not law. And there is a whole different basis of operation. And so we long because we have begun to taste of this new life. We long, so long for the fulfillment of it. And God knows that. He hasn't failed to deliver on his promise. He said to those in the author of Hebrews, those who were being persecuted and suffering. And you heard all the promises and they see Jesus risen from the dead and they say, but where is the fulfillment? But where is it? And he speaks of all the Old Testament saints and ends by saying, Hebrews 11, these were all commended for their faith, and yet none of them received what had been promised. God had planned something better for us so that only together with us would they be made perfect. We're waiting for those who have died in Christ. For that trumpet sound to come when Jesus will return, and we will see him in the air, and we will be gathered up with all the saints from all the ages and every place to meet the Lord and to inherit the promises in their fulfillment. Amen? That's your hope. Christmas is about hope. He fulfilled the first coming. He will come again. So Hebrews Says about this back in verse 16. Instead they were longing for a better country. A heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them, and we're waiting, just waiting, for when that will come with Jesus. But right now, it may seem very far away to you. Just this week I received an email from one of you Going through some very deep waters this past week. Going through some very tough times, heartbreaking. And after describing this situation, appended a second very brief email that said something like this. By the way, has anyone heard when Jesus is coming? I really look forward to that right now. Let me know if you've heard anything. I love that. That's how we ought to be living on tiptoe. Hey, anybody heard any echoes of the rumors? Is he about to come? Will it be before Christmas? Will it be before the next thing I'm looking forward to or the next thing that I'm dreading? He's promised He has come. He has risen. Therefore he will come again. And all the things, as impossible as they seem, that Amos described, will be fulfilled. And he described it in language. that was used for the Israelites in that day so that they thought, oh, that means God's going to bring us back into the land of Israel and we're going to have peace. And he gives you that little thing there about the grapes being tread, which is impossible to say, no, no, no, no, you don't understand. I couldn't give you the language because it's a whole new heavens and a whole new earth that I have in mind for you. That's what's prepared. Live in that hope. Let's pray. Lord, our God, we thank you that we are a people who live by hope. A hope that you will deliver on more than we could imagine. Strengthen our faith Help us, Lord, to see that the things which we do not see now are the things that you have promised, that new heavens and that new earth, where Jesus will rule forever. There will be no more tears or sighing, no more longings, but only fulfillment and joy. Lord, fill our hearts with that hope. Fill our hearts with that hope and remind every one of us here that you are the only hope. There is no other hope besides you. Give to us, Lord, in this season. As we enter in, seeing all the decorations, the commercialism. To speak to friends with boldness and joy about that hope that we have. Thank you. Thank you that the hope is sure.