Well, it's been since uh 1979 that our custom has been to stop whatever exposition normally going through. And in the early part of Advent to look at one or more messianic prophecies, that is Propheci from the Old Testament about the longing and the hope of the Messiah to come that was so desperately needed. And uh we have uh looked at these partly to be able to focus in this time of the year on What amazingly accurate prophecies they are about Jesus, who he is, and what he does, so that that would increase our faith. Increase our love for him and help us to understand what this season's all about as we celebrate it, and also to renew our hope for his return We now come to the thirty-third and the thirty-fourth of these messianic prophecies I was just warned back there before I came up that I am not allowed to retire till we get to Malachi. We may extend the series into January or February, but you know, we'll we'll get there. But this year we're looking at Hosea and Joel, which are the first of the minor prophets. And I'm very aware, I I urged you to read Hosea last year last week for this message. Because uh I'm not naive enough to think that you on some regular basis familiarize yourself with the book of Hosea. Many Christians spend very little, if any, time in the minor prophets and I understand that. Um you look and say the the message is difficult to understand. It seems like it's mostly about sin And um, you know, you read Hosea and it's about trumpets in uh Gibeah and Beth Aven and Jacob running off to Aram and And you're you may be thinking, uh you know, what is this to do with my world? You know, my marriage isn't that hot and My kids are giving me trouble and I'm not sure if I'll ever get married and my job seems like it's at a dead end and I'm concerned about what our economy is gonna do and I you know I just constantly hear about bailouts and where is this all gonna go and end uh saw a cartoon just this week of a lemonade stand and there's two little girls, the pitcher's broken, the glasses are broken, the lemonade's spread all over and a potential customer comes up and and the girls are looking grumpy like they just fought and one of them says, We're waiting for our bailout. You know, and you think this is such a foreign world to Hosea. Well let me propose to you that I think that Hosea is extremely relevant to your situation, to my situation. For two reasons. Number one, because of two things that are exactly the same now as they were in Hosea's day And those are the nature of the human heart and the character of God. What Hosea speaks to is about what the hearts of the people are like. And what God is like in response. The second reason why I think is particularly relevant is we go through, we'll see there are a lot of uh remarkable parallels From Hosea's Day and Culture to 21st century America. Hosea ministered for something around 40 years or so From somewhere before 750 B. C. to somewhere after 715 B. C. , uh I'm in my 40th year of ministry, so I can kind of relate. Hosea was preaching as long as I have. I don't know what it's saying that he probably quit after that time, but that's how long he was going. And uh he was had a very difficult job because they were a very self-deceived, complacent people. They did not particularly enjoy coming to church. They were sort of bored. They wanted upbeat messages. They wanted to hear kind of health and wealth sort of gospel. And Hosea was concerned to wake them up from a complacency. It was as if he was viewing somebody who was skating on thin ice coming dangerously close to deep open water, and he's trying to warn them before they fall in. So the nature of his preaching is passionate, dramatic He's trying to get their attention. He's trying to say wake up because you have three kinds of false security. You're trusting these things and if you continue to trust them and say everything's okay, you're going to be in for a a powerful shock and you're going to be headed for devastation that could be avoided, but you refuse to see where you're headed I want to look first at the three kinds of false securities that he talks about, and then God's response. And then next week we'll finish up on Hosea and then one week on Joel. The three kinds of false security that Hosea tries to address in his book are number one, first of all, the material false security, the materialism that was their false security. Hosea began his ministry during the reign of a king by the name of Jeroboam, who is considered in the only approximately two hundred years of the northern Israel, remember Israel was at this point divided into two nations, Judah, two tribes in the south, ten northern tribes of Israel. And Hosea, uniquely, the only one of the twelve false uh minor prophets who uh was from the north and whose ministry was primarily to the north. And he is, when he began his ministry, Jeroboam was reigning, who is considered the best, most effective of all the kings of those ten northern tribes. He was a shrewd trader, and therefore incomes went way up. A lot of money was flowing because of his trade agreements. Secondly, he was a military, very uh capable, and so he built a strong army, and they felt like they were very secure. The Zaya tries to address these things to say, you know, you're you're trusting that there's a lot of wealth around and you're very diverted by that wealth. Uh it sounds familiar, doesn't it? We live in a time in America where we're very diverted. We've been very diverted by our wealth. The church has gone into a health and wealth prosperity gospel as the main thing that attracts crowds to come to churches. Uh we find it hard to give our attention seriously to trouble and What are some of the threats that could be over the horizon when we're really into the gaming on our big screen TV? So much fun. Man, it just hard to leave it. You know, the um hobbies that we have gotten into that um take all of our time and think about 'em even when we're working, how can I get back to this thing I really enjoy doing. were the houses that we aspire to obtain and then fill up with a bunch of toys and it was very interesting to hear on NPR this week That uh they said uh we're seeing a turn in the culture. Ostentatious spending is out. I thought that's very interesting. Ostentatious spending is out. So what's in its place? You see, people are being forced to look back, are there any more basic values? than ostentatious spending and the enjoyment of stuff. And that's the same thing that Hosea was seeking to address. Wake up! This is going to end. And the amazing thing is that while he was telling them this, this is going to end. You are living in a dream world. It was only 30 years until everything totally collapsed in 721 BC, and Israel disappeared from the face of history. How many years do we have? I'm not saying we're going to disappear from the face of history. But we can be so deluded because we're seeing right now how transitory, how deceptive is the idea of the security of wealth. Remarkable parallel. The second parallel of the false security that Hosea addresses is the political false security. Uh politically, that's number two, second blank, remember that um uh it was just a couple of Uh a hundred years before this, you had uh King David, then you had Solomon. Solomon had a son, Rehabam. And uh Rayobom was uh a real jerk to put it bluntly. He was a guy who thought that power had to be displayed through brute strength. He had um abysmably tyrannical policies that alienated many people so that there was actually a revolution during his time and the ten northern tribes split off, cut themselves off in the Davidic dynasty. The problem with that was that in order to cut themselves off, there was only one place you could worship God, and that was at the Temple in Jerusalem. And so for people to go down to Jerusalem to worship was going to, of course, bind them back to the solidity of the nation. And so they had to Separate themselves in that, so they set up these various places of worship up in Samaria, up in the in the north And in order to do that, they couldn't have the same thing. They didn't copy the temple, so they set up these calf pedestals And um the the kind of worship of that day was Baal worship and you know the spiritual age that they used were these calves that were worshipped, because calves were a picture of virility and strength and beauty. And so they set these things up and it's not clear in what cases they were just the pedestal, but it was empty above, or where there were the actual calf statues. But they said, well, we're not worshiping calves This is just a reminder to us. It's just a it's an aid to worship because God is strong and beautiful and all the rest of that. But of course what they did gradually was to take more and more of male worship. Well, and I'll hold on to that for a moment. But as they cut themselves off from the South, they cut off all their stability politically. They deteriorated to the time where, in twelve years, when Hosea is preaching from 745 to 732, four kings in the north are assassinated. And one is deposed, taken captive in battle. So it's bloodshed and chaos. Rick read about that. Chapter 4, bloodshed after bloodshed. Things are very unstable. They think they're stable at this point with Jeroboam, but they're going downhill real quick. As I say, in just five years they're going to start seeing assassinations and instability. Now to the east of them is the mighty nation of Assyria. The Syria was a powerful nation, and if it wanted to expand, the only way it could go was west into Israel and then down into Egypt. During Jeroboam's reign, Assyria was preoccupied with a number of its own troubles. But after Jeroboam More and more Assyria was beginning to become more aggressive, and it was ominous for Israel at that point. So Hosea is again saying, you are living in a dream world. You think that because there is a strong army here, that you're safe. And so the political issue of that day was that some Israelites were saying, let's ally ourselves with Assyria Let's join them so that we're not enemies. Others would say, no, no, no, no. Let's ally ourselves with Egypt against the Syria. So you had the pro-Assyria party and you had the pro-Egyptian party. The prophets of the Old Testament were uniformly saying, neither, neither one, trust God who you can't see. Don't always go to something you can see for your security. You see Assyria, it looks strong, so you run to it, or you see Egypt, it looks strong, you run to it. Trust The Lord of the covenant who has brought you into existence in this land. Trust him to protect you. And that's what Hosea keeps trying to wake them up to see. Trust the Lord. Don't trust what you can see. And isn't it the same in America? It's so hard for us, isn't it? Even as Christians, to trust a God that we cannot see. We want to trust the things we can see. We want to trust military might or our finances or our 401k or whatever that we can see. And Hosea's messages to the people, stop insisting on trusting only what you can see. Again, thirty years from then. Israel would be wiped off, that is the ten northern tribes, those people would be removed from the face of the earth so that to this day you cannot trace any person's lineage to any of those twelve tribes. The dynasty was completely obliterated. God says, trust me. And then the third false security, that's the worst of all, was their spiritual false security. The spiritual false security. You see, in this setting up of these little worship aids of the calf idols People were going to worship there, and they began more and more to introduce elements of Baal worship into the Jewish worship. So Baal, because he was responsible in the Canaanite religion, Baal was responsible for fertility and productivity. So they began to dichotomize their thinking. They would come to their worship services and they would say our spiritual needs are met by worshiping the God of the Bible. But you know, for the real practical day-to-day stuff, you need a bail around. Because you see, through bail, they practiced what was called imitative magic. Now imitative magic sort of works like this. You want rain, so you get a pitcher of water and you pour it out with a ceremony onto the ground. You say, You want rain? So here's the water. Now, may there be water that comes down like this. You got an enemy, get a little doll, stick a pin in it. You know, that's the end of your enemy. You thought that by acting out certain little things that in the prayer to the powers that there are, that there would be this transference of power so that the thing would actually happen. So when it comes to crops, when it comes to fertility, basic issues of life, they thought that Baal had a consort Anat, and that when the two of them had relations, then the world, the earth became fertile. So in order to move things on a little bit, they set up high places of temple prostitution. in order to act out the fertility that they were asking for the Baals to give, all the time worshiping Yahweh, the Lord of the Bible Spiritually, we're relating to him, but in our day-to-day, it's purely a pragmatic, imitative, magic, how do we function? by some means to lay hold of a God that we can control, and so you have ultimately the unification of Canaanite and Jewish religion. That's why Hosea, for those of you that read it or read it this week, that's why Hosea says time and time and time again, the indictment against adultery and prostitution. both physically and spiritually. Hosea is saying, guys, wake up. It was what you might call what I call Everglades evangelicalism. You know what Everglades evangelicalism is? Miles wide and a foot deep. And that's the way these people thought that they were sincere, practicing, spiritual, evangelical Jews. But they had introduced all these false securities into their religion that were the real way they were operating on the day-to-day in that kind of dichotomy which has remarkable parallels. to 21st century evangelicalism in America. You take, for instance, Michael Horton, this quote. Evangelical Christians are as likely to embrace the lifestyles every bit as hedonistic, materialistic, self-centered, and sexually immoral as the world in general. Or from Ronald Sider. Whether the issue is divorce, materialism, sexual promiscuity, racism, physical abuse in marriage, or neglect of a biblical worldview The polling data, that's generally referring to George Barna and the Gallup polls, the polling data point to widespread blatant disobedience of clear biblical moral demands on the part of people who allegedly are evangelical born-again Christians. The statistics are devastating. For example, you wrote this book, The Scandal of the Evangelical Conscience. That was a couple of years ago. The statistics continue the same in terms of materialism. Giving continues to decline. as um people's incomes have risen so that right now the typical evangelical gives significantly less proportionately of their income to the church than they would have given in the nineteen sixties. Currently only six percent of American evangelicals tithe. The average Christian, that is according to the statistics, the average person calls themselves a born-again Christian. The average one gives just over 4% of their income. Treasures are clearly here. They're not lifestyles are not observably different from those of their neighbors or the rest of the world. Divorce rates currently are about the same among professed evangelical Christians as the rest of the world. Sexual immorality by the latest polls is not that much different. But the interesting thing is if you take within that large sector, 35-40% of America that considers themselves evangelicals, you take within that a small section of those who not only call themselves that, but ascribe to certain biblical teachings which call a wor biblical worldview of who God is and lordship and some of those things. If you take people who subscribe to that, the statistics change radically. The giving is far higher, sexual immorality far lower Marriage, much more stable. So it seems like within general American evangelicalism, God is calling out a people Who are understanding that there's something to what Hosea is saying here that we better wake up to. There's something about the gospel that is deeper than free grace. and prosperity teaching. Now, how does God respond to this? What I want to do just very briefly for you now we'll pick up next week is to talk about a tension that God presents in Hosea that is an amazing tension. It's sort of obvious from one point of view. And yet, if you feel what God is saying, it has to grab you if you're ever going to understand the gospel. And it's the tension between his justice and his love. On the one hand, God is quite clear what you are doing requires that I judge, punish, and in fact obliterate you. For instance, in chapter 13, in verses 1 to 3, you see there that he talks about Ephraim, that's another name for the ten northern tribes. He became guilty of Baal worship and died. Now they sin more and more. They make idols for themselves from silver, cleverly fashioned images, all of them the work of craftsmen. Instead of these people, they offer human sacrifice He would sacrifice their babies to the flames of Moloch, that detestable vile god, and kiss the calf idols. Therefore, they will be like the morning mist. It's going to disappear, it's going to be wiped away, like the early dew that disappears, like calves swirling from a threshing floor, like smoke escaping through a window This is my nature. I must judge it. Verse 16. The people of Samaria must bear their guilt because they have rebelled against their God. They will fall by the sword, and the rest he goes on. So God is saying, I must judge this evil. On the other hand, he speaks about the covenant he's made with them and how his heart yearns for them. For instance, in chapter 11. He says, How can I give you up, Ephraim? How can I hand you over, Israel? How can I treat you like Adnah? How can I make you like Zeboim? Those were cities of the plains that got destroyed. My heart is changed. Literally, the Hebrew is turned over. My heart's turning over within me. All my compassion is aroused. I will not carry out my fierce anger. Nor will I turn and devastate Ephraim. I will not come in wrath. Well, why? Are you going to deny your justice? And what God does is he describes himself in terms of two relationships with Israel. The first is of a father to a son. And as a father to a son, he says things like this in Hosea 11. When Israel was a child, I loved him. And out of Egypt I called my son. Now you probably recognize that as the closest thing to a specific messianic prophecy in Hosea. It's the passage, it's the verse that Matthew quotes concerning Jesus when he was taken down to Egypt and then brought back after Herod was trying to kill him. So God describes this relationship. Matthew picks up on that. But if you read as you read in Hosea, you can see he's not relationship Prophesying about what's going to happen to Jesus, he is describing his relationship as a father to Israel as his son when he brought them out of Egypt in the past. Then he describes how he continued working with her. The more I called Israel, the further they went from me. They sacrificed to the bales, they burned incense to images. It was I who taught Ephraim to walk, taking them by the arms, but they didn't realize it was I who healed them. I led them with the cords of human kindness, with ties of love. I lifted the yoke from their neck and I bent down to feed them. See the tender picture. And that's why he says then in verse eight, how can I give you up? You're my son. I can't turn you over. So how is he going to resolve this? The climax of Hosea is in chapter 14. And in chapter 14, God does something that is staggering in the light of the first 13 chapters. He says in verse 1, return, O Israel. There's an invitation. Return. Return to the Lord your God. Your sins have been your downfall. So now take words with you. Return to the Lord. Say to him, forgive all our sins. and receive us graciously, that we may offer the fruit of our lips, not a sacrifice of a bull or something to a calf. But he's saying, Come, let your words express your heart. Come to me. Say, we realize now Assyria cannot save us, we will not mount war horses, we will never again say our gods, to what our own hands have made. For in you the fatherless find compassion. Now that's the that's the prayer of confession. That's coming back to God. What is he saying? Too late? Gone? I've got my justice. And how do I reconcile that? He says something staggering. Verse 4 I will heal their waywardness and love them freely. For my anger has turned away from them. I will be like the dew to Israel. He will blossom like a lily, like a cedar of Lebanon. He will send down his shoots. His young shoots will grow, his splendor will be like an olive tree, his fragrance like a cedar of Lebanon. Men will dwell again in his shade. But now notice back again at verse 4. That one critical little word. I will love them freely. Freely. Very interesting word. When the Old Testament translators of the Hebrew into the Greek It's called the Septuagint, when they translated the Old Testament into Greek. The word that they used in verse 4 for freely is a word that means two things. It means no payment So I will love them, and they can't buy it. I will love them freely. I will give my love to them. But the other thing that word means is no reason. There is no reason that they can come up with that I will love them. Now, here's the thing that always gives me shivers. You read in the New Testament, and you come to the book of Romans, where Paul talks about how we all stand guilty before God. We've all broken his law. We come without any excuse. And in Romans chapter 3, at the dramatic conclusion of his presentation of the gospel, He says in verse 22, this the righteousness, this righteousness from God. Now he says, you don't have any righteousness. And if God's going to treat you justly, then he's going to condemn your sin. You will stand before him, and you will be condemned to hell. But there's another righteousness, he says. This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no difference, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. The word that he uses there freely is the same word in the Greek translation of Hosea 14:4. I will love them freely. I will justify them freely. Again, what does it mean? There is no payment that we can make. Jesus made the one and only payment once for all for your sin. You are justified freely in Jesus Christ and only in him. Secondly, there is no reason. Jesus uses this word. The word is also used in Psalm 65, and Jesus quotes that in John when he says They hated me without cause. That's Psalm 65. The word without cause is that same word. Freely. They hated me freely. That is There was no reason to hate Jesus. So you see what he's saying? There is just as much reason for God to love you and to Bestow his grace upon you as there is for the world to hate Jesus. It doesn't come from within you, it comes from within him. But you hear that and you say, yeah, but you know that's what the people in in Hosea's day were saying, you say, that's it, man, free grace, that's great. See, our lives don't need to change. That's the cry of American evangelicalism. But Paul goes on, after chapter 4 and 5, to expand on this, to come at the end of chapter 5 to say, now, if that's the kind of free grace it is, There's probably some of you saying, hey, the more we sin, the more the grace, right? That just more glory to God, the more grace. And he says in Romans chapter 6 and verse 1, what shall we say then? Shall we go on sinning so the grace may increase? By no means. You see, he says we died to sin, not just to the penalty of sin. When Jesus came with the gospel, he came so that you would die to sin. How then can we live in it any longer? And he goes on for the next verse to say, you used to be a slave to sin. But when Jesus Christ came and your heart was changed by that forgiveness, it changed your nature. So he concludes that in verse 22, but now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves to God. The benefit you reap leads to holiness, and the result is eternal life. You see, he's saying, when your heart is really changed by Jesus Christ, Then that heart that loved sin dies. Sin is part of a nature That is now dead, and there is a new nature, and that nature struggles with sin, but it wants to please God. It wants to have him as the center of your values and of your being. Is that the gospel that has changed your life? We must distinguish ourselves, brothers and sisters, from the general popular Christianity that we hear that says that Grace is free, and therefore we can continue to sin and enjoy all the pleasures of this world and not look any different. Because that was the message that Hosea had to the people of that time. Wake up. Wake up. This gospel is a life-transforming gospel. Have you experienced that? Or do you need to come to Jesus Christ to see that gospel take root in your heart? The second image that Hosea uses to describe the gospel. Not only of a father to a son, but as a husband to a prostitute. And that's what we're going to look at next week. Let's pray Lord, we we are so prone to play at religion. We are so pl prone to To want to categorize our spiritual lives from the day-to-day way that we actually live. To feel spiritually fulfilled and satisfied By certain things that we give an acknowledgement to, but then to have the bales that are the way that we function To trust in what we can see rather than a God that we cannot see or control or manipulate In large we pray our view of you to see your character, to see your holiness To see how it cost you the life of your own son to reconcile your justice with your mercy and for us to come to that Jesus. Who transforms our lives not only by forgiving our sins, but also freeing us from slavery to sin. Uniquely, only He can do that. We come to him now. For that to occur in my life. I pray, Lord, speak to each one of us here. To respond to you in Jesus' name. Amen