Beginning with verse 57. As evening approached, there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who had himself become a disciple of Jesus. Pilate, he asked for Jesus' body, and Pilate ordered that it be given to him. Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock. He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb and went away. Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there opposite the tomb. The next day, the one after preparation day, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to plant. Sir, they said, We remember that while he was alive, that deceiver said, After three days I will rise again. So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal the body and tell people that he has been raised from the dead. This last deception will be worse than the first. Take a guard, finally answered. Good. Make the tomb as secure as you know how. And so they went and made the tomb secure by putting a seal on the stone and posting the guard. After the Sabbath, at dawn, on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. It was a Earthquake. But the angel of the Lord came down from heaven and going to the tomb, rolled back the stone and settled it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow. The guards were so afraid of him But they shook and became like dead men. The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid But I know that you are looking for Jesus who was crucified. He is not here. He is risen, just as he said Come and see the place where he lives. Then go quickly and tell his disciples. He is risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him. Now, I have told you. So the women hurried away from the tomb, afraid and yet filled with joy, and ran to tell his disciples. Suddenly Jesus met them. Greetings, he said. They came to him, clasped his feet, and worshiped him. Then Jesus said to them, Gre Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. There they will see me. In the scripture that we've just read, there are three references to the stone. The stone that sealed the tomb That large heavy disk, perhaps about four feet in diameter, weighing several hundred pounds, verse sixty of chapter twenty-seven refers to this as a big stone. It was a big stone and the women were afraid that they would not be able to move it and wondered how they would ever get into the tomb. Verse 66 tells us that it was a sealed stone. It had robes hand-off sealed on it. And chapter 28, verse 2 tells us that it was a rolled stone. He was a stone that had been supnaturally removed. The stones have a lot of significance in Scripture. I don't know if you've ever noticed that, but there's a lot of meaning to stones. They often speak as witnesses for God. And I believe that this stone is the most significant stone in all of Scripture, and that its message is a very significant message to us, but one that's often missed in the louder voices of Easter. And so I believe that this is So this morning want to give us at least five messages, five points in its profound silence, if we have just take the time and the trouble to discover them and to listen carefully. Five points that this stone wants to make to us about the significance of the message of Easter. Let's take a look at what the stone says. First of all, it speaks as a shaken stone. You see this in the Bolton outline if you follow along with that. It's a shaken stone. Look verse 1 and 2 of chapter 28. On the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. And there was a violent earthquake. For an angel of the Lord came down from heaven and going to the tomb rolled back the stone and saw it. There had been another violent earthquake just three days before, great sporadic, that afternoon, at the moment of Jesus' death, chapter 27, verses 50 and 51 tell us that there was a violent earthquake that spread. Flip the rocks when Jesus died. Many times in Scripture, at significant points of God's action, we read of stones and earthquakes Of stones being shaken, of rocks being moved, of even mountains being shaken. When God constituted his people to be his very own people and brought them out of Egypt and brought them down to Mount Sinai. Before God spoke, we read in Exodus nineteen verse eighteen, that the entire mountain shook, and it trembled violently, and smoke came from it. Because God was about to reveal Himself in a very special way. I'll tell you, the people who were gathering around Mount Sinai, there was no problem of attention span, you know. I mean, can you imagine that you're standing all day and you hear now God's going to speak in this whole mouth? and begins to tremble and shake. You see, earthquakes are God's way of getting our attention. You know, when God shakes the whole earth, he says, I'm going to say something, and I want your attention before I speak. I sometimes wish that I had that capacity. You know, maybe if I could shake the story Man, when you are walking along and all of a sudden you feel the ground begin to tremble, you know that there's a power there that is greater than anything that you have. And so this is God's way throughout the scripture of saying, I am about to speak or do something that you need to pay very close attention to, and I want your attention. In chapter Psalm 18, You read of an earthquake. And it's a very significant earthquake. Because at that point the psalmist is crying from death. He says, The cords of death have gathered around me, and they've taken hold of me, and here I am at death, and I cry out to God, God, can you save me? But the answer is, God says in Psalm eighteen, that the whole earth trembled and quaked and the mountains shook. Then what happened? Verse 17, God delivered him from death. That's a prophecy of the resurrection. You see the same kind of thing in Haggai. Haggai in chapter 2, a passage that nobody would know much about except that Hamel put it. Into his Messiah. And so you always think of that person when you read this verse, this is what the Lord Almighty says, referring to the days of Messiah. In a little while, I will once more shake the heavens and the earth. The sea and the dry land and I will shake the nations and the desired of all the nations will come and I will fill this house with glory. You know, you always think of that fellow, and I will say, hey, hey, you know what I'm saying? Just picture shaking of God and his power. And this is God's word speaking to us about his power revealed. Can you imagine the power that it took? To raise one from the dead. I mean, since that day, no one has ever done it. All of our scientific discoveries and high-tech achievements, even nuclear power, pal. With its power, in comparison with the power that it takes to raise a dead person to life No one has ever done it. I mean we're not talking about resuscitation now. We're not talking about somebody who might have been dead for a little bit and you bring it back to life and he dies again. We're talking about one here who is dead and is made alive and never died again. He conquered death. That power. God just introduced this, I'm going to shake the whole earth. So that you understand that it is by power. That I bring Jesus Christ back from the dead. And you know something more fantastic? The Bible says that God's intention, that the stone speaks to you, to say, it is God's purpose for you to know that power. Do you know that? See, those of you who are part of Columbia Presbyterian ought to know exactly what I'm talking about. Because that's part of our purpose as a church. Remember? Ephesians 1. Verse 18, Paul says, I pray that the eyes of your heart might be in life. So that you will know, verse 19, he's in growth, incomparably great powers worth us who believe This power, he says, is like the power that he exerted when he raised Christ from the dead. Because on in chapter 3, we say that power is so great that works in us that it is able to do incomparably, immeasurably beyond any. Anything that we can ask or imagine. Paul said in Philippians chapter three, verse ten, My purpose, my driving goal of life is to know him and the power of his resurrection. You see, God wants for you and for me to know his power. And whatever it is in your life now, you need to realize that no matter how much that seems to overwhelm you and have you so feeling invulnerable and have you feeling absolutely Powerless. God says if you are in Jesus Christ, that power that shut the earth and brought Jesus back to life is the power that I want for you to experience in this problem in your life. I want to show you my power at work in you. Tom Bird told me that this week a fellow died at Charlestown that he knew And he said he saw that man laying there, stiff and cold and dead. And he realized there was nothing that would ever make that man move again He was gone. Life had gone out of him. But the power of Jesus Christ has come And he has conquered that death. And the power of God has caused Jesus to move that stone and to walk out of the tomb. Now that brings us to the second point. Why was the stone moved? It's a barrier stone. And so the stone speaks to us as a barrier that's been removed. The stone, you see, was a barrier to separate the living from the dead. It sealed the tomb. It sealed in the dead from the living. And women wondered, how in the world were they going to get into that tomb? There was a large barrier there. There was a stone that sealed them from the body of Jesus. And so my sins and your sins are a barrier that separates us from life. Our sins produce a barrier of death. Because in God's justice and all works, our death is the punishment for our sin. And that's a great barrier that none of us can remove. But praise God, the Bible tells us that Jesus came and he died, the perfect Lamb. And that his debt paid in full, his payment of his blood paid in full the debt that we owed for our sin. And so Romans tells us that Jesus was raised for what? For our justification. That means that Jesus had paid the penalty of the debt that we owed for our guilt. So that when God raised him from the dead, that showed the debt was paid in full. The barrier now had been removed. Blow aside. No longer was that barrier there between us and life. God has removed it through the payment of Jesus Christ on the cross. And because he has been raised from the dead, we see that God has accepted that payment. In full. And so the barrier is removed. You notice the stone isn't focused. It's flung aside. It's tossed aside by the angel. Like Samson, when he was held by the Philistines as captive in Gath, and you remember they thought that they finally had God's healer. And then Samson walked out. He picked up the whole city gates, the post, the bar, the beams, and the whole thing, and he teared them away forty miles. The disdain of those who would seek to hold God's power captive. When you look at my Jesus. And Jesus has walked out of the tomb and he has taken the stone, that barrier to life, and he has sprung it from here to eternity. And the barrier is no more. Do you notice in verse 2 why there was the earthquake? Some people get this confused. There was a violent earthquake because for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and going to the tomb he rolled back the stone. It wasn't the earthquake that moved the stone. The earthquake was simply the prelude. The prelude to the fact that there now comes one to say the stone is a barrier removed. And he takes it and he flings it aside. Because the barrier between life and death is no more in Jesus Christ. The barrier is removed. Now take it. If you're a Baptist, we'd be there. Amen or two around it. We have life, brothers and sisters. Amen. So what is that there? But the stone speaks not only of the barrier that has been moved, the barrier that has been so put aside that the angel notice in verse 2 takes that stone and he rolls it down. He lays it down. On its side as a slab, and he sits on it as a mark of the triumph of Jesus Christ. But he calls attention to it as a memorial stone. And that's the third way the stone speaks to us. It's a memorial stone. When Joshua led God's people from the wilderness into the promised land, he had to go through the Jordan. And the Jordan, in its flood, was too much to trust, to go through, to pour. And so God had to part the Jordan River. He dried up the Jordan so God's people can walk through on dry land. And after he did that, he told Joshua, Joshua, take twelve stones from out of the riverbed of the Jordan and put them up on Gilgal. Put them there as a memorial. Why? For two reasons. Number one, he says, so that in the days to come your kid's going to say, hey, that was a Pasco is going over there. We say that's a reminder to us. The fact that God brought us through the Jordan, into this land, to give it to us, the land of redemption, his kingdom And he brought us into this land. He parted the Jordan so that we could come through. The rivers dried up before the ark of his covenant. And he brought us into this land. God did that The second reason it's given in Joshua chapter 4 verse 24, not only so his people would know. But in Joshua 4, 24 we read, It is so all the earth will know that God's hand is a hand of power. to see and that we are to fear him alone. So when anybody else walking through the land saw that part of stones and we ain't got those stones laying on it They say, because God brought us through the Jordan. God is the one who could part the rivers. God is the one who could supernaturally dry it up and bring us into his kingdom. And so the stones in Scripture are memorials oftentimes. And there we see that one But it's the fulfillment of all that the Ark of Covenant symbolized. The very presence of God has now come through, and that one has come with his own blood. On the mercy seat. And he's come through it, and the floods of death have parted for him. And so the Ark of the Covenant, Jesus Christ Himself, has walked through the floods of death, and they've parted and they can stay back. And he now has come through. When he's walked out of the tomb, and Jesus Christ comes so that he can bring us into his kingdom. And he says you need to remember that. But You see, that's what this thing is saying. But Christianity has adopted for whatever reason the cross as its symbol. Now that's a very good symbol, and there's nothing particularly wrong with that Yeah, if people have crosses hanging from their necklaces and their ankles and their wrists and everything, you've got crosses all over the place. I had a cross in the mail the other day, a wooden cross. So here go do something with this. I don't know what they want me to do. I'd probably buy another 20 of them or something. Crosses are all over the place. places the simple, easy, you'll have to put two things together and get across. But the Bible tells us that the stone is a memorial. The stone In Joshua is the memorial that reminds us of God's redemption. This is the stone that finally figures and symbolizes the victory of Jesus Christ. And so a stone would be at least as if not worse though a memorial. Now I don't have a little round stone disc if you don't I can just picture. If we were to take stones, little discs, you know, the thing as I say with about four feet, you know, so but just take a little stone. You know, when you hang up from a necklace or whatever you do at the end. Can you imagine somebody has a stone on his basket work or in the in the living room in your home or wherever you work or whatever you do? Somebody comes in and they say, Hey, what's that stone doing? Where'd you get that? You know that's fair. You remind me that Jesus has risen. Oh yeah? You believe that? I sure do. It's my only hope. What's your hope? You see the stone is a memorial. It reminds you of me because we're so forgetful. I I am a dead alive person. Jesus has given me life because he's risen. And that that gives me such joy. I But I'm gonna tell the whole world, Oh, they take the people when they're coming out of a safe way, you know, to get them in the parking lot. Whenever they are, do you remember Jesus is risen? We do that some Easter morning, you know, it takes somebody just walking the hall. Praise God, Jesus has risen. They look at you kind of strange, but I've never had a negative reaction to that. Because there's something of the hope of Christ that's attracted The stone is a memorial that all the world should know. Jesus has risen this day. The birthway, if the stone speaks to us, is as a foundation stone. It's a foundation stone. Stones are used again and again in scripture to speak of foundations. Remember Jesus told the story of the man who built his house on the rock compared to the man who built his house under sand. Foundations of different kinds, the sand of course washed away, the rock remained. The scripture tells us that the snow. That Jesus Christ is the chief cornerstone of our faith, of the church. He is the foundation. He's the true rock. He's the cornerstone, Ephesians and Peter tell us. And the the resurrection is the foundation of our faith in Jesus. Without the resurrection, there's nothing First Corinthians chapter fifteen tells us in verse thirteen, If Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. If Christ has not been raised again, verse 17, your faith is beautiful. And you are still in your sins Imagine for a moment that someone could disprove the resurrection. Finally it comes to light. The stone wasn't rolled back by an angel. The fact that somehow the disciples managed to do that and they stole the body. And the whole thing was just a hoax. And the trust in Jesus is risen is simply deceit and delusion. Did you realize what a difference that would make in your life? All of your hope for meaning based on absolence, for violence, for sin forgiving, for hope of life after death Would all be utterly useless. If the resurrection is not true, the rest of Christianity is absolute deceit and delusion. But praise God, the witnesses are reliable. For the witnesses are many, not just one or two, up to 501 point. The witnesses are varied. It's not just one group of people, men and women, doubters like Thomas that you'll hear about next week, and others who wanted more to believe. All kinds of people believed and testified to Jesus as risen. They're not only many and buried, but the data itself is inexplicable any other way. You remember last year we considered on Easter morning the three questions that the man answers. Who moved the stone? If not the angel? Who was it that took the body if it wasn't raised? Who can account for the motives of the disciples Three questions. Who moved the stone? Who took the body? Who changed the disciples so that those who were cowards and in despair came with a message that transformed the world and gave their lives for it? is the foundation stone of our belief. And so the angel took that stone and he laid it down and he sat on it. To call attention to the fact that this is no longer a barrier, it's a foundation, a foundation to build our lives on. And then finally, it comes as a barrier stone. It speaks to us as a barrier stone, a stone that divides people just as millions and fences divide barons. The guards come, complacent and snug and empowered, and they guard the tomb of this dead Jew who had been crucified. And the stone is rolled away, and we read in verse four that they shook and they became like dead men. The women come. Fearful, despairing, hopeless to the tomb. The stone is rolled away, and the women are filled with hope and joy and new life. The stone divides. The stone divides people in this room. Is the stone to you joy because Jesus Christ is yours? Or is the stone a rock of a face? Because the resurrection has no meaning for you personally. The stone divides Colombia, the surrounding communities, the United States, the entire world is divided over this stone. To some it is a rock of offense. To others, it is a stone of joy and hope. What about you this morning? Is this stone a stone which pictures to you life in Jesus Christ, your own personal safety? Or is this stone to you A stone of utter terror, as you consider the fact that maybe it will be true that one day you will stand before a holy God in your sin. You cannot be neutral to this stone. You are on one side of it or the other. You stand with the guards in terror or you stand with the women in hope. The stone divides. It is a boundary. There's good news. Even if this morning you say yes I can see now God's speaking to my heart and I believe it could be real. And I believe just as a fellow I talked to this week, Talk to him, I asked him through black, what is your relationship to Jesus Christ? And he says, I don't think I really have any I said, what do you think would happen to you if you die? Because I think I'd go to help. They said, but you can know that you can have life And you this morning can know that you can have life. And if you don't know it now But I asked you, speak to one of us. Speak to neighborhood to say, hey, I'd like to talk to you about that. Put in the friendship register Uh, you know, I guess I was already passed. I don't know, I get it, uh, you know, so you can somewhere, leave a note. Anyway, give me a call, call the office, and I want to know more How can I know Jesus Christ personally? Let us know. Even if you put your name in the friendship register and put your number there, we can get in touch with you and give you that opportunity. That you might know that Jesus Christ is your What is the soul saying to you this morning? The soul is a shaping stone. Does it speak to you of the power of God in resurrection that He wants you to know in your own life this day? That resurrection power that can overcome whatever problem. That you see in your life that you feel utterly incapable of handling. Does the stone speak to you as the removed stone The barrier that's been taken away. And you have perhaps for this Easter for the first time in your life the assurance of sin forgiven, of life in Jesus Christ with no barrier. Between you and God, because Jesus Christ has taken it away. But does the stone speak to you this morning of the memorial stone? A stone Whose attention we need to we need to give that word a stone who we need to give attention to so that we remember Frequently, Jesus Christ is risen, and we are a risen people. Does the soul speak to you this morning? That's the foundation. So that you say with all the questions and the perplexities and the trouble. troubles that I have, one thing is sure in my life. Jesus is risen. And that's settled. That's the foundation of my life. And I can build everything else like that. And if the stone speaking to you the morning as a boundary. Does it speak to you this morning of the fact that you can no longer be neutral? You can no longer say it's nice to be here with people talking about the hope of Easter and lilies and flowers and new life in the spring. But there's a Lord, Jesus Christ, and He's risen. And he offers me life because He's risen. But that life comes from my giving myself to Him. What is the stone saying to you this morning? When you took at the stone Think of what it wants to tell you. Let's pray. We come to you as a people who need to see in our mind's eye once again that stone. Lord, we need to be reminded of that stone every day. Lord, it it becomes so easy for us as people to live. our rules and regulations and traditions and habits, and we begin to become enslaved again to our sin. Lord, remind us that we are a resurrected people. The power of the resurrection is ours. Hallelujah, Lord. What a power that you have made available to us. Oh Lord God, speak to us through that shaken and removed and flown aside, laid down. stone. You are your people to know that power. Here we pray. But if there is one or two or more here this morning and that do not know you. Lord, we pray that you would make that person uncomfortable in a holy uncomfortableness. I even pray about the miserable so that they will not be able to remain with a kind of complacency like the guards. It will finally turn to terror And faced by you. Oh Lord, we pray that you would make no The resurrected Christ to us. No. We continue to pray now. I didn't plan to do this. Yeah, I've been uh even fighting it for the last few seconds, but I I feel um mute perhaps by the word the papery face this time If there is anybody who is saying, yeah, I would like to know more about that. I really don't know if I know Jesus personally as my own. I'm really not sure which side of that boundary I'm on. Perhaps it would be easier for you now to just slip up your hand so that I'll know that and we can get in touch. Rather than to wait until your concern for that has gone away. So I want to give that opportunity right now. If there's anyone who says, I'd really like to know more about that. I want to know that I have eternal life through Jesus Christ. Would you just for a moment slip up your hand, put it down, and we'll get in touch later Is there any one person who would like to know and isn't sure? Give it just a moment to think about that. And so on. And speak to me after or anyone else. But we're faced here with death and with life. And we thank you that the terrors of death have been vanquished. We pray that each and every one of us would be able to leave celebrating. Life through Jesus Christ as our own. In Jesus' name. Amen.