Well this year we are preparing for Christmas by looking at the prophecies of Hosea and Joel. Let me urge you for next Sunday as I Said for Hosea, please read the book of Joel. It's only three chapters, about three pages. You should be able to find some time in your week to read Joel and I'll hop the message to make a lot more sense to you. And don't forget this afternoon before we come to the Lord's Supper, there is a five o'clock prayer meeting. You can come anytime to join that uh prayer meeting, but uh I'll just tell you that be we'll begin at five o'clock with a brief devotional on faith. And so if you want to uh be part of that then come for at five o'clock and after that we'll just continue on praying. Israel, as we have been seeing in the book of Hosea, was not living by faith. They were very religious, very spiritual people. They would come to worship, they would sing us praise, but on a day-to-day basis, they lived in an absolute dichotomy For their daily needs for having children for having produce, a harvest, the rest of the things that they needed They would go up to the high places to worship the Baals through these magic rites that they thought would give them the things that they looked for. They would go to Assyria and Egypt in order to have security, national security and peace. And so they lived this kind of dichotomy Saying that they were God's people, saying that they trusted him, but on a day-to-day basis, they actually were only trusting what they could see and touch and count on by sight. So Hosea warned them, you cannot live that way. You cannot profess to be God's people and on a day-to-day basis live as if he doesn't matter. In fact, if you continue down that road, God is going to destroy the nation. He is going to scatter you. And Hosea preached that for about 40 years. And before he was finished, it was fulfilled. Israel was absolutely scattered among the nations by the Assyrians and were no more. Now we said last week that Hosea used two illustrations of relationships in order to describe how God related to us. The first we said was that God used the picture of a father to a son. In Hosea 11, out of Egypt I have called my son, do you remember? And Matthew says that meaning of that is filled up in Jesus. It's kind of like uh if a dad brings his three-year-old son here to the ministry center, pulls out into the parking lot. And immediately the kid jumps out of the car and starts running toward 108. And he yells, Come back, come back, don't go out there. And the kid just keeps on running. God says, that's the way you are, Israel. I called you. Come back. Come back. And you ignore me. That's the first relationship. And he talks about his longing for his son. The second relationship he describes is the one that is given to us in chapters 1 to 3, that God is a husband to Israel, his wife. He says that when I made the covenant with you, that was like a covenant of marriage. I was pledging myself to be faithful to you. You were pledging yourself to be faithful to me. And the first three chapters of Hosea, if you read the book, and if you didn't, you still got a chance. You know, you know nobody's saying you can't read it this week. But It's first three chapters are kind of like the attention grabber. It it fastens your attention to see How low Israel had gone in their unfaithfulness to God, and how unbelievable was God's mercy and love to Israel. I would like to describe it, but probably the better thing is to introduce you to Hosea and let him speak for himself. Thank you. Greetings. I am known as the prophet of a broken heart, but I would rather be known as the prophet of love and hope. Come with me to the outskirts of Samaria and see my wife over there under the oak tree, Gomer. See with her our firstborn son, Jezreel. He's now eighteen, and he is strong and has a heart for God. Next to him is our daughter, Ruima. She's sixteen now, with raven hair like her mother, who I love with all my heart. And then there's our 13-year-old Ami. Amy is full of life and full of vivacity, like the brook that you hear burbling behind him. We're at peace now, but it wasn't always so. God told me specifically to marry her. That was back in the days of our prosperity. When we as a nation under Jeroboam II were living in prosperity and affluence. Caravans would come down from Assyria and up from Egypt, and they would pay us taxes and sold us rich goods. Incomes were up. We lived well. But Jeroboam I had years before that cut us off from the southern part of our nation. We were forbidden to go down to Jerusalem to worship, and so he set up these calf gods, these idols. And people would go to worship there and they would say that they served and loved God, but they really were going after these calf idols. And and through these they would practice magic rites in order to get the things that they thought those gods could provide. And so During the nighttime, you would hear the music of the priests and the laughter of the sacred prostitutes, and occasionally You would hear the screams of an infant being sacrificed to the flames of that vile god Malak. You may say, how could all this happen in the land of God's people? Well, it happened because the priests no longer taught the pure word of God. The priest began to just teach what people wanted to hear from their culture. And so the worship of God and the worship of the Baals was put together in in some hodgepodge religion. that used biblical language, but had no notion of the true biblical God I've tried to warn the people. God called me to do that. I warned them that they they couldn't keep him on the periphery of their lives and call themselves as people, that God could not stand that. He would have to intervene. They would be judged for that. But they wouldn't listen. It was during those days that I went to visit a family that we had known for years, our family with them. Head of that family was De Blyam. And as I was visiting with them, I saw a girl who I had known in our childhood, sort of thought of her as a pretty, sort of spoiled girl, but now she had grown into a beautiful woman. I couldn't take my eyes off of her. It was not long after that that God told me that I was to marry that woman as an illustration. Of Israel's unfaithfulness to him. And I couldn't make sense of that, but I was all too glad to obey that command. And so I asked for Gomer's hand and I was ecstatic. when she said yes. I was a little troubled by the fact that she seemed to have an unusual taste for expensive clothes and cosmetics and jewelry, seemed particularly to notice the attention of other men. And seem just a little bit more experienced in the ways of the world than I was comfortable with. But all that didn't seem to matter And so we stood beneath the flowered canopy and we stated our vows to one another to be faithful for all of our lives. We went off and we lived like the Song of Solomon for a couple of years. I loved her and she responded to me and it was wonderful. And after two years, she presented me with a son. And I was surprised when God said to name that son Jezreel. Jezreel. The valley of Jezreel is the valley of scattering, bloodshed. But that's what God said to Colin. After that time, it seemed that Gomer grew more distant from me. She was not as responsive to me. I noticed how she seemed to seek the approval of other men, and I noticed she became more sensual in her gestures. She didn't seem to want to open up to me, and it was difficult for us to be intimate. After two more years, she presented me with a daughter. I wondered if the daughter was my own. And God said to call that daughter Lo Ruama. Low Ruama? Low Ruama means not pitied. Because God said she was a picture of the fact that he would no longer pity his people. After La Rooma was born, Gomer was out more and more. Sometimes she would go out in the evening and not come back till the dawn. And whenever I raised questions about what she was doing, she flew into a rage and we couldn't discuss it. And then after a couple of more years She was pregnant again and had a son. This time I knew the son was not mine. God said to call that son, Lo-Ami. Lo Ami? Lord, that means not my people And God said, Yes, call him Loami, for these are not my people. These are no longer my people, and I am not their God. And that broke my heart to see what things had come to, and I realized that while Gomer was now openly rebellious. In fact, she now went away. And one day she went away and didn't come back. I didn't see her. I had to act as as father and mother to my three children. And my heart was breaking. And I thought, Lord. Lord, what how can I minister in such a situation? How am I able to declare your word when my heart was breaking? And then it dawned on me. That was the point. God wanted me not simply to declare That his heart was breaking because of the unfaithfulness of his people, he wanted me to be a display of that. That my broken heart would be a display of his heart to his people. And so I realized I had been called to the excruciating privilege of displaying a broken-hearted God. Imagine that. A sovereign God who is able to do whatever he wants is a broken-hearted God. It didn't make sense. But I continued to warn the people and to display his broken heart to them because I realized That in my own home I was displaying exactly what they were doing. They said that God was peripheral to their existence and was not needed. That's exactly what my wife had said to me. Lo Amy. It was like a thorn driven into my heart. Finally, I couldn't stand it any longer. And I had to set out to find what had happened to Gomer. And so I took off and I found some men wandering around Samaria. Found some men that said they had heard of her. Apparently she had quite a reputation. They told me where I could find her. They said she was living with an abusive merchant, but the word was out that he couldn't afford to keep her anymore. So when I tracked him down and found him, he of course backed off and thought I was there to get revenge. I told him no I don't want revenge. I simply want to know where is my wife. He told me that because he couldn't afford to keep her anymore, that she had left, that she had left. To become a priestess of Baal, a temple prostitute. I felt my heart turn to stone My precious Gomer. And people began to talk. Oh, here's Hosea the prophet that rails against Baal worship. What a hypocrite. His own wife is a priestess of Baal. Who does he think he is? And I realized that my reputation had been ground into the dirt. And then again it dawned on me. What Israel had done to the reputation of their God. We've taken God's reputation and we've ground it into the dirt by our living as if he didn't matter. And so once again I cried out to God. I cried out to him, identifying with his broken heart and my own brokenness. I went to the high place where they said she had gone. And the priest showed me where Gomer was. Pain upon pain. For Gilmer was no longer beautiful. She was haggard and unkempt. The years had not been good to her. The priest told me that they didn't have any use for her anymore and that next week she was going to be sold on the slave market. So the next week with broken heart I showed up to the slave market. And of course you know that slaves are sold naked so that people can investigate the merchandise and see what they're getting. And there I stood in a crowd before an auction block seeing my wife for all to gawk at and to make crude jokes about. And the beating began. Five shekels of silver. Do I hear six? Six. Do I hear seven? I said seven. Do I hear more? Eight, nine, ten, twelve, fifteen. I said fifteen. Another man said, fifteen and an omer of barley. And I said, fifteen and an omer and a half of barley. And the bidding ceased. The auctioneer said, Sold, take her away. I placed what remnants of clothing there were about her to shield her, and we walked off in silence. I didn't say anything to her about her sin. I didn't say anything to her about my broken heart. But finally, when we were away from the crowd, I simply said to her, I want to take you away with me to the desert. And there I want to woo you and win your love again. You are not to be with any other men. And you and I will not be intimate for some time until I have won your heart again, and then we will be man and wife. Brothers and sisters, do you see that while Hosea does not mention any prophetic announcement of Messiah, He presents the clearest possible picture of the work of Jesus Christ. Israel was scattered. Israel was carried away in its sin. And 720 years later, a poor couple out of Nazareth go down to Bethlehem, and they have a son. That son grows, and he is the perfect example of love, mercy, compassion. And that son goes to the slave market. Only at this slave market it's not Gomer. It's you and me. We are on the slave block, and the devil is bidding for your soul and your life. The bidding goes up and up and up. Until Jesus says, I will give for this one the most precious thing in all the universe. The blood of God. Now, why is the blood of God the most precious thing in all the universe? Because everything else in the universe can be simply replaced by a word of God. God Himself cannot replace the blood of His Son Do you want to know what love is like? Go to the slave market and watch Gilmer, watch Hosea. Bid for the life of his unfaithful wife. I don't know about you, but I don't understand that kind of love. I don't relate to that kind of love Think about the most moving love story of unrequited love you've ever heard. Perhaps of a husband whose wife has grown old with him and she has become a victim of Alzheimer's, and he continues tenderly to take care of her, even though she doesn't recognize him, and she abuses him in his tenderness. Think of the boyfriend whose girlfriend becomes pregnant by another boy and he says, I love you and I will marry you and I will raise that child as my own. Think of a woman who's been sexually abused by her father, and she is able to forgive her father. Have a relationship with him, and then when he becomes old and feeble and needs care, she cares for him. Whatever it is, whatever the stories you've heard, whatever you know, they don't hold a candle to the story of Hosea and his love for Gomer But Hosea's love for Gomer in the slave market does not hold a candle to the love of Jesus. Who with the price of his own blood bought his bride, you, for himself In Ephesians chapter 5, Paul says, Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. To make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the Word, to present her to Himself as a radiant church. Without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish but holy and blameless, you and I are Gomer Full of stains and wrinkles and unfaithfulness and we come to the Christmas season and we are more interested in finding out the best by and cruising the internet and going through the circulars than we are in picking up the scriptures and say, Let me understand your love. better. My heart is drawn to the other gods. And Jesus goes to the slave block. And he buys you back. Paul says this is a pattern for husbands in loving our wives. And I see Hosea in the slave market. And I see Jesus at Calvary. And I'm petulant And my patience is worn quickly thin with my wife putting something in the wrong place or making something inconvenient or doing something that irritates me. And I feel self-pity. And why can't she be this way so that she's easy to love? Do you know what love is? Go with Hosea. To the slave market. Go with Jesus to Calvary and see what love is But it's not just a pattern for husbands. It's a pattern for all of you. Because Paul had said at the beginning of chapter 5, be imitators of God. And live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, for you. His gomer for me. And you say, How do I love that person Where I've tried to reach out and I've tried to be kind and I've tried to do this and it's all unrequited and they continue to hurt me and there is nothing left And God says, go with Hosea to the slave market. Go with Jesus to Calvary. Where he buys back his bride, the church, and see what love is You see, this kind of love is not attained by white knuckled determination. It's attained. Only in part. But it's only attained in my life, and it's only attained in your life by remembering who you are. By remembering that you are Gomer, by going to the slave market And seeing there all your unfaithfulnesses, all the ways that your life in foolish, in silly, ridiculous ways has put off the lever of your soul. To see the extent that he would go to, to buy you back, because he will not let you go. It's interesting to me that when Peter describes the gospel, Peter Who in the Lord's greatest need forsook him, was unfaithful to him. How does Peter describe His new nature, your new nature, in his letter, 1 Peter In 1 Peter chapter 2 in verse 9, we read this, but you are a chosen people A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God. Those are all from Exodus 19, the establishing of the covenant whereby God became Israel's husband. So that you might declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. And then he moves to the language of Hosea. To describe his love. Peter says, Once you were not a people, Lo ami. But now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, Lo Ruma. But now you have received mercy if you have come to Jesus Christ. Have you received that love? That mercy Is he your God? And you are his child? Or do you say Lord, it's kind of busy now. How about I check with you after New Year's while I spend all this time shopping and celebrating your birth? Or do you say, as Peter goes on to say in verse eleven, dear friends, I urge you. as aliens and strangers in this world, to abstain from sinful desires, which war against your soul. The ironic thing about the Christmas season is there is no more time in all the year when the world wars for our souls, is there? And Peter says, live as those who recognize I'm an alien and I'm a stranger here And I will fight for my intimacy with Jesus Christ because that is the only way I become a loving person. It is by absorbing the depth and being overwhelmed by the breadth of his love for me. As he goes to the slave market to buy me back for himself. Is that worth 20 minutes a day to you this week? To go through again the story of Hosea, to see who you are, and to see The lover, Jesus, of your soul, no one has ever loved you like Jesus. Tim mentioned we have some people who are opposing us in the neighborhood about our appeals process. It's interesting to me that the very next verse in Peter's letter, verse 12, says, live such good lives. He's just said now, you who are not you were not a people, now you're the people of God, you were not with mercy, now you have received mercy, so live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, CPC is deceptive, it has its agenda, it's going on with this, and we really are not good neighbors, and in some ways perhaps we haven't been. But accusing us of various things, do we say, we will live such good lives among these people that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day that he visits us. We will say this is a ministry opportunity to show the love of Jesus Christ to sinners. Brothers and sisters, there is nothing that you and I need more than to be overwhelmed by the love of Jesus. Come with me to the cross to see that love for you. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus. Lord Jesus. We skim so lightly over the gospel and over your love, and then Hosea slaps us in the face. With a story that borderlines offensive A broken-hearted God jilted by an unfaithful wife Who humbles himself in shame to come and buy her back to woo her again to himself. We don't have categories for that kind of love Lord, as I have thought about that this week, I realized the gospel is not only amazing because it's true. No one could have even thought up a story like this. And you have lived it for us. Open our eyes. Tonight, as we come to the table and hold those elements, To remember, this is the price of my soul, paid willingly by my lover who bought me for himself. Overwhelm us this week that we might draw close to you and be bathed In the wooing of your love for us. In Jesus' name. Amen. As the offering is taken, I came a couple of years ago upon a surprising Christmas CD I purchased. To hear a number of carols I had never heard before. And one of those carols is a ballad that is based on Hosea. Listen and meditate, watch the words, and think of yourself in that song. The gestures come forward? Yeah, let me do that. Lord, we sang earlier in this service what a tiny offering I bring to you, but we bring it. When we think about your love, Lord, and we give back to you an offering of our money. It is simply a reflection of the fact we love you. And so receive it from hearts of worship and love and adoration. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let Christ the glorious lover have everlasting praise. He comes for to discover the She discards herself or to deny, To cast away her pleasures and make her honors bar, To cut with every notion that must her up with pride and take him over portion. Willingly refuses to yield up to his will, and in her she chooses her former lovers here. She pulls the door upon him and bids the Lord depart. We must have been sorrow nor let you have Yet Jesus loved us seen her and we must be thought for the price of wretched grief to reject my grace no more. Before my match was firmness, so rise and let me in, how can you be so cruel to bow your heart with sin? It's all then invitation will not excite your. Love with that condemnation, for I will not read She now begins to languish and not and hurt me. Her heart is full of anguish. She can be Her hopes are now departed and left her for the floor. Oh the broken heart and she rise, what shall I? Jesus has compassion still moving in his breast Intends to give salvation unto the soul's distress One glimpse of love and power makes her forget her pain She cries unhappy heart Is this the lovely girl? Is even my rejected down to me so low as but unexpected it hardly can be true. And still she cried for permanent words on thy mercy, I may I become a servant and fit to be a rod The marriages may rarely the party's eye The hope is of David and that is wretched seed The sinner is tired with raven feet and fight, The sins are being part of the sheet of the eye. They meet and fit together and mutually embrace The Saints and Angels wonder and the surprising grace. This union shall continue forever. All the same, and gulping part of the Christian and the Lamb. This union shall continue forever, all the same, and gulping part of the Christian and the