Uh series a couple of weeks ago because either I couldn't count or I forgot to look at a nineteen ninety seven calendar. I don't even remember which it is at this point, but I prepared five messages to fit into four weeks. So we began the first one. two weeks before Thanksgiving. They're based on Matthew chapter 1, where we have been noticing in his account of the birth of Jesus. That four times in four verses, Matthew makes a point of the fact that this Jesus who he's presenting to us. is the Christ. The word Christ is simply the word Messiah. And so he begins in verse 1, a record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, Jesus the Messiah. The son of David, the son of Abraham. And then he goes through the genealogy of Jesus from Abraham on down to Joseph in verse 16 And then ends it, and Jacob, the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ, Messiah. Verse 17, thus there were fourteen generations in all, from Abraham to David, fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to the Messiah. Verse 18, this is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about. And so Christ means Messiah. Whenever you read Jesus Christ, You ought to register in your mind that is saying that Jesus is the Messiah. Christ isn't his last name. It's a title. It means he's the Messiah. What does Messiah mean? And two weeks ago we looked at the meaning of Messiah, saw that it means the anointed one. Messiah, a messiah. There were many messiahs in the Old Testament. They were men who were simply anointed with a special perfumed fragrant oil that was poured on the head. And as that oil came down from the head and to the shoulders and the body, it signified that this person was chosen by God, was set apart as holy to God. This person was given special authority and was equipped For one of three offices that were carried out in the Old Testament. Either this person was being equipped with the authority of a prophet. to declare God's word to his people, or secondly he was being equipped as a priest in order to a offer the sacrifices and intercede on behalf of God's people? Or he was being equipped as the king in order to rule and to shepherd God's people. And so a Messiah was a person anointed for special office We're spending one week on each of these three offices because it is those offices more than anything else that you read in all of the Old Testament prophecies That speak of who Jesus, the Messiah, was to be and what he was to do. And I would submit that you cannot understand who Jesus is, and you cannot understand what he came to do for you. unless you understand the offices of prophet and priest and king. Because that's how he came. He came as Messiah, the one who combined in himself perfectly. God's final prophet, final priest, and final king for you and for me. And so we're looking this Christmas season to see what that means for us. That Jesus is my prophet, that he's my priest, and that he's my king, in order to be able to worship and rejoice that God has sent him. As Matthew has declared, the Messiah has come. This morning we begin with the first one then. Messiah as the prophet. Now perhaps at this point your mind is wandering a little bit, not only because you're wondering if I'm going to get through. this message and still be able to be heard, but also because you're wondering what relevance is this all to me? I mean, what does it really matter to me what old Testament prophets ran around and did? How does that affect my life? Well, I would suggest to you that this subject deals with one of the most basic and important questions in your life. A question that you ask yourself. Consciously or more probably unconsciously, every single week. It is the question, can God really be known? Which more basically raises the question, can anything be known or can I know anything for sure? How often do you ask yourself, can I really know that? I'm confused and I don't know which way to go and I don't know what to do here. How can I really know? How can I know God's will? How can I know God is there? How can I know when I pray that He really hears me? How can I know these things? So you see, the question of a prophet raises the question of how we can know anything, how we can really be sure of anything. James Thompson, in his November newsletter, quotes from George Barnes' recent book, Generation Next. Concerning the question of truth as it's perceived by people in this generation, here's what he says, Varna, having done extensive research and surveys of people in the last couple of years. He says about three-quarters of all adults reject the notion that there are absolute moral truths in the United States today. Only one out of four believes that there are any absolute moral truths. Most Americans believe that all truth is relative to the situation and the individuals involved. Similarly, at least three-quarters of our teenagers embrace the same position regarding moral truths. Not only do more than three out of four teenagers say that there are no absolute moral truths, four out of five also claim that nobody can know for certain whether or not they actually know what truth is. This may also help to explain why a majority of teenagers, 57% to be exact, say that lying is sometimes necessary, not merely convenient, common, understandable, or acceptable, but necessary. Because the Bible and most religious activities are foreign to them and seem irrelevant to what real life is about, they perceive two parallel worlds coexisting. Now as I read this, think about people that you know or maybe in your own life, a tendency to think this way. There's two parallel worlds that exist. There's the spiritual impractical world that contains many pure and absolute but impractical dictums such as truth, morality, love, faith, fidelity, all these things. And then there is the real world. The one that you inhabit, which deals with the hard stuff of daily living. Truth may be a wonderful concept. But many teens don't have sufficient interest in such impractical or unrealistic concepts to explore them further. Millions of those who do have the interest do not have the philosophical, intellectual, and spiritual foundations to take any such exploration to the next level And so we have the dichotomy today of people who are, on the one hand, deeply spiritual and on the other hand utterly pagan. And you see that at a time like Thanksgiving, where there is this notion that we need to be thankful, but there's nobody to thank. And so you've got thankfulness without any receiver. I've told you before of the time that that really hit me with such force when our family was at uh Cape Cod where we go for our summer retreats. And there's this one spot near where we are that's called Sunset Point. And uh only a s a small portion of the time do you really see a glorious sunset. Usually there's enough cloud cover or stuff that you don't. So When there's a particularly glorious one, everybody gathers around on this hill to look over the bay, where it's one of the few places on the east coast that you can see the sun go down over the ocean. And you see the sun as it goes down. I remember this one evening, it was perfectly glorious, and the sun just as it went down and all the sky was these rich, glorious salmons and purples and pinks. That as the sun disappeared over the horizon or the water, everyone who was standing there burst into spontaneous applause. Everybody just clapped. There's this whole crowd clapping at the ocean. And I thought, who are you clapping for? Who is it that there's this basic, inherent, innate human desire to worship, to give thanks, but there was no one to receive it. You see, that's the situation that we have today. Francis Schaefer said some years ago that the history of secular philosophy is like a group of men in a string who are going around a pitch-black circular room that has no doors and no windows And they're feeling along the walls in order to find an exit or some window that gives light, which gives meaning to that room. And as one philosopher goes along, he thinks he's found it, and then no, he duh hasn't, and the next one comes along and says he used the wrong method, and so he's got the method, and he feels along for a while. Next philosopher critiques him, and Schaefer said, We have come now, and he was even short of this because now we have come even further since his death into the age of postmodernism. In which the postmodernists say, we have been around that room several times. There is no exit. There are no windows. There is no meaning, and there is no truth. Brothers and sisters, we are living not only in an age of people that we deal with every single day who believe that And therefore believe that discourse and dialogue are simply political tools for either oppression or for reaction. But we are being infected by that same disease ourselves. It's in this context that I want you now to see Israel Let me let me just say one thing before that, one other thing. This is something I any of you kids who have been in my kids' communicance class, uh, we've gone through this And I wish, you know, if I get a group of them up here, we could I could really impress you. These kids, you know, kids that joined CPC are philosophers. And these kids know more philosophy, nor more basic philosophy, the basic rudiments you see, that you can carry through with you the same principles through high school and college. Because there we talk about the fact that there's only two ways that you can know anything for sure. Only two ways. The only way that you can make any single statement And say that I do not fear this will be contradicted. I know this is true. The only way, first way, is that if you know everything about everything. Only if you know everything about everything can you be sure that somebody is not going to discover something that's going to contradict what you said further down the road. And so you say, I know that the earth is flat because it seems and everybody sees and obviously it's flat, but then somebody discovers that it's really round and then you've got all these other laws that physics that come into play and then somebody goes beyond that and beyond. So the only way you can say That I really know this is true is if I know everything about everything and I'm therefore sure that I will not be contradicted. There's only one other way That you can make any statement about anything and know that it's true. The only alternative is if you know someone who knows everything about everything and can trust that what that person tells you is true You see, they may only tell you 1% of truth and reality, but because they know the other 99%, They know that it's true. And if you can trust them, then you can know that that's true also. And so one of the most self-contradictory statements that we have going around today is that there is no absolute truth. For that's an absolute statement. And how can you make an absolute statement about the fact there is no absolute truth if you can't make any absolute statements So we're lost in a morass in which now finally postmodernism has come to realize you're right, we can't make any statements about anything. And we're rapidly finding that even language is losing its meaning. Now it's in that context I want you to see Israel. Here's Israel. And they're in bondage in Egypt. And they've heard that there is a God who spoke to their ancestor Abraham. They've heard that this God promised that he was going to release his people from bondage. But that God seems to be a fairy tale to them. And they say, if such a God were to exist How could he allow us to continue in this daily grind of an existence into which there is nothing but sweat? and toil and beatings and cruelty and death at the hands of the Egyptians. And we cry out to this God, and he doesn't seem to hear. He doesn't seem to care, and our lives go on in one meaningless, endless cycle of days and weeks and years. And then Moses comes to them. Moses says, My brothers and sisters, this God has heard you. I know his name. He's revealed it to me. And he's heard you. And he's about to deliver you. And then he does. And they see the ten plagues as God stretches forth his mighty arm against the mightiest nation of the earth at that time. And he sees, they see, Israel sees God deliver them by the angel of death slaying the firstborn of the Egyptians. And thrusting them out of that land. They see that God part the waters of the Red Sea. They see as they go through that sea those waters close upon the Egyptians, all of their oppressors, to drown and kill them. And then, three months later, they are at the foot of Mount Sinai. And this God comes through Moses and he says, get ready. In three days, I'm going to speak to you myself. God has never spoken to his people, all they have ever known from him and about him is what they have heard that somebody has said. And how can you know that that's sure? Maybe they were deceived. And maybe something has they've had some sort of hallucination or vision. How can you really know? But God says, now I am coming to speak to you. And three days later they're gathered around there at the foot, the base of Mount Sinai. And they're waiting expectantly when all of a sudden there's a flash of lightning and a peal of thunder that's so loud it's the kind that when you're sitting there you kind of jump nervously and say, Wow, that one was close, wasn't it? You're terrified. Your blood pressure rises. And then there's another flash of lightning, another peal of thunder, louder and louder. And then as they come one upon another, then there is the blast of a trumpet. The blast of a trumpet like they have never heard in their lives before. And you're standing at that mountain as you hear that trumpet, you feel you cover your ears and you can't get the sound out, and this lightning and the thundering and the sound of the trumpet are overwhelming you. And then The mountain begins to smoke. In fact, the mountain begins to look as if it's on fire and it's a huge furnace, and you just see these billows of smoke up before this mountain before you And then as you see that and there's another blast of the trumpet, then the mountain begins to shake and the earth beneath your feet begins to shake. And you feel that everything is coming apart. And then there's another blast of the trumpet, even louder than all the previous blasts, and you're sure you're going to die. And then God speaks. Can you imagine what it was like to hear the voice of God? This week, uh, you know, on Tuesdays I go out and I pray about the message I'm gonna give, and I was in the woods and picked up this little nut. And I thought of Luther saying that God is to the earth as holding a nut in his hand. And I thought, you know, imagine if that were the earth. And on that earth there's this little speck, Mount Sinai, and around that speck there's these little microbes, you know, just tiny, tiny little dots. You can't even see them on this. That's Israel. God wants to speak. No matter how quietly you try to speak, can you imagine? Just me. I mean here I'm finite. God is infinite. But just me f imagine me trying to speak to little tiny creatures on that nut. How overwhelming that would seem to them And so the people say in Exodus chapter 20, Moses don't ever, ever, ever let that happen again. God has given them the Ten Commandments, and Moses says, You got the point. He was not saying those are the ten suggestions. You see, Exodus 19 and 20 are the definitive passages for the fear of God. The fear was not to destroy them. It was to enable them to know who it was that was speaking, so that they would not take his words lightly. And for 40 years, Moses represents God to them. But you come to the end of that time, and in the book of Deuteronomy, Moses is about to depart the scene. And it's at that point that you have Deuteronomy chapter 18. What I've just told you is to make sense out of what this passage says in Deuteronomy chapter 18 and verse 15. Moses says, the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your own brothers. You must listen to him. For this is what you asked the Lord your God at Horeb. That's Sinai On the day of the assembly, when you said, Let us not hear the voice of the Lord our God, nor see this great fire anymore, or we will die. You see, for them, there was no question of the reality of God. You imagine being around Mount Sinai that day and saying, I wonder if God exists. They said, our problem is we're so terrified we can't hear what he's saying. We know he exists, but we can't receive the message. And what's God's response to that? Verse 16, verse 17. The Lord said to me, What they say is good. That's a proper respect and reverence for my power. They've gotten the point. So now, I will raise up for them a prophet like you. From among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything I command him. If anyone does not listen to my words, that the prophet speaks in my name. I myself will call him to account. This has a dual reference Almost all commentators agree on that. It's very clear that this has a reference both to the succession of prophets. They come after Moses. That's the first of its meanings. You have Moses, and then there's Samuel the prophet and Elijah, prophets like Isaiah and Jeremiah and the rest. Those who are called in Scripture my servants, the prophets, God puts his word into their mouths, so that they speak, prefacing it with, Thus says Yahweh the Lord. And he they declare God's word to the people. That's the first main function of a prophet. You see there in your bulletin outline. First main function. By the way, first blank was the need for a prophet. The need for a prophet. The second point is the hope of a prophet. The need for a prophet and the hope of a prophet. Prophets had three mediatorial functions. First of all, to declare God's word to the people in a way that they could hear. And God, in his mercy, having placed it through mere men. Rather than speaking with a kind of overwhelming power that he did at Sinai, unfortunately the people Took for granted that this was just a person speaking. They didn't realize that he was revealing God's own nature, what he's like, revealing God's will and how we were to live And secondly, the prophet was leading the people in a proper response to that word. Sometimes people think of prophets as people who simply forecast the future. Prophets were like kind of historical weather forecasters. You know, they were kind of telling what's going to happen before it happens so you could get ready. Well That was part of what they did for the hope and the warnings that were set before God's people. But it was not a major part of what they did. Most of the Old Testament prophetic writings and speakings Are not forth telling of the future. They are showing what God is like, what His will is, how you are to respond to it, what is your response of repentance and obedience is revealing God. And revealing his will. Thirdly, they also were his anointing agents. It was the prophets who anointed the priests and the kings, and I give you an example of that there. But we need to move on. Second reference in Deuteronomy chapter 18, that promise of the prophet. You notice the prophet is referred to in the singular. He says in verse 15, the Lord will raise up for you a prophet like me. Verse 17, verse 18, I will raise up for them a prophet. like you. I will put my words in his mouth. He will tell them everything I command. The idea here is that all those Messiah prophets, for they were all anointed as prophets, all those messianic prophets of the Old Testament were simply a foreshadowing, a picture, an anticipation of the prophet that was promised in Deuteronomy chapter 18. And Israel treated the prophets with scorn. They killed them, they abused them until God finally took them away into captivity. And after the captivity there were a few more prophets, and after that, then four hundred years of silence. At the eve of the birth of Jesus, God has not spoken for 400 years, and the people say the day of the prophets is over. What's happening? But there's still that hope of the prophet to come. You see that in John chapter one. Do you remember John says that the scribes and the Levites went out, the priests and the Levites went out to see John the Baptist in the wilderness? And they said to him, John, who are you? Are you the Messiah? And he says, No, no, no, no, no way, I'm not the Messiah. And then they say, Are you Elijah or are you the prophet? You see, there's still that hope, there's that sense. Some of them said the prophet was Messiah, others said there's a distinction. There's the Messiah, and then with him there is this one who is the prophet. They weren't sure about the connection. But what they were sure is that they needed someone to speak on behalf of God again to them. Now here's what I want you to see. Do you understand? God always fulfills his promises infinitely beyond our expectations. You and I tend to think when God makes a promise in the Bible, that we kind of scratch around to see if there's a way we can make what little paltry things are happening seem to fit so that we can say, well God didn't break his promise. Look, you know, this happened. And sometimes we struggle, I admit it, I struggle, with some of the promises of Scripture and what's happening in my life and squaring those things. But whenever you have that kind of a struggle, and whenever you wonder, is God really going to fulfill his word in fullness in your life, think for example of the prophet. God said in Deuteronomy 18, I am going to send a prophet who will speak all the words that I put in his mouth. And I will hold everyone accountable to hear those words. I am going to send one who will reveal me and my will. And what does he send? He doesn't send in fulfillment of that a person who simply comes to talk about God. God sends his own son in the flesh to reveal him fully. You see, before John had said, Are you the prophet? Quoting from the scribes and the Pharisees, he had said in John chapter 1, In verse 1, in the beginning was the word. You see the significance? Jesus is called there the Word. What does a Word do? A word reveals And so he goes on. He was the Word. In the beginning, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And then he goes on about how this word came into darkness to give light. And then down in verse 17. He says, the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Not a relative truth. Not a truth that's true for you, but not for me. That's true today or was true in his time, but not for today. Absolute truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God, but God, the one and only, who is at the Father's side. Has made him known. And so when Jesus taught, he taught with absolute authority. For he was God in the flesh, come to reveal him. Jesus revealed God by his character. You want to know what God is like? Look at Jesus. That's what God is like You want to know how God responds to certain circumstances? Look at the disciples, and then look how Jesus responded to them. That's how God responds. Jesus taught with absolute authority. Jesus revealed the character of God by the way he treated his disciples, the way he lived, by his miracles that he performed. Jesus fulfilled the revelation of God ultimately in his death God said, in order for me to draw these little creatures, one this speck to myself, I'm willing to become one of those specks. And to die for their sin in the place of themselves. So at the cross Jesus took your sin, took my sin, if you're trusting him this morning. And he revealed the mercy of God. The love of God, the faithfulness of God, as no words simply about Him could have ever conveyed. Jesus is the full revelation of God. And so when you come to Hebrews chapter 1, In verses 1 to 3, you read, In the past God spoke by words to our forefathers through the prophets, many times in various ways. But in these last days, he has spoken to us in his son, by his son, through his son, his words, his character, his life. whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom he made the universe. God is the radiant, the sun, excuse me, the sun is the radiance of God's glory. And the exact representation of his being. He is the full expression of what God is like in his character. Sustaining all things by his powerful word. And after he had provided purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty in heaven. That's Jesus. And so Hebrews goes on, chapter 2, verse 1. Therefore, we must pay more careful attention Therefore, to what we have heard, so that we do not drift away. I've been here for over eighteen years, a Columbia Presbyterian, and I've seen many of you come And I've seen a number of you go. And right here this morning, there are some who will drift away. It's a pretty sobering thought, isn't it? The one who rejected the word of Moses and the prophets was held guilty at the hand of God. How much more the one who treads underfoot, the Son of God, when he speaks For there is no other alternative way of salvation but through him. I plead with you, brothers and sisters. Do not drift away. Do not ever look at this word as optional in your life. Do not ever look at this word or the gospel. It's that which you can take or leave for another time. How can you do that A couple of brief suggestions as we conclude. First of all, shape your understanding of God by reading this word, by listening to Jesus as he speaks to you through it, definitively to your own life. Not relative truth, but a truth you can build your life on, a truth that is absolutely trustworthy. Because he knows all things and he's revealed to you Every word of this, which is just one tiny fraction of a percent of all that he knows, but because he knows all, what he's revealed to you is true. And let me make a suggestion for you. We have found out that there's a special deal. We've gotten these Bibles are called a Daily Bible in chronological order, 365 daily readings. We have found that this Bible takes Genesis to Revelation, puts it in chronological order, has some explanatory notes that are very helpful, and it has put it in 365 days of breakdown. So that if you were to say, I want to get to know God better, I want to do this, you could get a Bible like that, and you could go through 1997, and by the end of 1997, if you read that, you would be through the entire Bible. With some notes that will help you to make sense of it. They're not notes that are particular to our denomination. They're notes that are faithful and biblical. And you would find that very helpful. If you are interested in that, we have been able to purchase these things because we're getting them in quantities to encourage people to use them for just about eleven dollars for the whole Bible. That's everything included. If you are interested in it, just put on your gray slip. I like one of those Bibles. I'll have it back here you can take a look at it. That's just a practical suggestion. I'm not a Bible salesman. I'm just trying to help you to see. There's one suggestion if you're saying, hey, I'd like to get in the Bible. What is a way to help me? Here's a way to help you. Secondly, let me just ask you, have you ever submitted to Jesus' teaching? Of your need of Him as a Savior. If you never have, I pray that today you will see He alone is truth and trustworthy to take away your sin and give you a new life But it's not just for salvation. It's for every area of your life. Have you submitted every area? Do you hear what he says in his word and look and are willing to receive it in your relationships? In your business dealings, in your sexual relationships, the things you watch, the use of your tongue, Jesus is the prophet who speaks faithfully. As you follow him, your life is blessed. And finally, we look to him to come again. When in that day of his coming, he will fully reveal God to us and bring us to God. To see him face to face, not through the glass darkly as we do now. Brothers and sisters, if you know Jesus Christ, one day you will see God as he is. And not as a terror, but as a father and as a bridegroom for all eternity. Let's pray. Lord God, help us to shed from us that virus of relativism that says that truth is Something that we choose to fit us, or what meets our needs, or any of these other kinds of nonsense. That we would come to you, Lord Jesus, as truth, who speaks truth. And submit our minds and our lives to your truth. That you are the only Savior to take away our sin. You are the only one who can rule us and direct us in a way that our lives will be blessed. We come to submit ourselves to you again anew. Hear us now. In Jesus' name. Amen.