Quite a change from the tone of last week. In fact, I would say that there is no more abrupt change or shift of tone anywhere in Scripture. Then what you find between verse 21 and 22 in Psalm 22. You remember Dick reminded us how we began last week. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, so far from the words of my groaning? Oh my God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer by night, and am not silent. To what we read in verse 22, I will declare your name to my brothers in the congregation, I will praise you. Verse 24, for he has not despised or disdained the suffering of the afflicted one. He has not hidden his face from him, but has listened to his cry for help. Now what accounts for that change? I would say the only thing that can account for it is that one Hebrew word that's tucked at the end of verse 21. It's often missed in the English translations. And it's the word, he has heard me, or he has answered me. Literally remember verse 21 in the Hebrew would read, rescue me from the mouth of the lions. from the horns of the wild oxen. He has answered me. That abrupt shift that almost takes you by surprise right out of the blue, in the midst of the cry for help. There is the shout. It is finished. He's answered. He's performed. He's heard me. We saw last week that this psalm invites us to take our tears to the cross. It invites us to enter into the fellowship of the suffering of Jesus. That suffering is so vividly portrayed in the depiction of crucifixion, particularly in verses 14 to 18. And we saw that by entering into his fellowship, there's that sweet sense of closeness to Jesus in that, the privilege of sharing his suffering. We saw also that this Psalm can build our faith because we realize that this precise description of what Jesus would suffer a thousand years after this was written is vividly given to us. back a thousand BC by the author David. And so that's why we do it as part of our annual Messianic prophecy series. It's a depiction, a vivid portrayal of the hope of Messiah to come. We saw also that this psalm can comfort us because we know that no matter how bleak our current situation seems, God will have the victory. And so, if last year the Psalm, the first 21 verses, invited us to take our tears to the cross, verses 22 to 31 invite us to see the victory of the cross. And so that victory, which is ours, is what should capture our thinking this morning. And I hope and I pray and I've been praying this week that we will believe these words and believing them Every one of us this morning can go from this auditorium laughing and rejoicing, no matter what your circumstances Because in Jesus Christ you have a hope that transcends any circumstance in your life that might threaten to depress or discourage or confuse you. But it's only if you believe these words. So I call on you, wherever you stand spiritually this morning, believe the words Of the last verses of Psalm 22, and find your hope and your joy in that. Now, what is it that it says? Let's take a look at those verses and consider why there's such hope in them. Psalm 22, beginning with verse 22, I will declare your name to my brothers. In the congregation I will praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you descendants of Jacob, honor him. Revere him, all you descendants of Israel. For he has not despised or disdained the suffering of the afflicted one. He has not hidden his face from him, but has listened to his cry for help. From you comes the theme of my praise in the great assembly. Before those who fear you will I fulfill my vows The poor will eat and be satisfied. They who seek the Lord will praise him. May your hearts live forever. All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations will bow down before Him. For dominion belongs to the Lord, and He rules over the nations. All the ends of the earth, all the rich of the earth, excuse me, will feast And worship. All who go down to the dust will kneel before him, those who cannot keep themselves alive. Posterity will serve him. Future generations will be told about the Lord. They will proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn. For he has done it. I want to consider these verses under three points that you see in your bulletin outline this morning. It's good to have uh Mark and Linda back re worshiping with us and make sure uh those that remember Mark and Linda and you know not congregation hasn't changed that much that there was that big a turnover, but there'll be some that don't know them. But for those of you that do uh join welcoming them back and fellowshipping with us in the old uh bulletin outline system you remember we have here. Follow through the three points that we're using this morning. First of all, we want to look at Messiah's victorious praise. In verses 22, and that should read verse 22 and 23, just 22-3, cross out the one there. And then the second point, the reason for Messiah's praise, verse 24, and then Messiah's guests at his victorious feast. of praise verses 25 to 31. First of all then, let's look at Messiah's victorious praise in verses 22 and 23. You see, to appreciate this you need to understand the scene of what's going on here. Clearly, this is a feast. Now, you know, there's nothing at the heading of the psalm that says this is a feast But you know it's a feast because there's a lot of eating going on. For instance, in verse twenty six, the poor will eat and be satisfied. Verse twenty nine, the rich of the earth are going to feast and they're going to worship. And then you notice that in verse twenty five This says, before those who fear you will I fulfill my vows. That tells you what kind of a feast it is. That tells you that's an Old Testament language. You see, it's kind of a signpost that says that this is a Thanksgiving feast. The phrase to fulfill the vows means to offer a thank offering, and the thank offering always meant a feast, because you had to invite your friends in to eat the meal with you, that sacrifice that was made And so this is a Thanksgiving feast, a thank offering. And uh I realize we're a little after Thanksgiving and didn't want you to be thrown off by the title there. I realize Thanksgiving's past. But this is a Thanksgiving feast, and we need to see it. And we who have celebrated Thanksgiving just recently are reminded how much fun you can have at a feast. Well, this is a feast to end all feasts. This is Messiah's Thanksgiving feast. It's a celebration in answer to the prayer that he received. You see, a Thanksgiving feast, according to the Old Testament law. was a feast that was given in fulfillment of a vow made when somebody was in deep trouble. The way the law went in Leviticus was that uh if you were in some deep, deep trouble, deep distress, you were in a storm at sea and it looked like you were never going to make it through that storm, or you know, you had bills so high that you couldn't even get to the bottom of the pile, let alone match your money to the creditors. or you had a situation in which your health uh was uh so bad that it was life-threatening or whatever the situation is in your life and you despair of human health, God says, call on me in the day of trouble. And then he says, when I answer you, then he says, you are to not forget about it and say, well, you know, made it through another one, and you forget all that gratitude, but you Emphasize that and you testify publicly to that by bringing a thank offering to the temple. That thank offering could be uh any kind of an animal, clean animal, or bird Uh it could be a turkey, if uh turkeys had been around in Palestine in that time, and so you'd literally have a Thanksgiving feast as we'd know it, you know. But you'd bring something to offer, and you would present that offering before the Lord. And then you would testify publicly to those that had gathered around to share that feast with you, your friends, those that you cared for, that were close to you. And you would testify how the Lord has answered your prayer. You'd say, boy, you know, things were so low, and you'd go into all the details, and but the Lord answered and he did this, and here's why we're having this feast game. Now, whose feast is this? Well, the Bible is very clear who's throwing this feast. Because Hebrews chapter 2, verse 12 quotes verse 22. And Hebrews 2 tells us those are the words of Jesus. So Jesus is the one throwing this feast. Jesus is having a Thanksgiving feast. The Messiah is having Thanksgiving. And in this, he testifies, he does three things before we sit down to eat. Notice what they are. First of all, he declares God's name to me That's the first two blinds. He declares God's name to me in verse 22. He says, I will declare your name to my brothers. In the congregation I will praise you. Now, how does he declare God's name? Remember, this is the theme of deliverance. God has answered his prayer. He is declaring God's name as deliverer. Well, everything that Jesus did and said declared God's name to us. The fact that he was born in a human body declared God's name to us, as merciful deliverer who invaded history in order to come and to take our sin, to take our burdens. In his life, a life beginning to end, characterized by a perfect balance of mercy and truth, he declared God's name, his character to us. In his teaching, the Old Testament dimly portrayed the God of the covenant as the one that we could approach and find security and safety in. But it's only through Jesus' teaching that we see clearly demonstrated that God is Father, that we can crawl up into his lap and find there a welcome from the Father and not to be cast off because of our sin. He declares God's name to us in his teaching. He declares God's name to us in his death. For in his death he becomes the deliverer who comes to take on our sin. And of course, he declares God's name to us in his resurrection power. The fact that God raises him up from the dead declares that God is a merciful, powerful redeemer who has defeated death in the person of his son. So Jesus declares God's name to us. What Jesus is like, God is like. That's what that means. That's why John 118, when it talks about Jesus coming, says That he who is full of grace and truth, he, the one and only God, the only begotten one, has made him, the Father, known to us. Sometimes you and I wonder, what does the father think of me? What is the father like? Well, all you have to do is look in the Bible and to see what Jesus is like, how he treated his disciples, what he was like toward children. What he was like in his relationships, and you know what the father is like. You don't have to start back from the father as if he's some strange being. Because what Jesus is like, the Father is like. He says, I will declare his name to my brothers. I'm going to reveal him. That's what he's doing to us in this. But then the second thing is notice that he calls me, you, his brothers. You see that? Verse 22? I will declare your name to my brothers. Now, that is not just a kind of a by the way word that's used there. Hebrews 2, verse 12, in the quotation of this, stresses the fact that he calls us his brothers. Hebrews 2 makes a big point of that. This is such an amazing thing that you and I can tend to not believe the full implications of that. Imagine you and me. Standing with Jesus before all those powerful celestial beings, every principality and power, power and dominion throughout all the ages. And they're all gathered there in the throne room. And there's you and me, and we're standing in Jesus' shadow. And you and I are awestruck by such power. We have never seen such power displayed before. We've never seen such splendor. And we fear and we cringe. We feel we don't belong here. We have nothing to do to be in the presence of such power as these beings that are arrayed around Jesus. And we wish that we could hide, that we could flee, that we could get out of this uncomfortable situation. And all of a sudden, one of those celestial beings points to you and he says, Who's that? Jesus turns and he looks with love and he says, That's my brother. And all of a sudden, you belong. No one can cast you out, you see. Because you're the brother of the one who's giving the feast. He says, You are my brother. Hebrew says, He's not ashamed. To call you and me puny, halting, unfaithful, doubting, double-minded, weak, vacillating, you and me. Jesus says, you are my brother. And he says that with love. And he says that with tenderness. And the very angels stop their mouths. They cannot cast us out from the throne room of power. Because we're the brother of the one who's thrown the feast. Now notice also, and I hope, you know, as you think about that, that will sink into your heart today, that you can take that. There's something this week when Satan accuses you of the fact that somehow you don't belong, that grace really isn't grace. If you remember Psalm 22, 22, he calls you his brother. That's grace. Then the third thing that he does is that he calls me. Put the me in there, put your name in there, whatever you want, but me to join in his praise. See, he's leading us now in declaring the wonders of our covenant-keeping God. Verse 23 says, You, you now here that are with me, you who fear the Lord, praise him, praise him with me, you see, as I declare his name. All you descendants of Jacob, honor him, revere him, all you descendants of Israel. Join him. Join him mentally, praising his name. Think about the compassion, the tenderness, the power. Of Jesus Christ. Praise him as you think of the tenderness that's displayed in the power of this psalm and his love for you and the suffering that he endured. Praise him verbally with Jesus Speak, you see, it says, you who fear the Lord and descendants, honor him, praise him. Verse 22, I will declare your name, he says, among my brothers. How many times this past week have you declared the name of Jesus to some friend, to a brother or sister in Christ, to anyone? How many times do you and I join Jesus in declaring the name of God, declaring what he's like, talking to people who are so empty and so hungry? To know if there is any love or any absolutes in the world, to declare his name. That's the way we honor him. That's the way we show that we love him. is by declaring his name to one another, to not be embarrassed. It's so terrible, isn't it, when we see Christians who are embarrassed to talk about Jesus You know, I just don't want to sound like I'm holy and like I'm super spiritual and somehow intimidate you. And Satan use all kinds of excuses. To keep us from talking about Jesus. We'll talk about ministry, talk about the church, talk about programs, even talk about Bible verses. But we don't talk about Jesus and our love for him. We don't declare his name. We don't speak of our praise to honor him. He says, that's what you do at this feast. You join me in talking about how wonderful the host of the feast is. And then he says to do it actively You know, you do it by honoring him with your life. The fact that you and I seek to follow him as his disciples is a way that we revere and honor him as descendants of Israel. But now, having said that, let's look at the reason that Messiah gives for his praise Because that's what this is about, you see. There's a feast, it's a thanksgiving feast, there's a thank offering here. And so there's a testimony of the one who's giving the feast. He's got to say, This is why we're having the feast. Here's how God heard me And that's exactly what Jesus does in verse 24. That's the testimony. Verse 24 he says, For he has not despised or disdained the suffering of the afflicted one. He has not hidden his face from him, but has listened to his cry for help. You see, this is crucial to understand about the feast. That Jesus is saying, God heard my prayer. That's what verse 21 said. You see, He has answered me. But now, how did He answer Jesus? This is a cry from the cross. But did Jesus, did God rescue Jesus from the cross? No. He let him continue to agonize, alienated, forsaken. And so he died upon the cross. He perished But what did he do? How did he answer him? He answered him in a better way than if he had taken him from the cross. Because you see, if Jesus had been rescued from the cross, he would have died again. Sooner or later, in order to accomplish his purpose, he would have had to die. But in dying on the cross in his faithfulness Jesus defeated death. Because the answer to his prayer, as Hebrews 5 tells us, was when God raised him from the dead. The fact that God raised him up, brought him out of the tomb, gave to him eternal life, a resurrection body. And with that resurrection body, he has given to you and to me resurrection in Jesus Christ. If God had raised him, rescued him from the cross, you and I would have had no hope of eternal life. But the fact that God has rescued him by bringing him up from the dead means that he has brought you and me with him. And therefore his prayer was fully answered. Now, not only is this something for you and for me to rejoice in, God has answered him by raising him from the dead. That's what he's talking about, resurrection him. But it's also, I think, instructive to you and to me in our confusion when our prayers are not answered. Because what this says to you and to me is that sometimes when we're praying and we see God not appearing to care for our suffering, and we continue to take it to the cross again and again and again. And we say, when do I ever get to the end of verse 21 where I say he has answered? It may be that you and I need to get a bigger picture of what God is doing in our lives. You see, sometimes it's better to not remove the cross. It's not always better to take the cross away. Sometimes it may be that God's intention is that you know his resurrection power. And the only way that you know that resurrection power is to bear the cross. But in knowing that, you may find a resurrection power. By the Holy Spirit in your life, that you and I would never know any other way. We need to get the bigger picture of what God is doing in our lives. That's a deep truth that you need to think about in quiet before the face of Jesus as you consider his purpose for you Now, having said that, we move on to the feast itself. Because he's died, because he's risen, because he says God heard me, he's rescued me from the dead. He's given to me a people and a kingdom that I've come to gain. There's a feast now to be had. And that feast, as you see on the on the back there about the thank offering, always had three parts. First of all, there was the testimony of deliverance. That's what we've just talked about. Secondly, there would be the sacrifice. And then that sacrifice would be eaten with the friends. And so the host would invite all the friends to come to the feast. And we'd sit down together and we would feast on the sacrifice that had been made. Now, of course, you can see what this means for us as Christians. But I want to do it by looking at what verses 25 to 31 say about who is invited to this feast. Who's invited to this feast? Who comes to sit with a host? Four ways he describes all those that are invited to the feast. First of all, all who fear him. Are invited to the feast. All who fear him. You see in verses 23 and 25. You who fear the Lord, praise him. Verse 25. From you comes the theme of my praise in the great assembly before those who fear you. Will I fulfill my vows? You see, there's a great assembly gathered at this feast that nobody can number. As far as your eye can see, there's people gathered around the table There's people seated to enjoy this feast, but not everyone is at this feast. It's not automatic And the Bible never teaches that because Jesus died, the whole world comes to a feast and everybody's automatically in. There's no such teaching in Scripture. Those who are invited, he clearly says right here, are those who fear him. What does that mean? That's speaking of those who realize that they stand before a holy and just God, deserving his wrath. That these are people who stand in mortal dread of that righteous wrath upon their own heads. These are people who recognize the danger Of the fact that they've gone their own way and ignored God's law and his commands in their own life. They've said, God, you run the world the way you want and I'll live the way I want. But let's not meddle in each other's business And these are people who, because of that now, understand that God must condemn sin. And so because of their fear of a holy God They have found refuge in the one who suffered the things we read about in the first twenty-one verses, the Messiah who went to the cross, so that he would bear God's wrath, so that you would not have to. But the only way you will not have to is if you recognize that you ought to, and that only Jesus delivers you from having that. Not everyone, you see. Only those who fear him. And for those who fear him, he says, I have fulfilled my vow. See verse 25. All the families, excuse me, verse 25 says, before those who fear you, will I fulfill my vows. Fulfilling the vow is presenting the sacrifice. And you see, that's what we're going to do tonight when we gather at the Lord's Supper. We're going to gather at a feast. Because you see, this Thanksgiving feast is also a marriage feast. And this marriage feast has, as the feast itself, the sacrifice of the host. Jesus says in a way that is too far beyond anything you and I can comprehend, he says, when you come to this feast, what you feast on is me. What you come to eat and to drink of is me. I am the one offered to you. I have offered myself as a thank offering to the Father. He's the one who has received me, my body and my blood, so that you can come in this feast. And that tonight, as we take that bread and we take that juice, we remember Jesus is the sacrifice upon whom we feast. And we come to Him for our nourishment. He's the one who satisfies. He's the one who feeds. He's the one who nourishes us. And so it's not it's not just the super saints who come to this feast. It's everyone. It's all The descendants of Jacob, verse 23. It's all those, those who are the weakest in faith, if that faith is in Jesus and nothing else, any of us who come. To Jesus are welcome. We're welcome to be satisfied and to be fed. Notice, secondly, that it's all classes of people who come to this feast In verse 26, we see, the poor will eat and be satisfied. They who seek the Lord will praise him. May your hearts live forever. In verse 29, it's the rich who come. The rich of the earth will feast and worship. And all who bow down, go down to the dust, will kneel before him, those who cannot keep themselves alive. You notice how he describes each class. The poor, who cannot be satisfied here because they have so little. He says the poor are going to eat and they're going to be satisfied. They're going to find their full satisfaction in Jesus, on whom they feast at this time. And then it says the rich Those that think that maybe they don't need him are going to find out that they can't even keep themselves alive and they're going to be humbled before him. They're going to be brought low, they're going to be brought down into the dust And they're going to be uh they're going to kneel before him. They're going to prostrate themselves before him. The poor are going to be lifted up and satisfied. The rich are going to be brought low. Do you remember James 1, 9 to 11? That's exactly what James said. Rejoice you poor because you're going to be exalted. Rejoice you rich because you've been humbled to see your true position. And that's why James says in chapter 2. that it's such a terrible thing when a church practices favoritism and says, we want to be a successful church so we'll attract successful people. And you don't fit our image, so would you please stand outside? And maybe you could watch us on videotape some other time. Now but, you know, as a Columbia Presbyterian church, I think this is something that we have to be very careful of. The feast involves all classes of people. The poor and the rich. There's always that temptation, isn't there? To want to be a successful church, and to be a successful church means we attract successful people. But that's not the nature of Messiah's feast. In his feast, everybody's sitting together, the rich and the poor alike. Because they realize that the only way they come is not through their status in this world, but is through the sacrifice of Jesus upon whom they're feasting. You notice also that it's all the nations that are coming to this feast. All the nations that see in verses 27 and 28 are represented, as Dick has reminded us at the beginning. All the ends of the earth, verse 27, will remember and turn to the Lord. All the families of the nations will bow down before him. For dominion belongs to the Lord, and He rules over the nations. What a glorious, powerful statement, you see. This is a global feast because our God is a global God. Everywhere, all the ends of the earth are going to come. And so as you and I feast here, we've got to be concerned for those that are coming to that feast in other parts of the world. We can't enjoy that feast if we're not concerned. There's others also that are not enjoying that feast because they haven't heard of the invitation to come to the feast. But there's also, notice, all kinds of people groups, all families. That's speaking of all the people groups of the nations. That's speaking not only of the fact that throughout the world those people come, but it also speaks again locally. All people groups in Columbia and Howard County, all racial and ethnic groups are to be involved in that. That's why we're committed to diversity as a congregation. Because we believe that the feast is a diversified feast and it involves all classes, all nations, all races, all ethnic diversity. We know that as part of that feast to see Jesus as he really is, we need people different from ourselves. Who are sensitive to different attributes and characteristics of our God than we are, so that in that feast we can expand our understanding of the host who's giving that feast for us. All the people groups, because you see, he's the one who rules the nations. And he's concerned to bring us all together in that feast. And then finally you notice that it's all times. All times until Jesus returns. In verses thirty and thirty-one. Posterity will serve him. Future generations will be told about the Lord. They will proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn. For he has done it. It's not just those that were there at that time. You know when this feast began? It began at the Feast of Pentecost. That was the celebration of Jesus' resurrection and the fact that all the nations were being invited to a feast. And Pentecost is the feast of what? The first fruits of the harvest. You see, and so that's the beginning of the harvest that's being brought in. And so this is a thank-offering feast, which is the completion, the culmination. It's a feast which has now been going on, you see We we every Lord's Supper we anticipate the fulfillment of this feast. But in doing that, we're saying that feast has continued. It's not just for then. He says posterity, generation after generation are going to hear. You know why you know Jesus Christ this morning? Because somebody else who had found that the feast was the very center of their devotion, of their being, the Jesus Was the center of their life, shared him with someone else, who shared him with someone else, who shared him with someone else, and it came all the way down two thousand years to you and to me. Is because somebody else said, This beast is such good news that I can't keep it to myself. And generation after generation, through translations of scripture, through books written, Through verbal personal testimony, through friendship, through whatever means, share the greatest news the world has ever heard. Come to the feast. Come freely. Come because Jesus has been answered when he asked for you and for me to be brought into his kingdom and to be given life. As you and I look at Christmas time, and we think of people perhaps just a notch more concerned about spiritual truth than they are at other times of year, how can you and I know the meaning of Christmas? Know the meaning of what the feast is all about. And keep that invitation to ourselves. Brothers and sisters, I pray. Let's pray together for God to give us creativity and finding opportunities this Christmas season to invite people. Come to the feast. And if you've never come yourself, I bid you in Jesus' name come this morning. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, help us to see this feast. Help us to see what happened when Jesus upon the cross was answered in his prayer. And as Hebrews says, with strong crying and with tears, he prayed that he would be answered, and he was answered in that he was raised from the dead. Lord, help us to see that. That you have had and will have the victory. Lord, help us to see Jesus. Whatever need we have, need for forgiveness of sin, for clear conscience, need for confusion. Need and our own emotional well-being, need and whatever areas of our lives are represented here. Lord, we pray. Show us Jesus. Show us that He draws us in this feast to Himself. And in this feast we see the epitome of joy Fellowship, prosperity, peace, the joining together of the world's greatest party. Lord, help us to see this and help us as those who love you to want to share it. That others would come with us to the feast. For we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.