ECPC, this has been a uh a great delight and uh joy for for Marie and I and then it was Stan to uh be part of your uh church body over the course of this uh last year or so. Uh what a great uh joy it is to see God answer prayers. And uh We look with the anticipation and joy for what God is going to do with Columbia Presbyterian Church in the future. Let's pray. A holy Father, we have heard from your word that you, O God, are strong, and that you, O Lord, are loving. If you were just strong, we would be certainly crushed by your holiness and power and justice. But you, O Lord, are also loving, merciful, and kind. You have used your strength to work your holiness and righteousness for us when we only deserved your judgment. Holy Spirit, would you remind us that you can be fully trusted and that you are strong in love and powerful in mercy. Speak words of truth, not only to our minds, but words. To transform our hearts. We pray that you would challenge and comfort and convict and console through your word and in your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, welcome to this Advent series as we seek to re-enter the anticipation of Christ's coming, his arrival on earth as well as his coming again. Last week, uh Pastor uh Matt Bowling kicked off the Advent series with the look at the first of the Regal titles uh of the child born to us, the son given to us from Isaiah 9, the wonderful counselor. Jesus is that all wise wonderworking counselor who knows just what to say, when to say it, and whose words are powerful and always true. We can listen and lean fully on him Well today we consider the second title of Christ from Isaiah 9, Mighty God. And in doing so, let's r again review the passage starting with verse 1 in Isaiah 9. Nevertheless, there will be no more gloom for those who were in distress. In the past he humbled the land of Zebulun. and the land of Naphtali, but in the future he will honor Galilee of the Gentiles by the way of the sea along the Jordan The people walking in darkness have seen a great light. On those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy. They rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest, as men rejoice when dividing the plunder. For as in the day of Midian's defeat, you have shattered the yoke that burdens them, the bar across their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor. Every warrior's boot used in battle and every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning, will be fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called. Wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and the peace there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing up, holding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. This is the word of the Lord. Well last weekend I had the uh the privilege of joining your boys brigade in their annual Mr. Manly weekend, lock-in weekend. I was invited by Mark Schroerger and Nathaniel Espy. It was a great honor to join these teenagers. It's about 60 plus or so middle and high school boys with their leaders, and they broke into orange and blue competing teams. Uh and they took over the rear parking lot uh to play street hockey uh in the dark as they uh as their ankles got pummeled with hockey sticks. Uh and they flipped heaved these giant a giant tire down the parking lot, and then they rope pulled in tandem two cars up a hill uh to see which team was stronger and faster. And then they came into this auditorium And I witnessed this place transformed from a worship fellowship hall to a full-blown gymnasium as this metal gate uh descended down to guard this nice ornamental Christmas stage. And uh then they there was about forty dodgeballs uh madly uh being thrown across the center, furiously knocking out as many opponents as on the other side as they could. It was a glorious fun time to watch and Join in the fray. And the theme verse of that weekend was James 4. 7. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. In that verse, it's packed with the cause to manhood, cause to submit to God, cause to resist the devil. Uh and it raises the reality that people, God's people, are in a fight. Uh we are in the battle. Uh and there is a devil and there are demonic forces who seek to destroy God's people and his image bearers. And so uh James reminds us of that. But I believe that the Mr. Manley lock in weekends are designed to encourage these youths, uh these young men to become men of courage, uh, who will fix their eyes on and to on the author and perfecter of their faith, to be strong in the Lord and not to get given to their fears. uh and forces of their fears. And you know there are many forces and many fears that surround God's people. Our tendency is often not to focus on Jesus, but to be moved and controlled by our fears. A cultural commentator David Brooks mentioned in a talk about his book, How to Know a Person, The Art of Seeing Others Deeply, mentioned a number of troubling Statistics against humanity includes besides suicide being up thirty percent, depression rates skyrocketing, he said thirty-six percent of Americans report feeling lonely frequently. Forty-five percent of teenagers say they feel despondent and hopeless most of the time, and the number of people who have no close personal friends have gone up four times, he said. We live in a time of growing anxiety and worrying has taken hold of many lives. Author Robert Lee, he's the director of American Institute for Cognitive Therapy. And his book titled Anxiety Free discusses how we came to live in the age of anxiety. He says the average child today has the same level of anxiety as the average psychiatric patient in the nineteen fifties. Much of the rise of anxiety is related to people feeling their connections with others are less stable. People are less engaged in social support systems and networks, churches and synagogues and other local institutions. But in addition, researchers say that one in four of us will meet the criteria for anxiety disorder at some point in our lifetime. They describe worry as that insidious, invisible, relentless scavenger roaming the corners of our minds. feeding on anything it finds, feasting on the infinite array of negative possibilities in life, diminishing one's enjoyment of friends, family, and events, all because of what might go wrong. People are robbed of peace of mind. For many of us here, these are not just statistics. They are our personal uh descriptions of our lives. And fear has a powerful effect on us. How much time do you and I spend focusing on our fears? Well, this passage speaks to us about a conqueror of our fears. This passage tells us that since The child born to us since the son given to us since Jesus is the mighty God, we don't have to fear. We are we can be free from our fears. We no longer have to live in fear regardless of what is happening in our lives. Here we see that we have the mighty God who speaks to us in our fears, that we have a mighty God who overcomes our fears and one who will sustain us in our fears. Because Jesus is the mighty God, we do not have to be dominated by the fears and threats of this world. We see here that the mighty God speaks. He speaks into our fears. God knows our feelings. Our God who created us knows the anxieties of our hearts and comes close to us and speaks strength and comfort and assurance to our hearts if we would but listen. This was the problem with Ahaz. Ahaz was the king of Judah at this time. Isaiah prophesies these words about Jesus during his time. It was a period of great national turbulence and crisis uh in 73 to 735 BC but Ahaz would not listen to God's words. Assyria, uh under the rule of Tiglas Pelezer, was the mighty nation dominating the landscape of the world, swallowing up cities and nations like Pac-Man. They were ruthless. They were cruel to their enemies, torturing, dismembering their victims, terrorizing all oppositions. But in our text. It is not yet Assyria that is threatening Judah. The two neighboring kingdoms was Pekka of Israel and King Rezin of Aram or Syria to the north. They were trying to build their power base by taking over Judah in order to go against conquering Assyria. And Israel and Aram had joined together and arrived in force to conquer Judah and replace Ahaz with their own man, the son of Tabil. And in Isaiah chapter 7, verse 2 tells us that in the face of these overwhelming forces, the hearts of Ahaz and the people were shaken. as the trees of the forest are shaken by the wind. We know from 2 Kings 16. that Ahaz was starting to buckle under the pressure and was planning on seeking assistance from wicked Assyria itself to come to the rescue. Isaiah intervened in this alarming time to give counsel to King Ahaz about the course he should follow to achieve victory. He says in chapter 7 verse 4, be careful, keep calm, don't be afraid, do not lose heart, do not lose heart because of these two smoldering stubs of firewood. He calls him to trust God instead, but instead he wanted to manipulate the situation on the basis of his own reasoning and political maneuvers. In verse 7, this is what the sovereign Lord says. It will not take place. It will not happen. These are only two smoldering Stubbs of firewood almost burned out. All the fire has gone out. There's only a little smoke. There's nothing to be afraid of here If it did if I didn't know better, uh it almost seems that God is trash talking, trash talking these two kings going up against Judah. God is doing some doing all he can to console and whittle down the size of the threat before Ahaz. He is speaking to him in accordance to the king's language of dominance. Uh Boxer Muhammad Ali was probably the best trash talker. He here He says, I predict Sonny Liston's dismemberment. I'll hit him so hard he'll forget where October and November went. But trash talking is the language among peers in competition. And here God has no peer. There is no equal. His talk is not psyched up trash talking. God is speaking pure, bold reality as an overwhelming dominating force. Be careful, keep calm, and don't be afraid, do not lose heart, do not lose heart because of these two smoldering stumps of firewood. Ahaz, however, did not listen. Instead, he was shaken to his spruce, relying on his own survival skills. Ahaz had made up his mind not to trust God but to trust in his resources and his abilities. He would not lean, he would not lean he would lean on his own understanding and his own resources. So God is trying to convince Ahaz and God speaks to assure us. that we don't have to be controlled by such fears because God has sent his son. the El Gibor, the Almighty God. He sends his divine son. El means God, the Sonborn to the God of Israel is called El, it emphasizes God's greatness and superiority among the other gods. We say El Shaddai, which is God Almighty. El Sadiq, which is righteous God, El Kadosh, which is holy God. Well, here is El Gibor. A mighty God. And this is the same description that's used a couple chapters later in Isaiah 10, 21. But the remnant will truly rely on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel. A remnant will return to the mighty God, the Holy One of Israel. And this mighty God is referring to God Himself. The son born to us is identified as the mighty God. We do not have to fear because this son, this child given The son given to us is a divine warrior. He is the El Gibr. El Gibr means. To be mighty, to be strong, to be brave, to be heroic. It's a word commonly associated with warfare. It has to do with strength and vitality of a successful warrior. It's describ it describes the heroes and the champions among armies. It's commonly used of men of valor in the Bible, defeats and exploits of Israel's champions. uh that caused great delight in the storytelling. For instance, in 1 Chronicles 11, there's a list of David's mighty men Joshabim, the chief of David's officer, he raised his spear against three hundred men whom he killed in one encounter. Think about that. You would think that one person against ten would be pretty amazing. One against 300? Like that is phenomenal. And then there's a warrior by the name of Vinaya, a valent fighter. He went down into a pit on a snowy day. and killed a lion. Would you jump would you jump down into a pit on a snowy day with a hungry, angry lion? Well, this is the kind of stuff uh gebors did before lunch. Uh they were fearless. Uh in the scriptures God is depicted as the ultimate warrior, uh the supreme mighty man. Psalm 24. 8 asks the question, who is this king of glory? And the answer echoes back, the Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle Or Isaiah 42, 13. The Lord will march out like a mighty man, like a warrior. He will stir up his zeal with a shout. He will raise the battle cry and will triumph over his enemies. But Ahaz did not trust this God. Ahaz, uh this king of Judah, he became king when he was twenty years old. He reigned seventeen years. In 2 Kings 16, he says that Unlike David, Ahaz did not do what was right in the eyes of the Lord. He walked in the ways of the kings of Israel and even sacrificed his son in the fire. Following the detestable ways of the nations of the Lord had driven out before the Israelites. He offered sacrifice and burnt incense at the high places on the hilltops, under every spreading tree. And Ahaz took the silver and the gold found in the temple of the Lord and in the treasuries of the royal palace and sent it as a gift to king of Assyria. It was a very dark time in Judah. So much bad leadership, so many things to feel fearful of. And here God comes to Isaiah and He speaks words of comfort and strength to him right before our chapter uh eight. It says, do not call conspiracy everything that these people call conspiracy. Do not fear what they fear. Do not dread it. The Lord Almighty is the one you are to regard as holy. He is the one you are to fear. He is the one you are to dread, and He will be a sanctuary. But God, the Lord Almighty, speaks not just words of strength and comfort and assurance to Ahaz who would not listen. but also to the people who were living in such distress and darkness and fearful gloom as Isaiah 8 closes. And I love the way Chapter 9 of Isaiah opens. Nevertheless, nevertheless, there will be no more gloom for those who are in distress. What I really like about these verses in Isaiah 9 is that all of the good things that God is promising has nothing to do with the goodness of the people. or how faithful and trusting they were. In fact, it is the exact opposite. Nevertheless, in spite of how bad things look Nevertheless, in spite of how wicked and unworthy and dark is your sin, for all the stupid, despicable, disgusting, revolting, rebellious things you have done and deserve utter judgment and darkness and gloom forever. Nevertheless There will be no more gloom for those in distress. Nevertheless, God is about to bring salvation in spite of all these bad things. God speaks to our fears. What are your fears? What are you worrying about? Are you hearing the voice of the mighty one? Our El Gibor, who has determined to work his power. For you? Are you paying attention to his words of comfort and assurance and peace? About 15 years ago, I had picked up a bathtub and obliterated uh the remaining part of my disc in my L3, L4, in my spine, and apparently uh something that uh started when I uh was in high school wrestling. And it I went through a significant period of time uh uh Of disability, but ultimately through a back surgery, I was fully restored. Praise the Lord. But for a very long season I was rather disabled, and I felt like I was in a nightmare that I could not wake up from. I wanted to go out and run, and I couldn't. I wanted to help Maria around the house, uh, but I couldn't. I couldn't pick up anything more than a a jug of milk I felt so weak. And often at night it was worse. The dark night of depression kicks in and all the demons come out. Some of you might feel that sometimes. In such a time I know I have to do business with God. And so at like 1. 30 in the morning, I have to I have to I journal. Uh, and I that night I drill I feel so tired, my heart is so sad, I am so sad. I feel like I had done something to displease my God. Did I get caught up in the reeking of m this materialism? Is my Is it my wicked heart? Is it my hidden idols? What is it? What has happened to me? And so I took my fears and my condemning heart to God and I saw it The comforting word of the mighty one. The Lord directed my heart to Hebrews 12. Endure hardship as discipline. God is treating you as son. The Father loves me. He tells me to consider all hardship as discipline. Hardship, trial, suffering is ultimately from God's direct and personal hand. who is treating us as his beloved sons and daughters. Yes, it might be the hardship we brought on ourselves. It may be a hardship from sinful choices. It may be hardship from persecution or it might be hardship from fallen in a fallen cursed world. But ultimately, God says hardship is to be considered as loving discipline. Endure hardship with discipline. God is treating you as beloved sons and daughters. For what son is not disciplined by his father? We all have had human fathers who discipline us. How much more should we submit to the Father of our spirits and live? God disciplines us for our good that we may share in his holiness. No discipline seems pleasant at the time but painful. Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it. Therefore, strengthen your feeble arms and weak knees. My friend, are you listening to the voice of God, the mighty God, who speaks to your fears? Who speaks of to the condemnation that we hear in our hearts. But this mighty God doesn't just speak to our fears. Our mighty God overcomes. He overwhelms our fears. Fears of failure, fear of loneliness, fear of rejection, of abandonment, fear of shame, fear of judgment, fear of death. Fear of gloom and doom and distress and darkness. And we find here that God turns our mourning into dancing and our misery into rejoicing. In verse 3 it says You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy like rejoice they rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest, as men rejoice when dividing the plunder. For as in the day of Midian's defeat, you have shattered the yoke that burdens them, the bar across their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor. Again, note, the people of Judah did nothing, but God had enlarged. You have increased their joy. You have shattered the regoke that burdens them. What was their part? Nothing. Their part was joy, rejoicing, rejoicing as people rejoicing over the harvest, something never worked for, as men rejoicing when dividing the plunder of a defeated enemy nation that they never fought. Joy multiplied every sort of joy. They contributed nothing. This is the triumph of grace from the mighty one who has waged war for his people. For as in the day of Midian's defeat, and you might recall that story in Judges chapter 6 of Gideon, the angel Lord appears to Gideon and said, The Lord is with you, mighty warrior, and Gideon's a farmer. So what are you talking about? But Sir Gideon fly, if the Lord is with us, why has this all happened to us? Where are all his wonders that our fathers told us about when they said Did not the Lord bring us up out of Egypt? But now the Lord has abandoned us and put us into the hand of Midian. And the Lord turned to him and said, Go in the strength you have, and save Israel out of Midian's hand. Am I not sending you? And then he says, But Lord, uh, how can I save Israel? My clan is the weakest of Manasseh, and I am the least of my family. The Lord answered, I will be with you. And you will strike down the Midianites together. Okay, so Gideon gathers the army of Israel, the various tribe, and he gathers about 32,000 warriors. And but God comes to Gideon and says, Well you have too many. Send back all who are afraid and tremble. And apparently 22,000 went home. So two-thirds of his army have now left. There's ten thousand left, right? And probably there's ten thousand that we're gonna die. This is it for us But then God said, you still have too many. God told him to take the ones who lap the water like a dog. Who just put their faces right into the water versus the ones who knelt down the cup, their hands. And of that Uh remaining 10,000,300 lapped like dogs. And so 9,700 then left. So starting with 32,000, now there's 300. We're surely gonna die now. The Midianites were in the valley as thick as locusts, as scriptures tell us. The camels were as the sand of the seashore. So the three hundred took trumpets in one hand and empty jars and torches uh on on the inside of these jars in the other and there were no other weapons noted. Interesting war boat weapons. Uh three companies blew their trumpets. Uh they smashed the jars that are surrounding the camp, uh grasping the torches in their left hand, holding in their right hand the their trumpets they were to blow, they shouted, A sword for the Lord and for Gideon. While each man held his position round the camp, all the Midianites ran, crying out as they fled. When the 300 trumpets sound, the Lord caused the men throughout the camp to turn on each other and their swords. They just surround it with A broken pottery, a torch, and a trumpet. And God creates a confusion and destroys the enemy by themselves. And so Isaiah, here in Isaiah 9, brings up this day of Midian's defeat with all the people and how they were really like this doubling over with laughter in the harvest, uh dividing the plunder that they didn't work for. When my son Calvin was 17 years old in high school with a couple of his buddies, they were walking across the kind of a field in a secluded wooded area in on the Towson University campus one Sunday afternoon around Thanksgiving weekend. And they as they were walking, uh my son's Calvin's friend Zach comes across a hundred dollar bill sitting on the ground. I mean, has anybody here ever found a hundred dollar bill sitting on the ground? I never have. So but they looked around and then there was another hundred dollar bill. And then another $100 bill, and there were some 50s. And they kept searching this area for 45 minutes. And They came home with their loot. And they came home with over $2,500, most in $100 bills. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. And they're sitting in our living room. A hundred for you, a hundred for you, a hundred for me. I watched them struggle uh with the question, what was the right thing to do with all this money? And soon they decide, well, we should re call the police, report it to the police. To me, actually, that was the best Christmas. That, you know, they wanted to do something honorable with this unbelievable find. But the pure hilarity of these three high school friends finding $2,500 bills in a secluded wooded lot. on Thanksgiving weekend captures just a little of the emotion from the riches of God's grace and the eternal delights achieved by our El Gabor, our mighty God who defeated our enemy, our arch enemy. the devil and death itself. This child born to us, this son given to us, is the eld gebored, not not only speaks to our fears, but overcomes our fears. And finally, this mighty God sustains us through our fears. In Isaiah 7, God offers Ahaz a sign. He offers him a sign without any limitation. God offered him anything in the world and beyond for verification of his promise to protect him and Judah. God wanted to give him assurance. Yet Ahaz had already decided that he was not going to rely on God He had already decided that he was going to rely on the tangible super army of Assyria. And so he gives a nice sounding spiritual answer in attempting to pacify Isaiah. I will not ask. I will not put the Lord to the test. Ahaz may have thought that he could have conned a prophet, but he couldn't con God, and Ahaz was so hardened towards God. And is this not enough for you, the prophet says, for you to try the patience of men? Will you try the patience of God also? And so God was determined to give Ahaz a sign anyhow. Therefore, the scriptures tell us, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son. And we'll call him Emmanuel. God with us. The sign that God gives is nothing less than his own son In this immediate context, Jesus is prefigured in the birth of a child in Isaiah's time. But Matthew reminds us that the ultimate fulfillment is through Mary. When God tells us to keep calm, to not be afraid, to stand firm, when he tells us to trust him, he gives us the sign to assure us of why we should trust him. He sends us. a baby. He sends us his divine son. He sends us the El Gabor The amazing thing that Isaiah reveals to us is that this child, this divine warrior, is given to God's covenant people, to you and me here. Jesus is our mighty warrior. He comes to defend and protect us from evil forces. Jesus comes as our hero to rescue us as Deuteronomy 24 says, do not be afraid, for the Lord your God is the one who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies to give you victory. Our El Gabor has accomplished the victory all by himself. Is it not a great comfort that God withholds nothing? to reveal his greatest love that he sends to you and I, his only divine son, who comes to us as our Emmanuel, that God With us, this divine word goes before us. Should this not give us great confidence to take Isaiah's advice that he gave to Ahaz? Keep calm. And do not be afraid when the troubles of life come pressing on our lives. A couple weeks ago In the Wall Street Journal, opinion columnist Peggy Noonan said that we should give thanks for Taylor Swift. She brings joy and jobs and happy feet everywhere she goes. Noonan said that she's the best thing happening to America and believes that she should be the person of the year, which apparently this week she has become. Noonan goes on to talk about the windfall economic boost To every city she performs her 53 Night Eras tour that increased the U. S. gross net domestic product by over $5 billion. Foreign leaders are begging her to come to their countries. Swift says she doesn't gravitate to being edgy, sexy, or cool. She just sees herself as a storyteller about herself and her young female audience that revolve around breakup, small triumphs, betrayals, mistakes, and they love her. And now there appears to be a famous romance of Taylor Swift with Casey football star Travis Kelsey. And nobody really knows if it's real or will last. But Noonan says there are reasons people would like it to be real. Because it makes life feel more magical. The prince meets a princess. Because if it's real, then not everything is media management, she says, which deep down we always fear. If it's real, it adds to the sum total of love in the world. It literally increases its quality, its quantity, and the love enters the air, and the world breathes it in, and for a moment it becomes better. But dear friends, as wonderful and as magical as this Taylor Swift phenomena is and intriguing and as captivating the possibility of a prince meeting a princess might be The fact is that in Christ, you have been caught up into not a magical phantom. The prince, our prince, is real. The child has been born. The son has been given. The El Gabor has fought and conquered our ultimate enemy. He has sacrificed his life for his bride, for his church, for his beauty, for you and me. And because of that, we can trust him. We can keep calm. We can take our anxieties to him. We have nothing to fear. And you have this Jesus. You have this spirit of the El Gibor living inside of you, believer. Go to those who are still in darkness, in distress and gloom, and speak grace and truth and hope into their lives. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you for the amazing person that you are Lord Jesus, thank you that you are our El Gabor, our mighty warrior, our mighty God, who has defeated Satan, who has defeated death. Lord, we have so many concerns and worries and fears in this world. Lord, help us to keep our eyes fixed on you. Help us to put our full trust in you. Help us to live consistent with who we are in you. Lord Jesus, we commit ourselves in Jesus' name. Amen.