Is the controlling word of Ephesians chapters one to three that we have been looking at for some time now. And uh Paul's prayer for you and for me, as he said in chapter one, is that we would know the incomparably great power of God for us who believe that powers like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him. In the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority. Jesus is seated because he is victorious in having accomplished once and for all perfect payment for sin and having risen from the dead. He goes on then, chapter two, to pray that we would understand what it means in verse six and seven. That God has raised us up with Christ and seated us with Him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. that in the coming ages he might show to us the incomparable riches of his grace. Your life and my life are is hidden in Christ. We are sitting in the finished work of the Lord Jesus for us. Amen? Hope you believe that. Rest in it. You're seeing it. He has provided every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies for you, in Jesus Christ, because you are seated with him. We've come now to chapter three. We are recognizing the mystery and the ministry of the gospel. We looked at part one a couple of weeks ago, and just to see if anybody was listening, part one is the what? Part one was about the what? Somebody said something? What was it? He's out there. Summertime, right? It was only fifty percent of us were here last week. What happened to our baskets? First point. It was a little hard, I'll give you that. Because we're talking about the mystery and the ministry. And the first was about Paul who was a what? Yeah, a missionary, the minister of the gospel. So number part one is the minister. Minister of the gospel, Paul, a prisoner of Christ. Alright, see if we can do any better on part two. Part two was the mystery. I thought that'd be a little easier. I knew I shouldn't have asked number one I had it in there and I took it back out, I should have stuck it back in. The mystery of God's promise in Christ. Part one has to do with the commission that was given to Paul. Part two has to do with the revelation that was given to Paul, that the church is more than any of the Old Testament prophets could have dreamed. The Church of Jesus Christ is in fact the nations being included with Israel as joint heirs, joint members of his body, as co-sharers, joint sharers in the promise. without any distinction of status or privilege. We are all joined together as Abraham, as Moses, and as David before God, with the same status before him in Jesus Christ. And now this morning we look at part three, the ministry of displaying the riches of Christ. The ministry of the gospel has two parts to it. One that we're looking at this morning is proclaiming the riches of Christ. That has to do with the gospel. You see that in verse 8. of what Paul is talking about here. And then in verse 9 to 12 is the second part of the ministry of displaying the riches of Christ and the wisdom of God. It is The first part is proclaiming the riches of Christ. The second part next week is portraying the wisdom of God. The first, proclaiming the riches of Christ, is the gospel. The second part that he's talking about, portraying the wisdom of God, is the church. Now it's those two things that are the mis uh are the um the glory of the gospel joined with the church that you and I need to appreciate in order to be able to sit fully in Christ. Now let me read the scripture with those thoughts in mind so that you can see the flow of his thought again. Ephesians chapter 3, verses 1 to 13. For this reason, I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of you Gentiles. Now, surely you've heard about the mystery of God's grace that was given to me for you. That is the mystery made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly. In reading this, then you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to men in other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God's holy apostles and prophets. This mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together of the promise in Christ Jesus. I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. Although I'm the least, less than the least, of all God's people, this grace was given to me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery Which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created all things. His intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. according to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. In him, and through faith in him, we may approach God with freedom and confidence I ask you therefore not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you, which are your glory. I gave you the kind of the outline, the thoughts there, because as you read through that, there is so much there that you kind of get lost in it, don't you? And you have to try to unpack it. You think you're having trouble, think of the Slovene kids who are here with us this morning and English isn't even their language. And so listen kids, uh you can try, because I heard you pretty well understood Independence Day last night And if you can understand that, you can understand me, right? Okay. Hang in there. Follow closely. Nudge the person next to you. If you miss totally lose the train of thought, what in the world you talking about? Try to help you out What we want to do then this morning is to see what it means in this first part of this ministry of the gospel to proclaim the riches of Christ, the gospel. Next week we'll look at portraying the wisdom of God and the church. These are two wonders, the gospel and the church. That I think we too often take for granted and are very superficial about as Christians. We hear a few simple truths about what the gospel is. Christ died for your sin, and if you ask him to save you, you'll go to heaven. The church is his people, and we're all joined together in one body. A few things like that. We think we kind of got that stuff wrapped up. But in fact The Bible, in chapter 3 here, Paul's trying to bring our attention to the fact that the gospel and the church are in fact unfathomable mysteries. There is more to explore here, and our superficial understanding of it is what robs us so much of faith and worship and contentment and joy as Christians. America's distinctive philosophy in the history of thought, the one distinctive philosophy that Americans have come up with is what? Pragmatism. Pragmatism as a philosophy says that truth is determined by what works. That's how you know what's true, simply by what works. The problem is that we are now living in a world in which the issues are so overwhelming, we're wondering if anything works, and we're overwhelmed with truth that seems constantly to be changing. And so whether it is outside the church or in the church, truth becomes faddish. And we become very superficial in our understanding of the gospel in the church. The over with the which the issues are really overwhelming. I I appreciated this week I saw a bumper sticker on a car. I'd never seen this one before. I don't know if you've ever seen it, but I thought this really captures the dilemma of modern man. It was a bumper sticker that said Stop continental drift. Now yeah, think about that for a moment. Stop continental drift. All right, you know, join your local support group, get out there and stop those continents from drifting around, you know. Well, I mean you see, the idea is that, you know I mean everything is overwhelming. You might as well s try to stop continental drift as to figure out how to solve the problems today. And so even in the church You have this desire to get in on what works. Okay, we got the gospel down, we got the church down. Now, what works for us to grow as a church, to be successful? And so in the 1970s it was a tremendous movement. A lot of books written on unleashing the laity, you know, and everybody getting out, understanding your gifts, being part of the body and getting out there and dreaming and doing all that Then in the eighties what'd you have? You had the seeker services. That's the secret, you know? And so everybody comes on in, like Tom says, you make them all comfortable, and everybody comes in and you welcome them and you kind of slide them into the gospel and some, you know, some do that and some don't. Now I'm not I'm not criticizing those who have attempted to reach the loss through that. But this became something that everybody wanted to copy. And so in the nineties, what do we have? Well now it's the cell group movement. Everybody wants to be cell, you know, and let's move into that. But if those things are simply to pursue where the action is, rather than an understanding of the gospel and of the church, We will be very superficial and powerless. Paul is telling you and me here that we need to explore deeper the gospel as the unsearchable riches of Christ. And then to explore God's design for the church, that that will free us up. That when he comes to chapter 4 and he says, now as a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you Live a life worthy. Bring your life into equilibrium to this calling of the gospel and the church that you've received. then you and I are able to say, amen. I understand a little bit more of what that means. I'm exploring it. I'm going deeper into the wonder of it. And so, brothers and sisters, I'm pleading with us as a church, recover the wonder of the gospel and the wonder of God's design for the church. Now, as you look at this, you see in verse 8 that Paul is saying, Although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given to me to preach To the Gentiles, the unsearchable riches of Christ. Remember, we saw last week that that word Gentiles is the word nations. To preach to the nations that passion for worship of every people group in the world. Because all as we saw in verse 6, are joined together the Gentiles, that word the nations, verse 6. Mystery is that through the gospel, the nations Are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, sharers together in the promise in Christ. And so in verse 8, we preach, we proclaim the word there, preach is the word evangelize We evangelize the gospel to the nations. That is the unsearchable riches of Christ. When you hear evangelize, you and I feel two things generally, don't we? We feel very inadequate, unworthy. And we feel very unable, unworthy and unable. And Paul says, that's great. That's exactly what you ought to feel. And that's why he says in verse 7 That God addressed the problem of his inability. I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. And then he says in verse 8, in my unworthiness, he gave me the privilege by his grace. Of proclaiming Christ. Although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given to me. Any of you here less than the less of the least of all God's people? Can't be that, can you? All you can be is the less of the least of God's people if you're one of God's people. If you're less than the less of the least, you're not hiring God's people. You need the gospel But if you have the gospel and you're trusting and resting in Christ this morning, you can't be any less than the less than the least. You got that? Try that on your English. Okay. But you see what Paul's saying here, I am less than the least. And so none of us can say I'm less than that. If we identify with that, Paul says, great, then you understand that the privilege of evangelizing, of declaring, of sharing the unsearchable riches of Christ is by the grace of God given to you. Now that word there, unsearchable, is a very interesting word. The word unsearchable literally means untraceable It means that you can't track it out. In Job chapter 9, that word is used, the Greek translation of the Old Testament. In Job chapter 9, you have a description of the creation, of God making the heavens and the earth. In verses 4 and 5, he says, His wisdom is profound, his power is vast. Who has resisted him and come out unscathed? He moves mountains without their knowing it and overturns them in his anger. In fact a picture of the geological progression of the ages, the mountains being folded up and moving. without the mountains knowing it obviously, or anyone seeing or perceiving, but this gradual shifting and turning and rising and falling. And then he says in verse 10 He performs wonders that cannot be fathomed, miracles that cannot be counted. The Greek of that Hebrew there, the wonders that cannot be fathomed, is the same word that's used in Ephesians 3, verse 8, the unsearchable riches of Christ. The riches of Christ that cannot be fathomed, cannot be tracked out, cannot be traced, you can't pursue them to the end. You can't explore the fullness of it Just like creation, the riches of God, the riches of his wonders cannot be traced out. So the riches of Christ in his grace cannot be traced out. You take, for instance, and I use from time to time these different kinds of examples just to help us to be able to stretch our minds, how rich is our God in his power and his glory. Suppose the distance to the nearest star in our system, Alpha Centauri, was just two city blocks away. Got a new scale here. Let's suppose that from Earth to this nearest stars, just two city blocks away, a short walk. How far would it be then from one edge of our Milky Way galaxy, our own neighborhood of stars, to the other? Forget about walking. A one-week car ride all across North America would just get us past halfway point on that scale. Our galaxy is gigantic. Here's another example of its vastness. If you took a large sports stadium that seats 50,000 people, And all the stars of the galaxies were divided equally among each of the spectators in those 50,000 seats. Each person would be holding several million stars. Now millions a lot of stars. To say the word star a million times would take you about a week with no breaks for meals or sleep or anything else. And that's just our galaxy. Job says his wonders cannot be fathomed. Paul says, I proclaim the unsearchable riches of Christ. Our God is rich in life You take a simple muscle. I'm not talking about these kind of muscles, talking about Bertha's muscles, or you know, the ones that are that cling on to rocks that some people eat, we enjoy them And if you've ever seen a bunch of muscles that cling on to rocks, they're all over the place. You know thousands of these things hanging on to rocks. Do you know that just one of those muscles One female adult muscle in one spawning would take a few days, just one spawning, will produce 25 million eggs, each one capable of becoming an adult muscle. Each of those eggs is attacked by dozens of sperm from the male muscle. And only a fraction of those muscles actually become larva. But enough of them become larva that within 24 hours they're already able, they're already developed enough to swim. And if you took one square meter of surface of ocean during a spawning period of muscles, it would have 170,000 muscles swimming around in it Only a tiny fraction of those ever attach themselves to a rock and grow full grown. For every one muscle you see on the rock Of all the thousands that are attached, millions died before they got to that point. Our God is rich in life. Now, when Paul says that he is proclaiming the unsearchable riches of God's grace, what does he mean by the riches of Christ? Excuse me, the riches of Christ? Those riches, we we speak of as riches in creation to just give us a glimpse of God's richness. But we're told what that richness is because the word is used Six times riches in Ephesians 1 to 3. Real briefly, just in chapter 1, you see in verse 7, we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches. Of God's grace. Forgiveness of your sins is according to the riches of Christ's grace. Now, if his riches in creation are so extensive, so beyond our imagination, What are the riches of his grace in forgiving you of your sin? You and I tend to Cling to our sins past, don't we? We think of the things we did before we're Christians, and we wonder if God can ever forget. Because they continue to nag us and they continue to speak to us and to haunt us about what unworthy and crummy people we are And yet Paul says, I declare the unsearchable riches of Christ, the riches of his grace in forgiveness. You see, the forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches, according to the measure of the riches of God's grace that He lavished on us, with all wisdom and all his understanding of exactly what you're like. But perhaps for many of us, it's harder even to understand the riches of his grace in what we've done since we became a Christian. I can believe that God has forgiven me for all those things I did before I was a Christian. But the things that I do every day, we tend so often, don't we, to remember simply what we don't do. We don't think of what we did. You know, I did this and this and this and that, I accomplished that, I tried to serve the Lord, and I tried to do but what I remember, I find always, you know, when I'm ready to lay down to sleep, what do I remember? I remember all that I didn't do You you play with the kids. And you think I should have been working and folding the laundry and doing this and here I was just goofing off and And so then you do the work that you need to do and you say, Boy, I really ought to be spending more time with the kids. You know, whatever you do, you're thinking of what you're not doing, aren't you? And after a while, you develop this view that God is really kind of hard to please. Because whatever you do, it seems like it's not enough. Whatever I'm after, whatever I'm trying, you know, I've got thirty things that are really bad in my life. And if I could only get them down to twenty things, then I'd get some relief. And boy if I could whittle that down to 10, then I make it really enjoy the Lord. And what are we doing? You see, we've totally nullified the riches of his grace. You see, we have this idea that we're too severe with ourselves. And so people say, lighten up. You know, God really doesn't demand that much. You can please Him, lighten up. I'm here to tell you that what Paul's saying is not that our problem is that we're too severe about our sins. Paul says, Your problem is that you're not severe enough. So great. I mean, look what he says in chapter 2. You're dead in your trespasses and sins, you walk according to the prince of this world. you please simply yourself. You and I are not severe enough about our sin. We don't see it in the light of a holy God. And therefore we think we can bring our pitiable refuse of offerings and say, Here, God Take it. It's gotta be worth something. I worked hard to get it. And then we're frustrated that he's not very impressed. And all the time the Lord Jesus is sitting there and saying, My child, put aside your offering. Come. Sit with me here. Sit with me here in the heavenlies. My sacrifice was the only thing sufficient. To satisfy the standard of a righteous and just God for all that you've done. But I have done it, my child. It is done. You don't need to add anything. Come sit according to the riches of my grace It's what Paul says in chapter 2 after he's told us about how rotten our sins are, but because of his great love for us, God, who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ. Even when we were dead in our transgressions and sins. You see, I believe that discovering God's grace is something like wandering along in you see a pond And you explore that pond and you enjoy it. And then you find that the pond has an arm. And beyond that, the pond is really part of a lake. And so you look out to see the lake and you begin to explore the shoreline and the depths of the lake, and you see beyond that that the lake is really an inlet of a bay. And as you explore that bay, you see that the bay actually opens out to an ocean. And that's the way Paul describes the grace of Christ. He says, You think that you are understanding something of it. But he goes on, we'll see later on, to pray that we will understand something of the height and the depth and the length and the breadth. Of the love of Christ, which is an ocean of the riches of his grace. Do you understand in Ephesians 3, Paul says there is only two things that you cannot calculate? One is the riches of Christ, the unsearchable, untraceable, incalculable riches of Christ. And then later on, he talks about his love, which surpasses knowledge. His riches and his love. And so he says in chapter one, verse eighteen, that he prays that we will have eyes to see The incomparable riches of his inheritance for us, that new world that he's creating for us to be enjoying as those who have a new capacity to enjoy that new life with him. The capacity to worship and to be with him and to never feel again that we don't have the capacity to do what he's calling us to do. See, it's not just a matter of his giving to us heaven. It's not just the riches of his inheritance for us, it's the riches of his inheritance in us that make all the difference. Transforming your heart to know the forgiveness and the love of Jesus Christ this morning And that rich the riches of that, he says, he will continue to explore through all eternity. Chapter 2, verse 7, in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches, there it is again, of his grace. Expressed in his kindness to us in Christ, the ocean of the riches of his grace. And so you see, living the Christian life with that kind of a perspective is not a burden. Because even sin becomes something that you and I want to get rid of, because not simply that we will feel guilty and we'll be miserable and feel that we failed if we do not measure up Rather, because we feel that in our hearts, how can I grieve someone who has loved me like that? How can I grieve a Savior? Who, according to the riches of his grace, has so freely forgiven me and brought me into his presence. Brothers and sisters, Explore the riches of the grace of Christ in your life. Explore the riches of his power for living. You see, that's what brings us into the power of Living for him. Because after he says in chapter 3, verse 8, to preach to the nations the unsearchable riches of Christ he goes on down in verse sixteen, the one last time he uses that word to say, I pray that out of his glorious riches He may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being so that Christ may dwell in your heart through faith. The riches of his glory to give to you all the power for living that he intends for you to have The riches of his power for living, power for Christ to dwell in you by faith, power to know his love for you, the height and depth and the length and the breadth of it. What else can you need? You have the riches of his grace. You have the limitless extent of his love. And relax. You can't be good enough. But Jesus Christ has already been good enough for you. And he invites you to sit in his righteousness. To sit in his finished work, that he who took the curse for you says, Come to me all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And instead of going out this weekend thinking I ought to preach to the nations the unsearchable riches of Christ, dwell on what those riches mean to you. And then simply ask yourself, is there somebody I know who needs to hear about this good news? Let's pray. Oh Lord. Lord, you know how inadequate I feel to seek to display before these people, to describe in any way something of the unsearchable riches of Christ. Oh Lord Jesus, your riches are staggering to us. Not only the riches of your creation, but how that speaks of the riches of your grace. Lord, as I look at those things in my life which disgust me, and I realize, Lord Jesus, that you took all of those things. Every single sin, every foul thought and selfish, critical, petty Idea, revengeful thought, jealous thought, you have taken all of that, and you have lavished upon me your love. You have given to me the riches of your grace to seat me in the heavenlies with Jesus. Lord, we pray that every person seated here this morning would know something of those riches. Lord, help us to go deeper if we've been seated. Skimming the surface. And if we have not come to know it at all, we pray, reveal to us the riches of your grace. Show us Christ available to us for the forgiveness of our sins That we might explore the limitless extent of the ocean of your love. Help us to rest in Jesus' name. Amen