I wanted to finish Ephesians chapter 3 before vacation, but uh one message began to multiply in my closet and developed into five messages. on these first thirteen verses of Ephesians chapter three, this glorious chapter. You know, Ephesians chapter three is kind of a sleeper. It's I don't know about you, but when I think of the book of Ephesians, the first thing isn't come to my mind is Ephesians three. It could be verses from Ephesians one or two or four or five or six. I mean but three, you know, what's three about? Uh so if you're like me, it's kinda like, um, all right, well this is kind of a transition between two and four or something, kind of wrap some things up. As I began to look at this for the first time really in depth in my own life, I began to see how really rich this chapter is. So we will be spending a little more time than I had first thought on it, and we'll be finishing up then chapter three in September as we conclude in that prayer that he finishes the chapter with. And that means in September we'll finish the foundation of discipleship, that idea of sitting, resting in Christ And then we will begin to pick up what it means to walk and to stand in the Lord Jesus. I want to deal with the first 13 verses of Ephesians chapter 3 in terms of three topics. And of course, they were literative to help you remember them. Three M's, M, M, and M. The minister, the minister of the gospel. We'll look at this morning, one week. And then we'll be spending one week on the mystery of the gospel. And let me just say here, so you have something to do, you know, in the in the next week Uh if you were to if I was to hand out paper right now to all you guys and say, what is the mystery of the gospel that Paul writes about in Ephesians? I wonder what you'd write. I'll tell you this, I would not be surprised if not one single one of us got that right. It really is not what you would expect. Now, okay? You interested? Take a look. We'll be reading it in a moment. See if we can pick out what that is, and we'll look at it more next week. Then we'll be spending three weeks on the ministry of the gospel. proclaiming the unsearchable riches of Christ. The minister of the gospel is in verse 1, 7, 8, and 13, kind of begins it a little bit in the middle and wraps it up. Next week, or in the next time, we look at the ministry of the mystery of the gospel. It's verses 2 to 6, and then the ministry of the gospel, verses 8 to 12. Now let's hear God's word and see if you can detect these themes as I read through and hear as God speaks to your mind as well as to your heart. You remember that chapter two, just to again to give a um a couple verses so you see the context Chapter two he had said in verse one, as for you, you were dead in your transgressions and your sins, and then in verse four, speaking of the grace of God, but because of his great love for us, God who is enriched In mercy made us alive in Christ, vertical reconciliation, then verse twelve. Remember that you were separate from Christ, excluded from the citizenship of Israel, foreigners to the covenants of the promise, without hope, without God in the world. Verse 13, but now in Christ you've been brought near through the blood of Christ to God and to one another, to others of other races and cultures. So vertical, horizontal, reconciliation. Then he says in chapter 3, verse 1, for this reason. I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of you Gentiles, surely you've heard about the administration of God's grace that was given to me for you. That is the mystery made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly, chapters 1 and 2. In reading this, then, you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ Which was not made known to men in other generations, as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God's holy apostles and prophets. This mystery Is that through the gospel the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. Although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given to me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created all things. His intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. According to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. In him and through faith in him, we may approach God with freedom and confidence. I ask you therefore not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you, which are for your glory. Can you imagine I was gonna hit that in one sermon? I mean there is so much there Notice that there's a very strange structure here. Maybe you didn't pick it up because I didn't read verse 14, but you've got to understand Understand that the Bible is not a theological textbook. One of the problems we talk about the books of the Bible, and when we get into the New Testament, we talk about the book of Ephesians And when we say that, that can sound like it's a theological treatise or essays or you know something like that. These were not essays. They're not articles. Their letters, the letter of a pastor to his people. And because of that, the structure is not like a book, just kind of outlines the topics and hits them. Sometimes something just catches him and he just takes off on it. It just hits his heart and he just begins to move on it. And you see that right here. In order to understand what he's saying Look again at verse 1. It says, for this reason, you know what that's talking about, chapters 1 and 2, all the grace of God. I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of you Gentiles, and you notice in most Bibles it's kind of like a dash or something And then it's kinda like this thought just hit him. He's a blah Oh well by the way, surely you know about this, you know. that that just reminded him of. And he goes on till verse thirteen in a parenthetical kind of discourse that just got launched right there at the spur of the moment Then in verse fourteen he comes back, he says, you know, as I was saying, for this reason I kneel before the Father, from whom this whole family, heaven and earth name. And then he goes on to the prayer, verses fourteen to twenty-one So verse 1 to 13 is a parenthesis. But it's a parenthesis that is so significant. The Spirit of God interjected this so that you and I would have information we'd have no other way. Now in this, what Paul does is he begins, in this parenthesis, I say he speaks about himself as the minister of the gospel, he speaks of the mystery of the gospel, and then he speaks of the ministry of the gospel. We want to look this morning at this first point of the minister of the gospel. Because I believe that it's there's so much here that to gloss over this Uh verse 1, 7, 8, 13, and just kind of say, well, that's just, you know, kind of stuck in there and doesn't mean a whole lot. It's not the main body of his thought. uh would be to miss far too much. Look again just at those verses linked together. Verse 1. For this reason I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of you Gentiles Verse seven, I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. Although I'm less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. Then verse 13, I ask you therefore not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you which are for your glory. I believe that as Christians, so much of our pain is due to the fact that we don't get outside of ourselves. Our lives are seen as kind of centering on whether I found the parking space, whether I got the promotion, whether my vacation's gonna work out, whether people are nice to me And so the circumstances so envelop me that because I don't get outside of myself to see life in a bigger perspective, things get narrow and they get kind of uh discouraging and and I lose my perspective on things. One of the reasons that we have thirteen people in Jamaica right now is not simply to build a building there to conduct vacation Bible school to minister to them. It's also to get these people outside themselves. Give them a larger perspective of who God is and what he's doing in the world, that they'll come back changed. And so this morning I want to do that same kind of thing. I want us to, by looking at Paul's life and what he means by these words, to get a larger perspective on our own lives. To be challenged. I was really challenged as I studied this and looked at at what this meant. And I took the time to read through the chapters 21 to 28 of Acts, which this is All about describes what he's talking about here. You may want to do that this week to help you to be able to see a larger picture of what God is doing as you're challenged by Paul's life. Notice he refers to himself in two ways. He refers to himself in verse 7 as the servant of the gospel, a servant, a servant or a minister of the gospel. And then in verse 1, he refers to himself as the prisoner of Christ Jesus. Going to use these two words as the windows by which we look at what he's saying here. And I take them in the order of verse 7 and there's then verse 1 because that's the chronological order in Paul's life. First of all, then look at Paul the servant Again, look at verse 7. I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. Although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given me to preach to the Gentiles, to the nations, the unsearchable riches of Christ. The word Paul uses there in verse 7, servant, is the word from which we get our word deacon. It's a word which refers to a slave, to a servant, a person that had no status, had no rights. A person that you could order around and not say thank you for whatever they did. It was a person who was under orders. And he's a servant, you notice, of the gospel. That's an interesting phrase, isn't it? What does that mean? I became a servant of this gospel. We understand if he says I was a servant of the Lord Jesus, but what's it mean to be a servant of the gospel? Maybe it helps if you understand that word servant is also the word that we use, minister. Paul says, I became a minister of the gospel. Now you say, ah, Al, I thought you said you hated that word to be called a minister. Nobody's allowed to ever call me a minister around here. See if you're visiting, you know, you gotta clue in on it. Don't call me a minister. Because I don't like ministers? Well no Actually it was one of the things I had to work through in getting into this calling that the Lord had given to me. But what Paul says here establishes my point. He doesn't say I became a minister He says it became a minister of the gospel. That is, a minister to preach, a minister to serve the gospel. What is it that I am under orders to deliver? What is the service that I render? It's the gospel. And so, hey, if you call me a minister of the gospel, that's great. But when you do that, you've got to remember that he doesn't say I was the minister of the gospel. He says I became a minister of the gospel. And you and I have both received that same kind of commission, even though with Paul there was a distinctiveness as apostle. Nevertheless, you and I have both heard Jesus say, through his word, All authority is given to me in heaven and on earth. Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations. What's that doing? He's commissioning you as a servant of the gospel. And that's what Paul is saying here. Now, I've listed for you in your outline there Um down under B1, a number of the verses where Paul was commissioned as a servant of the gospel. You can take a look at those and see the distinctiveness. But nevertheless When I say that you and I have been commissioned similarly to Paul as a minister of the gospel, what goes through your mind? How do you feel? Failure and guilt, right? I'm a pretty poor excuse of a minister of the gospel. When you and I realize that we have been given the glorious gospel of eternal life through Jesus Christ, and you think How did you carry out that commission this past week, this past month, the last couple of months? How many people have you and I talked to about the Lord Jesus? What opportunities have we seized to do that? And you just, you know, you slink down lower and lower in your chair. You're sitting up there looking because you know you're all saying, Hey, I'm not gonna let him see how I'm feeling. I smile here. But we feel that failure and guilt, don't we? That we have not discharged this the way we ought. That's why you gotta read verse 7 and 8. Look what he says. I became a servant or a minister to deliver this gospel. by the gift of God's grace given to me through the working of his power. Although I am the less I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given to me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. You notice there's a word there that appears two times in those verses. What is it? The word what? Grace. Good. See? By the gift of God's grace given me. This grace was given to me. Now, that's the first point then. Therefore, it's by grace that you have been given this. As Jerry Bridges points out in his book Transforming Grace, in the New Testament, the word grace has two ideas. You cut it all down to the bottom line, the word grace has two ideas to it. It has first of all the idea that I am unworthy, and that by God's favor I have been made worthy in Christ. That's his grace. It has the second idea that I am also inadequate. I am without power. His grace is his assistance to serve Christ So it is his favor to make me worthy in Christ. It is also his assistance to enable me to serve Christ. That's the basic idea of grace in the New Testament when you boil it all down. Both those ideas appear exactly here in terms of evangelism. Paul says in verse 7, well, take it again chronologically, he says in verse 8, I was unworthy. You see, although I am the less than the least of all of God's people, this grace, his favor, the privilege was given to me. Paul says, I gotta start by understanding I am not worthy for this gospel. I look at my failures, I look at my life And when you and I say, well, you know, how who am I to talk about the power of Christ? You know, what do I have to offer? Remember Ephesians 3. 8. Even if I'm the less than the least of all of God's people, it's not because of who I am. It's by grace That I've been given the privilege to talk of Jesus. If I'm feeling the inadequacy in myself, great. Then I'll focus a little less on myself. But I'll be able to speak of him. It's by grace, even though I'm less than least of all saints. And then secondly he says, and if you feel like you don't have power, if you're just totally unable To take those opportunities, you're always thinking like I am, you know, afterwards you think, here's what I could have said. Have those experiences, you know. Why didn't I think, you know, when they said that I I could have picked up one and I and I you know and I didn't because I'm a little timid, you know, and I didn't jump at it and I'm kind of afraid of where this is gonna go and it looks like we're headed into a kind of a spiritual conversation here and I'm not sure I'm comfortable and you know what are they going to think of me if I say, Well Lord, I just feel so ashamed. I'm so unable. What does he say in verse 7? I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given to me through the working of his power. And so when you feel that sense of inadequacy, Lord, I don't know how to get into these conversations. I don't know what to say when the person starts talking about politics and we got into the religious right and we start talking about values and this and that. And how do I honor you and what I can say about what the issues are and talk about Jesus? It's by his power, you see. That's grace. I'm unworthy, I'm unable But I've been given his privilege and his power to speak of Jesus. So when you look at your life and I look at my life And we realize that we have not discharged this in the way that we should. Think of the privilege and the power that you have in Jesus. A few weeks ago I was talking to somebody who I thought was uh we were going to talk about the gospel and I thought was a very unlikely candidate for the kingdom. In fact I didn't think we were even gonna be on the same page as we were talking about things And I thought, well, you know, we we should try to do this, but I wasn't very hopeful and didn't feel like I had very much that I was going to be able to say, very compelling. And God worked in this situation Next time we met together, it was obvious that God had worked in transforming the life of this person. It brought this person to himself in a glorious and powerful way. And I was shocked and I'm thinking, why, you know, Lord, I I don't believe. I I just here I am thinking that well, you know, here's another number, you know, however many persons that you talk to and you think, well there's one more that I tried, but who knows, you know, it's in God's hands. Not going to see them do anything, talk off another one of the non-elect. But here, God worked in power. And it wasn't of me. Believe me. I feel the tremendous weakness that I'm sure you do, as talk to Christians and find that's a pretty universal kind of feeling. But, brothers and sisters, the gospel comes in power. By the gift of God's grace, through the working of His power, I saw this person pass from death to life just in the last few weeks. And you and I can see that same kind of thing because there's nothing distinctive about me. It's just a matter of our being available to the Lord Jesus. The privilege and the power But do you feel that privilege? Do you want to serve the gospel to the people about you? Do you see their lostness and their deadness? And that the gospel really is the very best thing they could possibly hear. And that as God opens up opportunities, you have the privilege to represent him. And you can't do it in your power, but by the working of his power, he can work through you. You believe that? Think about it. Do you really believe that? I'm not going to have you say it. I want you to think. Can I say yes? I want to be used of the Lord for that. Well, you see, it's that that led Paul into being a prisoner. The gospel captured him. And so he begins in verse 1. For this reason, I Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus. You say, oh great, now what'd you get me into? Notice what he means by this. Why does he say that? Actually, at the time of Paul's writing this letter, he had been a prisoner for about five years. Briefly in Jerusalem, then for two years in Caesarea, and then for three years in Rome. And what had happened? Look at number one is the circumstances that he suffered. Look at the circumstances that he suffered, both his commission and the consequences. But rather than me tell you, I've asked Paul to come this morning that he might be able to tell you in his own words. Paul? Appreciate your being able to stop by and they let you out for a few minutes so that you could tell us. Yes, thank you I'll never forget that day on the road to Damascus. As I was coming up, I had letters in my hands demonstrating, proving who were the Christians in Damascus. And in a rage, I was headed up to Damascus that I might be able to arrest as many as I could and torture them and kill them. As I had killed some of their family members and their friends down in Jerusalem. It's always in a rage that I went up and I'll never forget The Lord blinded me there right on the road. And Jesus appeared to me, the risen Christ, and he said, Why are you persecuting me? And all of a sudden I realized it was his people that I was killing. I'll never forget the look in his eyes. And he forgave me. He forgave me. Can you imagine what it would be like sitting here to think that there's people sitting right with you in this congregation whose mother or father or uncle or sister you were responsible for their death. Is it any wonder that I wrote to them, I who am the least of all saints. He forgave me. And then he told me, I'm going to show you the things you'll suffer for my name. I'm giving to you a very special commission. I'm commissioning you to take the gospel out of the Jewish culture to the Gentiles. I'll tell you, if he had told me to walk through hell at that point, I would have done it. I would do anything for my Lord Jesus. And so he sent me. And I went willingly. One of the churches that I established by his power and his grace was this church at Ephesus. And then there came a point where I wanted to make Jerusalem by Pentecost, and so I sailed down after having left the Ephesian church in the hands of the elders and those who had taken the leadership I sailed down past Ephesus because I wanted to just meet with the leaders, and we met together in Miletus. And there as we were meeting, the Holy Spirit came and he warned me, and he said You're going to suffer many things for me, especially in Jerusalem. And so some of the brothers tried to discourage me from continuing on. But I knew the Lord had called me to go there. And so I went on and I met with some more brothers down in Troas. And there again they they pleaded with me. This is ridiculous. They said, look, look at all you have to do. God's got plenty of work for you. There's more churches to be strengthened and established. Why are you going to risk your life in Jerusalem? It's stupid. Don't go. But I continued on anyway. Then I got to Caesarea, and for the third time there was this warning. In fact, this fellow Agabas a prophet came and he took my belt off of my robe and he wrapped it around himself and he bound himself and he said, Just like the one who owns this belt. So he will be bound like I am with it. And all the brothers and sisters were weeping and crying and saying, Don't go, this is foolish. God is warning you not to do this. And I said, why are you breaking my heart? I'm willing to give my life to the Lord Jesus if that's what it takes. My life means nothing to me. Don't you understand? In the light of eternity, what does that matter? If I'm faithful to him, he saved me. So I went on to Jerusalem. When I was there, the brothers told me that people were scandalizing my name, saying that I had rejected all Judaism and that I was speaking against the law and the temple and all these things and they said, why don't you demonstrate that they're they're wrong in this by paying for the purification of some of these people? And so I went to the temple, and I gladly paid for the purification rites. But while I was in the temple there one morning Some Jews saw me there and they came in and they said that they knew that I had taken this Gentile, Trophimus, who was one of my companions, a Gentile. They said that they knew they had seen me take him inside that wall of the Gentiles. I understand you people here in Columbia know something about that wall. Well you know what they felt about doing that And so some people started screaming and they shoved me out of the temple and they started a riot and they started yelling and screaming and they were beating me and they started getting me down and they were beating and I thought I was surely dead, but uh I remembered at that moment. that the Lord had said I was going to testify to him in Rome, so I knew my time hadn't come and I didn't know how he was going to deliver me because I was as good as a dead man. And then all of a sudden a Roman garrison, troops came from nowhere And they broke through the crowd and they tried to rescue me because they didn't want this riot on their hands. In fact, things were so bad they couldn't even find out what the problem was. All they knew was I was the center of it And people were screaming one thing and another thing and so the commander in frustration finally just took me away and as he tried to take me away people were still trying to kill me and beat me. So finally they put me on the shoulders of the Roman guards and they took me into the garrison. And when they took me into the garrison, the Romans figured I was this Egyptian guy who had taken 4,000 terrorists out of the desert to start a riot in Jerusalem. I finally persuaded him I wasn't him, and I asked him if I could speak to the people. Have at it. It's your life. And so I spoke of Jesus as Messiah and how he had called me. To speak the gospel to the Gentiles, to the nations. As soon as they heard that, a riot started again. And the Romans gave up and they took me away. And that was the first of five trials that I went through. In the next five years. Two in Jerusalem. Then they took me off to Caesarea I had a trial under Felix, another trial under Festus, another trial under King Agrippa. Things got so out of hand there, I finally appealed to Caesar. And so they sent me off to Rome. Been here for three years waiting for a trial. But don't you see? I'm not a prisoner of Rome. I'm a prisoner of the Lord Jesus. I'm only here in this house of rest as long as He wants me here. And even though I can't understand why he has set my life aside for five years, many other things I could be doing. Here I am under his sovereign appointment. And the day he wants me released, I'll be released. And so you see, that's why I wrote to these Ephesians. I ask you therefore not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you. Which are for your glory. You see, my being here has strengthened their faith. They have seen that the gospel is so precious that it's worth everything. And so I don't mind. What is my life anyway? I'm here for him. Christians in Colombia, stand for the Lord Jesus. Stand for him. He's worth it. I have to go back to my cell now. Thank you for listening to me. You see That's what he's talking about. And so do you see on the back? The perspective that he held You see, he doesn't say, Oh, why am I here for five years? What's going on? You know, I've been praying to God at that. You know, here's a guy with more energy than Billy Graham. To establish churches to go around the world. And why does God set him aside for five years in prison? You think things don't make sense in your life? God, why haven't you answered this prayer? Why haven't you changed that? But he doesn't complain. And he doesn't say, well, that's okay. Whatever the Lord wants, you know, just put up with it. But rather he rejoices. Rather he glories. In the fact That his response to God's call brings glory to the Lord Jesus. You see, he understood that he was where he was because of the sovereign control of Christ. He ultimately was not the prisoner of Nero. He was the prisoner of Christ Jesus. And he saw that what he suffered and how he responded strengthened the faith of those who saw him. Do you see that? Do you see what it means to rest? That's what this is part of. The sitting, the resting. The resting. In the sovereign control of this same Jesus in your life? Are you able to rejoice saying, Lord, if you call me to succeed? I want to honor you by the way I handle success. If you call me with the kind of calling you gave to Paul Where things don't make sense and I'm set aside, whether by health, whether by losing a job, whether by whatever adverse circumstances Then Lord Jesus, I want to honor you by the way that I respond to that trial. Do you see that every moment of your life is in his hands To be a prisoner of the Lord Jesus. And a servant wanting by the privilege and the power of Jesus Christ. To show the glorious gospel to anyone who knows you or is willing to listen. Let's pray.