Here and have not been part of the series, the basic thesis is that to live the Christian life, that is to walk with Christmas You first need to learn how to sit, that is, to rest in Jesus, to learn who He is and all that He has done for you, to go deeper into the gospel. To learn what is your new identity in Christ, your new status, your new privileges, your new calling as a child of God. both individually, Ephesians chapter 1 and chapter 2 up to verse 10, as well as corporately, the emphasis of chapter 2, verse 11, on through chapter 3. In fact, I would say that on the basis of Ephesians 2 and 3, that you cannot make any sense out of your life as a Christian unless you see your life in the context of what God is doing in the church among the nations. Many Christians come and will talk to me about confusion of what is God doing in my life, where do I fit? What does it all mean? What's it about? And you cannot make sense out of your life only in the context of your job and your family and who you are. You must see your life, Paul says in Ephesians two and three, in the larger context of what God is doing among the nations. And so in the first place we looked at Paul as the minister of the gospel who brought it out of Judaism by the commission that was given to him, and through his presenting the gospel to the Gentiles, the nations. The gospel went to Rome, from Rome, Greece on through Europe, from Europe to America. Most of us have received the gospel through that channel, some through other channels. But all of us have received the gospel as it has gone to the nations. We are part of that process. We are part of the mystery. That's the second point we've looked at. In Ephesians chapter 3, verse 6. This mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles, the nations are joint heirs with Israel, joint members of one body, joint sharers together in the promise of Jesus Christ, the promise of life. And so now in the third place we've been looking at the ministry of the gospel. The ministry of the gospel in chapter 3 and verses 8 to 12, you see, have two parts to it. A proclaiming the unsearchable riches of Christ, he speaks of in verse 8. And then in verses 9 to 12, what we look at today portraying the many splendored wisdom of God in the church. The riches of Christ presented in the gospel. The wisdom of God presented displayed in the church. And so let us read together from God's Word, Ephesians chapter 3, verses 8 to 12, to see the ministry of the gospel as he presents it there. Paul says, although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given to me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God, who created all things His intent was that now, through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. according to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. In him, and through faith in him, we may approach God with freedom. And confidence. You see in verse nine that he says, to make plain To everyone, the administration of this mystery, that mystery of verse 6, that the nations are being brought without any distinction of status or of any distinction of privilege, the nations are joined together with Moses, with Abraham, with David in equal status before God through the grace of Jesus Christ in what he has accomplished. The administration of this ministry, he said, is now being made plain. And how is that? Look again at verse 10. His intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. Now just stop right there. I want to focus this morning particularly on verse ten. Because even though whatever you may think, whatever you may feel as you read that verse, I would suggest to you that that is one of the most average Astonishing verses in the entire Bible. Think about what that verse is saying. He says his intent, God's intent, was that now through the church his manifold wisdom should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. That is staggering. Now, in order to appreciate why that's true, I want to ask three questions of that verse that you see. The first question we need to ask is we look at this verse, which is not the kind of verse that's intuitively obvious to you, is just read it on the surface. The first question is, who are the rulers and authorities that he's talking about? His intent was now through the church the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in heavenly realms. Who's he referring to? Well those rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms are the same creatures that he refers to in chapter 1, verse 21. Jesus when he was raised up was seated above all rule and authority and every power that can be named. It's the same uh persons that are referred to in chapter six in verse twelve when we read that we're struggling not against flesh and blood, contrast, But with spiritual beings, with rulers and authorities in the heavenly places, the rulers and the powers of spiritual forces, darkness particularly, he's speaking of there. And so quite clearly, who's this referring to? Angels, right? There's just no question. This is referring to the angels. Most commentators believe this is particularly referring to the good worshiping angels. He is not referring here s primarily to the fact that he is showing to the demons his wisdom. What he is showing, what God is displaying now, is to those beings who have vastly superior intelligence and power to us. Believe it or not, they do. And that these beings who have been with God forever and ever Uh excuse me, not forever and ever. They have their creators. They were created, but for we don't know how long these angels have been in existence But for all the thousands of years, scores of thousands, perhaps millions, we don't know how long all these angels are now before God Seeing something of his manifold wisdom that they have never seen before. There's something new that he is displaying And it's just an interesting sidelight because we don't think about angels a whole lot, even though bookstores are full of and all the New Age stuff, kind of discount that as that's just kind of a new paganism. But when you think of biblical angels Isn't it interesting to consider that God cares for them too? We just think, you know, we're the center of God's attention and we are certainly the center of his attention, but it's not as if angels don't matter to him. This verse says that he is very concerned to display his glory to them. He wants them to have the treat of knowing something of the fullness of his wisdom. so that in their worship and enjoyment of him, they are growing in that. And they're growing by seeing something of his wisdom that they have never seen before. And before we say how that is, what is the manifold wisdom these terms? See there again, verse 10? His intent was that through the church the manifold wisdom of God. What is that referring to? Literally the Greek there, manifold wisdom, means multi-colored or many splendored. It's a uh an image that conjures up the diversity and sparkling beauty. of God's infinite wisdom. Several images come to mind when you think of this manifold, many splendid, multicolored wisdom of God. You may think, for instance, of the glinting of the sun on a summer afternoon on a lake or on a bay as you see thousands of diamonds glinting off the water as the sun uh reflects off of it and they appear and disappear in fractions of seconds and you think see that scintillating picture as an image of the multicolored wisdom of God. Or you think perhaps of looking at a diamond and you watch as it turns slowly in the light. The multicolored facets as different colors appear and then disappear. Or perhaps y you think of a kaleidoscope. You know, kids, how I always loved it. One of my favorite things. I don't know whatever happened to my kid's kaleidoscope. I wish I still had it. I love that thing. Look up through the light and the colored stones, you know, as they shift around and all fall to the bottom. And those are reflected in symmetrical patterns, a hexagon or whatever. And you see that pattern displayed. That's multicolored uh splendor. It's it's that picture that you have here of the manifold wisdom. Or just think of the hues of a rainbow. It's that kind of a picture. In other words, it's saying that God's wisdom is now being broken up into various hues and facets that have never been revealed before. And how are these, how is God's wisdom Coming before the vision of the angels to be seen in a new way. So again, look at verse 10. His intent was that now through the church His manifold, multicolored, many splendored wisdom is made known to the worshiping angels and all the authorities of great power and intelligence. Throughout the cosmos of the universe that He has created, the church. Now be honest. When you read that verse. Do you say, yeah? That makes sense to me, man. When I look at the church, it just takes my breath away. When I think of First Baptist church that I grew up in When I think of Midvale Assembly of God, when I think of Grace Presbyterian, when I think of all the churches I've been part of, I am staggered by the revelation of the multicolored splendor of God's wisdom. It is the final statement of how great and how good God is. How many feel that way? Sad thing is that I find so many times at Columbia Presbyterian, we have so many people that say, you know, I like attending, but I'm not sure I really want to become part of the church. I have been burned so many times. So many people have horror stories. Just talking about some this week of things that have gone on in churches and the petty politicking uh the gossiping, the divisions, the power struggles, all these things that you see go on and you look at this assembly of saints and you see on Sunday morning perhaps certain experiences you've looked on and you see how the people line up in their cliques and you see what is going on, the animosities and all this and you think, and that Is supposed to impress the angels? Man, they must really be bored. Don't they have something else to look at? Man, I'd rather look at a sunset. That shows me more of the Wisdom and the beauty of God. In fact, so often when we present the gospel, we feel embarrassed by the church, don't we? I want to talk about Jesus. And you say, well, I'm going to talk about the church. Oh, well, not going to talk about that. Let's just talk about Jesus. Forget the church, you know. And yet, brothers and sisters, we can't get around this verse. God says that his manifold wisdom is displayed through the church. I must admit to you that When uh before I was a pastor, I was ten years with Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. One of the biggest hurdles that I had in coming to become organizing pastor of this congregation 18, 19 years ago was wrestling through what it would mean to be a pastor. That was not my fondest ambition. A pastor of a local church. Wasn't so bad working with college students. Nobody knew what an intervarsity staff worker was. When I told my wife that I was thinking of going with intervarsity, she thought it was a basketball team. Yeah, you don't even play basketball. We like to be parts of ministries, don't we? Bible study fellowship, navigators, home Bible studies, all these kinds. That's no problem. But when we think of the church, We tend to think of that which is kind of in the backwater of God's power, of what he's doing. And yet, commenting on this verse, one one man wrote, and I f I found this phrase very memorable. In fact, so much I I wrote down the quote to get it exact. J. A. Makai said this about Ephesians 3. 10. The history of the church becomes the grad school for the angels. The angels who have been with God for thousands of years And have seen his wisdom and his power displayed in all kinds of ways for the last 2,000 years, just this last 2,000 years, just this Last blink of an eye in the light of the spans of time. That's grad school. The angels say, We are now seeing something we have never seen before. Of the heart and the mind of God. Now, why is it that we don't feel that way? Well, it's in part because the church has not lived up to its identity, isn't it? We have to be honest. The church has not followed, by and large, the pattern that was given to it by the Gospels and the Epistles in its structure, in its identity, its philosophy of ministry. In fact, Tim Farrell, who lives in Columbia, works with navigators, and works as consultant with a number of churches, said this recently, and I wrote it down. Tim said, when I think of the infinite wisdom of God, and I think that it is displayed through the church, I can only conclude that we have not yet really begun to understand what it means to do church. When I think of the infinite wisdom of God and I think that it is displayed through the church, I can only conclude that we have not yet really begun to understand what it means to do church. There's a lot of wisdom in that, but I believe it's only partly right. I also believe that we need to see the church as God sees it. Because we need to have his perspective which is different. And so finally, let me answer in three ways why I think God says that through the church He is displaying his wisdom. I've thought about this. I thought about a lot. I spent a lot of time thinking about this verse before preparing this, trying to preach it. These are not from commentators or books or anything. It's just it seems to me that these are three ways that I have seen. Through the book of Ephesians and what I see God doing, that are what he means by this verse. Open to discussion. Meet with your elders. Talk about with them tonight. If you're not a member of the church warmly invite invite you to come to our house. In fact I have directions in the back there so that you can come and visit with us 630 tonight. Make sure you pick up by the way the letter that somebody will have at the door to hand out to you. But if you want to discuss this, we can discuss this also, at least at our house. Three answers I would give. Number one By sinful man being reconciled to God by the cross God's wisdom is displayed by a sinful man being reconciled to God by the cross. When you think of the problem Of you and me under the curse of a holy and just God for breaking his laws The fact that we are not only unable to save ourselves, we by and large don't realize that we are alienated from God and under his curse. We don't even desire to be reconciled to him How in the world is God ever going to forgive sinful, disobedient, rebellious, stubborn people who don't want to bend the knee before him and still maintain his justice and integrity. He can't simply bypass the sin. I submit to you that if a few thousand years ago, sometime after the fall You had asked an angel, how in the world is God ever going to rescue these creatures and bring them into his own presence? Not under his curse, but to simply know his blessing. I think the angel would have shaken his head and he would have said, Beats me. That seems like an utterly unsolvable problem. I can't imagine how he's going to do that What angel, what creature could have ever conceived of the incarnation? That God in his infinite wisdom And in his power, he would choose to become as an essentially spirit being, infinite in all ways, to confine himself to a human body. And in the capacity of that human body to keep his own law in your place and my place, to then decide to take upon himself voluntarily All the curses due to you and to me for not keeping that law, fully pay the penalty and then exchange the records. Who could have ever conceived of that? Because we hear the gospel and we're familiar with it, the infinite wisdom of it may elude us. Brothers and sisters, if you're ever going to walk with Christ, the wonder and the mystery and the wisdom of that Can never become a commonplace thing. We must be staggered every time we consider that it was through his death. That I have life. That you have glory because of his chain. You have his blessing, because he took the cursing. And you have his power Because of his weakness. This is the infinite wisdom of God. But let me ask you very directly: are you reconciled to God? It's one thing to admire that wisdom. It's another thing to recognize that you desperately need Because there is no other possible way of escape to be reconciled to God only through the work of Jesus Christ. Are you reconciled to Him this morning? Do you know in your own heart that what he designed as the gospel has had its effect in your life to change you and to make you a new creature? That's a very personal question. You need to settle that and settle it today. If you're in any kind of doubt, and put on the gray slip that you'd want to talk to me or to Steve, somebody, to make sure that that's settled in your life. Secondly, I would answer that the manifold wisdom of God is displayed through the church by all races and nations being reconciled to each other by Christ. The fact that all races and nations have been reconciled to each other by Christ Recall we covered this in chapter two. This is what Paul, I believe, is referring to. It's what he has in mind when he says this. This is in part what he means that the church is the demonstration of the wisdom of God, not only by the vertical reconciliation of sinful man with God, but also the horizontal reconciliation of sinners with each other. Chapter 2, verse 15 and 16. By abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and regulations, his purpose was to create in himself one new man. out of the two, Jew and Gentile, in hostility, thus making peace, and in this one body to reconcile both of them to God by the cross By which he put to death their hostility. Did it ever occur to you that angels know nothing of reconciliation? They know nothing about reconciliation, either with God or with each other. If an angel ever becomes your enemy, man, that's it. There is no switch. The angels were all created in goodness and in perfect obedience to God. Some of them chose to follow after Lucifer, the evil one, Satan, and they followed him in rebellion. They will never, not one of them, ever be redeemed and reconciled to God. Once they made that decision, it was irrevocable. An angel is never reconciled to God. Besides that, they are never reconciled to each other. If you had an angel, comrade, that was a good friend of yours And that comrade decided to follow after the evil one. He has become your enemy once and for all. No angels are ever reconciled to each other. They are enemies by the chasm of following either. God the Almighty or Satan in rebellion, and they know nothing of being reconciled. Can you imagine what it's like for an angel to look at this body? And to see people of different races, of cultures, of families, who have been in enmity, who have been in bitterness Feeling superior one to the other. Feeling that each one has been wrong. Feeling that each one has the superior status of the grudge. And then see through the cross, brothers and sisters, whether in South Africa or South Philly or in Colombia or wherever it is, come together and ask for forgiveness and to be reconciled. What do the angels feel when they see 30 men from Longreach Church of God and Columbia Presbyterian come together A couple of Saturdays ago, a week from a go from last Saturday, share together in the things of Christ and say, brothers, we need to fellowship together. We need each other. What do the angels say? They say, I can't understand that. That's a wisdom. That's something of God's nature that I've never seen or understood. Can you imagine what that's like to see? What's it like when a group of pastors come together regularly to pray? And then say, on September the 22nd At Meriwether Post, we're calling together all the churches that believe in Jesus in the Howard County region. And we're going to come together for praise at the pavilion from four to six in the afternoon. And we're going to put aside the denominational labels and all the things that might divide us of secondary issues. And we're coming together to praise Jesus as one group of thousands of Christians over at Merriweather, September 22nd. How many want to be there? Let's praise God together. When the angels see that, you see, they start they start knowing that the demons are quaking Because then a power of Jesus Christ becomes unleashed, that the manifold wisdom of God becomes displayed to Howard County and the surrounding regions, Baltimore County and the rest, through the church. Because the church exists in a supernatural status by the power of the Spirit of God. And yet I would suggest to you that the third answer is the most astounding of all. For the third answer says that the church, by the church, the infinite wisdom of God is displayed by all nations. Being discipled by ordinary believers. All the nations being discipled by ordinary believers. This Paul's going to dwell on in chapter 4. At this point, he's simply stating a principle, but he's going to unpack it and unfold it in chapter 4, for instance, in verse 11. It was he, Jesus, who gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers to prepare all of God's people for works of ministry, for service. So that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. And that includes you. That includes me, we are part of Jesus' original strategy for rescuing the nations and calling them back to himself. Jesus began with three men, Peter, James, and John, those that he invested with and shared his openmost heart and secrets with, and those men part of a larger group of twelve that he invested in for over three years. Pouring all that he knew into them and displaying to him the plan and the purpose of his kingdom and winning the nations back to himself. By the time of his resurrection, there were seventy that had surrounded that group as they followed him. And that seventy had grown to 120 after the resurrection, praying for the power of the Spirit to come on from on high. From that 120, when Peter preached at Pentecost, it immediately burst into a congregation of 3,000 The 3,000 grew to 5,000 within days. And that 5,000 has gone out through all the earth to penetrate the nations in the simple process of believers discipling believers. Can you imagine if the angels had seen Jesus with that group of twelve? And somebody said one of the angels said to me, you know? He's entrusting his whole kingdom and his whole whole enterprise to those clowns And the other would say, No way, man. He's too wise to do something stupid like that. Manifold wisdom of God displayed in weakness. The amazing thing is that it's working. From that 5,000, by the year 1431 out of every hundred people on earth was a professing Christian worshiping Jesus. From 1430 to 1940, it had grown from one in a hundred to one in every 32 people on earth were professing and worshiping Jesus. From 1940 up to 1989, it had gone from 1 in 32 to 1 in 10 who were professing Jesus as Savior and Lord. From 1989 to the present time, it is now less than one in nine. There is an explosive exponential growth, and how is it happening? Not by professionals primarily. It is happening in ordinary believers, in small groups, ministering, discipling. and winning their neighbors and their friends to Jesus Christ. Are you part of that? You part of that this morning? You part of a small group that has a discipleship strategy so that a year from now you are moving on in the things of Christ? You're not at the same place that you are now? Are you part of a small group where you have a plan to be able to reach others and enfold others within your group? So that it's not just the same group six months from now and a year from now. But there's an openness that Jesus has given to us by His wisdom, a commission to go and to make disciples, and that means we have got to be open. In fact, some small groups have an empty chair that they sit there whenever they meet. An empty chair to represent someone that they're praying for, that they want to include, to bring into that group. To visit, to see, and to see what is the infinite wisdom of God displayed, how? By the incarnate presence of Christ revealed in the community of believers. God's wisdom is displayed today through a church, a common, simple church like Columbia Presbyterian, where the community of believers displays the presence and the power of Jesus Christ in our fellowship, in our ministering to one another, in our supporting one another, in our coming to his word and submitting our lives to his teaching. Brothers and sisters, I can recall, I was thinking of this just this week. Back when I was a teenager, I did not come from a Christian family. I came from a very dysfunctional, unbelieving family. And yet I went to a local church, and they had no idea that this kid who came on summer m af summer evenings, every Tuesday evening, to play volleyball As I was going to play volleyball with those people, I was going as somebody was watching and I was seeing how they treated me. And I saw that they cared for me. And I particularly noticed the adults, the Sunday school teachers, the youth leaders. And I noticed that there was something wholesome in their lives that I didn't know about. I saw there was something about them that was attracting me. And so I was ready and I was willing when I understood the gospel and saw the issues to give my life to Jesus Christ. It wasn't through some great evangelist that did that in my life. It was common, ordinary believers. And God can do that same thing through you. And when He does, the angels have something to sing about. You giving the angels something to sing about this week? Let's pray. Ah Lord our God, lift our eyes. That we might behold the church in the way that you see her as your bride. We might see it not simply as that weak, pathetic, sinner-filled, politicking, petty group of people. We might see beyond that the glorious work you're doing in bringing sinners to yourself through the cross. If we don't know what that means, Lord, that you should work into our lives. In our hearts to bow the knee to Jesus and be reconciled to you. And Lord, we would see what it means as you break down the walls of pride and arrogance in denominations and races. To bring your church together is a credible witness to the power of Jesus Christ to accomplish reconciliation among people. And that you would, Lord, use us, whether here or among the nations more broadly, to realize that you are gifting and equipping your people through small groups. To be a demonstration in that community of the power and the presence of the risen incarnate Christ. We want to be part of that. We want to see you as a church working in our lives to display your wisdom and your glory. Make us, Lord, available to you in Jesus' name. Amen.