So I wanted to take the opportunity this morning. Let me open with prayer and we'll get going. Father, we thank you so much for this opportunity we have to hear what you are doing in our region, particularly at the University of Maryland. which is uh a strategic university not only for this region but for the country. We would pray, Father, uh that you would enable uh uh Chris Garriott and the Ministry of Reform University Fellowship to Reach the Lost for Christ. And for those students that are coming From families that profess faith, we pray that they would be built up in thinking about the gospel and what it means to engage the world through their studies. uh enabled by your grace. And I pray that you would uh be present in our time here this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. So two things. First, um uh I I don't think I did a very good job last week in my sermon in connecting what my sermon had any to do with the world at your door. So here's the reality. The the world at our door is this, that that we believe that Howard County and this region is where the world is coming to. Statistic after statistic show us that the world is coming to this region for jobs, for uh the opportunity to be engaged in uh all that's going on in Washington, DC And not to mention the number of companies that serve around the world that are based here. But the reality is, while the world is at our door, they are not knocking at our door. They are not waiting outside, waiting for us to open up the door and let them in. We have to step across the threshold of our doors to go to the world. And University of Maryland is an extremely strategic university. Many of you are are graduates or sent students there. And so Chris Garriott, as you will keep in just a little while, uh serves as the campus minister for Reform University Fellowship, which is the Presbyterian Church in America's ministry to the college campus What makes RUF distinct, I'll let him get into all those details, but I think one of the most important details about RUF is this, that he is a full ordained minister uh serving the college campus on that campus. Which is unique. And were it not for Reform University Fellowship, I would not be here. For having served in leadership at Reform University Fellowship at the University of South Carolina Someone gave a donation to Covenant Theological Seminary that if you had been in leadership for RUF, uh I hope you took advantage of this, paid for fifty percent of my uh seminary career. So I think I was I wasn't in it. Oh there you go. So I'm very grateful uh that the Lord has provided through RUF and teaching me how to to engage uh the world uh with the gospel of Christ. And so with no further ado I want to introduce you Chris Garrett. Thanks Randy. Real privilege to be here with you this morning just to uh share about RUF and what that is and what we're doing on the campus. Just a little bit of update about who I am. I actually grew up pretty close to here, uh the backside of Woodstock, uh granite area. So if anybody's familiar with that, I went to Randall Sound High School. Um my family was greatly impacted by the Ministry of Young Life. I was the youngest of five. My oldest sister Connie came to Christ through uh Young Life at Woodlawn High School And that had a dramatic effect on uh my entire family, including me, and she led me to the Lord when maybe I was six or seven years old And so I was involved with Young Life, um, went to Geneva College actually, so they didn't have RUF, Christian College and Western PA, and uh was an engineer for about five years, worked for the State Highway Administration And at the same time was involved with Liberty Reform Presbyterian Church, doing youth ministry, and just God kept bringing up seminary and uh wanting to study the Bible more and more, so I I finally left, went to uh Covenant Seminary, that's where I met Randy and uh the Lord kind of redirected me and and uh went into youth ministry for a while in Oklahoma and uh and then in two thousand six I came uh back home and uh to the University of Maryland. That position has opened up with RUF and so God graciously uh brought me there Um is there many Turp fans in here? Many many Maryland alum? Great, great to have you. Um I wanna I wanna talk about through some challenges um and kind of why we're on the campus and then I'm gonna try to do quickly go through a PowerPoint, kind of give you an explanation of RUF and that sort of thing. You know, when students come to the University of Maryland, there's a lot there's tons of challenges. Uh when a freshman uh gets dropped off there at the Denton dorm or Ellicott Dorm there on North Campus, there is just a host of things and I would say for believers, for Christians who come there Uh there's a great intellectual challenge. Uh that's one of the big tests. Uh you're you're you're leaving. Um the confines of your church, your family, and now you're sitting in with professors who are not maybe just uh apathetic towards the Christian faith, but they're they're hostile. And uh they they want to tear your belief system down. And so there's the great challenge of the intellectual um challenge to the faith. Is Christianity true? Um, how can Jesus say, I'm the only way, the truth, and the life? If you believe that, uh you're you're bigoted. if you have an absolute truth belief. Because we know in America, and you know this in our culture, that the number one mantra is that when it comes to religion, there's no absolutes Right? It's whatever is good for you. And so RUF is there to try to help students go through that these questions, these issues that come up. And uh and so as students question those things, we're there to try to help them figure out, well, how can Jesus claim to be the only way, truth, and the life? What about the Bible? Is that credible? Is I mean my professors are saying these are just uh edited stories from one group of people. Uh, you know, they've been passed down and changed. How can we really take those as absolute truth? And so you have the Da Vinci Code ideas, the Dan Brown ideas that the Bible has just uh been given to us because a powerful people have voted that these are what they want to say about life. So how do we look at the scriptures? So that there's the intellectual challenge. There's the what I would call the freedom challenge. Uh if you remember the old movie, uh Animal House, J John Belushi, we're college kids, we can do anything we want. And as you know, many do. Uh through their own um downfall, unfortunately. And so what do students that come out of the church do with all of the freedom? I'm not with my parents anymore. Who is this person that's living three foot from me? Uh the halls are filled with people that don't have your worldview or come out of uh your belief system. Thursday, Friday, Saturday night are are wild. What are you going to do? Who are you? And so there's the whole freedom challenge. What do I believe? Uh and so college becomes this time where students are tested in the faith. What do they really believe? Who are they? Is Jesus real? Should I believe what my parents believed? And ultimately, going to college becomes that testing ground. Am I really going to take the baton? When I'm by myself, who am I? When nobody's looking, who am I? RUF is there to try to encourage them and try to love them and try to show the grace of the gospel. Um I I think one of the things that Francis Schaeffer would say is that if Christianity is true You should be able to cut it open and look at it and it should come up through to the to the way life is, to the reality of this world and how it is. And that's what we try to do. Because God has created you. God has created this world. He's created education. And uh it all fits together in his plan. And so we're trying to help students understand that. There's the time challenge as well. The issue of if you're taking 15 credit hours, if you're engineering, if you're taking calculus. Those classes take a lot of time. Not only that, but when you come to a place like the University of Realm, there's over five hundred clubs to be involved with. You know, there's religious clubs, there's academic clubs, there's sports clubs, there's chess clubs, there's there's even a marijuana club. There are so many clut to to legalize it. Um I'm sure that's all they do. Uh But there are so many clubs, the question is what do you do with your time? And a lot of times uh when students who come from the church come, they have great intentions. I will meet them as freshman. Say, I want to get involved with RUF, I want to get into campus ministry. And then two years later I will see them. Uh because there's so many choices and if you don't make a choice uh to be committed to a campus ministry, to a fellowship group i it it will just it will just get pushed aside, pushed aside, and you'll never be there. So again, there's that whole time challenge. But these are some of the things. So I just wanna Uh go through and talk to you a little bit a little bit about RUF. Hopefully we'll have some time for questions and uh You know, I hope you're not just like bored out of your mind with all the with these slides. So if you are just you know raise your hand and and tell me. Um I know that time is limited, but uh here we are with Test Studio there, R UF, on the campus. Um Let's see. Okay. Uh some of you have seen this. This is McKelden Mall. Um just some stats about Maryland, 27,000 undergrads. About 10,000 grad students. So about th it's just it's a small city. Most of the students live within a couple miles of the campus. And uh there's probably 7,000 freshmen every fall. But if you put all the groups together, Navigators, Intervarsi, Crusade, um MCF, the Baptists, RUF, all of those things. Maybe only one one and a half percent or two percent are involved with any campus ministry. It's very dark. So maybe five to six hundred students are connected in anything at the University of Maryland. So this just gives you a little bit of feel. There's about six thousand Jewish students. In fact Um it's known as the h the the the university with the most uh Jewish students at it. The Hillel Center is very active and so that presents its own challenges. Pray for us in that because I feel like we haven't I've been there six years, I feel like we haven't even made enrows. We've had contacts, we've had relationships with Jewish students, but nothing really magnificent. Um of course we're known for beating for rioting after we beat Duke, but that uh might not happen for a long time. Uh Randy already said this. Uh RUF is campus ministry of the PCA and uh really twofold goals, reaching students for Christ. We're there on the campus trying to present the gospel, trying to share Jesus, and we're trying to equip them to serve in the church. uh we're trying to do things to help equip them as leaders. Uh this is one of the uh club uh club days on on the campus so we're out there there's there's two club days at Maryland And so picture McKelden Mall just filled with all these tables in every single club. Uh what we have found is that's not a good way to stand out. So what we try to do is set tables up by the dining hall uh during the year and uh and just let students know who we are because when there's five hundred choices, uh, you just get lost in the shuffle. Um, these are just some of the students at Maryland. What are our goals? Well we're trying to be biblically based ultimately. But growth and grace, fellowship and service, evangelism and missions, and biblical world and life use. So let me unpack that a little bit for you. Obviously, you know, we want to we want students to love Jesus. We want students to be full of the gospel and to know um what he has done for them, that they're bigger sinners than they realize. Uh and that Jesus loves them more than they can imagine. And so and we also want to say it's not just about you, but God has called you into this wonderful family with all kinds of problems and everything else, but that's where God has put you you and so love the church, be involved. Um Wallace Presbyterian Church is the church that I'm connected to most closely. Now I'm a I'm ordained in the PCA, which means I'm part of the Presbytery, so I'm not really attached to any one church. Uh but since Wallace is so close, we try we try to encourage students to go there uh when they're when they're on the campus or if they're uh not too far away to go to their home turf. So make sure they're connected and uh engaging and serving. Um one of the things we do in terms of uh the uh You know, this idea of growth and grace is just trying to equip students to study the Bible. Uh Billy Joseph was an RUF campus minister at Alabama for about twenty six years. Can you imagine that being with college kids for twenty six years? And uh he said there's two things which he felt were the most important things for students to know. Number one, justification. The gospel that you are justified by another. That it's not your works, it's not what you do, it's what Jesus has done for you on the cross. Getting that straight. And then also learning how to study the Bible yourself and learning how to help other people study the Bible. So we try to equip students with small group Bible studies. We try to train Bible study leaders to do Bible studies uh in the dorm. And that's a big challenge. If I if you could pray for one thing about our ministry, that would be it. Pray that students would be so inflamed with the gospel that they would want to lead small group Bible studies in their dorm and try to gather people. We have students that are pretty good at gat uh at at uh doing Bible studies and studying and figuring out a passage and asking questions. Because we see these These principals as this is this is their life. This is what they're going to do in the church. Pastors, don't you want a a person in your in your church to be able to lead a Bible study and do Sunday school? Yes. We're trying to train students to do that. To simply open the scriptures, read it, digest it, ask questions. Observe, interpret, apply, find Jesus in that passage. That's what we're trying to teach students to do so that they're bringing the word of life to their friends. So pray for that. Pray for small group leaders. We've had as many as as six small groups going. Right now we're down to three. And part of that is uh the spring semester is different than the fall, and so we're trying to work things out. But just pray that God would bless that. We have a guy study and dinner on Thursday night, girl study and dinner on Thursday night and then we have a Tuesday night campus study um in the Denton area, North Campus, uh if you're familiar with with university. We meet outside the diner and we um then we go into one of the dorms. Growth and grace, love for worship. So every Wednesday night we have large group uh on the campus, 730 in the student union stamp if you're familiar with that right dead center. And uh if there's any juniors or seniors here in the youth group, I'd love to encourage you to come down and uh see what college ministry is like It's an open invite. Come on down. We'll grab pizza before and then we'll and you can come and uh take part and see what's going on with the college ministry. And also you can see the University of Maryland. Uh God's been very gracious to give us a room right there in the middle. of the campus. We used to meet in a place called the Armory, which is basically the oldest building on campus in the basement. So pics are blocked. lock building with wooden chairs and you get splinters in every time you slide into it. That's where they kind of put all the Christian groups because if you're gonna have live music, you can't be in a classroom And so they kinda I I feel it's kinda the way they kinda s uh uh slide all the Christian groups into one place on campus. This is just my own thoughts. I don't know if that's But if you're going to have live music, which every every one of the Christian fellowships do, you can't meet in a classroom. But you can meet in the Stamp Student Union if you rent a room. So by God's grace we've been able to rent the atrium room, which has just been a fantastic space for us. And so every week I'm preaching the scriptures this year, uh this spring we're going through the prophets of the Old Testament. And uh so this gives you a little bit, that's the the atrium room there. Um and we really believe that, uh just like you do, that in God's grace, in the foolishness of the priest's word, that he convicts and convert sinners uh to himself. And so uh there was a guy uh right here uh he's the third over for me Joe with the hat on backwards Uh New York City br uh he's from Queens, Roman Catholic background. And uh Met him through intermurals. Uh he came to he was playing basketball on the gym and the the guy standing next to him with the Oreo shirt, that's uh Nate Dean who actually lives in my house, uh, met Joe and uh was kind of very selfish. It was with Joe, Joe was a very good basketball player, and he said, Well you need to come be on our flag football team. And so Joe starts coming to Flag Football. Next thing you know, he starts uh coming a little bit to our Bible studies. And then uh I was able to meet with him. Now then he kind of fell off the map, and this is very typical for college students. Like they'll come around and then they'll get busy and then you won't see 'em. Can anybody relate to this? Okay. And uh and then all of a sudden I got a call from Joe. And uh he had been listening we we put our uh sir our messages on podcasts and so uh he had been listening to my sermons. He said Like, I've really been enjoying your sermons, this and that. Well, that led to us getting together and kind of going through mere Christianity. And he just loved it. He loved read C. S. Lewis. And uh, in fact, he loved it so much that Uh he gave that book to his dad uh for Christmas. I mean just amazing things. Now I am not sure totally if Joe is there. I think he is, I think he is believing. Jesus, but I'm not totally sure. But we're just trying to process with him uh to come to it. So pray for people like Joe and uh pray that the gospel would truly capture his heart. Um Again, here's Wallace. They have a new sanctuary down there right next to the campus. And the stats all through youth ministry are this, three out of four. Uh students, covenant kids that grow up in the church when they go to college, uh afterwards they leave it. I mean that is just hard and fast stats that go through all of youth ministry. That's a sad stat. Why does that happen? I think a lot of it is because students aren't getting fed in the church in the churches. Uh they're not allowed to ask the questions, the doubts and the things that they have. And so with them when they come to university Boom, there's all these questions and doubts and they're seen to look foolish if you believe what your parents believe. And so the question is, are we equipping and are we Giving our students the meat of the word and the arguments to be able to wrestle through those questions and come out on the other side with a sure faith. So we're on this is uh a picture. One of the one of the interesting things uh that we did this year is we had we uh we had our welcome barbecue Right on the campus. Now typically we've we've actually had the barbecue over at Wallace. Two years ago, we uh we probably had sixty, seventy students that came to that barbecue. And uh but we they had to leave campus to go there. And we had about twenty kids who signed up and said, I want to go to the barbecue. We had all the co we had cars there ready to take 'em. Guess what? Nobody came. Even though we we had texted them, we emailed them. Um, everything else. They just didn't show up. They they signed up for it but they didn't show up. So I said, guess what? We can't have this barbecue. over at Wallace. All the students are right here on North Campus and so what we decided to do is just we kinda had like a flash barbecue. You know, we just showed up with The barbecue, the hot dogs, you know, the sodas and everything. And put a few signs up on North Campus. This is right near La Plata beach area if you if you you're familiar. Right near the stadium. I mean literally right near uh uh Bird Stadium. And we probably had hundred and fifty to two hundred students just like all of a sudden we had we had like our cornhole game out there and we just tried to create a party, ministry team kids were meeting people and uh I learned a big lesson about charcoal. I use the match light, the fast stuff, so for about thirty minutes everything's great. I'm cooking, I'm you know, burgers, kids are loving it. And then everything just went out. And so for like a half an hour had we had to restart and get new lighter fuel and everything else. But students stuck stuck around And uh this is what we're trying to do, build community, meet people, uh have the context of evangelism as uh as we go through. We were giving out stadium cups and uh info about RUF and how they can connect. I want to talk a little bit about some students. Here's here's a guy and this is this is how Randy was saying the world is coming. to the to the campus. Um this is Troy, he's from China. And uh he met the Lord in Beijing. at through a house church that ministered to college students. Okay, he came from uh just a little village in in China somewhere. In fact, uh both of his parents have died Uh and when he was four years old he wandered into a construction site and there was some exposed wires and he touched them and his arm uh was uh burned and uh you know where they took him? Not to the hospital but to a witch doctor. And then after that they took him to a hospital. He lost his arm. So he's got his left arm is amputated. This guy is just full of joy. He connected to us because I have a connection with the Chinese outreach fellowship there. And uh Chinese students and all international students, you know what they want to do? They want to meet Americans. They want to meet kids on campus and so Troy started coming and just really livened up our group in a big way. And uh last week he went with me to uh uh a Bible study training conference in Philadelphia that RUF put on and is just, you know, growing in the lures, he's excited, and he's an undergrad. This is how you know the Chinese uh culture is doing well. It's not just scholars and uh grad students that come to the US. Now it's undergrads that come to the U. S. So Maryland has a partnership with this school in Beijing and so kids do freshman and sophomore year and then they come back and they or they come over here and they do their junior and senior year We do all kinds of things, fall conference, road trips. We even go to Sonic. That was before they put a sonic up here uh in in Woodlawn. There there wasn't a sonic anywhere around. And I I was in Oklahoma for about eight years and I got uh uh basically addicted to Sonic And uh and then you know, you'd see the Sonic commercials on TV, but guess what? There's no Sonics anywhere around. So we did a a road trip bowling to Fredericksburg, Virginia, just to go to Sonic. It was It was about thirty kids came. It was amazing. Uh camping trips, we went to Acety a couple years ago. I have two interns. Uh RUF has an internship program. And uh so students that have been involved in RUF are sent off uh to another s uh university to do RUF as interns. It's Uh part of their day is study program. It's kind of like pre-seminary books that they read and study for about three hours a day. They do one-on-ones with students. They help me with the ministry. And then they just learn about ministry. And so my two interns Uh one's name is Tiffany and the other is Elvis. Elvis I think is going to be here for the s for the uh for the service. Uh but uh I said I've got it I've got a Tiffany and an Elvis? I've got to have a p I gotta have a party with this. And so last last year when they came we had this uh uh meet Elvis with breakfast at Tiffany Tiffany's party and uh people dressed up eas either as Elvis, as you can see uh here. Uh Uh or they dress up as uh as Tiffany um over here. So you can kinda see so we had a good time with that. But you know, a lot of what we try to do is build friendships and just community because the number one problem uh with college students is loneliness. Loneliness. Friendship, commitment. Why do you think everybody wants to be in a fraternity or sorority and pay big bucks to do it? And do all kinds of crazy things to get in. They want friends. They want connection. Uh they want fellowship. They w they want they want friends. And so unfortunately, uh in a lot of those other things, they have to do all these things to get there and be all these things. And what we're saying is, no, come as you are. Come as you are. Jesus is calling people to come to him. So we're about the relationships. Uh we're about church connections. The African American guy, actually his his family is from Cameroon. His name is Dang Azang and Jia. He graduated a couple years ago, but uh here's how I met him. So I grew up, I told you, at Liberty Reform Presbyterian Church up in uh Elversburg area. And uh there was a woman there by the name of Nellie Metzbauer. She's she's with the Lord now. And uh she was probably in her eighties and uh she knew that I was coming to the University of Maryland. Well, she was at I think Carol Lutheran home up in Westminster, a retirement home And Dang and his uh singing group came through and she talked with him and uh found out that he was going to be going to the University of Maryland. And so what did she do as an 85-year-old? Well, she called me and told me about this student, gave me the information And so then I was able to contact him probably in August, even before he got to university. Well, Dan came and got immediately involved in our ministry and just was was a huge impact player in terms of on the campus relationally and uh just being a great servant Now he's at the University of Chicago studying um medicine. And so this is how God works, He connects people And so even as you think about um your your children, your grandchildren, your nieces and nephews, they're on college campuses all over the place. I would encourage you to think about I wonder I wonder what's going on with their spiritual life and I wonder if there's a good campus ministry there like RUF that they could plug into. Email that person, call that person, tell them, and they'll follow up. I'd I'd follow up. And uh we try to we try to connect, we try to get people involved Um some of the things we do is just try to serve. We for a couple years we had a relationship with STEP DC, which is a a a ministry. to students kind of in the um Columbia Heights area, uh to children. And now step is no longer exists right now. And so we're we're actually trying to figure out how we can do some more service ministry uh as a group. But we really do that. We've we've done mission trips every year since I've been there. We've gone to places like New Orleans, New York City, we've gone to Guanajuato, Mexico, and this year we're planning on going to Lima, Peru. Uh there's some friends of ours, Randy fr knows the berries and and uh the wards who are in Limafru. So we're gonna take a group down uh in March, Lord willing, if we can raise the money. It's about eighteen hundred dollars uh a student. So they've sent out letters and they're praying and so we're hoping to uh uh to be able to do that. Um Let me tell you a little bit about this this picture I know is blurry, but the the gal on uh the far left, her name is Chelsea, and Tiffany's on the right, she's my intern, and again, here's internationals and here's how God works. So Chelsea again is an undergrad, came through that same contact, came to like our barbecue or something, and started uh getting involved with us. And so she wanted help just with her English. So Tiffany began to meet with her every week and just talk. And uh, you know, and then all of a sudden she started having questions about the Bible, like how can the Bible be true? Like Wh where in the Old Testament does it point to Jesus? The even these kind of questions. So Tiffany continued to talk with her, meet with her, just be a friend with her. and uh talk about, you know, these things and then all of a sudden she said, Guess what? I'm getting baptized. She was also involved with uh the Chinese fellowship that met on Friday night. And so again, you know, I don't know how she got converted, was it through Tiffany? But the Lord is at work and he's doing great things and he's you Using his word and he's using relationships and uh and and things like this are going on. So again, um a lot of a lot of what we do is one on ones And uh if we meet a student or they come to RUF, we meet it we try to get their, you know, name and email and and then we just get together with them and uh you know, not many people turn you down when you're gonna they're gonna buy lunch for So these become a great way to to just uh meet them, get to know them, see what their questions are, and and uh see how they can connect and uh see how they can uh be involved in our ministry. Um let me tell you about Joe Silver. He's the guy on the right hand side with his hands up. And uh Joe is Joe was uh grew up in the church, covenant kid. And uh his parents even went to seminary. So, you know, you talk about somebody who knows the Westminster Confession of Faith and just you know is reformed and and uh and so Joe comes to the University of Maryland and gets involved a little bit. Okay, his freshman year. But he was also doing chess club and all these things and he would be one of those kids he would come and then again you wouldn't see him for like weeks. And uh And then all of a sudden, I guess I want to say his junior year, his senior this year. So last year in the fall, I think God really began getting a hold of him more. And uh I remember meeting with him and he said, you know, I think he was a computer science major and he he decided to change and go to English. He said, I think God's calling me maybe to go into ministry. And I was like, Well Joe, if God's calling you to go into the ministry, you should like come and be involved and start doing the things that ministers do, like come to R UF, you know, help lead a Bible study. Like Use your gifts and like let's see versus just hey I have this idea. And so I think Elvis as well gave him the same message. And so Joe started coming and uh Then Joe went on our mission trip to Chicago and we were working in the inner city with um Sunshine Gospel ministry up there last spring and it's like God just really took the gospel to a new level with him. Really showed him his sin. Really showed him his his selfishness. I think he was a believer, but God really renewed him and worked a deeper repentance. And ever since that trip I can't get Joe away from me He's like, is he here right now? He he's he's just um been involved with everything. He comes to everything. He's on ministry team. He's helping lead Bible study and uh and guess what? He just applied for the RUF internship And so he'd like to go and do that for two years and we'll see what happens uh after that. But um just desires the ministry. How are we dealing with time back there? Okay, good. Um let me one more story. Uh okay, a couple more stories. The c the cool thing about um the ministry too is that we're seeing students like want to really serve. And so we had seven of our students that worked at Camp Wabana. Is anybody familiar familiar with that? It's down in um kind of near Annapolis, but they do a lot of ministry, the inner city kids is a great camp Seven of our kids served all summer and you know how hot it was last summer and just poured their lives out with elementary, middle, and high school kids So really exciting to see. I mean if I could say there's any highlight, it's that. The kids are are getting outside of themselves and they're saying, I want to serve Jesus and I'm gonna serve at this camp and make a commitment And so these are two of the gals, Corey and Adeline, uh, who who served. This is an another guy, Rob Gicking. And uh it's a great cant down there. Um this gal this the f last story I'm gonna tell and then um some Q<unk>A and then I've got a short video. Brittany's on the right, African American girl here. So this year we ha we had a rooming issue again in the fall. We couldn't u use that atrium room that we we we're usually in. And so the university said, Well we'll let you be in the a stamp lunch room. It's called the Baltimore Room. And basically just picture Probably a room about this size with just tables set up and it's where the students eat lunch. It's where all of the uh fast food restaurants are. And so we so here we are, you know, we're on the one one third of it. You know, we've got our music team, they're worshiping, you know, they're setting up and And uh we're just doing our thing. We're worshiping the Lord amongst people like trying to study, you know, have their laptops out, eating, dinner, you know, but we're over on this side, like just doing our thing. Well, this girl Brittany walked in and she saw us and she she was like, That's a Christian group. I'm gonna go over there. Well, she was brand new to the campus. She was having all kinds of roommate problems, which is a typical thing. And she came in there and she just got involved. Within forty eight hours she was on our fall conference retreat up in up in li near Ligonier, uh actually in Ligonier, Pennsylvania And uh she has just been attached uh ever since that. So this is how God is at work on the campus because we're there. I don't know how it happened, but the Lord is putting pieces together. And so just want to give him praise and thanks for that. Let me uh just Let me pause right there and then see if there's some questions and then I have a short video. Also in on the t there's a table outside. And uh if you'd like to get email updates, please feel free to sign up if there's people that you know at Maryland that you'd like me to follow up with. I'd love to have their contact info. Um There's general brochures for RUF. There's even a few stickers out there. So kids, if you if you s you know, feel free to grab those. Um and uh so anyway, I don't know if there's some questions. Yes. Our children have been involved in our room. And for us as parents, we arrived on campus and our quickly contact scenario and that we're And we give our children's lives and they might really not find the home. There are less actions in what they can do. And for appearance, did their thing need to be moving away from us? Have the confidence to know that a pathway is there and that they're not gonna fall off the track because you're dependent And the leadership training we're talking about, you know, encouraging them to get back and not just teach that probably want to do all of that We just attest to. So we all said to our children, you can go to college anywhere you want to go, but there needs to be an RF chapter there. We're on about a hundred and forty school school campuses and so there's a list out there in that brochure, so feel free to pick one up. Thanks, yeah. Back there? Nobody nobody can hear you on the other side. The uh uh statistic that three out of four of the students uh who have the uh followed in faith coming into college that then uh leave afterward because they haven't found it relevant. Is there anything more that we can do before the students then get to college that we could here as CPC do to better equip them so that they would find greater relevancy in their uh faith and take it on as their own so it that as statistic then would improve. That is a great question. I I think and I you know I did youth ministry for about eight years and uh I think I think the big thing is that students uh need to feel your children need to feel the freedom to ask questions and not to suppress and feel like I have to perform and I have to I'm at church, I'm with my parents, I have to perform and I have to do all these things. You know, usually people don't ask questions until something big happens in their life. Maybe someone dies, there's there's you know, sickness, um, their boyfriend or girlfriend breaks up with them, something or going to college. Uh, they usually you know, to some extent that's just how God works. Like they don't we we're hoping they're getting it, but then when the trial, when the when the storm hits, you know Uh that's how we know if we are truly trusting in the Lord. And so what I would encourage you in your Sunday school programs and to to really be intentional about We are you know to even to say that every time like we want to know your questions and we're not afraid of your questions because the God of the Bible is true And we believe that we can we can work through that to come out on the other side. So if you have questions, students, kids, you know, please ask those. This the you know, th this is the loving family that he's given us so that we can in that context help them and encourage them. And so don't don't pretend or don't uh you know think they've got it all together just because they're coming. Like What do they what do they really believe? And also I'd say be biblical, you know, be in the word. Give 'em the meat of the word. You know, the the fun stuff and all that, yes. But the main thing is you're gonna have you're gonna be in there learning truth. And I I would add, um I I don't believe that my uh church, which I became a Christian uh through, prepared me for uh the college campus very well. Well and the thing that RUF taught me was how do I engage what I believe By reading and through reading those which absolutely are diametrically opposed to what I believe. So how do I read someone who doesn't believe, who hates Christianity? And and how do I read that and filter that through and engage that with my faith? If you don't know how to do that, your faith can be deconstructed very, very, very quickly. Yeah, and and I think part of what we're trying to do too is build in them a world in life view which says that um that you know people are made in the image of God. And so your your professors are made in the image of God. They might be atheists, but man, they're really good at calculus. And uh and so you can learn from them You can learn from truth like Schaefer said, you know, truth is truth, you know, all truth is God's truth. Now on a lot of other ways, like it's they're off, but So that students aren't afraid of the university, that they know that they're going into a place where people are made in the image of God and they're in God's world. Uh they can learn a lot about it and they can also see the false falseness as well I think we could show the video. Okay. So this is just a uh a video that'll show you various things and and it's actually it's a song that's kind of a prayer. Uh as well. And uh and so you'll see some video, you'll see some uh mission trips off, you'll see. We I'm gonna start it now. Are we good to go with the sound? We'll try. Laughter is the only thing that'll keep you saying. And this world is crying more and more every day. Don't let evil get you down. In this madness spinning round and around. I will live forever. Under me the sky so blue. Some people say faith is a childish game. Play on children like it's Christmas. Sing me a song, sing me a melody, sing out loud, your funny. I want you to live for me the cast. Take courage when the road is long. Don't ever forget, you are never alone. I hold you to be full Under me the sky soon I want you to live forever on the meet the gather. Oh yeah, I want you to live forever under leave the gold. So two things. First, uh please remember that uh out in the foyer you will find information as it relates to the Ministry of RUF and all the college campuses, and please take an opportunity to introduce yourself to to uh Pastor Garrett and uh welcome him here to CPC. And also I also have an announcement in regard to Sandtown. So There is information also in the foyer today. Many have asked about ways in which to be involved with uh what's going on at Sandtown and and uh from habitat to humanity for humanity and so forth. That information I believe is that on the table as well, or is it the welcome table table or okay. So that information is at the welcome table. So please take an opportunity. If you were here for that presentation for Habitat for Humanity Sunday a couple of weeks ago, you can find that information at the Welcome Table. Thank you, and let me close this time in prayer. Father, we thank you for the ministry of RUF and how it has touched the lives of many here. And I personally thank you, Lord, for the ways in which you have ministered uh to me and preparing me uh for ministry through that. We thank you for Chris. We thank you for his ministry at the University of Maryland. We pray, Father, for open doors For the gospel of Jesus Christ to uh to flow through. And we pray for your Holy Spirit to equip Chris to minister the gospel there. We pray for strategic relationships to be used. Used by you to bring those who do not know you to the Lord and also for those students who profess faith, who are alone, who are struggling with doubt, who are not sure where to turn. We pray that they would be able to be connected to RUF. And we just ask for your hand to be at work in this ministry by your Spirit and Word. In Jesus name, Amen. Thank you for coming. In