Father, we thank you for this morning, and it is a privilege to come and worship you. We praise you for the Lord Jesus Christ. for sending him for us. Father, we pray that you would uh just allow us to see your power and your majesty as we hear about what you're doing around the world this morning. through Tito and Samuel. Father, I pray, God, that you would work in our hearts. And we thank you for Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. So we have the privilege this morning to uh have with us Tito Padilla, who if you have been here a while and you'll know him because he's been here many times. He used to work here with our staff uh many years ago. He's now in El Paso working with a church that he's planted down there, as well as with the Beam Ministry, which he's going to explain more to you. So it's a great opportunity to have Tito. We're gonna go ahead and let him jump right into it. So I'll bring him up now and we'll get started. Okay. sí tienes Buenos días. Es una alegría estar aquí con ustedes. It's a pleasure to be here with you. And this is uh Samuel Lopez. uh who is a church planter in Ciudad Juarez in um Chihuahua, um Mexico I've had the privilege over many years to share with you about the things that God has been doing in my life and uh and also in the in the ministries that He's called us to. Um and but this morning what I'd like to do is I want really want to give Samuel uh the bulk of the time so that you have a uh well-rounded uh picture of what goes on on the border. And I know and some well knows because he's met some of you working in Juarez. It's as a church you've sent teams there and so we've been very grateful for that and um but there are probably questions with all the violence that has gone on. Uh what does ministry look like? What does it look like for him? Uh you have a sense of what it looks like for us in El Paso. But so anyways I'm gonna uh have someone uh say a little bit about himself and then and then we'll just go into uh this little presentation we have. Okay? Claro. He understands Spanish and English really well. nuevamente este como Tito dijo mi nombre es Samuel López Domínguez Samuel López Domínguez y este soy del sur de México, Chiapas, donde está pegado con Guatemala, soy de South of México, Chiapas, que es Guatemala. Eh vengo de una familia I come from a traditional family. And God sent me to seminary to Merida and Yucatán, southern Mexico. Ella se llama Zeneida. Ella es Yucateca y yo soy de Chiapas. She's from Yucatan and I'm from Chiapas. Our daughters they did they were not born in either Yucatán or in Chiapas but in Ciudad Juarez. And the second one is Nadir Raquel. Y creemos que el señor nos ha enviado a Ciudad Juárez, en esa ciudad We believe that God has called us to citar Juárez. And that's one of our passions and what we desire is that a church be planted in Ciudad Juárez. Oh, está bien. Okay. fear Actualmente el temor eh ha sobrepasado los límites en la ciudad en the present moment the fear just gone beyond the normal limits in the city of Ciudad Juarez. More than fear is something that is terrifying. Up even to uh twenty twelve there are more than six thousand deaths. Y muchos, much desaparecidos que no están en la lista o en las estadísticas. And many people that have disappeared that are not on the list. In the iglesia tenemos a una hermana que has perdido a Santiago. We have a lady in the church who lost her son, Santiago. It's rather her her brother, and every time she prays that her brother would appear, whether dead or alive She begins to cry because it's been very difficult for her. So the violence has instilled fear in us. But also it's affected the schools. The city in general, but also people on the streets. And that fear has created this pressure upon us so that we don't go out on the streets. So you see a photo there with you see the fire, there's a car that's burning. For many years we'd hear about deaths and about shootings. But this not only happened not just in Sea Juárez, but also en Monterrey, Michoacán. And so that explosion provoked a lot of fear in us. Because we weren't sure anymore of anything. And that particular day there was a uh medical uh personnel that that died. There were several injured. Even in Mexico the things that happen They're not told precisely nor accurately through the media. Es una guerra como la película de alien y depredador y en medio está la gente. This is this uh like a movie and the predator and in the middle there are the people of Juarez. y en esa gente estamos nosotros y eso ha provocado en muchas familias que yo he visitado un gran odio hacia el gobierno And that's provoked that a lot of people that I've visited have this great hatred toward the government. Depression and depression and suicide. Esa fue una estadística antigua, ocho muertos al día. La realidad era que desde hace cuatro años atrás había entre veinte y veinticinco muertos diariamente. This is an old statistic really about eight deaths a day, but because at one point there was twenty-twenty five murders a day. And so the people got used to hearing about one desk. And so thanks to God some of this violence has uh diminished. And occasionally we've only hear now about one or two deaths per week. Nonetheless, there's this fear that continues on the Diez mil huérfanos, huérfanos, ten thousand orphans About a month ago we've been talking and working with her. Her husband was murdered last year. Llega un grupo armado y empezó a matar a todos los que estaban in el bar. And there and this group comes in, armed group, and shoots everyone in that bar. And when she saw these groups of people come in, she went and hid herself. But one of them noticed that she was hiding. And took out his gun y le dijo quiero dejar me olvides. And so he shot her in the back. And today she struggles and every day she tries to take her own life. She has three children. She doesn't work. Her own family has abandoned her. Because of fear of any kind of uh payback from Martel. So nobody's visited her for the most part, no one gives her anything to eat. So a friend of mine called me and said, Samo, would you go and visit a family? And they told me the story. And I thought about it, should I go, should I not go? Y al fin de cuentas decidí bajo mi propio riesgo, claro This is on my own initiative. And usually my family comes along with me, but on that occasion I tell them no. When I saw her I I noticed she was in a wheelchair she depression she doesn't eat and daily she's always thinking If she dies, And so she dies, and then her three children become part of this statistic. And believe me, it's very difficult in pastoral counseling to minister to her in the midst of her pain. So this ministry has not been easy. So when you pray, please remember Juliana and pray for her. Más de 30. 000 casas abandonadas. Y estas casas abandonadas han funcionado como lugar para hacer negocios ilícitos. And so these now abandon homes have become places for illicit uh activity. Las familias, debido a la violencia, debido a esta guerra que se ha desatado en Juárez, han emigrado hacia el norte o hacia el sur. What's happened is that because of the violence, people either have come over to El Paso or they've gone back to their regional towns in the southern part of Mexico. Y por esa razón, miles de casas abandonadas And so that's why you have all these families that have been destroyed. In all the governments we've had in Mexico, never have we had any government like this, nor violence like this. When I was younger I heard about you know war in Iraq. Con Rambo. Pero nunca había escuchado acerca de una guerra y vivirla en carne propia. But I've never really lived obviously war in my own flesh. Honestamente lo digo me encantaba in Vietnam. I'd like to watch films of war and vehicle. Nonetheless, what happens though when our government comes into place? And you know there was initiated this hunting down of the drug cartels. And the drug cartels responded uh to the government and and therefore the people hate the government Nonetheless, we in our church I tell folk that we need to pray for our government. It's not they're not the only ones that make mistakes, we also make mistakes. taken out of Juárez. In a survey that uh the young people in the church uh were given, the question was asking who do you trust the most? In the police, or God Most of the people didn't say they trusted God. So a lot of people without hope. I was doing some research for a theological paper I was writing for ordination exams. my fellow students uh they did work and research but had nothing to do with the violence of Juarez. But personally I like to be involved in what's going on in the society. And the research that I've done with both in uh interviewing folk and people who have been hurt and affected by the violence I discovered that people do not have hope. Many just say, well, I just you know think I'll die at any moment. In Juarez there is an area called the red zone. And I found out later on that the place where we're living is in the red zone. Nadie me había dicho nada de que era la zona roja. And my boss, Joshua Maya, told me, I want you to plant this church in this area. No sabía que Josué me estaba mandando la boca de león. I didn't know that uh Josue the bean boss was sending me to the mouth of the lion. Sin embargo, en esa zona roja donde nosotros actualmente estamos fundando la iglesia, he tenido tan de la cabeza. We've seen that people don't have hope. And we've seen in the four years we've been there, uh we've made a lot of friends. And then later on I went with another team. This is something that he hasn't told me, so watch out. And I've never shared this with my own church, I've never shared this with anybody. So today you will be the first ones to hear this. Don't tell my wife And there are two young men from our church who are part of that team. And every Saturday we play. But that that weekend we were gonna play on a Sunday. We don't need you this And the the guy that was part of our church says I'm gonna go and play. And I told him, he says, Look, Sunday is the Lord's Day, it's not football day. And he says, Okay, I think you're right, I won't. He didn't go. The following week after that fight. Again they went to play on Sunday. I couldn't go that day. We were in church. When we went from the home to the church, two blocks away, the captain of the football team ganado They were celebrating their victory. They were drinking their beer and listening to music. Cuando me hablan, me dicen Samuel, acaban de matar a Jorge, acaban de matar a todo el equipo. And two blocks away I could see the smoke of the gun to see what had happened. And I saw that there are a lot of bodies strewn about. muy difícil, ellos ahora no hay no hay esperanza para nadie, hopelessness comes from y actualmente aún sigo jugando fútbol But before those young men died, I had an opportunity to tell them about Jesus Christ. Some of them were married and they had children. And I told our fellow the the other guy from the church that plays on the team, I said look at the header that you would have died. Muchas personas desaparecidas. And the hope is found in the gospel, in the very power of the gospel. When my mother speaks to me or my brother in law says how are things in Juarez? The same. God continues to work in the midst of the violence. And my relatives, whether my wife's from my wife's side or my my own side, they all say come down to southern Mexico, there's no war, there's no violence here Y le digo, muchos pastores se han ido por la guerra. Y entonces tú qué haces allá, estás loco. It says, you, why are you still there? Everybody else is leaving. Are you crazy? Regresate a Ju a Mérida. I said no. No. And that because there is hope. And if I'm to die, May I die preaching the gospel? If I go to Merida, I can die of any sickness. So when I tell my wife every time I go out, if today I don't return home for whatever reason, Remember we'll see each other in heaven. Don't ever forget that. Don't forget. Take care of the girls and the dogs Like the families that we have. Or another family that was deeply hurt by the violence. They need hope. They need people to bring the gospel to them. So for now I don't leave Juárez. And probably will not go for a long time. We'd like to uh maybe you have questions and I can tell you a little bit what's going on in Las Tierras on the El Paso side. It's much calmer. Uh and I n I think God put us on the El Paso side because I'm a coward. Um I'd rather not dodge bullets. Uh and so but uh maybe you have some questions for some well Um for us. We do have a mic. All right. I gotta showcase that's the key. There's no uh substitute from getting it from the first person. violence uh between the government and the cartel or it seems to be the last number of years what changed help us understand that so we can pray better too for for everyone and for the government and the the the whatever is going on El Chapo Guzmán es familiar directa de la esposa de él. That uh the uh drug cartel leader Chapo Guzman is a relative of Felipe Calderón, the president. Entonces los gobiernos anteriores hacían eh pactos para no atacar a el gobierno atacar al narcotráfico, dejarlos que hagan su trabajo. And some say again it's not proven. The government began to attack and be aggressive toward those other cartels but not as chapo uh cartel. And so the government began to pressure, put pressure on them and to arrest. And that's what provoked perhaps that those other enemies as other cartels would respond. He's interested in some information about the church, about the body of believers. Quiere saber un poco de la iglesia, ¿no? Actually in the congregation stand entre 35 to 40 personas adultas que assistant. Presently we are about 35 to 40 adults. And presently we're in the process of buying some property. In the past we were like nomads from one place to the next. Where I'm living, that's where we're meeting now on Sundays. The owner of the house is willing to sell us the house and the property, and so that we're in the process of doing that. So it's in that red zone that's where we want to plant the church. or underemployment. And people are in the church are doing uh just marvelous striving after raising money and providing and tithing and giving Entonces probablemente a finales de este mes se firmen papeles para dar un engancho al terreno. And so hopefully at the end of this month or early uh in March there'll be uh we have enough money to be able to put a down payment. Y eso me ha emocionado mucho a seguir trabajando en Juárez. And that's really energized and thrilled me to keep on working in Juárez. ¿Entiendes? Que sí, se sienten seguros cuando se reúnen en la, en el culto. Si se sienten seguros, los he visto que se sienten seguros. Depende mucho cómo Dios esté abrando en los corazones de ellos. I think some of you may know the book, you know what I mean. I did a series of sermons on the vida de los de los hermanos. Entonces la palabra de Dios nos ha ayudado a reforzar más en la confianza de lo que Dios hace. And so we've seen how the word of God has come and strengthened the saints and the believers there so to so they remember what God is doing in the midst of the situation. And we've all lived different kinds of experiences, uh very uh difficult experiences, but one of the things that brings us together is prayer. None of us, no one is ex uh exempt from problems. Tito is uh Aviday Asternum uh prospering. sí estás prosperando mucho Um promesto de vida aturge of he is the one that's preaching over Frontera de Gracia this morning. So Uh considering how you share the gospel in Juarez and the area, what elements of the gospel message seem to uh speak to the people relative to their traditional Catholic mysticism? ¿Qué elementos del Evangelio parece que encaja mejor con la gente a la luz de su trasfondo católico? que la gente tiene pues esta perspectiva católica, entonces qué elementos del evangelio que compartes pues eh digamos encuentra eco en ellos Antiguamente, antes de que empiece la violencia, la gente tenía una barrera muy grande, soy católico y And so the gospel has come through the pain that people sensible ahora because they've experienced this pain. In our church, the majority of the people are ex-former Catholics. We even have a former Mormon family and a former Jehovah's Witness family. It's when they were suffering that the gospel came into their lives. Now you don't have this barrier, I'm I'm a catholic. Tito, in times past, you know, we have sent teams uh to White Eyes and El Paso, but recently Beam has discouraged us from going. Has that changed at all? He says I have the answer to that. Um Yes, thank you, Jim. Um Beam for a couple of years uh basically said we couldn't uh in good conscience because of the unpredictability of the situation, the violence. have teams come. And so uh we've seen this um diminishing of violence and now we're for this summer we're opening it up again to have some teams So if you were to look on the Beam webpage, there are several weeks, both in Sidajuarez, right, and also in Nogales. Right. Um, which is uh just south uh of Tucson. All right. So we have some teams that uh we'd like uh some slots there that we'd like to see filled for some teams. Let me just say this about Nogales. Nogales doesn't suffer the same kind of uh violence as Sudafuarez does. We're encouraging those who would like to go. to go to Nogales and because it would fit in well with this effort that we have to start what we call an E4 team. An E4 team is basically a team of uh specialists, evangelist, uh administrator, mercy uh ministries uh worker, uh church planter, and you get all these people together along with apprentices. And uh this team then are is what goes out to start the church. And so that's already in process in Nogales with Josué Mayo. Josué Mayo being our uh uh Samuel supervisor, my supervisor. And and so we would like some teams that come along to help push that work along. So there are a group there about in Polo de Esperanza, Wanta. Sunday. It's about thirty people meet on Sunday in Nogales. Uh and so if there are teams that would uh like to come and and help that along, that would be great. ¿Y qué es lo que van a hacer ahí en Juárez en equipo? Lo que vamos a hacer en Juárez si compramos el terreno es cerrar el patio, eh property and purchase it then the what they're gonna do is remodel it. Because right now they're meeting in what would be the dining room kitchen. It's kind of a long hall, a corridor, and so they have a patio that they would like to enclose Alright, and then that becomes the meeting place. And thanks to God, there are new people that are coming to church. I have a question. Um I imagine it's very difficult to fall on a situation where you're bringing the gospel to the community and it might appear that you're taking sides, either between the government or the narco uh traffickers. And yet uh Could our guests tell us how he interacts uh perhaps with those who are trafficking drugs or with the government and uh the fine line that they need to walk? Y eso sí, eh, thank you. Que es difícil no tomar partido, ¿no? Y ponerse de lado del gobierno o de los carteles. Pero, ¿cómo haces, cómo le haces para que puedas tener oportunidad para dirigir una palabra tanto al gobierno o a los carteles? Well wow. Now let me just tell you while he's thinking about this, there are stories that he could tell you Uh things that he's gotten himself and situations he's gotten himself into unbeknownst to him uh that would just just frighten you out of your pants or skirt. Estoy en medio, escucho a gente que está metida en el narcotráfico, me dicen, cuentan historias I'm in the middle and I hear people from the drug trafficking side and they tell me their stories. And the other side there are people that I hear in the government that tell me about their ideals and their philosophy. Y yo estoy en medio como pastor esperando este a ver qué va a pasar. Y no estoy ni del lado del gobierno, ni del lado del narcotráfico, ni del lado de nadie. So my work was with all the different groups, the gospel and it's simply to preach the gospel to them. And about two weeks ago I was having a conversation with a drug uh cartel guy who works with la línea cartel. And he wanted to hear a word of hope and particularly how to get out of that life that he has. And we were sitting next to each other and he told me that he worked for the cartel. Y le dije este pues si quieres hablar acerca de tus problemas, eh, tus conflictos, adelante, solamente no me digas nombres. After talking about two hours, he says to me, Where's your church? And jokingly I said to him oh the church is really really far away No, no, no creo que des con la iglesia. Porque créanme que es difícil, honestamente lo digo, a veces me cuesta trabajar en esos casos difíciles. And so we pray that the people that you know want to that God is working in will come to the church. One of the things in in talking with some well, you know, you you have all these contacts and he has a lot of con lots of contacts with people in the community, but you just never know. you know, w what their background is. And so it it is. Everybody is a little kind of antsy, uh uh uh and so a little nervous. Okay, we have time for uh maybe one more question. Go ahead. Me han enviado muchos vídeos este de donde los carteles están hablando acerca de sí mismos. People have sent me a lot of videos where cartels um talk about themselves and people talk about the cartels in these videos. And in all these videos that come from the different cartels, they say we don't want to hurt the women, we don't want to hurt the child hurt children or society. The only thing we want to do is do away with the other cartels and the government. But sadly the you people are in the middle of all this. And something that happened that I still have a hard time bleak. And we didn't visit each other for three months. Because I had to visit other people. And I when I went to his house, I saw his wife and said, Where's Walter? No dice en una guerra, en un, en unos disparos que dieron, una bala perdida llegó y le pegó en su pompi. And so with a bullet did reach uh one of his arteries and he died. Well uh I'm sure you have uh if you have other questions, um can we take them, Vernon, can we take that afterwards? I don't know if we need Robbie, how are we doing on time? Yeah, we can we can we'll just stay up here and you can come and ask us other questions, okay. But again, thank you. Thanks for praying for us. Thank you for praying for Samuel. Continue to pray. uh for him and for us in Las Tierras. If I could just say, pray for us in Las Tierras, we're in the in a position of trying to um see elders and deacons um raised up so that we can organize as a position. particular church and the next several months. So that's kind of a big step for us. Um so it's kind of growing up and nobody really likes to grow up. So Thank you and thanks for listening to us. So I'd like to uh pray for these men real quick and we'll continue. Father, we thank you for Tito and Samuel. We pray, God, that you would God just continue to bless their ministry. Uh Father, we pray for protection of uh them and their families. God, we know that you are a sovereign God in control of all things and We know you've done these things to Juarez for a reason, and God we pray that uh you would continue to allow Samuel to use those things for your glory. Uh God I pray as they look at uh having a new building under construction and uh finances that go to make that happen, Father, would you raise those finances and Allow that construction to happen so they can grow physically and allow more people to come and to hear your word preached. And Father, we pray for Tito as well and the El Paso side that you would provide leadership there and elders so that they can continue the work that you've called this. God we thank you for these men and uh it is a privilege to see uh what you're doing around the world. Uh just write uh down below at the border of God what you're doing in the hearts of men and women like Like uh Juliana who are struggling uh to know what is true. Uh God, would you use these men and their families to share the gospel and may people come to know you there, Father. It is a privilege and honor to join together as brothers and sisters this morning as we continue. God, we thank you. And uh God, we pray all this in the name of Christ. Amen. All right So we have a couple of quick um announcements and then I'm gonna ask Mike Espie. Mike can come on up as I'm making these announcements. This summer we have a couple of new mission projects. We've you may have heard that we have a team going to Japan to do another jump basketball uh couple camps that they're gonna be doing there. We have a couple of new um mission trips we're gonna have. We have Boardwalk Chapel, the youth bands going to be taking the youth uh down there July or up there July 30th through August 6th. And then we have another trip that's going to be in New Orleans, uh, that Mike Espy is going to be leading. And these are our you know, this is probably gonna be one of our few opportunities we have as a congregation that's gonna be an open trip to have uh people here to go and the the um world mission team is really excited about this opportunity so we're we're supporting this. We want you guys to pray about being part of it. But uh Mike's gonna share just a moment about what this trip is going to be about. Thank you. So I guess the best way to let you know what the trip is about is to tell you about my experience. Um a couple years ago, uh my wife and I had been praying for an opportunity to experience missions and that uh opportunity presented itself through a crisis response ministry. To New Orleans to help people get back into their homes after Hurricane Katrina. So this was a couple years ago, 2009. Hurricane Katrina was 2005, so it's been quite a number of years. However, it's actually astounding how great the need continues to be down there. There's still large sections of neighborhoods that uh that lie abandoned and vacant. And you drive through these neighborhoods And there are so many houses that have that still have these grids spray painted on them with the numbers of people that lived in the house, people that were found in the house. people that were accounted for, um houses are boarded up, overgrown. So this crisis ministry is designed Designed to help people get back into their homes. We went down with a group of about 30 people from our church. They divided us into smaller groups and sent us out into various neighborhoods. And we worked on the homes. But here's the thing: we didn't just work on the homes. We prayed with the homeowners. We had opportunities to pray with their neighbors. Uh we'd go out on prayer walks. About midweek we had a block party at one of the work sites and we invited folks from that neighborhood to come and uh eat with us and and talk and it was a wonderful time. Um The organization that facilitates um this response actually works with local churches and the church that they partnered with at the time we participated, um they had a ministry where they'd go into uh I guess you call them ghettos or projects, um you know, public housing, poor people. And they had a ministry where we'd play games with the kids. So after a long day of working on houses and sweating and smelling, we'd go into these these areas and we'd play games with the kids and it was all organized to share the gospel with them. So It was a really awesome opportunity. So this trip is very similar to the one that my family went on. Um actually with i the added component that uh the church we're partnering with this time is attempting to plant five to ten new churches. Uh apparently not only homes washed away but churches too. Um So they're trying to to plant these churches. So in addition to some of the activities that I already mentioned, um I imagine we'll be going out and distributing flyers, praying with people in the neighborhoods in which we're not going to be able to do that. They want to plant these churches. So it's about work and an opportunity to uh construct houses, but more importantly, it's about reaching the people. of New Orleans. And uh so the emphasis there is uh yes, people with construction skills are important, but also uh people without construction skills Such as myself are just as important, if not more so. So I guess I'll be at the Welcome Center after church. I have some information or I can answer questions if you have any. How much what's the cost for the trip? Uh it's two hundred and seventy dollars. So it's a real low cost opportunity to get connected and to help give back. So that that's one of the to me, one of the great opportunities uh to be able to go and to to be part of something at and the cost is very minimal uh to be able to to be part of it. So um we're excited about this. Please talk to Mike. He will be at the Welcome Center. And if you can ask me questions as well, I'll probably direct you to him. But uh we do want to partner with these guys and we'd love to have you uh join this New Orleans team. So Thank you. Thanks, Mike. All right, so before we uh finish, we will uh have our coffee time after this, but if you could, um after we conclude, move forward. Um and sit closer to the front. We promise Tito won't spit on you. Um well he said maybe he will, but um i every week we have a hard time seating people and there's usually lots of seats up here and so I know Randy said move forward and in and that kind of thing. So We'd love for this week if you guys, you know, when we break, pick up your stuff, you know, consider it a game, try to find a seat up front. It'd be great. So all right, we're gonna break for our coffee time now. So