Three, four, five. Uh yes, your crowns will be in heaven. Um we don't have donuts for you, but uh we're glad you're here. We know that people will be arriving uh on CPC time, um so we're glad that all of you somehow have connection with the military and know to show up early. But uh we're glad that you're here. Uh and um we have an opportunity this morning Uh as the week uh progressed, we weren't completely sure of our guest this morning, his schedule, and so we were uh very pleased to know that he was going to be able to be with us uh for this portion of of our service and uh time together this morning. And so we had planned a um a missions workshop where it was going to be uh Robbie Pennington, Director of Mission Outreach myself, and then Anthony Swan, who's one of our elders and uh the team leader for our world mission task force. Uh but when we realized that uh Pastor Iotis was going to be here this morning with his son George prior to the service, we said, yes, we don't want to hear from us. We'd love to hear us. And uh so it's an opportunity for us to spend a little bit more extended time. Uh and uh what I'd like to do is open us in prayer and and also just to pray. Uh unfortunately Robbie is not able to be with us this morning. He was um of course very busy yesterday with Elevate uh evaluation day as they gear up for the season. Um and many of you know Robbie who's been recovering from uh his ailment uh suffering through last few weeks but he He's been doing a lot better, but yesterday pretty much took it out of him. And uh he was falling asleep while standing up, uh, last night and this morning. So he uh said, you know what, I don't So we said that's okay, we're here. So we're going to pray for him and uh pray for our time together, and then I will introduce uh our speaker this morning. Father, we want to give you thanks and praise as we take this A few moments this morning to focus on what you were doing in the world, specifically what you're doing in many ways at the place where the church began to grow. At its inception. We uh thank you for the ministry of the gospel that is taking place in Greece and Athens specifically. We pray, Lord, that you would give us a greater vision for what you are doing from Japan to Europe to the United Nations. United States, whatever the case may be, Lord, may our hearts be filled with a burning desire. May our hearts be aflame for Christ and Making him known to those around us. Indeed, the message of the gospel is the deepest and best thing that any believer can ever hear. thing that those who do not yet believe also need to hear. Make our hearts receptive, and may you uh speak mightily through Pastor Yotis. We pray for Robbie this morning that you would give Lord to bless that. We give you thanks and praise in Jesus' name. Amen. It is uh uh a blessing that uh this morning I have the opportunity to introduce to you and I'll do so again in the worship service uh Pastor Yotas Ketartis uh and his son George. Uh Pastor Yotis is um the senior pastor of first uh evangelical uh Greek Evangelical Church in Central Athens. I'll let him explain where that is uh and why it's so important. I will say it's a hundred and It was actually started by uh Southern uh Scottish Presbyterians from the United States, and then fortunately they saw the wisdom of It not being under their uh watch and gave it over to uh those who were Greek. And uh Pastor Iotis has been pastoring there and for uh some time But as he will tell you the story, he saw his calling being more than just pastoring first church. It was also to have a greater vision for Athens. And uh this is the church that I preached in when Robbie and Anthony and I were visiting uh in Athens. Unfortunately, Pastor Yotas was not able to be there, uh, but it was a great opportunity. to be greeted with w when I say the movement, the very obvious movement of the Holy Spirit and the gospel throughout the city of Athens in various ways. But I'm going to let Pastor Yotas tell us that story. So Pastor Yotas, will you please come this morning and and share with us? Thank you for being here. Is your microphone on? Let me make sure it's a green. You're good to go. Okay, great. Um it's it's a blessing and a privilege to be here and let me tell you this. You will get to use to be used to my accent so when uh later you will hear me preach you will be on a better footing than the rest. Um it's a great joy to be here with you and uh I would like to uh share a little bit about our story and I'll make sure that we'll have some time if you're gonna ask questions. uh you know about our situation. Um as uh Randy said our church is a very old Presbyterian church. Actually it's close to one hundred and sixty years old. And um Uh the Lord has blessed us with a nice location. I'll say a little bit more about that uh later in my sermon, so I'm not gonna are gonna spoil it and repeat. uh uh things that I'm gonna say later. But uh uh you know let me put it this way many times I make this joke and I say that if there is ever a competition about the best view out of a pastor's office window uh I would win. I see the Parthenon. And the Temple of Zeus and the Hendrian's Art. So this is where the church is located. But of course Uh, you know, one of the problems that we have in Greece and in Athens is that uh when people think of us, and you know, I bet the same thing is true for you as well, when you think of Athens you think of dead people like Socrates, Plato, history, or the islands. But um uh it's very important to realize that Athens is a city of about four million people uh and uh it's on the crossroads uh for all the refugee movement and migration that is takes place right now. So in many ways it's a very strategic city and this is where the Lord has put us right at the center, at the heart of it. And many times and for many, many years we're trying to ignore that fact. uh that we're in a very central position. The geography sometimes got in his providence, you know, he puts you in a place that many times you uh you you feel safe and secure uh within the four walls of the church and comfortable there. Uh but um the Lord has really um uh pushed us out of that and a a key moment in our history was 2004. Obviously a lot of you remember it was a time that we hosted the Olympics And it was the first time I was speaking with Paul and he told me that he was in Greece by that time, right? Uh it was a big event, you realize, and the church was really at the heart of it. So we turned the church into a welcome center. We had an exhibit there. and our church was voted as the third most popular spot for tourists to visit. And um We did many projects. We gave away thousands, hundreds of thousands of gospels of Luke and we did many, many different things. And uh you know, I'm Presbyterian, you're Presbyterian, you'll understand what I'm saying now. Um Before we did that, and as I was casting the vision, most of the people in the church were not really excited. I was the youngest in the board of the elders and uh many times I say that everything that was in the future tense would make them panic. If I was to say we will do something, it was wow, wow, wait. Uh so everybody was kind of skeptical at the beginning, at the end of this whole project and with all this activity and all the things that took place, everybody was excited But me because I that was a moment that I realized it's very easy to be successful failing Meaning to do projects that all the projects that were really successful, but when you ask the question why am I doing all that to have an impact uh in the city. Nothing of that has happened. So that uh led me to a period of prayer exploration, prayer, exploration, reading, and uh you know, by God's providence we started feeling uh that the way to really impact the city is through planting churches. But keep in mind that I have never seen a church being planted in my lifetime. I h you know, I didn't know I I knew that things like that happened in the States, but uh you know, of course many other things happen in the States and they only happen in the United States. So um so that was a struggle. That with the struggle. But um the Lord through a series of events and I'll mention some of them uh uh like later in the sermon, he really opened the door, opened the way and we started uh without really knowing much, but we had a heart and a passion for our city. Uh we started uh doing uh church planting Now uh two thousand and eight was the year that there was a very pivotal event. It was when the crisis really erupted in Greece. I'm sure that you have seen pictures on the TV, riots and I'll mention some of that later in my sermon. But that was the time that the Lord really solidified the vision in our heart and we started planting. uh churches. So right now after eight years the Lord has blessed us with um uh five churches. Four of them are Greek churches and one of them is an Iranian church. Uh as far as the Greek churches, one of our Greek, you know, uh one of the churches that we have planted is in an area called Texarchia. which is um a a very vibrant place. It's the place where all the anarchists uh live and all the riots start from there and they end there uh and the Lord led us uh to go to the most sensitive nerve of the city and plant the church and really scared. I remember when I shared that with uh a friend of mine who was a Greek Orthodox guy, he said they will burn you down and actually they could. Uh but um when you feel the call of the Lord you need to go where nobody ever wants to go and be. And the Lord has blessed us with the church there now and uh the Lord and the spirit of the Lord is really moving and so we see uh people coming to faith even from the anarchist uh uh world and this is uh a great testimony to the power of the Holy Spirit. And we have planned that I mean one of the things that we have realized early on is that we need to to plant churches to what you can say call the mainstream in order to have an impact in the city, you need to go everywhere. So we have planted two other churches into more upscale, so to say, areas and we also planted the chairs in an area called Kipseli, which is a uh a location which is the most densely populated area in southern Europe uh inhabitants per uh square meter. And uh more than thirty-two different nationalities live together there in in that area. So we have planted uh a church there and also there is an Iranian church. which is a testimony, uh is is really a miracle, is a testimony to the power of God, how the Lord really works. Uh it's it's it's an amazing story how the pastor, the Iranian pastor, came to faith. Uh uh and uh it it's really amazing how the spirit of the lord works among this particular ethnic group and um uh uh many people come to faith the first two years that since we planted that church we have must baptize more than two hundred people, all of them coming from Muslim background, coming to faith. And being a good Presbyterian, uh well I was a seminary at Gordon Cannwell Theological Seminary. I remember when we were having the course about pastoral ministry, there was there was this uh opportunity to go and learn how to baptize adults. I didn't go, uh there. So so when I had to b baptize like the first Iranian, I had no clue how to do that. But on YouTube you can find everything about this. So I went on YouTube and I I found how to do and then uh you know it was amazing to see how people how the Lord was really working with these things uh a group of people and if you go there as I say every three months there is a totally different group because most of them they come stay for a while then they move on to other countries, come, stay for a while, move on to other countries But uh it's amazing almost every every Sunday, I should say, every month people come to faith and of course it's a testimony to the providence of God because it's not that they come to Athens and all of a sudden something happens. It's a journey that begins in the most unexpected places in the most unexpected ways that ends up in them coming to Athens and showing up at church and saying, I wanna be baptized as a Christian. So we experience that and it's a I don't have now the opportunity to be that involved in that church. I was very bold at the very beginning. But I come I go there once every month, every Friday, uh uh they have a Bible study. And uh I don't know uh did you go there on a Sunday or on a Friday? on a Sunday. On Fridays they do Bible study. And it's amazing to see all of them I mean there are not that many around, thirty of them, forty of them, having their Bibles, opening their Bibles and doing verse by verse exposition. of the Bible and uh uh is it it it really moves your heart to see how the Lord really works in their lives. Now of course uh the new thing that takes place in Athens is the refugee crisis and with the crisis all the opportunities that this brings uh to us. So since the summer of twenty fifteen uh Greece has been really uh involved in this situation. Of course you keep in mind that Greece was in a deep financial crisis already. The the unemployment rate is close to thirty percent. And when it comes to ages 30 and other it goes up to 60%. So uh we have a huge migration of people, especially young people, they call it the brain drain. uh a lot of young people who migrate and they leave the country and go. So this is the situation. It was a very difficult situation for the church to deal with. And in the midst of all of that the Lord decided to send all these thousands and thousands and thousands of refugees. At the beginning, at the summer of 2015, we we were receiving almost 1,000 refugees every day. Of course none of them stayed in Greece. They were just passing through Greece. But w that gave us a lot of opportunities to really reach out to them. But then the situation has changed and the borders closed and the Europe the European borders are now closed. So we I mean uh there must be a name to call that, but uh the the idea is that you know this end is is is closed but people start you know keep on coming and the na the number is rising and that is the situation right now. And we know that there are at at least one million refugees in Turkey waiting to cross the border. And um so what do you do? Uh and I know that that may be a sensitive uh question and a sensitive issue even here in the United States. But you know in our situation w is not a matter to discuss, it's a reality we experience. You know, it's that it's not that as if we have a choice. It's it's there. And when you know things happen like that then you do have a choice uh to sing through the lens of the kingdom of God or through your fears uh or your you know political views and understandings. So for us it was very evident that this is a a movement by God. You you couldn't explain that otherwise. seeing all these people. So it was not just compassion. Compassion was there. Like I remember uh I was on vacation when this whole thing started And um so I was praying and hoping because we were so tired with all the activity that was taking place. Keep in mind that I'm pastoring a church of about three hundred and fifty. fifty people and as I say I'm the senior and sole pastor of that church. We have a part-time secretary and that's it. And you know in the midst of all of that, the Lord has opened up all these new opportunities and this movement in the city. So we're really tired and if you were to ask me at the beginning of that summer what is the next step, I would say it's a step back But I remember when we first went to that square, well at the beginning all the refugees were congregating, thousands of them, with nothing. And I entered in and I just walked by them you know, you you cannot avoid but start crying seeing all the m misery and all the trouble there. But as I said it's not just compassion, it's strategy It's not that we just moved by compassion, but I think that the Lord is doing something. I don't know if any of you have heard this term, the 1040 window You know, I mean it was very much in fashion back in you know in the old days about missions. And the Lord is changing that. The ten forty window was the place of the world that the least evangelized people live. And it was the focus of a lot of prayer, a lot of missionary activity, but it was almost impossible to penetrate those countries and be there. And it's as if God is emptying that ten forty window now to us. You know, to Greece, to Europe, to our doorstep. And the question is what do we do with that? Uh isn't that uh a movement by the Spirit of God that we need to do something Uh the the the answer for us is a profound yes. So the Lord has really moved us uh to do uh several things. Uh but before I say to you a few of these things, let me tell you this. The key again is church planting. Because if you see the map which were the churches that they really were very involved in the refugee ministry, you will see that there was those churches that have been planted few years ago. So for example the church in Exarchia was even geographically next to that big square, Victoria Square, where all uh the refugees at first congregated for a little while. So they started the ministry there. And extend you know, they have uh the the what is called the center uh of hope, which is a day dropping center where primarily uh uh uh mothers with their keys they would come spend some time have tea some conversation and then leave us uh it's about human dignity is not that we just were able to give you know, much to them but just the warmth of the conversation and just treating them as human beings. So there is this and also uh we work together with the Christian NGO that is based in in our church there and we have started uh a center for unaccompanied minor Afghans. So there are tens of thousands of people, young people, uh who are minors, teenagers and others who are without a family. Uh and uh I have read some reports that they they estimated more than ten thousand ten thousand of them missing You know not the one that were registered but missing. Um so there is this center that provides hospitality for about thirty of them. You know, so they can uh sleep there and there is a holistic program helping with them. In our church in Glifada which is also a church that uh uh Randy and Anthony and Roby visited. This is uh like it's an upscale part of the town But again the main refugee camp it was the old airport which was next to the church of Glifada. So right from day one they were able to go into the airport and do a lot of work and then uh when that was not needed anymore uh what they do now is that they started a school Because uh uh if you try to imagine being thirteen years old, fourteen years old and never go to school. have the opportunity to go to school. So a lot of refugee kids are in that situation. So uh we start I mean this um September the Greek government said uh that okay that we will accept some refugee kids in our school system. But um Greeks are notorious for not being organized. So I don't know, I mean that didn't really happen and uh of course the Greek society in general would be very tolerant to this whole situation. But uh so there is a need. So there is this little school that we are teaching primarily Greek to those people because most of these people now they don't have a chance to live, they will stay in Greece, so called the houses of hope Which is apartments. We're able to buy so far four apartments to house refugee families. So we house two families in each apartment. So right now uh we have almost a community of people as you can imagine, uh that we all all of them they are Muslim, they're Syrians uh they know who we are and why we do that and even without ever uh pushing them or exchanging this with that uh they they are very open to the guide gospel and they uh s some of them, some families they even started coming to church. Besides the church I told you that we have planted in the mother church we also have an Arab speaking congregation and a Russian speaking congregation. So in a s one of our elders is Egyptian and she speaks Arabic. So it's it's a great tool that we have in order to reach out to these uh uh people. Now uh I can go on telling more about uh what happens. Randy used the uh a a term that I really like is the term movement. Uh because None of this was ever planned, none of this was ever intended, none of this was something that we pursued, is really following after what the Lord is doing. And um uh it all started, the only thing that we had was a love for our city. And the decision not to be around the four walls and say we need to be in the city doing God's. uh work. And then uh it's amazing how the Lord opened the doors, provided the people, I think one of the most um impressive things I should say when you come to Athens is to meet all the people who are involved in church planning, all these young people we have the first generation of church planners and now we have the second generation of church planners. For example, my son George belongs to the second generation, younger people, millennials as you call them here in the in the States. You know, the Lord has put this uh burden in their hearts to do this uh ministry and this work. So I think that I will stop here uh and um perhaps uh uh give you the opportunity to and I don't know if Randy you wanna coordinate that or I can do it but if you wanna have any questions. Not everything but um I did want to say so when I came back, um some may who was here uh when I gave the uh pre PowerPoint presentation during my sermon? So Okay, who was not here? So a number of you. So real quickly, um unfortunately I I don't have the ability oh thank you. I am oh you're right. Thank you. Thank you. Um I don't have the ability to prove project this morning, but um The uh I'm just trying to collect my thoughts. I can normally get English and use a problem with that. Yes. The important thing for us as we uh traveled around, uh you begin to get the picture when you when you're in Athens And when we traveled to Hamburg, and perhaps there will be, Lord willing, over the next year, a church plant, a Reformed and Presbyterian church plant in the European section. Istanbul. And then when we traveled to Rome, one of the questions that you have in your mind is: in this day and age, why in the world do we do world missions? Because in many ways, as they say about politics, all politics is local. In some ways, it's very easy to focus on where we are, and that is right, and that is good. We are to be outwardly faced to the community in which we are planted in here. But as you look at the book of Acts, you begin to see how the Lord, through Paul, called the churches who had the ability. To financially support those churches who were struggling. Well, when you're in a place like Hamburg, or you're in a place like Athens, or you're in a place like Rome, there is no question That one of the things that they lack oftentimes is are the deep resources, financial resources, of many of the churches here in the United States. And so when the church in Athens found itself in a context in a country whose economic situation was getting worse. They were trying to plant churches, which takes, at the end of the day, it takes money. And so they have been able to do a great deal without a whole lot and yet the Lord has provided and it's required a great deal of travel on the part of Yodas and other church planters to be able to come to the United States to tell the story. Why is it that we are deeply invested and want to grow in our deep investment around the world in global missions? It is because we hope that it isn't that we are sending English-speaking folks to do the church planting, but rather that we are able to support and partner with church plants around the world. That are being led by those who are from that country to reach those who are lost. And one of the very clear realities as you begin to take in what is happening in Europe, because of the political turmoil. Many of the routes for uh uh immigrants is being closed. Places like Hungary and Romania, they have completely closed down the borders. So what happens? Istanbul and Turkey still is the front porch to Europe. But what they're finding is the only door that's open is Athens and Greece. And when you begin to see that it was the anarchists, as I told the story that Sunday, when you begin to see that it was the anarchists who were the first ones on the outer Greek islands caring for these uh immigrants before the NGOs, before the governments, before even the church, you begin to say, wow! That is humbling. And there is an opportunity. And it was something that was deeply moving for Anthony. Where are you, Anthony? Yeah, Anthony and and myself. And uh we were wanting to tell the story of what God is doing because if you if you remember, Athens played a pretty central role in the ministry of God. of Paul. And so that ministry is continuing. And so we want to encourage you to you may have questions for IOTIS and I just want to facilitate that. And if we have a microphone we can use that or I can help repeat questions, whatever. the case may be. Yes sir. Yeah, just uh I'm just kind of curious. Yeah I'm thinking about these kind of uh thinking about input and Anglican Church and how they are kind of the quote official church of uh of of England and you have the Greek Orthodox Church. Is there that same type of relationship? And did you have to overcome any resistance from the Orthodox Church in anything you've done? Yeah that's a great question. Uh actually uh yesterday we're just uh walking downtown in Baltimore and we saw the uh the big ad about the Greek festival. Uh and uh see that the thing that all of us when we think of Greek of Greece we think of those kinds of things, right? Um so the reality is that um of course as you correctly said uh the majority religion in Greece is the Greek Orthodox which is the Christian church uh uh and um but is very nominal and very nationalistic. Of course uh the This the I just realized that there is a clock up there and I'm not going to be able to do it. Uh for many many years uh the Greek Orthodox Church dominated uh the society, the people, and now they still see a very strong ties with the politics. uh uh but not so much with the society. So we live in Greece in a what is called the postmodern, we're moving towards a more secular postmodern situation. Now here is the Here in the States, when you talk about postmodernism, it's a bad thing because you are the traditional values. that people are really abandoning. But in our situation in Greece, when we're talking about postmodernism is the Orthodox church. So a lot of people they move away from the church because being a Rostot was not just a matter of religion. It was a matter of your identity, part of your na uh identity. So it's not like that in England. Plus keep in mind that uh Greece and the Balkan countries have never experienced the enlightenment, the whole culture of human private right that is your right to decide about yourself. So this is kind of a foreign idea in southern Europe, in many countries and particularly in the Balkans. So uh so religion is not something that you choose along with other things. It's something that is a given to you. And so uh that always presented a problem. Now uh Uh you mentioned uh if if there are some difficulties. In the past there was persecution. Yeah. Like when the first started hundred and sixty years ago. Uh today there is no persecution I mean there may be some discrimination. Uh still, you know, it's not an easy thing when you say I'm a Protestant, you know, it's something we foreign and you know um but y we are open uh and free to share the gospel and actually I believe that the situation is such that It presents us with even more opportunities right now, especially with the younger generation. That's why uh when we first started thinking um and praying about planting in the city. Uh I mean I said we prayed and we did pray a lot, but also at the same time we tried to analyze the situation and we chose extarcia as a location Why? Because this is the primary place in Greece where people who broke ties with tradition live. So we felt that if we go there and we say we are not of them, they will listen to us because we will refresh a new perspective even into what Christianity is. So uh that that I should say is uh in general uh the situation. But if I may add one more thing is that uh because I mentioned the refugee crisis And one of the sad things is that the Greek church, the Greek Orthodox Church, because it's so nationalistic, they don't care about the refugees. Uh you know they do a lot of good things about the Greeks, which is a great thing and we do also, I mean the because of the crisis, but just here is the very scattered things as far as the refugees. Which again As this small community when we're talking about evangelicals in Greece, keep in mind we are talking this morning my son turned on the TV uh at the room and it was Joel Austin and uh uh I said turn it off. But before you did, you know, we saw this huge search. I mean, uh there might be around thirty thousand, aren't they? Okay. So if you add up all evangelicals in Greece, across the spectrum, even people who don't talk to each other were not more than that I So this is our city. But this small constituency uh really uh did tremendous things in terms of the refugees crisis and m in many ways it responded. So I think that is also a testimony. And people watch, the society sees that. See you know one on the one hand you see the church, the the state church missing the opportunity. And this small group of evangelicals they're trying to really do something. So I don't know if that helps with uh So I was going to say and add to that, I found the same thing in Rome and the same thing in Athens. Even those who do not believe do not realize how deeply shaped they've been by the Greek Orthodox Church or by the Catholic Church. Unlike Athens, to be Protestant in Rome and to be an evangelical is means that you're likely going to really your career is going to suffer. Whereas in Athens that is not the case. But I one young couple, though it doesn't represent all that I met with, they they still have the language for sin, they still have the language for confession, but they don't necessarily know what to do with it. So it's almost as if you have the opportunity to invite them into unbelief first, to recognize that actually that's where they are, to introduce them to the gospel. So as foreign as it may be to us, the reality is we're even post-post-modernity. That's actually a huge blessing for the gospel of Christ because now they're far more open. Yeah. And I because I follow the discussions here in the States, I mean the fear what it will happen. I I mean we are I mean we're not in the exact same position but in in a sense the church always thrives uh when it's not really protected, when it's being challenged. So don't be afraid. Whatever uh it will happen, uh the Lord always gives opportunities and sometimes you know he I mean Uh don't try to help the Holy Spirit. Sometimes we feel that you know we you know the Holy Spirit moves and you know if you read the the history if you read the book of Acts it was never easy I mean n you have never said a friendly environment, but that is where the church thrives. And even in our situation that's what we experience and um but the Lord's is faithful. And you're right, I wanna emphasize that the movement of the ten It's like if if the world is a house, God is allowing that window that was the 1040, and He's taking it out of where it was and placing it in a completely different place in the House. And the opportunity through the refugee crisis, as MTW has said, there is the coming wave of conversion and belief throughout Europe because of this. this very reality. And if you read, I don't know if you're familiar with the Desiring God website, and there is a very recent report about conversions in Athens and Muslims. So um I I believe that we need I mean uh you know Rick Warren I bet and uh I always say to my people about the this book, the purpose driven life life. Yes. I said you open the book, read the first line which says it's not about you, close the book, you read the best part of it, you're fine. So uh and Um so uh visitors are coming. Um so there is this other book, the purpose-driven church. Yes. And there he has this illustration which I think is very helpful. Uh which it it talks about riding the wave. When you do surfing, you cannot create the wave Only God and the Holy Spirit does. But your responsibility is once you see it to recognize that this is God's moving and just climb it, ride it. So this is I think you cannot escape the fact that uh the refugee crisis is an opportunity not only for Greece but for Europe to really rise out. And there are many people, I mean for many people Europe was a dead cause. I mean if you were to talk I mean to people in missions ten years ago they would say why Europe? I mean China Japan, you know, this is where we need to focus why Europe. Europe hit her chance and lost it. But if you go back the last ten, twenty years, you will see that there is not only in Greece but in many European countries there is a movement a fresh movement of new churches being planted is an amazing thing. when you gather with different networks and you see so many people planting churches in Europe. And there is this narrative and I don't know, I mean only the future will show that per perhaps God was really preparing, it's not by chance, that It is this time, because if this refugee crisis happened 20 years ago, it would have been a terrible situation. No churches around. But now there are a lot of churches in key cities. Like in Athens I mentioned the church in Extarch and Glifada, new churches they planted five years ago, but they were the ones that they really took up the the challenge to really work with the refugees. And that may be a new fresh movement of the Holy Spirit, giving Europe again especially significant. So now we know you're a surfer. That's great. Um we have uh we we have uh we have time for one more question Yes, Mark. How many of the people that you're working on? How many of the people that you're working with are Greek national workers and how many are from somewhere else and have come to help you in your work? The ones who do chest landing on the first front, they're all Greeks Uh but we do have this relationship with uh mission to the world. So uh there are two families from the states who uh work alongside. But uh both uh these families uh they work alongside a Greek planter. So for us it's very important. Uh that may be our situation. But I think it's what Randy was implying uh at the beginning of his you know, comments and remarks that is it's it's it makes sense to uh to have nationals do the work and there is a place for missionaries I mean there are many areas of the world that you do need to send missionaries and there is a place for missionaries when they know their role Uh and in Greece right now uh we're really uh we're blessed by having missionaries and we expect some more. But um what is very clear is that they will have sort of say more supportive uh sort of uh ministries helping the Greek plant or being part of a team and and and whatnot. So we're really blessed. In the past, when I was young, uh when I was at my son's age, the the question was I mean the situation in our denomination was that we said many churches without a pastor So I was saying last night to Red B K that I became a pastor when I was twenty-one years old. Uh it was a crazy thing to do, but that was the situation. I mean we didn't have any pastors. So now we are in that situation that most of our churches do have a pastor, but at the same time God raises up all these young people who really love the Lord and they're bright people they they want to enter into full-time ministry. So if I was and I'm the moderator of the Presbyterian, the Southern Presbyterian. If I was simply a moderator, I would say, I mean, we don't need them. Go find a job or do whatever. But I believe that even there the Lord is really pushing. us to say okay this have covered the churches the existing churches but here there are these ten young people who really are burdened with passion with the law what you're gonna do with them and there are some denominational people who say you know I don't know I believe that the answer is go. And there of course is that how. And the truth is that, you know, when we started, I told you when I said we need to plant the chairs, I have never, I mean Even in my you know horizon I've never experienced what exactly does that mean how you do it and uh uh I have no clue and uh but the Lord honors uh the decision and the passion and that's where we are at. And I do believe that uh Athens is a very strategic city and and I I do pray for more churches to be planted to really have an influence in the city because right now Athens for two reasons is the intellectual and spiritual center of the Eastern Orthodox world we sometimes would ignore. We talk about the Muslim world and other worlds in mission in missions that there is the eastern art of the world and Athens is really the heart of the second, Athens is at the heart of Balkans So we do envision with some networks, even with the city to cities, that Athens may become the hub to train uh church plantars. So instead of coming to New York to be trained for terrest planning or go to Hamburg, which is a totally different context, to to do the you know uh to do the training even people in Istanbul or other places in Athens. So it's the the Balkans and now with the refugee crisis. You know, it's it's really unbelievable how many people I mean if you think that in terms of missions, you have all all the people's groups that you you would send missionaries, you send them there in Athens. So it's very strategic uh to to to to really uh focus that and through uh the church because we're church people through the church to really influence and have a ministry for all of them We should pray. So I'm gonna do I don't want to embarrass you, George. Could you come up? Uh this is Yo Pastor Yosis' son. I want to pray for the two of you because actually George is uh in the process of training and preparing and looking and for God you can come up here and Um for a call to uh church planting as well, uh so the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. And uh and he was very kind to guide Anthony and I uh through the city. And so Anthony, would you come up? Would you would you Would you be willing to pray for us and pray for them? That would be wonderful. And let's go together in prayer. That's all right. I'll pray loud. Father in heaven, we give you thanks for our time together this morning as we've heard just a little bit about what you are doing in Greece with the church there. with your people as you advance your kingdom. Father, we see you are turning the world upside down. You are bringing people to the very doorstep of the church. We pray for this opportunity, Lord, for this movement of people as the uh as the evangelist Church in Greece moves to face it, moves to act both with compassion and evangelical zeal for your kingdom. We lift up our brethren brothers, uh Teotas and and George, and all of the church planters there, as they as they see what is happening, Lord, and as they as they in faith um work for your kingdom. We pray for their energy, for their stamina. We pray for their resources, Lord, that you would bring many Many church planters there, um, and that the churches there in Athens and around the Balkans would thrive. Lift these things up to you, Father, knowing that you are moving in the world in ways. that we do not understand. We lift them up with hope to see what you will do with your people and for your kingdom, for your glory. Lift them up in Jesus' name. Amen. So um I want to say too, before we we're done, please take an opportunity, as I'm sure that you will. But to take an opportunity to greet and to welcome Pastor Yotas and his son George. Also, I believe Pastor Yotas has friends who are here So um if we're not going to embarrass you, but if you're here because of invitation from Pastor Yotas, please stand. I think I saw a couple families. Come on, welcome. Yeah. So these are friends uh of Pastor Yotas who came to hear him today. And uh so it's great that they could be close to come here, uh their dear friend, uh, preach and deliver God's word. Uh thank you so much for being here this morning. Thank you so much for your continued support of the ministry here at Columbia Press. And uh may God bless you and we look forward to seeing you in a few minutes.