During this February month of missions, we've been seeing that missions is more a matter of crossing cultural boundaries than it is of crossing geographical boundaries. We've seen also that a church that is multicultural, and that is where within the body there is a crossing of cultural boundaries, there is going to be much more likely obedience to the Great Commission in crossing cultural boundaries abroad. And the premier example of that we saw is the church at Antioch in Acts 11 and 13. So through the month, we've had two missionaries who are from foreign cultures and have crossed cultural barriers in other countries. And then last week and this week we have speakers who have crossed and are crossing cultural boundaries right here in Maryland. Last week we had a black pastor from Baltimore, Thurman Williams. This week we have a white deacon from DC, Craig Ward. These two guys would seem to have very little in common. I don't think they've ever met and uh very different in backgrounds in many ways, and yet they share something passionately together, and that is their passion for racial reconciliation And for the multicultural diversity of the body of Christ and its richness. Craig Ward is on staff with Church Resources Ministries, and that's an organization. If you were here in the middle hour, you saw it's committed to training church leaders to be strengthened in their become more effective in the fulfillment of the Great Commission. And uh I personally have known Craig for six or seven years. Kathy and I have known Craig and Bonnie, his wife, for about that long. When we first knew them, they were living in Gathersburg, Maryland. Craig was on staff with Church Resources Ministries and was consulting with churches as well as functioning as a counselor. In the last few years, God more and more was placing on their heart to go into the city. And uh two and a half, three years ago, uh, Craig and Bonnie took their four children, Noah and Micah, I said Micah first service, it sounded to their son, like I said, Michael, I want to be sure it I know it is Micah, as well as Hannah and Mariah uh into DC to live about a mile or two southwest of the National Arboretum. If you're familiar with that area, a little off of Maryland Avenue Very interesting area, mostly African American, area in transition, uh and uh a w a place that is worlds apart uh from what we mostly experience in most parts of Howard County. They work primarily with Washington Community Fellowship. And uh just incidentally, uh Evan, who was leading our worship here, his wife Catherine's sister's husband, got that makes it uh her brother-in-law is an elder at Washington Community Fellowship. And uh I have great respect and regard for Craig and his service for the Lord, his passion for the word and for the gospel. And so Craig, I just want to tell you again personally that it is a great delight for me, for the first time, here to welcome you to uh our pulpit and to be able to uh have you come and bring God's word to us. Brother? Thank you, Alan. My children, uh this is the way it goes when you preach twice on a Sunday morning that sometimes things change. My children wanted me to make sure you knew a story. One of our earliest stories that took place after we moved from Gaithersburg to DC. We moved into an old house, an old row house there. You uh may be familiar with the Capitol Hill area. uh about a hundred and ten years old now, uh built in eighteen ninety, and with that comes a lot of goods and bads. It's a great place to live and also Uh if you were never a homeowner and are not necessarily known for being good with your hands, you could be in trouble from time to time. And so we moved there and within a couple of weeks of us moving, we had not yet had a our washer-dryer situation completely worked out. All of that to say we had some friends down that were from uh Montgomery County where we used to live. You can hear me, right? Yeah, long. Uh my f our friends were down there and they have a few kids and you know how it goes with uh it's a kind of a large ish house. It's three stories. Uh it looks uh much smaller than it is because it's sixty feet from front to back. And so our kids with their visitors wanted to have a good time playing hide and seek, you know how that goes. And so they uh asked if we could do it if they could do it and we reluctantly said yes 'cause uh we knew that they'd get involved in all kinds of different places in the house that Well, at any rate, as as the story would have it, we're up around the dining room table just kind of talking and having a good time, the adults, and uh all of a sudden our oldest son comes running upstairs and says There's a fire downstairs. And we thought, yeah, he's just pulling our leg. And so we responded to him in kind and he said, No, really, there's a fire downstairs Well that caught our attention, so we said, Well where is it? He said, downstairs and where the stackable unit washer dryer are. And in these places that uh our our house used to have the entire first floor was one apartment and this one little closet. They even had to take part of the frame of the door out to get the water stackable unit inside. So that's how tight of a uh of a little room it was. uh was a stackable washer-dryer unit that we were using. And my wife, we had a large capacity washer upstairs that she would use to wash the clothes. And then she'd take the clothes downstairs and put them in this tiny little bit of uh stackable unit dryer that was on the the unit in the closet. So it was overworked for the day And my oldest son, who uh can be very uh adventurous when it comes time to finding hiding places decided that he would get in there, climb over the top of the unit, or next to it, if he could find room, and get down behind it, and that would be his hiding place. And in the course of doing that We're not sure exactly what happened, whether there was already a fire started or whether he somehow started a fire, but nonetheless there was a fire, so we went downstairs and uh I couldn't pull out the washer dryer because of the tight fit and s we called nine one one, the fire department came and and they they came in and you know the the fire trucks going and all that stuff and they pulled the the dryer out. finally and uh there was a little brush on fire and they just dumped a thing of water on the side of it so I felt rather silly and they went running out and the fire department came out and said We gotta get the ladders. We're going up on the roof and going through. And my kids are like, wow. And my younger son says Wow, this never happened to us before in Maryland. Like this is a cool thing to happen in the city. And so that was one of our introductions to the city. We've since had the fire department over to our house another time when we weren't home, but that's a story for another time. And uh So you can talk to me afterwards if you'd like to hear about that story. As Alan said, we work with Church Resource Ministries, a missions organization devoted worldwide to raising up leaders for the local church. As I began, I'd like to tell you the story of Heather Godfrey, one of our staff members She's very, very far away in Irkutsk, Siberia. The first time I ever heard about Irkutsk was when I played Risk as a boy. And uh that was about the only context that I understood Irkutsk from until I met the Godfreys, who had a passion to minister in that context. Title of my sermon this morning is called The Life That Pleases God from Hebrews 11. And the phrases that I'm using are ordinary people, extraordinary faith. A life that pleases God. Heather Godfrey, as I tell the story, you will come to realize as an ordinary person They wrote to her and told her about this, uh, and that I wanted to tell her story. This is what she wrote back As you can imagine, it is very difficult to live in negative 40 degree weather. I had just been watching the news that night that I wrote her and uh ABC had done uh a story on Irkutsk and the negative 40 degrees that they were experiencing this particular winter. Being homebound is an understatement. Our family has been very blessed in that our apartment is warm and we have electricity and warm water. We are not the norm here. I stand in line to buy a pound of bananas imported from the equator. The person in front of me buys one banana. The person behind me buys vodka. We are definitely the quote Donald Trumps unquote of the neighborhood. When the weather is so cold, not only is there no sun, but a very surreal fog settles to the ground, so you have freezing cold and no visibility. She goes on to tell the story of Olya. Olga is the proper name, and Olya is a uh is a familiar way of pronouncing it. She's the wife of I got this wrong in the first service, but it's Igor uh is his name, uh, who is also a pastor there in Irkutsk, and that's the con the the uh the how they met was through Heather's wife Steve. and uh Alya's wife, Igor. Heather says about this, about uh uh Alya, she loves the Lord and has an especially gentle, soft, and peaceful demeanor. A year into their marriage, Olya got pregnant or was she was are she was pregnant and a year into their marriage was when she was about to give birth And uh so when she found out that she was pregnant, she went to their hospital, which is really just a birthing center. They only have kids in this particular one. You only go there to have children. They gave her shots and lots of advice, which in our culture would really be just lots of what we would refer to as wives' tales. They gave her really no information about pregnancy, about child care issues or anything like that, and what to expect. When she went to give birth, she got there about five days before she was supposed to give birth And uh she had to have a C-section. They never told her why. They just simply put her under completely general anesthesia, and they gave her a C-section, and she gave birth to a healthy boy, Daniel. When she woke up, she woke up in a room with three women. The other three women in the room, one of them, the first one, had a stillbirth, stillborn baby that she had given birth to. The second one She had had a C-section as well, but while she was being given the C-section, the power went out, and so the the doctor simply stopped what they were doing and took care of her, but the baby that they were performing the C-section for also passed away. The third woman in the room had had a baby, but she had had it two weeks premature, which in Russia they consider to be a premature birth, and they do nothing to take care of the baby. And so that baby had also passed away. Each time they brought Daniel in to Olya for her to nurse, the women there would uh still were not properly grieving. They were not given any medication, any counseling as to how to deal with their grief. They would cause a scene, they were very sad, and they would weep and so forth. A policy also in these birthing houses. Is that there are no visitors. You cannot have your husband visit, you cannot have your mother visit the entire time that you're there. So for the five days previous to the C section, and then during her recovery time, which took up to uh five days afterwards she didn't see anybody in her family. When she when Heather's husband Steve came To visit Igor, he took the opportunity to call the birthing center and said, I have an American friend here who would like to see our baby. May we come and see him, please. And they allowed that to take place. And so when uh Igor and Steve walked into the to see Olya, she broke down and burst into tears just because she had no way of dealing with the scene that she had been given. Heather has two children, both of them she had here in the States. She came home to have them. That was after she had had a difficult time conceiving, and then she finally had two children, both of them by C-section, and after her birth, both of them, she suffered postpartum depression. And here she finds herself in a context in Yerkutsk, with the opportunity and privilege, perhaps, to minister to women who are in very sad situations indeed. Later on in the message I'll tell you of Heather's vision. It's a very powerful vision. But for the meantime, let me just take a break from the story and say that this is at the point where I want to illustrate the main point of my introduction. The main point is simply this. Every missionary that you encounter, every missionary begins as an ordinary person, no different from you or me. Every person in the Faith Hall of Fame in Hebrews 11, of which we're going to read, began also as an ordinary person. In short, the raw materials that God uses are ordinary people like all of us here. And as they take extraordinary steps of faith, they develop extraordinary faith, and they live a life pleasing to God. Let's pray. Father, we are nothing special at all, but you are indeed very special and extraordinary. We thank you for that. May my words this morning be your words. May they change lives this morning because only you are able to change lives. Thank you that you are a God that can be trusted. In Jesus' name. Amen. Hebrews 11 and verse 6. Without faith it is impossible to please God because anyone who comes to him must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who earnestly seek him. In verse 8, by faith Abraham, when called to a place he would later receive as his inheritance, obeyed and went, even though he did not know where he was going. You got an inheritance, Abraham, go and pursue it, but I'm not going to tell you where it is until you get there. By faith he made his home in the promised land like a stranger in a foreign country He lived in tents, as did Isaac and Jacob, who were heirs with him of the same promise, for he was looking forward to the city with foundations whose architect and builder is God. Verse 13, all these people, the descendants that came from Abraham, the text is talking about, all these people were still living by faith when they died. They did not receive the things promised. They only saw them and welcomed them from a distance. And they admitted that they were aliens and strangers on earth People who say such things show that they are looking for a country of their own. If they had been thinking of the country they had left, they would have had opportunity to return. Instead They were longing for a better country, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them. Those who exercise extraordinary faith have a future orientation in an unseen reality. The writer of the Hebrews says in the beginning of Hebrews 11 that faith is Longing for things hoped for and believing that they're yours. You can't see them yet, but yet you know that you're yours. And so this is what the writer is saying is that these People that he's just described, Abraham and his descendants after him, look forward to an unseen reality, a future orientation that they could not see. But they counted that as their own, and that was what motivated and allowed them to take extraordinary steps of faith. As I mentioned earlier, Abraham moved his entire family without knowing the destination. By faith in verse 9 he made his home in a promised land like a stranger in a foreign country. Now remember this too. He went to the very land that God told him to go to. And when he got there, he didn't put his flag down and insist that it was his. He remained in that land that was promised to him as a stranger and an alien, his tents He didn't say, okay, this is the land that God promised me, and stake it out as his. He waited on God's timing that it would be given to him. Verse 13, all of these living by faith, they did not receive what they had promised. Do we, like Abraham and like his descendants, wait for God to deliver on his promises? Or do we take his promises and we say, they're mine now? His promises of giving us what we long for, a good life. You know, all of us inside, we were meant for Eden. That's what he wants to give us. That's what he longs to give us. Indeed, that is what he will give us. Are we willing to wait for it? Or will we insist on it now? Thomas Jefferson said in the Declaration, or in the Constitution, I believe, that we're all given the right to pursue happiness. Is that an American dream or a biblical one? God says he's going to give us a country of our own, but that is yet for the future. It is not now. We do not have a right to pursue happiness before God. As Alan said, we moved into Washington after uh six or seven years in Gaithersburg, eight years I guess, in Gaithsburg, Maryland. CRM, our organization, asked us to consider a move to the city when they wanted to move us elsewhere and they said and we said no, we would like to stay here in D. C. We think we've got a ministry here to pursue. They said, okay. You really want to stay in D. C. , well why don't you go for it? Pick a neighborhood in the city and move to the city. Move your family there and put roots down and minister to the neighbors there. That wasn't what we had in mind. We gulped, we prayed about it, we talked it over, and finally came to the conclusion, yes, this is God speaking through CRM. This is what God wants us to do. He wants us to move to the city. Now, I don't pretend to stand up here and say that my name ought to be here in Hebrews 11, that we are great people of faith. All that I mean to say is this. When we want to set out on a life pleasing to God, we need to be taking steps and acts of faith that don't make sense unless God is in the picture. Others should be scratching their head and saying, what are you doing? Are you out of your mind? I suspect that if that happens for you, it also, as it happened for us, there would also be believers in there that would be saying those same things. We should be making decisions that just don't make logical sense. All of the pluses and minuses don't add up to the equals at the end of the equation of what we've just done. Unless God is in the picture. Unless, like Abraham and his descendants We see a future orientation, something that we can't yet see. God has something better in store I'm asking you to do this now, but I've got something better in store. That's where the beginning of faith germinates in our lives And then before we know it, we find ourselves making decisions that we didn't think we'd ever make before. Back to the text. When you think of Joseph, what comes to mind? Do you think of a godly leader who thrived in a pagan government? Some do. Do you think of a moral youth who fled the lusts of Potiphar's wife? Some do. Do you think of Joseph, the interpreter of dreams? He was so in touch with God that he was able to take the dreams that others had and interpret them. That's not what the writer to the Hebrew says. Look with me in verse 22. By faith, Joseph, when his end was near. Spoke about the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt and gave instructions about his bones. 400 years later Israel moves out of Egypt, and Joseph sees this in his last years of his life, and he gives instructions about his bones. He's so sure that they're going to move that he asked them to make a commitment to carry his bones with them when they leave Egypt and go to the promised land. That is what Joseph was living for. God's promises sometime yet in the future, even though it would be centuries before his people would see it. Sometimes faith acts, significant faith acts, are not things that influence nations and such. Look with me in verse 20. By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau in regard to their future. Verse 21, by faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of Joseph's sons and worshiped as he leaned on the top of his staff. Isaac and Jacob looking into their children's futures. Verse twenty three By faith Moses' parents hid him for three months after he was born, because they saw he was no ordinary child, and they were not afraid of the king's Eat. Parents, what comes to mind when you think of your children? What do you see for their future? You know, Moses' parents, focus specifically in on his mother here, isn't even mentioned in the Exodus 2 text. You simply read about a Levite who marries a Levite woman and they have a child. You don't find out their names until Exodus 6, when you're just looking and tucked into a genealogy there. It was Amram and Jacobed, Moses' parents. You do read about what Moses' mother does. Moses' mother, Jacobed, holds him in her arms. She looks and she sees no ordinary child. What does that mean? I've had four children. I look at them and I see their uniqueness and I would hold them up and say, my child's going to beat your child any day. By the way, I hope you would do the reverse. We don't see ordinary children when we hold our children, when we hold our own, do we? But there was something more than that here Because you see what Moses' mother did was she took him and instead of killing him like she was supposed to do, she took him and put him in a basket, did her best to waterproof that basket and put it in a river That's what the text says. But think with me now, what what happens with the river? The water flows from here to there, doesn't it? When she puts that baby in the river She doesn't know I'm just sending the child away. She knows where that river is going to go. She sends her daughter, Miriam, to go after it. And I suspect that she wasn't sending Miriam. Perhaps we thought this. I used to think this. Miriam to check out and make sure that Moses stays safe and in case the thing tips over to write it back up. I don't think that's what was happening at all. I think Jacobed was sending Miriam to accompany that child down the river because she knew where that child was going to end up She knew that the river led to Pharaoh's household. She knew that the discovery of that child would be in Pharaoh's very own household. And she sends Miriam along for when the moment's right. Miriam comes to Pharaoh's daughter and says, Would you like somebody to take care of that baby and nurse him for you? She's prepared. Jacobed sees Moses, no ordinary child, sends Miriam along. She's got immense faith. We don't know whether she saw him actually as the deliverer of Israel as he was to be. We just know that she had extraordinary faith and she acted on it. Come back again to our own kids. For what do we prepare them Do we train them to make decisions so that they'll be able to get well-paying jobs and function well in society? Good for us. Unbelievers do as well. If so, how are we raising our children any differently from others? Do we raise them in such a way that we are thinking first of their protection? Or rather, to maximize their influence for the kingdom of God. When we moved to DC, one of the decisions that we had to make was what we were going to do with our children. Many believers thought it with a slam dunk. You're gonna home children you're gonna homeschool your children, right? We didn't feel comfortable moving to the city, living with people around us, communicating by what we did, that this is an okay neighborhood to live in But I can't send my kids to the same schools that you send yours. So we chose to put our kids in the public schools. Our daughters go to an elementary school that's just two blocks from our home. Last year the statistics were officially 501 students, five of them were Hispanic, two white, the rest were African American. Why do you make a decision like that? My response back is, as it has been to many people who have scratched their heads at us, What do you do when God tells you to do something? When it's clear, you can obey or disobey. We felt a very strong leading to go ahead and do this. Why? We think our kids will be better prepared when they grow older To give back to the kingdom of God, growing up in that kind of environment that being taught their whole lives in the public schools in in the suburban school system That they need to get a good job, that they need to get a good education, and that they need to go on to college. Y you know, you know the routine For what are you preparing your children? And what decisions do you make to indicate that that's how you're preparing your child to live when they grow to be an adult? Not only do we believe in that unseen reality, which is point A on the outline that you have, But secondly, we need to take the first step in acting on this knowledge that God has something better in store. Shortly after we move to the city, we get the Washington Post because we want to read what everybody else is reading. You know, the line, if you don't get it, you don't get it. Well we wanted to get it, so we got it And so we get the Washington Post and one morning shortly after we moved into the city uh there was an article in the paper. about a family, about really about a homeless shelter, a hypothermia shelter, which is just for the cold in the wintertime. And it was going to be closing down because spring was coming. And it focused in on this one family, the Psalters Dad, mom, two boys. And uh they didn't know where they were gonna live once the shelter shut down because uh there are a lot of shelters in the city, most of them have You know, for men or for women or for women with kids, very few are for entire families. What were they going to do? Well, they could become homeless. Mom and boys could go to one shelter and dad to another. That wasn't healthy. So uh as my wife handed me the paper, I perceptive man that I am, uh figured out that she was saying more than just this is a good article. And so we laid this before the Lord and said, is this God what you want us to do with our large house? And this first floor that I use for just an office and then the back of it is free most of the time. So we made some phone calls and we invited the Psalters into our home and they lived with us for three weeks to get their feet on the ground. Daily they left at five or six o'clock in the morning to find jobs and find housing. And after three weeks they both had jobs, they were moved into a new apartment, and they still live in that apartment. They're almost completely self-sustaining. And we still maintain a relationship with them today. The last step is we would love to see them get fully integrated into a local church. But their jobs as they are, they have to work on Sundays. What possesses people to open up their homes to homeless folks? When you serve an extraordinary God, that's an easy decision to make. I challenge you as we finish up, what faith steps might God be calling you to do next? What is your first step? I ask you not to leave this morning until you're able to answer that. Or at least make a commitment to go home and make that your point of prayer. that you hear from God, what is your first step to make on this journey of becoming, of developing extraordinary faith? Perhaps it's re-evaluating the future that you see for your children. Perhaps it's reading the book Journey to the Center of the City by Randy White. It's a very easy read. Talks about moving, as we have done, moving your family into an urban setting. Finding a way to do ministry there. Perhaps it's re-examining your schedule to make less time for your career and more time to give to the Lord and to your family. Perhaps like me, like we were several years ago, you've become burdened with the cities which have made Howard County so wealthy, you're right in between Washington and Baltimore, and that's why Howard is a wealthy county. You need to make no bones about that one. If you're out in the middle of Iowa, you wouldn't be this wealthy. Maybe you become so burdened with the cities between which you are that you need to ask God what he wants you to do about it I understand you have a relationship. This church has a relationship with the community in Sandtown. Pastor that you had here last week spoke about those issues. Might God be calling you to connect in some way more than you are now, personally, with that community Maybe your heart was broken about the situation in Siberia, and God is asking you to completely change your life. As I finish, I'd like you to hear the rest of Heather's vision. She says, I was struck two years ago that I will never be Russian. I will never speak Russian perfectly, but I am a mother and I have that common bond with so many of the women who are here, or so many of the women here who I want to be able to share Christ with. I you know, I asked her, Heather, do you mind if I portray you as just kind of an ordinary person? She said, that's what I am. I'm just ordinary. Nothing special about me My dream is to open a mother's house, a birthing house that is clean and offers prenatal counseling and checkups. Where family and husbands can come and be welcomed, where the new moms are given enough to eat and treated with kindness and compassion. Where there are pieces of medical equipment that are modern and work, where we can talk about Christ and God and how we are all created in God's image. Where we can counsel young girls to have their babies instead of aborting them, where the staff is caring and gentle and knowledgeable. It is a big dream. I serve a really big God. All the money that this will take is God's money. All the time it will take is God's time. All the people it will save, help, restore, and renew are God's people. Our Heavenly Father hasn't forgotten even one of his children here in Siberia. Here he loves the ones, and he and he loves the ones here as much as anywhere else. I am praying for Christian doctors who will pray, consult, visit, and coach. I am praying for Christian midwives. who might come and train, mentor, and love some Russian women who want to be midwives. I am eagerly wait awaiting a foundation or organization that coordinates donations of used medical equipment to third world countries. I am expecting some miracles. Do you hear an ordinary woman with extraordinary faith? That's the way our God works sometimes and often here. Please know that Russian women have incredibly hard lives. They live in a dysfunctional culture, raise families alone while working and living in multi-generational households. They are very tough and strong ladies. God wants to reach into their lives with gentleness, mercy, and compassion. I believe that a mother's house could be just the place where the hand of God, through the saints in Irkutsk and the church. could begin to comfort them. Would you ask God what He wants you to do next? Would you please? Do you want to live a life pleasing to God? If so, there is no other route to please God but to act in faith And there is no route to faith other than making extraordinary decisions where nothing makes sense other than that God is in it. Maybe, like Heather Godfrey, you'll find yourself. An extraordinary person, an ordinary person, exercising extraordinary faith and ultimately living a life that pleases God. Let's pray. Father, I'm grateful for these folks in Hebrews eleven I'm thankful that when we read about their stories in the Old Testament, that we read about people that are fallen, people that blow it and make mistakes, because I blow it and make mistakes, and I'm fallen too. I thank you for the modern day stories like Heather Godfrey, who again show that you can use the brokenness of a woman who has trouble having children and then has two C-sections and has postpartum depression. Extraordinary things can come out of that brokenness. I thank you for that, because there's nothing extraordinary about us. What there is about you. Give us the faith to take those next steps so that we too can live a life that's pleasing to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.