And then in 2005 they moved to El Paso, Texas, where they work with a Mission to the World's Beam Ministry, Border Evangelistic and Mercy Ministries. They're involved in a church plant called Las Tierras Community Church. And there was a you'll hear in prayer this morning a prayer request has gone out where we have the opportunity to be praying for the youth of the growing youth population of the church. And so we're pleased to learn more about the ministry efforts with Tito here this morning. So Tito, please. Opportunity. Thank you for praying for us. Thank you for supporting us financially. Thank you for your emails. Thank you for coming to Juarez. You have you have blessed us over many, many years. And I'll and I'll every time I come back I'll say the same thing because it's really true. But there you see my lovely family You know, uh uh Kim, Elizabeth in the middle, and Rebecca on on the your right, uh and Joshua in next to me. Now uh their home uh because they have a slew of activities because um Kim has to preach today in my place Just kidding. I just wish Just checking to see if you're awake. Um It's exciting as I saw those hands of people that been in Ciudad Juarez and uh and in Texas. You know, you know, I was actually born in San Antonio, Texas, but you know, uh as a military kid uh was there and gone, so I don't know what it looks like. Although I I will be there visiting. The last three years we've been working with Border Evangelism and Mercy Ministry. This is a a joint uh effort by Mission to the World and uh mission in North America of the Presbyterian Church in America, um known as Beam. And this ministry, just give me a give you an overview. The our field of service is the Mexican uh U. S. border, about two thousand miles. So you know, just like your backyard. So 2,000 miles from uh all the way from Tijuana on the west coast, Tijuana, San Diego area, uh on the west coast and the east coast, um, Brownsville, Matamoros. Um And the idea is that if you can see that, but is that we would plant churches on both the Mexican side and the US side At least three churches on either side in these twin cities. And so there are cities that are paired up. So if Tijuana, San Diego, you have Mexi Mexicali. on the Mexican side, El Centro on the US side, and then Nogales, Nogales, and then El Paso and Ciudad Juarez. These are twin cities. And so we have people In uh several of these places already, but we still are looking for God to raise up other laborers to go to these cities. Um and on the border you have ten million people and expected to double as more people come, but obviously I think things are going to change now with the violence of the economy Uh w that may not work out in that same way, but but why is it, you know, so strategic? Because historically a lot of Mexicans have come, and not just Mexicans. but those who come up from South America, Central America, through Mexico into the United States. And it's viewed as a promised land for many people. And you have over 300 million border crossings each year uh folk wanting to come into the United States. But the reality is is that less are coming now. Alright, so that's that's creating a whole different dimension. So what do we do with all this Uh you've heard all the uh the the talk about the wall or the fence and the border. Well, we we came up with our own wall, our wall of churches. So that's our idea, is that if people would come in either direction, they would come and go, that they would be able to encounter Christians, encounter a church that loves them, is willing to love them, extend compassion to them, and lead them to Jesus Christ. And so we want to see a network of churches in every uh major border city and also tr set up uh regional training centers. Now, just to give you a bit, you know, some of these you were recognized, I wanted to focus on a couple of families in the central region If you've been to Juarez, you know this family, right? Uh Juan Antonio Garcia and his wife Brenda, their son Caleb, and their daughter Abril, April, who was born last April. And uh and there's that building that man many of you worked on. It looks great, doesn't it? Alright, so So there he's pastoring Juan Antonio's pastoring um Promesa de Vida, so the uh church in uh Ciudad Juárez. Now, oh there's there was somebody else that's supposed to come, I don't know where it went to. It was uh the Peñas, uh not the Peñas, the Lopez family, also in Cira Juarez. So in Ciudad Juarez we have We have two churches, Gracia y Paz, Promesa de Vida, and then we have a mission there, Frontera de Gracia. In El Paso, we have uh a beamwork that was related to Christ the King, and then and then Las Tierras is the mission church, and so we want to start another church in El Paso so that we have this network of churches on both sides. And one of the families has joined us uh just several months ago is the Vaughn family. God and his providence steered them away. They were they were scheduled to go to the Philippines And you know, the next best choice is the desert. You know, I don't understand the things of God. He just does these things and and uh instead of going to the Philippines they came uh to work with us and the we Devon's been working with us for about two years. Jeff um is not too sure exactly how he fits in along the border, so the idea is that he would come and apprentice with us there in Las Tierras for two years. We could is get a sense of his gifts. I suppose this is something of an internship that he's already ordained. Um but it's enab to enable him to be able to uh identify a place and a kind of ministry uh along the border which uh God might be calling him to. So please uh pray for them. But did you know we're in uh El Paso And if you look at El Paso and Tijuana, you have two and a half, three million people uh in the sister cities and El Paso uh is way over eighty percent Hispanic And if you've been there, you know, you can speak English, but if you know Spanish, you'll be able to do a lot better. And you know there's a river. Most days separates us if it's not dry. This is a a shot from from El Paso, uh just from the highway, I highway 10, I ten Interstate 10, looking into uh Ciudad Juarez. And then this is part of the new fence that they're building. I was walking a couple weeks ago along the border there and and watching as they were constructing and putting up this fence. Now you have to understand that beyond this fence on the other side there's already a canal, there's already, you know, the b Border Patrol agents, so there are like three different levels of wall, if you will, um to keep uh illegal immigrants out. And obviously the big thing that's on our heart and probably questions you have have to do with bloodshed on the border. All right. In uh Juarez since uh January of 2008 thus far we've had over 1,800 murders related to this violence of drug cartels And that's created fear in a lot of people. And so you have a lot of people that uh that live in El Paso that have family in Juarez that don't go. I have a neighbor who whose job um took her to uh Juarez four days out of the week. She has quit her job. She says, I'm not going. And she's actually witnessed um behind her, I think it was, maybe two cars behind her, she actually witnessed a car stopped, get out, go around to another car and pull a person out and kidnap the person. She says, no, this is not for me. Now what do you do with all that? And this this has produced some secondary effects. Secondary effects, I mean, even for Beam. As you know, we are not taking short-term teams into Juarez this summer. It's just very risky. In the chaos there, in this drug cartel violence, the police, you know, the corruption in the police force, the government's trying to deal with that. The military presence is very strong now. When you go across the border, I don't know if this was true last summer when you were there. If you go across the border, you have the uh the police and the border agents, the Mexican agents, but now you also have the Mexican soldiers with their Uzi's and automatic weapons. And either, you know, these groups can stop you and search your vehicle. In the chaos, people have taken advantage of uh of this this violence. And so you have the secondary effect of those not involved in the cartel, but They want to get in on some money. And so there have been a lot of kidnapping of businessmen, folk with money, folk who are in politics. So they kidnap them with the idea of of um getting some money. Well in the process many die. Jose Sodia is a deacon in a uh church that we're uh have a good relationship with and just about uh ten miles from where we are. Now José Soria has a he was uh an owner of a gas station in Juárez. And and that was a family business for many years and well about I guess about three months ago, uh four maybe four months ago now. Somebody is somebody came up in the car, or a couple guys came up in the car and they tried to kidnap him. Uh he resisted. He fought back. Um in the process of the struggle he was shocked. He was lying on the road and it he as he tells a story, he was telling me the story, he says the the guy obviously in charge told another fellow with an AK forty seven to just finish him off And he went to shoot, but the gun did not fire. And they just left him. They got in their van, they left him for dead. Well, the the bullet had penetrated, had gone through one side of his stomach and out the other. All right And thankfully, mercifully, I mean he's alive and he's healing. But he closed up business in Juarez. I'm not going back, he says. So this is some of the reality that uh folk are living with and uh and the question even as I asked in the message, um earlier is, you know, what do the churches do? How do they respond to this? Thankfully, in the churches in the quiet, as our sister churches there, no one's been hurt. Juan Antonio, he's had his car um his riveted with uh with bullets. And I think they just mistook had mistaken his car for some other car. But it's still it's rather nerve-wracking, isn't it? Uh and so, you know, pray for these uh brothers and sisters there in Juarez And our ministry is we assist the church planners and Juarez. Juan Antonio and I get together as long uh I also get together with Samuel Lopez. We do things together to encourage one another, help them in their efforts. I teach occasionally at the San Pablo Seminary. I just finished a course in homiletics in November. But our primary ministry is that of planting Las Tierras Community Church in East El Paso. And really the the idea, the vision behind this is to see the gospel transform us personally, our families, but also our communities. So a lot of what we've done over the last couple of years, you've heard about this, you've been praying for us, is to be involved in the community. in different ways. We've been involved in in the sports camp. We're we're going on uh this summer we're going on our third year in sports camp and it's it's really exciting Because we get the community involved, we get community businesses involved, we get the parks and recreation department involved, we get the school involved, um, and so it's it's a great community effort. And it's it's opened a lot of roads for me and avenues to talk and meet a lot of people. And it eventually asked me, you know, Is this all you do? Do you do something else? I said, Yeah, I'm a pastor, you know, and and I had this one lady say to me, I don't know if I should this with you before, she says Your pastor? Man, you you seem awful nice. I didn't think you I said, Well I'm sorry, I guess you had to. It's a bad experience along the way. Then we have block parties. Uh I'm the president of this uh neighborhood association. So it gets me involved in some political things. But but all you know To to see this community transformed. See, the gospel is not just personal, right? And we've we've heard that time and time again. It's for us as individuals, but it's also meant to transform the community, transform the city. It's the bringing of the kingdom of God. God and the kingdom of God in our lives, but also made more visible in our society And so here's a slide of our first meeting just over a year ago, our October of 2000 And seven. And this is our first Sunday meeting. You know, so we're a small group. And then you know, here a year later, you know, God is adding to our number. Um and so we we've been encouraged by that, about what God is doing. And we meet in this this school band room, uh Paslo Norte School. You have to understand this is uh I think I shared this with you last year perhaps or the year before is When I met the principal of this school a couple years ago, his name was Jesus Chavez, he's no longer principal now, but um I asked, you know, I just I just wanted to find out things about the community and we we interviewed and and then he started talking about his own church background and we and he says, let's pray together. And so here we are, you know. Those things you don't you're not supposed to do in public schools, right? you know, pray. And so here we are, we're praying in his office. He had no problem. He would invite other teachers and he said, sit down, we're gonna pray. And and so he was the one that kind of turned me on to say, why don't you use the school? You know, why don't you leave your house for the Bible study and begin in the school? And as a result of that, our connection in the with this principal, uh, we've we've used the school for uh sports camp and for Bible study and for a lot of other activities. And one of the great things this year is uh there's a new principal, but thanks to my girls who attend that same school, and my girls are sharp. They they got it all from their mom. And uh and th these girls are recognized. The teachers love them, the principal knows you know knows them. And she says to me, what can we do? I said, Well, you know, last year you charged us six hundred dollars fee for using the gym for the sports camp. And it's a community sports event. You know, it's can you waive it or reduce it? And she says, we'll work with you. I said, I like that. We'll work with you. So uh I I understand that to mean that you won't charge me six hundred dollars nor anything more. Um so you have prayed And God is in at work and God has answered your prayer. Um We're learning Learning to love our neighbor. Learning to see this gospel worked out in our own heart and our own lives and and then expressed to those around us. See see our ministry there is not any different than your ministry here, is it? It's not not any different really. I mean I have to speak Spanish, you know, I have to eat burritos more often than you do and tacos. But you know that's okay. Some of us have to suffer So but we've we've been trying to express this in a way uh in a neighboring community of Montana Vista, particularly with the Benya and Rodriguez families. September 2006, the Pena family uh experienced this tragedy. Their trailer, the trailer in which you were living, was burned. And um we found out about it a little which is about a year ago. And uh and as a ch as a church and as Beam, we we prayed and we talked with them, we talked with other people and said, what can we do? Can we get involved? And so we did. We Took some steps of faith and we got involved. And they had already begun the construction of their home. They had the slab down, they had some exterior walls uh framed. And uh and we said, you know, we'd like to help And so one of the first things we did, we had some of you know Gary Whiting. Uh he's a retired construction guy, a home builder, and just a just a great guy. And he came down with us uh in El Paso for about six weeks, two months. And the first thing he says, you know, we have to uh square this slab. We've got to put a footing under it. And so we I remember the Saturday, it was a Saturday last April. Uh the penas were there. And what they had done in a year and a half, we took down in two hours. And I remember Hector saying to me afterwards So I hope these people are for real. I hope they're not gonna leave us dry here. He he was nervous because I don't know these people very well. And and we just took down the w the walls, even some of the interior walls they had up. 'Cause we had to cut that slab. Because the sandy dirt underneath was just eroding. And so here's a slab with no footer, and it was just hanging in the air. This is a matter of time before it's going to break And so one Saturday, a whole group of us, you see the youth uh from the church and other people, other volunteers in the community, we go out and we build the walls. And there's Hector and his son Samuel working alongside of us, or better us working alongside of them. And slowly we progress uh in the construction of a home. Now there's Gary working away. I'm gonna tell you this I I don't know how old Gary is, but he's not a he's not a youngster. But he works hard. Sixty-six? Well he he doesn't look a day over sixty-five. He he works and he works and he he makes us younger people. This it puts us to shame. He is a servant of God. And so here we are putting the the roof um you know the seating on and then some of the teams that came out to uh to help in the construction of this house and Gary uh has a particular way of, you know, uh working with drywall and he says if you mess up, if you put too much of that stuff, you're gonna have to sand it, and sanding is not much fun. And this fella uh learned about that. And we had folks from the community come out and do the exterior because on that wood, eventually we see this like chicken wire and then the stucco would go on there. And so you see that you know here they are on the roof, finishing touches on the roof, and see some of the background. This is where they live. This is Montana Vista, this is you know desert. And this is their house. So from the moment we started in April, uh late April to uh the first week in July, God was able to uh work and see this house for the Pena family. So Hector and Alma the parents and then Brenda Samuel and Hector Jr. But uh after recovering from that last summer, and it took some months to recover, um, we've been praying again, Lord, what would you have us do? And uh and so But two weeks after I met the Peñas and learned about their tragedy, I had met another family, Maria and Jesus Rodriguez. But it was, you know, we couldn't help them the last summer, but we said, well look we'll see if we can help you this year. And so we started. This is past week, last Tuesday was our first day of helping them in the construction of their home. This is where they live presently in that little trailer. There are six of them and another one on the way. I think it's probably about 25 foot, 30-foot trailer and lengths. Dilapidated And they started, you see off to the right, they started the construction of the home about a year and a half ago as well. It was Maya's uh well Jesus' father that started uh building the home right on the same property. However, he was not in El Paso legally. He got caught, he was deported. And so for a year and a half the house the house has been uh at a standstill in terms of construction And so we started this Tuesday and we've and some of you may know of another Jose who worked with the teams in uh in Ciudad Juarez. Well we've done, we've hired José from Juarez to help us oversee this work since Gary Whiting is not going to come down quite yet. And so we're quite excited about that because it gives Jose, it gives it an opportunity for us to minister to him. He's not a believer, so we pray. Please pray for Joseph that he will come to know Christ to serve him and his family. And there he is on the wall. And we just had a group of guys that came down to do some uh rock scaling and weko tanks nearby, and they had a couple free days and they came uh to help with the construction. Some prayer requests. Why leave you with these? Pray for the uh our neighborhood surveys. We try to get these an easy step to get us to our neighbors, meet our neighbors, is doing a simple survey in which we ask questions about their church experience. And it may lead to evangelism, it may not But what I found that even within Las Tierras, there are some people that say, you know, no, I don't want to do that. There's a family who uh been part of our congregation now for about a year, a little over a year. And they're really struggling. They speak only English. And all their neighbors are Spanish speaking, Mexicans. They don't they've not met their neighbors. And uh last Sunday I I I took a couple of them with me, a couple of the the you know the kids from the family, and I said, let's go, let's go meet your neighbors. Let's use a little survey. We're gonna look like Jehovah's Witnesses. We're gonna look like Mormons. I said, look at me. Do I look like a Mormon? You know? Yes. No I went over there and here they'd been living there for a year and a half and they'd never met their neighbor. And so I she said, Oh, they probably won't answer the door and knock on the door, they answer the door. Oh, that's a good sign. I have this little survey. I'm you know the pastor of Los Tiedos Community Church. We we want to know how um something about your church experience and that'll help us as we're growing as learn to serve in this community. Would you mind answering a few questions? Not at all. All this in Spanish, of course. So she answers the questions, and at the very end, you know, I says, well how can we uh how can las tierras serve you? No, we're a community-oriented church. Well, you know, one of the things I really like for a church to be able to do is to connect neighbors to each other. And I turn around and look at the woman and says Man, is God opening the door for you? God is opening the door. She is saying, come, I want to know you You know, it's so simple, but yet there's reluctance as I talked about this in the message. There's reluctance on our part for fear and a whole host of other reasons. Pray for us in the association. We get into some some issues at times that uh they're politically charged, and I am not a politician, uh, but sometimes I'm in the in these situations that I need wisdom and know how to handle Uh pray for a fellow laborers for Jeff Vaughn as as he's uh laboring alongside of us and Brian. Brian is uh a guy that's gonna come down, he and his wife are gonna come down from uh St. Louis And he works with Anchored Music Ministries and he's gonna help us in our music. He's gonna be the music director and part-time. And so we're very grateful. As you know, it music is a significant part of our worship service. And um But for a long time we sang very poorly. So we're learning, we're growing. So pray for God, the elders and deacons. Most of these guys that come are new Christians, uh, and so to get them up to speed, to get them to understand the scriptures and also understand doctrine so that you know God might draw from some of these men. Um uh uh godly leadership. For our discipleship groups, the men and the women, our youth outreach. God has been so good using our our kids, my kids and other kids to reach out to to other youth in the community. And um Our little group that we meet on Sunday we're about sixty people, and I always say thirty, thirty-five are our young people Right? The youth and so and they've been very good in their in school and other places to invite their friends and so we have our Sunday evening uh youth activity and there are a lot of kids from our neighborhood Which is really good. But just so I just pray that uh that would uh be fruitful. And for our momdana this outreach and our family. You gotta end a slideshow with a sunset or something like that, so I did That was just that was just taken last week from across our our our house. But anyways, um you may have some questions, some comments. Oh, it was delicious. Thank you. Uh Valentine's Day um actually on February the twelfth, a Thursday We had an outreach dinner. Uh there are people that we invite to church but that never come. Right? And so we thought, well, you know, we'll invite them to dinner. It's on us. In a local restaurant. They don't have to come to a building that has anything in related to church. And uh we had about thirty people that came out uh that evening. And uh now probably about eight of them had n never been in the church before. But the idea is that that couples from Las Tierras would invite other another couple is not a believer, unchurched, and um the the church would pay for their dinner. And so so it was a great time uh is an action as an Olive Garden restaurant. And so uh they so they reserved the back room for us and they had everything arranged really nicely. And after dinner we had a fellow pastor, Chuck Isaac, and his wife Mahdi share about their marriage and their marriage struggles and about the love of Christ. So it was it was brief, but it was it's a good introduction for some of these people who have never been to church. So let me encourage you to to do something like that. And we're just looking for uh different ways of being able to to reach people. So simple uh but yet so effective uh in some of these people's lives I was gonna say I thought the time was up. So so with with the uh increased uh drug activity in Ras uh Is the ministry focusing more on opportunities on the US side? With yes activity. Yeah, with increased uh violence on the FATI side are we doing more on the US side? We are. As a matter of fact, uh because of of the situation in Juarez, the teams, some are teams that want to come, they're being redirected to um Tularedo the US side. So in the and the eastern part of the border. Because there we have the Church La Viz, a church, the Vine Church. And uh And they're in the process of building their church building and so we're asking teams to go there this summer. Uh but interestingly There's some of the families that you would know from Silaj Juarez uh Josue Mayo. Uk, you know, brother Uk and uh and Miguel Ángel Gonzalez, these guys were in Juarez, but now they're leaving Juarez and they've actually gone already, and they're in Nogales. Okay, they're in Nogales. And so we have our first beam Mexican missionaries sent from Juarez to another city of Nogales, Mexico, which is right across from Nogales, Arizona. So yeah, so with a lot of activity, but it's just going on in different places now. How often do you go into wireless and places? How often do I go into a quarter and what precautions do I take? A um I go in probably once every two weeks. Sometimes tomorrow if I'm teaching a class, obviously it's every every night. Um and and that's always a little scary 'cause it's you go in at you know, I go in at six in the evening, I come out at ten thirty, eleven o'clock at night. Which is great for the bridge, you know. Wait time is is uh minimal. But you know, you're on these deserted roads and you go, Well, you know, I'm a prime target. One of the things I don't do, I don't uh I don't put a bullseye in my car, you know, shoot here. And um And what what I try to do is just I have a direct route that I take. And one of the things you need to do is Juat is is rather complicated um in terms of traveling on the road, so always find a secondary route. And so there's a main route and there's a secondary route that you know. You know, have a map with you. Um because there was one time I was going to teach uh class at the seminary and uh and it was all blocked off And the police were there and they blocked off about six blocks and I go, okay, now what do I do? Well I I knew there was another way to go. And so that helps. If you look lost and you have to ask for directions, that's not something you want to do necessarily. Yes. How difficult is the border crossing? How difficult is the border crossing? Generally it's not very difficult if you're going from the US to Mexico You can get across in, you know, a few minutes. It's coming from Mexico to the US. That will take you anywhere, you know, it can be five minutes if you if you go at uh two o'clock in the morning, or it can be three hours. And so you learn to uh to ask for patience. Yeah. So how has your uh your activities of the use of Do they do a new inroad into the standard with you and what kind of uh trusting relationship is that trust do they trust you when they bring their things to you? Yeah, uh inroads uh to other families to the youth, and do they trust us and trust me? Well, interestingly, I think most of them do There depend it depends on the family, of course, but but generally you have to you have to have some kind of relationship there with the parents. or some some connection. And so one of the things we do as our girls meet other girls and they invite them, we try to meet the parents, set them at ease, and give them, you know, all the details they want about any activity And so generally they come to the house, they check us out. And so we're just trying to try to be as open as possible uh with that. And yes, as a result of the sports camp and other youth activities, families have come 'Cause they've seen how uh the kids care for one another and how as parents we care for the kids and for each other. So the people have come and we're very grateful for that. So it's been a great inroad in terms of ministry Could you talk about the vision for the community center to network the three churches in Juarez and the kind of property options in the Sure, that's that's always that's a tough thing because uh over the last several years um there have been several attempts to buy land in Juarez uh and to build this community center. And uh The last thing that happened is some of you know that just that fell through because the the owners there were multiple owners of this piece of land, this property, and basically they said, Yeah, we'll get all the paperwork done, you know, by June Well, give us till September. Give us till December. Give us till February. And it just went on and on and on and on. And we just had to say we just cut. Beam is looking at some other property right now. It looks good, but none of us are holding our breath. But that's the idea is to have To have this property so we can build this community center which would house seminary and also uh a church, one of the churches. It'd be it'd be wonderful. It'd be just a great boon to the ministry, but it's difficult. Uh last year when we were there Uh Gary showed us a plot of land which was within eyeball distance of the one that you turned down that had a lot of trees in it Right. And they were very enthusiastic about that. Is that still a uh possibility? No, that's been uh ruled out. Yeah. That was ruled out there again because uh multiple owners and also of encroaching other neighbors already encroaching on the property and so we decided we didn't want to get involved in booting out people who are living on the property. Other questions? And uh in one of the slides, uh how can we square near bones? Uh oh Yeah, one of the slides, one of some of the families are wearing earphones, these these pieces. One of the things we've done in Las Tierras, um, it's it's a mixed community And somewhere along the line, we had to make a decision. I had to make a decision, are we going to be primarily English-speaking or Spanish-speaking? If we are Spanish speaking, then we're going to draw a particular kind of people. If we're English speaking, we're going to draw another set of people. So that was our premise, right? Well it's not worked out that way. We started off in English primarily and but what we found is that as as we seek to minister, like with the Benya family Now they don't speak any uh any English. But they've been coming to church and by the way, um February first they they came up before the the church and they professed faith in Christ So so it's just marvelous what God is doing. And so we would have people translate, you know, there are different ways of translating, right? You can have somebody can preach in English a few phrases and then someone translates. Well that got to be very laborious and very difficult. And then we had another s the other step was having somebody sit next to the benz or any other family, they're there primarily Spanish speakers and translate for them. And then we said, you know, let's just get rid of that and let's just buy the equipment And so now we use this equipment and we have somebody in the back um who translates the messages into Spanish Now what we do at times we have Spanish preachers and you know and I'm not sure the congregation gets used to me preaching in Spanish, but I've already told them, look, one day I will preach in Spanish and someone will translate for you in English so you get a sense of what it's like. Because this is the culture in which we live. And so what we're finding out that um that we're not primarily English speakers and we're not primarily Spanish speakers, we're mixed And that is just something which is delightful, but it presents some complications, some logistical complications. But it's great because that's the community in which we live. It's a mixed community. And so when God began to bring the Spanish speakers into our midst, I said, Lord, that is awesome. That is awesome. And so I'm just really, really delighted by that. I have to tell one story. Last year our team went there and we were working on building dugouts. t and and the uh act of refurbishing a ball field. This is what the n the neighbors in that community most wanted. And Were a dirt was being dug and brought out about 75 yards away and it was being redistributed. So I was there by myself with a rake, raking this, and a car pulled up with two guys And one guy gets up and walks up and he spoke pretty good English. He says, What are you doing? Now, you kids know how important it is to be cool. Well people in their seventies also like to be cool, so I casually looked at 'em and I said, Well, I'm with a church group and we're building this ball field and we're doing uh We're building uh constructing dugouts. He says, What do you think of all the uh murders and the drug stuff going on around here? At that time Puarez had five hundred murders And I said, well I gotta tell you. I said I live in the Baltimore and the Washington area. So with all the murders and the drug stuff you're having, I feel very much at home. He said, You're crazy. Do you read the newspaper and watch television? I said, Senor, I don't have a television and I don't have time to read the papers So he looked at me and I looked at him and then he said, Well, you know, I I've been in the United States. I said, that's great. And we finished our conversation And I took my break and I said, Well, I gotta head back to the group and I'll see ya, have a good day. And I walked very slowly back 'cause, you know, the cool being cool And to this day I wonder what what those guys really w were doing, asking me what I was doing. Let's close with prayer. Father God, we thank you for uh Tito and Tim and the family and and the call that they've answered to to work with uh Beam on the border. We thank you for Las Piedras church, which is developing and growing, and for other churches that are are being slowly developed along the border on each side. And Father, we grieve at the uh the terrible killings that are going on now and the fact that uh uh the kidnappings are occurring. and uh that uh Mexico has been for the time being closed to teams going in there. We pray, Lord, that your spirit will work in the the hearts of the officials that the corruption can be uh weeded out in in the police department and that once again soon we can look forward to a more peaceful situation where our teams can go into to Mexico and serve you. Building churches, constructing buildings, but sharing the good news of Christ crucified and risen with our neighbors across the border. Lord, we pray that you would protect Tito uh in his work as he goes back and forth and the other missionaries there. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for their effort in Jesus' name. Amen.