Honor and my humble opportunity to commend and introduce to you Dr. Paul Koystra. He has been coordinator, director for Mission to the World for eighteen years. But I first got to know him and met him while he was president of Covenant Theological Seminary. As a young seminarian, knowing nothing, it was a very intimidating thing to meet the president of the seminary. But what I learned from him the short time that I got to know him while he was still there, I realized what was really about him was not intimidation but invitation. Along with many seminarians, I'm sure we had the opportunity to dine in his home, and I'm very grateful for the trajectory that he uh set for covenant theological seminary because it is at his heart because first and foremost as a son of the living God God called him to be a pastor and that is precisely what he did for the seminary and that's precisely what he does for MTW. And there are two things for which I am grateful for learning from him and seeing it in action. First, it is the centrality for the Christian and for the church, the doctrines of grace in the Lord Jesus Christ. And then, secondly, from that grace comes a mission. It was something that grabbed him for the seminary and is something that has definitely shaped his ministry at MTW That the call of the Christian, the call of the church is not so much that we invite the world to the church, but by the gospel of Jesus Christ we take the church to the world. And for that I'm very grateful. And for that I now introduce to you Dr. Paul Coistra. Thank you. Well I'm glad to be here and uh as I told the earlier congregation you're a famous church and I know this because I ran into somebody about three weeks ago. And uh they said, uh, I hear you're going to my church. I don't even know who they are. Uh and I don't think they go here now, but they must have at one time gone here. They said, You're going to Colombia Uh and only I could think of Columbia s you know, South America and uh they didn't say Columbia Presbyterian Church, you know. I mean they called it Columbia. I I don't know if some of you do that. But that's what this person, it was a lady, and that's what she did. And uh so she said, I'll be praying for you. So I appreciate that. But she thought I was going last week, so she prayed last week Uh I hope do you think prayers can carry over from one week to the other? I hope so. Because we need her prayers. The other thing is I got a three-page letter from Dan Iverson. He's one of our missionaries in Japan who is supported by this church. This is a three-page single-space letter telling me I better be nice to you. Now, I don't know what nice means, but I greet you in the name of The Lord Jesus Christ first and Dan Iverson second, okay? And he wanted me to tell you that you are wonderful people as well. Uh so I'm doing that right now. So I've covered that and and if you know Dan Irison, you know that I don't want to get in a fight with him because I wouldn't last five seconds He was a marine sergeant before he became a missionary, and he still looks like one and sometimes acts like one. And so he would put me down in a hurry. We want uh this uh this morning, we want to look at uh Matthew chapter 9, verses 35 to 38. And uh this is a passage talking about crowds. I don't know how you are about crowds, but uh I have a problem with crowds. God did not make me a person that That deals well with crowds. There's a place close to the office on Interstate 85. It's called the 31685 Merge Where at one moment there for a little ways there are eight lanes of traffic and they're all going in one direction. Actually because on both sides are 16 lanes of traffic It's a it's a marvel, you know, of modern engineering and and it's also a a place where you take your life in your own hands, you know, because in the morning they eight lanes of traffic are going eighty miles an hour Bumper to bumper. I don't know how they do it, and sometimes they don't. And when they don't, it doesn't matter. An accident over on the shoulder can shut down all eight lanes, you know And uh Dan, it's a problem. I mean, you I have seen people reading the newspaper, I've seen people eating their breakfast, I've seen people fixing their hair. brushing their teeth or at least flossing them and uh these are the drivers but they don't have anything else to do they're just sitting there And when that happens and I have to be in that crowd, I think if these people would disappear, I'd be a lot happier person. You know, if they just get out of my way In fact, they've just come out with a new thing called Peach Pass, because you know we're Georgia, the Peach State. The Peach Pass means you can drive in this special lane, even if you only have one person in the car, as long as you're willing to pay sixty cents a mile, I'm willing to pay. If there's a crowd, I'm willing to get over there where there are fewer people, and so I have a peach pass just because the way I deal with crowds is not good. Now, Jesus also had to deal with crowds, but his attitude is a lot different than mine. And I want you to think about that as we read this passage of Scripture. Would you focus on what it says about Jesus in crowds? It says this, and Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching their synagogue and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the labors are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into the harvest. Let us pray. Although we do believe that this is your word, and uh we believe that you have given it to us so that we can feed upon it. Just like we had breakfast this morning, we're looking forward to lunch because we can't live if we don't eat. We really can't live spiritually if we don't feed on your word as well, and so we would ask and pray. That in fact you'll feed us now as we come together and worship on this passage of Scripture right here, Matthew 9, verses 35 to 38. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. The first thing you can see in this passage is something about Jesus' ministry, about the way he did it, about the design, about the organization, about what he thought was important. You'll notice that it says in verse 35, and Jesus went through all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. So Jesus went preaching, Jesus went teaching, Jesus went healing. Now I think that's kind of a plan. To me, if you sum it up simply, Jesus reached people where they were. He ministered to them as whole people. He saw what their need was, and he came to them in their need with himself, because he was the gospel. When Jesus came, he didn't just speak the gospel, he was the gospel. But that's what he did. And what that teaches us, if we're going to be involved in Jesus' kingdom work around this world, we've got to reach people where they are. We've got to touch them where they are. We've got to figure out somehow that we can make contact with them because you can't reach people of the gospel if you can't get a hearing You know, there are all kinds of s crazy things people do, you know. Uh they'll throw tracks out of windows and And uh, I don't know if you've ever gone into a restroom and you find somebody's laid a bunch of tracks on the paper towel thing and this kind of thing. And uh I I got to tell you, a person could come to faith like that, but I don't think many do, uh, because a bunch of tracks at the top of a paper towel dispenser is not really touching those people. They're just resting there, you know. You see, if you're going to reach somebody, those people got to get to know you. You've got to get to know them If you want to reach the neighbor next door, you could go and ring the doorbell, and when they come to the door, you could give them the gospel with both barrels. Look, you've got a serious problem. You're separated from God. You could even tell them they're going to hell. But God's made a way to escape. This is the good news I got to tell you. That's why I came next door. Because I got something to tell you you wouldn't believe Jesus came, God's Son, the second person of Trinity, died for you. All you gotta do is receive him. What do you think? Good evangelism? No. Would it work? Could. It could work, and it could work for only one reason. We have a sovereign God. He can do anything he wants. He could use that But God would never put that in a text on evangelism. This is not the way you ought to do it. You've got to get to know that person. They've got to be convinced that you know them, that you care about them, that you love them, before they're ever going to listen to you. That's what Jesus did. Jesus reached out to him in that way. When I was a young preacher, I always had a crowd. And uh I have to tell you, and I mean this, these are some of the worst sermons ever preached. I mean, I would almost say they're they're heretical. I didn't know much. I hadn't gone to seminary yet. And uh I had all kinds of stuff mixed up in those sermons that shouldn't have been there, you know In fact, I have those sermons and they're still there, and I've got to get rid of them before my kids inherit them, you know, because that's what kids do. They inherit all the junk. And uh that my wife and I we've talked about that. We've combined two families, so we got a lot of junk. And uh fact we had to give away a lot of junk already, but we still have more junk than we had when we were sep when we were too f uh living to g uh away from each other. When we came together, we still have more junk. That's what I'm trying to say. You make sense of that. Um And uh but we've decided, you know, but by combining our families, we have five children, not just three and two. And so those five kids, they can handle it. They can come and clean the mess out when we're gone. But uh I don't want those kids to see those sermons, you know. They're bad. If they're that bad, then why did I always have a crowd? Well, because I preached at the Union Gospel Mission down on the Bowery. It was a place for drunks. And you see, they couldn't get the soup and the sandwich unless they came to hear the sermon first. That's why I had a crowd. But I want to say something to you. The soup and the sandwich is not a wedge to get into their life so you can tell them about Jesus. The soup and the sandwich, in a sense, is part of the gospel because it's by the soup and the sandwich you let them know we care about you. We are concerned about you. And we want to introduce you to our best friend. That's what Jesus did. That's what these first verses are talking about. You know, when you look at what missionaries are doing around the world now, you find out that they're doing a lot of different things. You know, when I took this job 18 years ago, mission of the world bragged. that we didn't do anything in education, we didn't do anything in medicine, we didn't do anything for children, uh, orphanages, and we could go on and on like that. In fact, we had a name for it. We named ourselves. We were word missionaries, not deed missionaries. In fact, we said those people are bad people. Now, why would we say something like that? Well, because back in the 50s and 60s there was a heresy around called the social gospel. And the heresy went like this: you don't need to tell people about Christ, about their need, and about his answer. You don't need to do that. All you have to do is give them a cup of cold water in Jesus' name. Now, some of you know that's a verse in the Bible, but it's a verse taken out of context, and when it's used like that, it's a heresy. The problem is though that when you deal with a heresy, often you throw out the baby with the bathwater And so we said, if these people are focused only on deed, we're going to be only focused on word. When, in fact, Jesus did both, because you need to do both. You don't have people with just ears. You got whole people. And so you minister them as whole people, bringing the gospel to them, you see. And that's why we have works now in a bunch of countries for street kids. Kids that just live on the streets because their parents abandon them. We've got orphanages in many places around the world. Just this past week I had one of our missionaries National missionaries in West Africa say, will you please send six medical teams this summer? to West Africa, because we can reach more people in one week through a medical team than we can in a whole year without the medical team You see, that's the pattern. That's the pattern we see here. Jesus went throughout the village just preaching, teaching, healing. He was touching people where they were. The second thing you see here is the heart of God. It's in verse 36. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them because they were harassed. They were helpless. They were like sheep without a shepherd. It says that Jesus, when he looked at them, he was compassionate. Now you know that that's English for a Greek word, and I can tell you that in the Greek I think it's more powerful. Than the English word by itself. Compassion is a good word, and you should have compassion for people. But I actually like to translate this verse like this: when Jesus saw people that didn't know him. He was brokenhearted. It broke his heart. The God who created these people, who created them in his image, when he when he looks at them and he sees them separated from him. It deeply, deeply bothers him. It breaks his heart. Now why is that important? I'll tell you why Because if lostness doesn't bother you like it bothers your savior, you're never going to get missions. If you're happy you're a Christian, but you don't care that other people are not, think about it for a minute. You're going to just be sitting back, fattened. Sassy, you know. Is that not right? You see, God wants us to have a heart like he has I've never seen a sheep without a shepherd. I've gone to the Holy Land, I've seen sheep with shepherds. I've seen sheep here, but they're in a big field with a f with a barbed wire fence. I figure the shepherd uses a dog to get those when he wants them to get over here. I've never really seen a sheep without a shepherd, but I know what it means. What it means is those animals are in trouble. Those animals are going to perish. The weather conditions could get them, or worse, another animal could get them. They're not long for this world. They're in danger. Let me illustrate this way. When my children were growing up, my youngest child thought that God had put her on this earth. To rescue all stray animals. And I want to tell you, she took this job seriously, and she was actually a nuisance to us And uh so we had to train her. We taught her that if you see a dog with a collar, don't worry about it. It's not lost. It could be out in the middle of a desert, but it's not lost, I'm telling you. So if we were going down the road and we saw a dog over here without a collar, we'd say, Sydney, look over here. Because, well you know why, because I don't even have to tell you The noise in the backseat was difficult to deal with. Well, this girl grew up and when she got to be 16, she got her own driver's license. Now I had a big problem. Because now she could go out on these roads and find dogs and bring them home herself. And so in a three-month period she brought home eight dogs who chewed things she should they shouldn't chew and uh messed up things they shouldn't mess up. And I'd had it. And so I passed a new rule in our family. I'm the head of the household, as you know, and so I just said, here's the new rule, the eleventh commandment in this house Thou shalt not bring home any more dogs, you hear? Well, I went off preaching one weekend. These kids were now old enough to stay home, take care of themselves. They were Uh, older teenagers, they w they didn't want to go with their parents. You know how that is. They want to stay home, go with their friends to church. And so it's a Sunday afternoon. We're we're driving home. We stop at a rest area. We didn't have a cell phone yet And we called the kids and we said in one hour we're going to be home. Now you know why you do that, don't you? Huh? You just want to be able to push open the front door, you know, something like that. And uh we drove down the driveway and it was obvious they were looking out the window, waiting for us, and they boiled out of the house like bees out of a hive, they'd been stuck by a stick, and they started hugging on us and kissing on us and telling us that we were the greatest parents that had ever lived. Now I was looking around trying to figure out what the problem was, and uh all of a sudden it dawned on me and I said, I'll tell you one thing, it better not be a dog Well, the oldest daughter, she went to ballin, so I knew it was a dog. And Paul Jr. , he goes over to the downstairs, basement stairs, and he calls down in the dark, hey Murphy, come on up and meet dad. Now they'd already named this dog, you know. And up the stairs lumbered this large, large red golden retriever. Don't know if you knew that golden retrievers can sometimes be red. A pitiful dog, oh my goodness. Stomach all shrunk up, hair all matted down, 75 great big fat ticks all over her. I took her to the vet. You know what the vet said? If I hadn't gotten Murphy to her there that night, Murphy would not have made it. Murphy would have perished. Murphy was a sheep without a shepherd. She needed a shepherd. She needed somebody to take care of her. Before I go any further, I don't want you to worry about Murphy. Okay, Murphy became my dog. In about three seconds she figured out how you last in this house and she uh she won me over. She was quite the dog. Okay? So we're through with that now. Because my point is the important thing. Murphy was a sheep without a shepherd. You see people driving up this road out here And they look just grand. They got fine clothes on and they got big SUVs. They have fine jewelry and watches on and and they just look like they got it all together. But you know that they're not believers, suppose. If you knew that they were not believers, would you not see fancy people, but would you see people whose stomachs are all shrunk up, hairs all matted down, and 75 great big fat ticks all over them? Because that's what you ought to see. That's what Jesus saw. When Jesus saw people that didn't know him, it broke his heart And I'm telling you that if you don't have a heart like Jesus, you'll never get missions. If lostness doesn't bother you like it bothered Christ, you will never get missions. You just won't. Now, this text tells us there are two problems. The first problem is what? The harvest is plentiful. The second is what? The labors are few. Verse 37. Let's take the first problem. The first problem is that the harvest is plentiful. Now, let me tell you what that means. And to tell you what it means, we've got to look over here in John. John chapter 4, we read in verse 31. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, Rabbi, that is Jesus, but he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, Has someone brought him something to eat? And Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. Do you not say there are yet four months and then comes the harvest? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white to harvest. That's what Jesus is talking about when he says there's plenty out there, a plentiful harvest. He's not talking about a lot to pick. You know, he's not saying get your combine out there and get to working, but when you get it all down and get it all back here, you won't have sheds and barns and silos and whatever people keep grain in. You won't have enough. That's not what he's talking about. He's not saying there's a lot, although there could be, but what he's saying is the harvest is white. Now white means only one thing. It means it's ripe. There's a difference between a lot and ripe, isn't there? The one means it's going to take a lot of work, but the other means there's an urgency to the business of picking. When things are ripe, you have to pick them, because if you don't pick them, what happens? They rot. Listen, I believe that God calls people to himself. I believe that nobody comes to him in faith unless he calls them. I also believe that he expects us to go out there and call, and I do believe that he's saying to us there's an urgency to our task. And I don't know how you put those two things together, and I don't even try. I don't worry about it. That's God's business. Should it surprise us that there are things in the Bible that God understands that we can't understand? I don't think that should surprise us at all. And so we can't put those two things together, but Jesus is saying here, God is saying here to us There's an urgency to the bishop of missions. You can't just sit back and be fat and sassy. Because there are people out there perishing. And you need to have a heart like Jesus. Their lostness should deeply, deeply bother you. But it says the laborers are few Now, you know, in mission conferences, we often talk about money because you can't send missions without money. So sometimes they tell me to come to a church and please get the people to give more. And I do, I don't have a problem talking about money because the Bible talks about money and Jesus talked about money. But you notice that the problem is not money, it's labors It's people. It was a problem 2,000 years ago. It's the same problem today. We don't have enough people to give. The money is there, we just don't have enough people to give. We need more people to pray. We don't have people praying. We need people that are willing to share their faith with other people. We need to have people who are willing to go. That's what it takes. And I can tell you, it hasn't changed for 2,000 years. Even that business of money, again, it's just the people. Actually, uh Martin Luther used to say, if I can win a person's pocketbook, I can win their soul. Now that that sound then that sound a little bad to you. I mean, whoa, wait a minute That sounds a little backwards. If I can win their soul and win their pocketbook, you'd think that's what he would say. But remember, there's somebody else that said something one time. He said, Where your treasure is, there your heart will be. And that was Jesus who said that, and that's where Luther got it, you see. We need to be willing to be involved in God's kingdom work. We need to be willing to say, God, what do you want me to do? Now notice the answer to the problem. And the answer to the problem here is not that the preacher should lay a guilt trip on you. I've probably laid a guilt trip on you just now, and I don't apologize for it, because I don't know what to do. You know, when you're preaching on this text, I really don't know what to do. I have to tell you what the text says. But I can tell you this: guilt won't help, it won't cause you to do anything. You see, guilt will just drive you out that door and around the corner until you can't see me any longer, and then it'll be over. You know what would send you to the other side of the world? If I were in Taiwan and my wife called me and said, I need you back here in Atlanta. What would I do? I'd get on the earliest plane I could and fly back to Atlanta. Why? Not because of guilt, but because of love And you see what Jesus is saying to pray to the God of love to help you to love him more. That's what he's saying. You know, we were talking about that business of lostness. Do you think that that when the Bible says that the angels rejoice when one person comes to faith? Do you believe that? You believe that heaven gets excited over one person who's saved? What about yourself? Do you think when God thinks about you and the fact that you belong to him, that he gets excited about it? Listen to this verse here. Zephanias 3. 17. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you with his love. He will exalt over you with loud singing. I tell you what, it's hard to think. You know, when somebody's really excited about somebody else, I mean when they're really in love, they l you know, if I could play a guitar, I I I would sing a song to my wife, you know I mean I had to quarter just three years ago. I'm an old man, but I still had to win her over and I can't do anything with a guitar, a piano, or anything. So I was I was handicapped. You know? Because a little music, you know, under the window as she came to the balcony. Well, we didn't exactly have her there, but you can see that could help, right Now think about it for a minute. I want you to think about it for a minute. The Bible says right here in Zephaniah 3. 17 that when God thinks about you He sings over you. He loves you. And this passage here is telling us To pray to the God of love that we might love him more. Because it's when you love God more that you love others more. That's the way it works. We need to be at that place of praying that God would give us a heart like Jesus. That he'd help us, that we would ask God, what do you want me to do? And we would be willing to do it. If we're willing to do that, the Holy Spirit will empower us to do it. The text is as simple as that. There's a man. His name was Carl Friedrich Heyer. Carl Frederick Howard, a name like that, a Scandinavian name, he was obviously a Lutheran and he was. But when he was forty-seven years old, this is in 1840, a long time ago. He decided he wanted to be a missionary. He was a preacher. He wanted to be a missionary, so he went to India to a place where there had never been a missionary before, as far as he knew. He was there for six years, and when he was 53 years old, he came back to the United States. And got a second degree in medicine. He already had one in theology. Now, doesn't that sort of sound like that first point I made in the sermon? Preaching, teaching, healing. Notice that And when he was 57 years old, he went back to India and he worked there until he was 65 years of age. And when he was 65 years of age, he came back to the United States. I guess he died sixty five, you know, retirement, but he didn't exactly retire. He started planning churches in Minnesota and Wisconsin. But Winnie was preaching there he heard that there was nobody left in India. You know why? The Civil War had come and gone. And so many men had died in that war. There were a lot of pulpits in the United States that didn't have preachers. More men died in that war and all the rest of the wars America's fought combined. So Frederick Curtis Heyer, he decided That he needed to get somebody to go back to India. So he would go around and he's preaching. He'd point to people and say, Maybe God wants you to go to India. He started this when he was 75 years of age. He kept it up for three years until he's 78. Listen, God might want you to go to India. He couldn't find anybody to go. So you know what he did? He went back to India himself at the age of 78. And he died there. They buried him there. He never came back here. Why do I tell you that story? I think that's a man who had a heart like Jesus. That's what I think. He had a heart like Jesus. And he just couldn't stand the idea of lostness. It really bothered him and he said, God, use me any way you will, any way you will. And he did. But Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this text. We thank you for the example of Jesus. We thank you for the heart of Jesus. And we thank you that Jesus has saved us. And he has given us the responsibility to tell others. Missions isn't really so complicated. I know they write books on missiology, Father, but Frankly, in one way it's simply people who know, telling people who don't know what they know. Would you help us? We pray to have a heart like Jesus. We pray that lostness will bother us like it bothers Jesus. We pray that you use us. Show us what you want us to do. Use us in your kingdom, we pray. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.