The Reverend Hilo McKinnon does not need introduction to our fellowship, and especially to a number of the staff who've known him for some time. He was born in 1950 in Ethiopia in a rural area on a farm that did not have mechanization. They did everything with oxen and by hand. His family was part of the Ethiopian Orthodox Orthodox Church But Hylu said in his biography that he felt uh an emptiness. And in his teen years, he was more and more convicted of personal sin. He gave his life to Jesus Christ, went to a Bible school, graduated. And then assumed a ministry in his town as organization pastor. And God richly blessed that by raising up believers. However, a number of the prominent people in that town, along with priests of the Orthodox Church, took issue and literally ran Hailu out of town. He went to Adatababa and uh did evangelization there with Word of Life Church. He developed a serious heart problem. And through the sacrificial giving of members of the evangelical community and the generosity of those in the medical profession. Came to Dallas, Texas, and had an aortic valve replaced. In the early seventies He went to Viola University and met a young woman by the name of Charlene, and eventually they became married. Charlene is with us here with four of their eight children and has been very much a part of his ministry. In nineteen seventy-seven, with their two oldest girls, Esther and Sarah They came to Philadelphia and and he enrolled in uh Westminster Seminary In the early 80s, he was called by our Mid-Atlantic Presbytery to come to Washington to conduct a study group with the Ethiopian community. And as uh Hailu puts it, it was didn't bear a lot of fruit, but it did open up old context with Word of Life Church back in Ethiopia. He took Charlene back for her first visit, and for a number of years he went back there yearly uh to teach. In the early 90s They moved there for a period of time so that he could teach at the university. And then health problems uh arose. Came back to the States and uh he needed a kidney transplant. And through God's miraculous way of doing things, found that Charlene was a compatible donor and she shared a kidney with him During his convalescence, he started the translation of reformed works into one of the Ethiopian languages. And uh just Tuesday of this week, he's going to be going back and they're going to be finalizing some of the printing of those documents. Hilo, we welcome you to our pulpit for the second time this morning. Good morning. It's good to be with you, to serve you the Word of God and uh fellowship with you. My sermon is from Luke chapter twelve, verse thirteen through thirty-four. The title of my sermon is service and personal fulfillment. If you have your Bibles, please open to Luke twelve, verse thirteen through thirty-four. Then one from the crowd said to him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. But he said to him, Man, who made me a judge or an arbitrator over you? And he said to them Take heed and beware of covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of the things he possesses Then he spoke a parable to them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man yielded plentifully. He thought within himself, saying, What shall I do since I have no room to store my crops? So he said, I will do this. I will pull down my barns and build a gretter, and there I will store all my crops and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, Fool, this night your soul will be required of you, then whose will those things be which you have provided? So he who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. Then he said to his disciples, Therefore I say to you Do not worry about your life, what you will eat, nor about the body, what you will put on. Life is more m more than food, and the body is more than clothing. Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap. Which neither storehouse, which have neither storehouse nor barn, and God keeps them Of how much more value are you than the birds? And which of you by worrying can add one tribute to his stature? If you then are not able to do the least, why are you anxious for the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, and yet I say to you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of this. If God if then God so clothes the grass, which today is in the field and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you? Oh you of little faith Do not seek what you should eat or what you should drink, nor have an anxious mind. For all these things the nations of the world seek after. And your father knows that you need these things. But seek the kingdom of God and all the things shall be added to you. Do not see little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell what you have and give alms. Provide yourself with money bags which do not grow old, a treasure in the heavens that does not fail. Where no thief approaches, nor moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Let us pray Father, we pray that you will open our eyes that we may see wonderful things from your word O Lord, we pray that your word will be a mirror to our souls, that we may examine our hearts before you, and search our souls before you, and if there be any wicked ways in us. Enable us by your grace to repent of it and follow the righteous path that is set before us. Deliver us, O Lord, by the power of the gospel. From our sinful practices of self-centeredness, that we may be rich before you, O Lord, in serving you and being powerful in the kingdom of God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. It is a common understanding and desire among evangelicals that one of the signs of a healthy congregation is that they are zealous in missions. And so they invite missionaries, like you have done, and they hear stories about God's work in other lands. As they do that, and as they observe these things, they get reminded of that principle of the kingdom you receive by giving. You find joy as you sacrifice what is precious to you. And it is correct then that missionaries ought to remind us of what our duties are as the children of God. Personal fulfillment comes as a byproduct of service to others in the name of Jesus. But when personal fulfillment becomes a goal and a person seeks personal fulfillment Single-mindedly, then that person is described as covetous. Covetous person is filled with desiring to have something. By any cost. And that desire becomes then idolatrous, idol worship, false worship, because he is giving emphasis and weight To something created in this world, even though it is good, yet created, he gives the devotion that belongs only to the deity, to something that is inferior. That is created. And therefore covetousness is described as idolatry. And that's why we're commanded by the Lord in this passage. Seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness on all these things that you seek, they will be added as a byproduct. But your center of gravity for your soul must be the desire to promote God's kingdom and his glory. Not as a mercenary. Still focused on personal fulfillment that you say to yourself, I've been seeking it the wrong way, I think I'll go the right way by seeking God's kingdom so I can achieve personal fulfillment. No. God refuses to be a price to be paid for your personal fulfillment. It has to be an honest and sincere self-abandonment because you love God. Because you know he's worthy of everything. Just like that woman who broke the albaster jar Full of perfume that would have enabled her to live off of it for the rest of her life, perhaps. She came, everything she had, she broke the jar, poured it on the Savior's feet. The disciples said, what a waste. We could have sold that to hundreds and hundreds of dollars And who could have given it to the poor? Who could have promoted God's kingdom in the great way than she has by pouring it on his feet? And Jesus said, she has done the right thing. What is not Worthy of Jesus. What is unworthy of Jesus? What is too precious for the Savior who gave his life? He poured his life, his blood for us, for his people. How can we not give everything we have to Jesus for his service? So you see then if you have in the back of your mind, I would follow Jesus because that's a smart way to be happy. Or to gain this or that, then you have not understood the gospel. There was this man in the audience where Jesus was teaching And this man was wronged by his greedy brother. His greedy brother had taken the wealth that his parents had Given to both of them and he took it for himself and he refused to share. So this brother who is wronged comes And appealed to Jesus because he had heard Jesus teach. And Jesus had said You Pharisees. I would like us to turn to uh Luke eleven, forty-seven through uh forty-one There, Jesus had rebuked the Pharisees of greed, of the sin of greed. In Luke eleven thirty-seven At his folk a certain Pharisee asked him to dine with him. So he went in and sat down to eat. When the Pharisee saw saw it, he marveled that he did not first wash He did not first wash before dinner. Then the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees make the outside of the cup and dish clean. But your inward part is full of greed and wickedness, foolish ones. Did not he make uh the outside uh make did he who made the outside make the inside also? But rather give alms of such things as you have, then indeed all things will be clean. Jesus was invited by this Pharisee And I don't know why the Pharisee made that strategic mistake of having Jesus at his home Well he should have known better, but somehow he thought he'll get some knowledge out of it by inviting this famous popular guy into his home. Maybe he will promote his honor greater than that he had Well he had him in his home. But your smart though he did not say a word because you've heard probably uh that if you say anything to Jesus, he'll put you down, so keep your tongue Well, the sad thing that this man did not realize, Jesus can read hearts too. So this man thought the wrong thing And she said, Why isn't he washing his hands? And now he can probably tell him that too. It is a faders' rule when you go to eat a meal in a Two Israeli Israelite home, you wash your hands. That is their religious ceremony. And so Jesus deliberately My wife reminds me that part is what Jesus did. He delivered and did not wash his hands because there was greater matter of the kingdom at stake. This man and his audience did need to learn that the matter of the kingdom of God is not a matter of washing hands. It is a matter of washing hearts. The inside is more important than the outside. So Jesus set up the situation not with evil, malicious intentions, but with the gracious intention of giving them the gospel. So he did not wash his hands. And obviously the Pharisee was shocked and wondered in his heart what kind of teacher is he who does not even do the simplest ceremonial cleansing. And so Jesus asked him, which one is more important, the inside or the outside? And then a very interesting thing, he rebukes him of greed. Inside you are full of greed. And then he said Instead of keeping the outside clean, do this. You would expect to say, clean the ions the inside. He didn't say that That's what he meant, but he said it in a different way, in a very more power in a more powerful way. But rather give alms Of such things that you have, then indeed all things will be clean to you. You want to be clean You want to feel clean inside? Yes, if you wash outside, you can be clean outside too, but that's irrelevant really for the kingdom of God. But do you want to feel clean inside? Then get rid of that so. Greed. Wash the inside. How do you wash the inside? Let go of that idol that is sitting in the center of your heart that you're worshiping. Greed, possessiveness. Of the things God has given you, you are misusing it. And give what you have and let it go. Then you'll be clean. Now, no matter what you do to wash the outside, you will never be clean because you are washing the wrong thing. It is your greed that needs to be washed This man, the brother, heard that teaching and he said, Wonderful. I wish my brother was here. I wish my neighbor was here to hear this sermon today. I wish my husband or my wife was here to hear this. I wish my children were here. You know, we all are guilty of that. So this man said, I wish my brother was here to hear this sermon Maybe I would have had a chance to get my portion of the inheritance. And so he said, Well I'll I think I'll do something about it. It's my best chance. So I appealed to Jesus Lord, please call my brother. Maybe he was there, I don't know. He wanted him to be humility publicly by Jesus, the famous teacher. And Jesus shocked him. The reply was, No, I'm not going to tell him that. That's not my job. I'm not an inheritance divider. That's not my college. You just wash them aside And look at the audience and the disciples primarily and tells them, Beware of greed. What do you think is he is he's telling that man? Do you think the sermon was o directed against the greedy brother who took the inheritance from his siblings? Or was it also at the same time a sermon for the brother who appealed to have his rightful share? I believe it was directed primarily to the hypocrite. So the hypocrite brother, who wanted the inheritance shared with him, so he too can use that inheritance to please his own personal desire. Not for the kingdom of God, not for the good the good of others, but for his own purposes. Now, was Jesus denying justice? Of course not. Jesus is his Christ as. And he shall not judge by the sight of his eyes, nor decided by the hearing of his ears, but with righteousness. He shall judge the poor and decide with equity for the meek of the earth. No, Jesus, the righteous judge, knew the brother who took the inheritance, was at fault. But the other brother who was wronged in the inheritance also had the wrong heart. He too, if he had the chance, if he was the first one who had his hand on that inheritance, he too would have done the same thing perhaps. Or if he divided it, he would not use it for the glory of God, he would use it for his own greed. So Jesus said there is a greater Harm that is eating you up, young man. You take care of that. The inside, the greed that is driving you, the greed that has motivated you to use me. To carry on your own greedy life. And I refuse to be part of it. However, you repent, sell whatever you have, and follow me. And seek the kingdom of God first. Whatever else you might desire, those things would be added to you according to God's own wisdom. Do you want to be content? Then follow God. Godliness is the secret of contentment. And so Jesus tells this parable. That's the context in which this parable is told. The rich man, he had wealth. But he did not use his wealth for the promotion of God's kingdom. He used it for his own happiness by setting aside God. This farmer, whether he was a true real individual during that time when Jesus talked about this man or whether he was an imaginary parable that Jesus simply created for the occasion, representing the hearts of us all. And he talked about this farmer and he said this farmer had a good year. She looked up, his farm was still outside on the field, and he had a conference with his soul. He had a celebration A pre-harvest celebration with his soul. He told himself his soul, now no more anxiety or poverty. No more fear of what you might eat or you might enjoy. Now you've got everything. In fact, this year is so unusually plentiful, I don't have room to store all my grain. So all I'm going to do Expand and store all my grains. And I have all these years of happiness ahead of me. What a joy that I have. You were celebrating. What is God in all this? He doesn't exist. The fool says in his heart, there is no God. God is not in the picture. Only his wealth and his happiness and his soul. And in that night he died. He was poor with God, before God, rich on earth. It did not benefit him anything. I know this is not a sin that only attacks the most crooked ones of the earth. Every one of us are infected with greed. I am infected with greed. And you are. We have most of our times worry about what we do, what will happen to us Yes, we have been redeemed by Jesus Christ. We are the children of God, and therefore we can tell when we're sinning. By being greedy, by being self-centered. And by God's grace, we have been enabled many times to repent of it But how quickly dustin comes and attacks itself to us again. How quickly we fail and how often we fight. against the sin of greed. And I know you agree with me on that. Because I speak from experience, and I'm not unique. I know you have the same problems But Jesus gives us a solution. The solution is seek the kingdom of God first. Always. Let that be our priority. When we are unhappy about anything, the first question that we should ask is, why am I unhappy? Is it because I did not get what I think I deserved? Or is it because the glory of God is dishonored? Am I grieved because I see righteousness being trampled upon? And I'm grieved by that and I'm saddened and I cry out to God for vindication for myself, for others? Or is it because I am wronged personally Despite what that means to God's kingdom. I'm sure we'll find many times the answer is the latter, not the former. It's an occasion for us to examine our hearts And to seek cleansing and forgiveness. The parable the Lord gave us is a negative portrayal of our negative attitudes. We should not be like that, but we should be like the women of Proverbs 31. Proverbs 31 should not be taught only among women's Bible study. We men need to hear it too. Why? Because she is an example of godliness An example of godliness to live for others. She is a truly liberated woman, liberated from two oppressors One liberated from her own heart of greed. She's not self-centered. She is active, productive, industrial She is loving, generous and kind and skillful. She does all these things For her children and for her husband. She serves others with everything she has. And the poor rejoice because she is generous to them too. Here is a woman, an example of who's been liberated from grief. She did not say I need to be free and pursue my own happiness. I'm going to go out and do something for myself before I die. I'm sick and tired of life, the way I am being oppressed and being tossed around and not being organized. I'm gonna go out and make a mark for myself No. She said, My husband needs me. My children need me. The poor need me. The community, my neighbors, they need me. So I'm going to apply everything I have. I'm going to invest all my skills for this because God has commanded me to do this. She is the example we need to follow, not the brother, not the Pharisees. And secondly, she's also a liberated woman from a coward And fearful, insecure husband. Her husband is a liberated man too. He's liberated from fear and insecurity He sits at the gate, judging, discerning, with other judges With no fear and concern that somehow things are going to go baddy at home because that woman is in charge. No. He is happy. He is secure. He ha his heart rests upon her because she has no self-interest. She's interested in his welfare. She's interested in the welfare of his children. So he too is liberated from that fear. That we men from time to time find ourselves getting trapped in. And so she's neglected from him. In other words, not from him as a good man, but from him if he was an evil man. And we need to look at ourselves and think of what response would have in a situation of that sort. And follow the example of the woman who has given her life for the cause of the kingdom of God. In other words Giving yourself to God does not mean you don't develop your skills. Look at the woman of Proverbs 31. She's skillful in justice and she's held up for us to imitate because she's developed skills, but she's applying them for the kingdom of God. She's rich. With God and with men. Her children rise up and bless her. Her husband's heart rests in her Yes, each one of us has a calling. And through that calling are the hearts of those who love us Rusty, because they know we are not selfish. We will promote their good and their welfare. May God give us such hearts. And such desires to be what God wants us to be. It was an exposure for the man. When he came and appealed to Jesus for judgment, Jesus said, You have greater need. than being deprived of your rightful heir, your rightful inheritance. Your greater need is you are gripped with greed. You need to get that out of your system. And how do you do that? If I give this inheritance, I will give it to the glory of God. I will share it with the poor If you say that, maybe, perhaps you might get your inheritance. And yet you might not. But God will give you something. He will give you wealth. He will bless you with productivity, then you'll use it for the kingdom of God. That is what Jesus telling him is telling him. He's not denying him of his rightful inheritance. He's telling him by pursuing the external You have misled yourself into greed. So what should be the response of this man? My guess is he's offended. He was offended. Because this has brushed him aside. He said, beware of greed. Not even to him, to the audience out there. It just perhaps I I feel like When I imagine what is happening was this man is coming from this side and he yells from the crowd, Lord, please tell my brother. He just looks at him, who made me a judge between you and my brother and your brother. He tells the crowd, beware of greed. How do you how do you how do you think that man felt? He felt very small. He felt very embarrassed. Insulted perhaps If he didn't get his heart setting down. And if he didn't uh if he didn't repent, he probably walked over there and joined the crowd and said, Yes, Lord, I have been gripped with selfishness myself. I'm no better than my brother. Just happened it bit me in the game and I lost. But I'm going to gain greater wealth by treading up my my my heart and following you So what did the man do, I don't know. But what must we do? How should we live? Our hearts are wicked and they are deceitful. And how should we live then? Certainly not idolatrously, covetously, by giving everything we have for our own happiness Self-serving and self-centered. No. It is by saying, I belong to God. God has created me, he has redeemed me, and with everything he has given me, I will serve him by serving My fellow man, whether it was in the church or outside the church or in the family. It is not my happiness I seek, it is I, it is your happiness that I seek, O Lord. If not my will, it is your will, O Lord. That is the only way we can be a Christian. This is not a recipe for the victorious Christian life, for the select few Who will be known as heroes of the Christian faith. This is a recipe for every single Christian who calls the name of Jesus as his Savior. So it's a calling for all of us, brothers and sisters, that we follow him with all our hearts. And if that's the only way, then death to selves As we die, there is the resurrection life at work repeatedly in our lives. So the Christian life is this repeated pattern of death to self and life to God as you live for others. May God give you light I speak as a human being to your ears. May God, the Holy Spirit, speak to your hearts. I have no idea what situations are there that are warring within your souls. Maybe you aren't aware of it either, but may God give you give you such illumination. That the problem within your life, in my life, as I preach and as I have been meditating on this word, believe me, I have been part of the Lord again and again May he illumine your mind so you can see the mountain that is ahead of you. I have an illustration to tell you, a story of a Christian brother, a pilot, an Ethiopian Pilate. He was flying from Addis to China and all of a sudden his radar went out. He could not see anything. It was um uh stormy night. And he knew the storm of clouds were out there, but he did not know where they were. And so he prayed, he was a believer, he prayed to God that God will give him Some knowledge so he can avoid those storms. So he would not plow out through them and have the plane torn apart. And he said, he turned it on again and it came On and right in front of him, just before he arrived here, was a huge storm, just moving in turmoil, and he was able to Steer away. And then the radar went out again, he said. Here is an illustration for us. We are blinded to our own storm And we are headed to dev for danger. But as God illumines our minds, we'll see the mountain ahead of us before we crash into it. The mountain of self-centeredness Eagerness, thinking that we're serving God self-righteously and as hypocrites and as Pharisees. I'm not beating down on you, I'm not accusing you, I'm simply eagerly sharing with you. the principle of the Holy Spirit's work in our lives. And may He bless you then with illumination. So you can experience that cleanliness that you have experienced many times before. And again this morning, through the preaching of this word and the meditation of the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, let us pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness to us in sending the Lord Jesus to be our Savior, our teacher, our prophet, our King. And through Him we've been saved from great sin, condemnation. And now you've forgiven us of our sins, so we are free from the guilt of sin. And you have given us the promise of eternal life, so we'll be free from the condemnation that will await the unrighteous at the end of time. And we pray, Lord Jesus, that you'll continue to give us salvation from the bondage and corruption of sin in our daily life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.