Pleasure now to introduce to our pulpit Arden Sanders, who with his wife Joy, working for Wycliffe Bible Translators, Spending since nineteen seventy six through nineteen ninety nine, those years translating the New Testament and some of the books of the Old Testament into the Kamasu language. Arden has master's degrees in linguistics mythiology and a PhD in intercultural studies. Two of his many roles have been Senior Translator Consultant in Papua New Guinea. and uh international translate translation consultant in the Pacific area. Presently he is the academic dean of the Graduate Institute of Applied Linguistics in Duncanville, Texas. Welcome him to our pulpit. Yeah, I have one little question I'd kind of like to ask for a little bit of uh enlightenment for me. Are there any Ravens fans out here Uh has there been any celebrating going on in the last week? I kind of get the feeling there has been. In fact, uh from what I heard it sounded like you didn't even worry too much when it rained on your parade. He just kept on celebrating. There was a group of uh players and coaches that uh reser that uh received some well-earned praise. They worked hard and they deserved it and they got it. And I don't think there's anybody, except for maybe a few people in New York, who would begrudge them of receiving that praise They deserve it. They work for it. Well what I would like to talk about somebody this morning is somebody else who deserves a little bit of praise but doesn't always get it The uh Ravens players got it, and the coaches got it. I want to talk about somebody else who uh doesn't always get the praise that he deserves I would like to read, if you would join me in Romans chapter 1. It may seem like an unusual place to talk about praising somebody Romans chapter one, beginning with verse eighteen. I'm just waiting for the shuffling to die down. That tells me you found it, right? Beginning in verse 18. The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all the godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth by their wickedness. Since what may be known about God is plain to them, because God has made it plain to them. For since the creation of the world, God's invisible qualities, his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly seen. being understood from what has been made, so that men are without excuse. For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God, nor gave thanks to him But their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened. Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools and exchange the glory of the immortal God for images made to look like mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. In verses sixteen and seventeen of Romans, Paul has said that he's not ashamed of the gospel. That the gospel is the power of God for salvation to all who believe. That in that gospel the righteousness of God is revealed. But then Paul takes kind of an unusual turn at this point. Verse 18 isn't exactly what I would have written if I'd been writing it. Probably a good thing I wasn't. He switches suddenly from talking about not being ashamed of the gospel to talking about God's wrath. The argument that he follows in verses 18 to 23 is fairly straightforward. It goes something like this: it's based on the presupposition that God created all things. Based on that presupposition, then, Paul goes ahead to say then in verse 20 that God's divine nature and his eternal power can be seen through what he is made. It can be seen to the eye of understanding. But he tells us also in verses 19 and 20 that humans as rational beings are responsible agents in the face of that revelation. And that, as responsible agents, they have chosen not to give God glory. They have chosen instead to give glory elsewhere. Paul also tells us in verse 21 that this human failure to respond appropriately is not due to lack of perception, but rather it's a moral failure. It is a culpable act bringing guilt upon these people. He also tells us in these verses, particularly 22 and 23, that what we consider to be an act of great wisdom In fact, demonstrated our folly. That in the process of abandoning that one firm reference point. Of giving glory to God, we made ourselves fools. And in the process, we lost our sense of values. Our values, sense of values became distorted. And Paul be goes on then through the rest of chapter one to demonstrate the result of having our sense of values distorted. Later in the book of Romans, in chapter 3, he tells us that this culpability is universal. It's not just unique to a small group of people. He explicitly states in Romans 3. 23 that there is no person whatsoever who is innocent of this guilt of taking the glory that should be ascribed to God and taking it to ourselves or ascribing it to something else that we've made. Whether it's something we've made with our hands, Or a belief system. But we are all guilty of this same sin. And therefore, in verse 18 God's wrath is being revealed. He is judging because we in the face of what could be known have chosen to take the glory to ourselves, not to give him the glory he deserved. Now that's not a very pretty picture. In fact it's downright ugly. God's divine nature and eternal power can be known. But we chose not to give him that power. The biblical vision of humanity. Is that we suppress the truth, and by nature we get more joy out of our own glory than we do out of giving Him glory The God who is to be worshipped is instead ignored while we hold up the work of our own hands I read recently of the funeral of King Louis XIV. He was the one who wanted to be called Lewis the Great. At his funeral, there was apparently one single candle lit in the great cathedral next to his ornate coffin. The officiating priest went over to the candle, snuffed it out, and said, Only God is great. We all have within us some of that same desire to be called great, to receive the praise. And it is this twofold reality of God being the only one who is truly deserving of glory and our refusing to give him glory. It's that twofold reality that creates the critical need for missions. Because we all have all universally gone this way. God will indeed get glory If we don't give him glory, you know the old saying, the rocks and the trees will cry out. And if they don't, he'll get the glory himself You know that when we were singing this morning, I was watching the band up here and I could just see they were enjoying it. They were getting into it. And you know what? I think God was standing up here saying, bring it on folks, I'm enjoying this. God enjoys receiving our praise. In fact, the Bible tells us he enjoys it so much he inhabits the praise of his people. He gets right into it. You know, he also tells us though that he's not going to share his glory with anybody. We saw that at the time of the the dedication of the New Testament in July 1999. There was a group of people in the village who were the planning committee to pull all the things together. And I told them, I said, look, I only have one request. Whatever you plan to do, it needs to be honoring to God and consistent with what the scriptures teach. We're dedicating the scriptures here. That's one request I had. Well, there was one group in the planning committee who wanted to include a traditional song and dance that was associated with initiation into the spirit call. It was a song called Brahu, after the Spirit Brahu, that it was involved in they would take a mask that had been carved out, and the person who's been initiated would put on this mask Inviting Brahu to come into him so that he would see the world through the eyes of Brahu. And they wanted to incorporate this as part of the ceremony We told them we were going to have a lot of visitors coming from outside, and they thought, hey, it's a great opportunity to show them this aspect of tradition The Christians said, no, no, no, no, we can't do that. This is not honoring to God. This is honoring to Brahma. And we should be honoring God. But the the faction that wanted to have the traditional dance won the day, and it was in part of the program The day of the dedication came beautiful blue skies, fantastic day. The people arrived. We had about fifty guests arrived in two buses. And we had a worship service to start off the day. Everything was going great. We had a little break, took all the the guests over to our house to give them a little snack. We came back after the little snack and started the dedication ceremony proper. Just at the point, for those of you who are during the middle hour, there's a video of us carrying this little platform, a little litter in with New Testaments on it. About that point, it broke loose. It rained I mean that wasn't just a little piddly sprinkler. This was a tropical downpour. Everything came to a screeching halt. We got soaking wet to the skin. The bus drivers, because it was the dirt road, were afraid they weren't going to get back out. So all of our guests piled back into the two buses and headed off back to town. The person who was primarily involved in getting the traditional dance said, wait, wait, wait, they can't go. We haven't had the dance yet. They can't go. Sorry, they gotta go. The bus drivers want to leave. So with them went the excuse for doing the traditional dance. About a half hour after they left, the rain stopped, the sun came back out, it was another beautiful day. And we went on with the dedication ceremony blessing these scriptures and distributing to those who wanted to buy them. Well at the end of the distribution of the scriptures, the people came back and said, We'd kinda like to try this dance now. We want to do Brahu now. So they came back on. They did the dance for about four or five minutes and they left Pretty soon they came back and said, get all the pictures you want? Oh yeah. Okay. And they left. We found out later, I don't know whether it was that evening or the next day, but we were talking to some people about it And they told us that the person who was wearing the mask had been fasting and praying, asking Brabhu to give him power, to give him spiritual power so that he could do this dance properly. The Christians were praying against it. When he came out, after about four or five minutes, he just stopped and said, I can't do it. The power's gone. I cannot do this dance. God said, I'm not going to share my glory with anybody else, whether it's Brahu or anybody else. And so he dumped the rain on us to stop it The following weekend, some close friends of ours were celebrating the dedication of their translation in another area of Papua New Guinea. The village where they were going to be having the dedication was across the bay from the local town. where the boxes of books were located. And so they brought them across in five outrigger canoes across the bay. And as they were coming across, the people in the village were watching them coming, and they saw this rainstorm come in over the bay, and it just blanketed the bay, covered the whole bay. When the people arrived in the canoes, they said, you know, we saw this rain just cover the whole bay, except around your canoes. There was a light shining around your canoes. And when they arrived, they were perfectly dry through the middle of the ring. God says, I'm not going to share my glory In one instance, he got glory to himself by keeping things dry. In another instance, he got glory to himself by dumping rain all over us. But he got the glory in both instances. Now it's not just um in missionary stories That you get God receiving glory. It goes all through the scriptures. Let's take a brief survey of how God's glory fits in through the scriptures. In Isaiah 53, we are told that God created us for His glory. Going back to our very formation was for His glory. Psalm 106. The psalmist tells us that when God rescued Israel out of Egypt, it was for his name's sake to make his mighty power known, that he might get the glory. After they left Egypt and they were out in the wilderness and they rebelled, God spared them in the wilderness, according to 2 Samuel. Or excuse me, according to Ezekiel, he said, I acted for the sake of my name. I did what would keep it from being profaned. And so he spared them in the wilderness. They got to the promised land, and they went in, and God gave them victory over the Canaanites, according to 2 Samuel, to make a name for himself. Ezekiel tells us that after they went off to exile, he brought them back from Babylon and said, It is not for your sake, but for the sake of my holy name. I will show the holiness of my great name. That's why he brought him back from exile. Jesus commanded his disciples He said, Do good works so that God will get the glory. He told the disciples, Whenever you pray, I'll answer your prayers to bring glory to the Father. In Ephesians 1, we are told that God chose us and destined us to be His children to the praise of His glorious grace. Isaiah 43 tells us that God forgives our sins for my own sake In Romans chapter 15, Paul told the Romans to welcome each other just as Christ welcomed them to bring praise to God. In short, in everything we do, as Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 10, we are to do all to the glory of God. In fact, even the expression of God's wrath brings in glory. Paul tells us in Romans 9, 22 and 23. That the expression of God's wrath is to make the riches of his glory known. He will receive the glory. The vision of him receiving glory, though, continues on into another worship service, a very fantastic one. Turn with me with, if you will, to Revelation chapter 7. Revelation 7 is a passage I just love to read. I enjoy worship services. In Dallas, I have been attending Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship where Tony Evans is a pastor. The services are usually, we start at 7. 50 and get done about 1015. And boy do we praise. The church is probably ninety-nine percent African American, and um we get into it I enjoy reading Revelation 7. Here's a great worship service. Beginning in verse 9. After this I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no one could count, from every nation, tribe, people, and language, standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. They were wearing white robes and were holding palm branches in their hands, and they cried out in a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. All the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures. They fell down on their faces before the throne and worshiped God, saying, Amen. Praise and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor and power and strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Now that's a worship service. People from every nation, tribe, people and language, more than you can count, surrounded by innumerable angels, the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures, giving God praise, glory, and honor. That's where dealings with God's dealings with humanity begin. He created us so that he might receive glory, and it's going to end with us giving him glory. And everywhere in between. God is receiving glory. But he wants that glory to be more than just Our words. He wants that glory to be worked out in everything. Our lips, our hands. I'd like to tell you about a young gal in the village named Wanao. She was an extremely fearful person, a teenager, when we arrived in the village in 1977. She was afraid of everything. She was afraid of the traditional spirit. She was afraid of the traditional taboos. She was afraid of snakes, which may not be unusual because several people are afraid of those. But she also had the voice of a town crier, so that when she was afraid of something, everybody knew it. The other end of the village, you knew Wanau scared something. Wanau though came to know the deliverance from fear through trust in Jesus Christ. And he delivered her from that fear of the traditional spirits. She delivered her from that fear of the traditional taboos. Her brother Paul came to know the Lord, and too was delivered from the fear of those traditional taboos. Through Paul and his sister Wanna'u, the whole nuclear family came to the Lord. Well, they decided one day, you know, we have this traditional practice in the village. When we start to plant a new garden, before we ever fell the first trees We placate the traditional spirits who govern that area of ground. We bring them an offering and we say, We would like to plant our garden on your land here. We want your permission to plant our garden, and we want you to protect our garden that it will grow, and so that the pigs don't come into our garden and destroy it. Wana who's family said, now wait a minute. We've placed our trust in Christ. We should be trusting him for our garden too. And so instead of doing this traditional ceremony to the spirits, they gathered around and prayed. Say, okay, Jesus, we're trusting you. We're getting ready to plant this garden. We ask you to bless our work. We ask you to protect this garden. We ask you to keep the pigs out. And they went ahead and planted their garden. Now the village, they came back and said, You guys blew it now. You're not going to get a garden. The spirits are going to be upset with you Well the garden came up, started producing, and guess what? The pigs came in, started destroying their garden. People in the village said, We told you so. You blew it, you offended the spirits, now they're going to bring the pigs in, they're going to destroy your garden, you'll go hungry this year Well they came back to the Lord and they said, Lord, we're trusting you. We planted this garden in faith that that you would give us the food that we need for this coming year. Now please keep the pigs out. And the pig stopped coming into the garden. Just a coincidence, right? They gave God glory, not just with their mouths, but with their hands. You might say they put their gardens where their mouths were. The end goal of missions is that representatives from every tribe, language, people, and nation We'll be giving God glory in that big fantastic worship service. But it is not just at that big fantastic worship service, and it's not just in Pumpkin Guinea keeping the pigs out of a garden. Or dumping rain on this poor translator. But it is each one of us throughout our lives giving God glory with our lips and with our hands. It's me seeking to give God glory as I try to figure out how to translate this stupid verse and try to figure out what it means in the first place and how I'm going to say it in the language And wishing that maybe I could just cut it out of the Bible because it's too hard to figure it out. It's me honoring God in my present role in academia. It's joy honoring God in her current role as primary caregiver for my mom who's living with us. One of the things that God said to the Israelites in Isaiah 29 Was that these people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. It's just lip service. Isaiah 66, verse 2 and following, he said, He esteems people with humble and contrite spirits. God is pleased when our actions honor Him. It is then that He says, Okay, I can receive your praise now. I can receive your sacrifice now. I can receive your offerings now. I am receiving your praise truly, not just with your lips, but with your life, with your actions. His complaint, though, to these people that Isaiah was speaking to was, Your actions, though, are speaking so loudly, I can't hear your praise. I cannot accept your sacrifices because of your actions. It's something that we need in Papua New Guinea In Dallas, where we're living, working with GIAL now, in Columbia, Maryland, giving God the praise that is his due Not just with our lips, and it would be great if we had a thousand tongues to do it with our lips. But also with our hands. It would be great to have a thousand hands too, to give him praise verbally and with our lips. Let's make that our goal, to honor Him, so that when we get into that great fantastic worship service in Revelation 7, we'll already be practiced up. We'll know what we're on about. Let's give him the praise he deserves.