I want to wrap up the month of missions, which is actually six weeks now. I actually didn't plan on preaching a second message on missions. I decided to do this during the month, which shows you that I don't always have to plan everything months ahead. Uh but I um thought it'd be good to do one final message to kind of wrap things up and return to a big picture of what God is doing. and how we can move toward our participation in his global conquest of love. Let me call your attention to a verse for dreamers. You remember last week that Craig Ward talked about a friend of his, Heather, in Russia Who dreams of Christian birthing centers in Russia? Well, I want to look at a dream from a dreamer who lived around 600 BC. He wrote this probably just after the famous Battle of Carkimish. And if you uh are a little rusty on your ancient history and you don't have Bill McDill to keep you up on that from time to time Then uh let me remind you that the Battle of Carkimish was that famous battle, six oh five BC, where the Assyrians and the Egyptians in alliance were utterly routed. By this upstart, ruthless nation, the Babylonians. It was a significant step in the ascendancy of Babylonia as a world power. And it's shortly after that, probably, that um this fellow writes, now it's going to be just a few years, 597 B. C. to be exact that Babylonia will first attack Jerusalem. In fact, it will repeatedly attack Jerusalem for the next eleven years until in 586 The Babylonians burn Jerusalem to the ground, pillage the temple, and carry away its residents in captivity. The dreamer of whom I speak is, of course, Habakkuk, you see in your bulletin outline A man who was a very sensitive man who had a keen sense of justice and wrestled greatly with God's ways. Uh have you ever talked to God about how he's running the world? You know, just Lord, I I understand, you know, this is what you say you're like and yet you let this happen and that happens and I I don't understand. You know help me to understand this Well, uh that's what Habakkuk did. Only in Habakkuk's case, God answered audibly, which is unique. Um he doesn't answer me audibly, and I don't think he probably answers you audibly, but He did answer Habakkuk, and so we have a very rare privilege here of kind of looking over Habakkuk's shoulder to see how God answered two big problems that Habakkuk had. And I'd recommend that between now and the Lord's Supper tonight, you take this book. It's only three chapters, and that you would read it. You'll find it very interesting. Habakkuk had two problems The first problem he had was, how can God allow evil Judah to go unpunished? Now, today Habakkuk would probably be the kind of guy who would be saying, how can God continue to bless the American Evangelical Church? when it is so full of materialism and so self-absorbed. Um Judah was not following the Lord, and so Habakkuk says, God, how can you ignore this? You're God of justice. And God answers that by saying, You're right, Habakkuk, as a matter of fact, I'm not going to ignore it. I am going to bring judgment on my people, Judah. In their presumption, in their arrogance. In fact, I'm going to take that nation that you're seeing on the news every night that's sweeping across from the East defeating army after army. I'm going to take those Babylonians and I'm going to use them as a rod of chastisement on my people. Habakkuk thinks about that for a minute and he says Well God, now I got a bigger problem. How are you going to use a wicked nation like that? To judge a people who as bad as they are are at least more righteous than the Babylonians. That's the second problem. First problem, God spoke to in chapter 1, verses 5 to 11. Second problem, God first affirms you're right, Habakkuk, they are evil. They are corrupt, they're bloodthirsty, not defending them for a moment. But then in the rest of chapter 2, from verses 2 to 20, God answers that second question. And he does it by stating five woes or judgments against Babylonia. They begin, you see them each each begin with a woe on verses six, nine, and 12 and 15, and the last one verse actually begins verse 18. The woes in verse 19. But at the end of the third woe, the third declaration of God's judgment against Babylon. We had this dream of which I spoke, and it's there in chapter two of Habakkuk. See, I gave you a long introduction so you could find it. Look in your index, you know, it's You know, right after uh Nahum and before Zephaniah, so not long before Matthew. Now that you have it, um Could we have it on the overhead, chapter 2, verse 14? For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. His verse is often quoted in missions conferences, I am afraid often totally out of context And so what I want to do is look with you this morning briefly at what is the context, what does this verse mean, and then specifically what does it mean for you and me at the end of a month of missions. So the first point is the particular meaning and the application of this vision for Habakkuk's Day. I said that it was in the midst of judgments that were pronounced on proud and bloody Babylonia. You see in verse 12, that third woe, woe to him who builds a city with bloodshed and establishes a town by crime. What God does is in each of these woes he makes specific reference to what he's going to do to Babylonia But in each case, it's also a general principle about God's ways in history. I believe that is why in chapter two, Babylon or Babylonia, Babylonia the country, Babylon's the capital city. That's why you don't have Babylon or Babylonia named. Because God wants for us to understand this is not just about them. It's about God's character. It's some general principles of his operating with people and history. So, for example, to illustrate that, if you look at chapter 2 and verse 4, God says, see he, referring to Babylonia, he is puffed up, his desires are not upright, but the righteous will live by his faith. That sounds familiar, doesn't it? And so what he's referring to immediately there is that even though Babylon, Babylonia will sweep from the east, things are going to get a lot worse before they're going to get better. Don't put your trust in men. Don't just hope somehow things are gonna work out. Uh the righteous, my people, are only gonna get through this by faith. You've got to believe That I am your refuge, that I will protect you, I will bring you through this. That's the immediate reference. But then when you turn to Romans in the New Testament, in chapter 1 in verse 17, Paul quotes that verse. Very interesting how he uses it. Paul says, for the gospel is a righteousness through a righteousness from God is revealed, a righteousness that is by faith from first to last. Just as it is written in Habakkuk 2. 4, the righteous will live by faith. So Paul says that The deeper implication of that verse is that it's the heart of the gospel. That you and I, if we're going to live spiritually, don't live by our own efforts. By superstition. We live by faith in Jesus Christ. Amen? So we live by that faith in His finished work And then Paul explicates that, he develops that through the whole book of Romans. Now, what I'm submitting to you this morning is just like Romans is the fulfillment Of Havakuk 2. 4 opening out all its implications. So Habakkuk 2. 14 has both immediate and a ultimate fulfillment. When you come to Habakkuk 2. 4, for the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea, the immediate reference is to the fact that Babylonia believes that it's utterly invulnerable. It has built a city through brutality and bloodshed. It believes that its mighty walls are impregnable. Those walls were so thick that you could drive two chariots side by side on the tops of the walls. And yet, what does God say? In verse 12 of chapter 2, Woe to him who builds a city with bloodshed and establishes a town by crime. Has not the Lord Almighty determined that the people's labor is only fuel for the fire? That the nations exhaust themselves for nothing. And so one night in five thirty-nine BC Exactly when Jeremiah had prophesied seventy years after the captivity, the fellow by the name of Cyrus With a Persian army with him came against Babylon, and he saw that those walls were impregnable. And Cyrus was a creative fellow. So rather than to assault the walls, He noticed that the river Euphrates runs right through Babylon. So he actually dammed up and diverted the flow of the river Euphrates upriver. And then marched one night his army right down the bed, the riverbed, of the Euphrates River, straight into the city, took it by surprise, and crushed them. So the nations had said, Judah is finished. Yahweh is clearly weaker than the God Marduk of the Babylonians. Judah is history. It will go the way of the Hittites and the Assyrians and all those nations that we read about in ancient history which are extinct. But God crushed the Babylonians, and then he did something utterly without historical precedent. When Cyrus took the throne over conquered Babylonia, one of the first things he did in his first year of rule was to liberate the captives of Judah. Rather than to continue to hold them captive with all those resources, he let them go free. It's a simple statement of historical record. He freed them, told them, go back to your homeland, rebuild your temple, re-establish your culture, you're free. And so here has a nation that has been for all apparent record extinguished, that is birthed alive from the dead. The result of that? Verse 14. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Throughout the whole world, the fame of God was spread abroad. Here is something we have never seen. A people to carried away into captivity, whose land has been burned and pillaged and utterly laid waste. And now seventy years later, this great nation, the world power of that day, has been crushed by another power And that power has freed these people to re-establish themselves as a nation. Makes you rethink who this Yahweh really is, doesn't it? And so his fame was spread abroad. Chapter 3 talks about the fame of God in verse 2 in the Exodus and how God's glory was demonstrated. And says, this will be renewed. And so that's the immediate historical reference. But just like Romans takes chapter 4 and says, but there is a much bigger picture in fulfillment, so there's a place in the New Testament that takes chapter 2, verse 14, and says the same thing. You know where it is? Book of Revelation. You see, the principle is in biblical prophecy And this is next two blanks for you that fill those blanks in. Chapter 2, verse 14 refers to the effect of God's judgment of physical Babylon. But it also refers to his judgment of spiritual Babylon. For in Revelation 17 to 19, that is exactly the picture you have. It is the ultimate fulfillment of Habakkuk 21. In Revelation chapters 17 to 19 you have the picture of Babylon. For instance, in 17 Revelation 175 This title was written on her forehead, Mystery, Babylon the Great, the mother of prostitutes and of the abominations of the earth. I saw that the woman was drunk with the blood of the saints, the blood of those who bore testimony to Jesus. Then in chapter 18, what is going to happen to this Babylon? Babylon, of course, is the world system which is set dead against the kingdom of God. It is everything about this world's values, all the materialism and sensuality that says that this life is all there is to live for. And in chapter 18 and verse 2, you read what will happen to Babylon. With a mighty voice he shouted, Fallen! Fallen is Babylon the Great. She has become a home for demons and a haunt for every evil spirit, a haunt for every unclean and detestable bird. For verse 10 Whoa! Don't get don't miss that. Five woes in Habakkuk II, same word. Woe! Woe, great city! O Babylon, city of power! In one hour! Your doom has come. Read that also this afternoon if you have time to see the fulfillment of that. But now see particularly how verse 14 is fulfilled in Revelation 19. In chapter 19 of Revelation, after the destruction of Babylon, what's the result? After this, I heard what sounded like the roar of a great multitude in heaven shouting, Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power belong to our God, for true and just are his judgments. He has condemned the great prostitute who corrupted the earth by her adulteries. He has avenged on her the blood of his servants. And again they shouted, Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up forever and ever. And then you see this picture in verse six. Then I heard what sounded like a great multitude. This is the nations that are all coming. To the feet of Jesus, like the roar of rushing waters, like the loud peals of thunder shouting, Hallelujah! For our Lord God almighty reigns, let us rejoice and be glad and give him the glory, for the wedding of the lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. Do you see how this at the climax of history is the fulfillment of that time when the earth will be filled. This new earth now, you see, not the old earth, but this is the new earth filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. That was Habakkuk's dream I want to ask you this morning at the end of this missions conference, is that your dream? Is that something that you look at and you say, oh Lord How my heart longs for the day when the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Or are your dreams contained by things in your life, your pleasures? Your successes, your achievements, and your recognition by others in this life You see, the month of missions is really a month about dreams. You think of missions and think, well that's that's something for people that are into that stuff, but I'm just trying to cope and survive with the things that are in my life day to day and I'm sorry, I can't really get caught up in that stuff. You see, it's really about what are our ultimate dreams. Habakkuk's dream, when his world was falling apart, when everything that he knew was about to come to an end in his homeland and The worship at Jerusalem. Don't know what happened to him and his family. But as long as he was, is the day coming. In that day, the earth is going to be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea And so in conclusion, I want to take you through very briefly, very quickly, ten points that take these this principle from Habakkuk And apply it to your life and my life at the end of a missions conference. Ten principles for our day and us at CPC. Point one, the earth today is full of the glory of the Lord. Don't miss it. Doesn't say that in that day the earth will be filled with the glory of the Lord. It already is. Habakkuk 3:3 Verse 2 talks about the Lord's fame. Verse 3 talks about the God who, in rescuing his people from Egypt, his glory covered the heavens and his praise filled the earth. Psalm 19 says the same thing. God's glory is displayed throughout the earth in creation and by the gospel. However, point two Is that the knowledge of the glory of the Lord is not yet being displayed? The earth is not full of the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. His glory is apparent all around. Bill McDill wrote a very interesting article, The Retrospect of the Twentieth Century, in which he observes the irony that while the church has lost influence over our culture, during the last hundred years No century has seen more display through science of the glory of a personal creator being demonstrated in discoveries. And yet people are ignorant. They believe that people are basically good, that there isn't any personal God to speak and to reveal himself And who is worthy of our worship and affections, who in fact demands by his very nature that we bow before him and exalt him as the one around whom everything should revolve rather than ourselves. And you and I say, well, yeah, the earth isn't filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, and that's too bad, and I pray for missions and missionaries, but somehow it doesn't really grab our guts, does it? How absolutely twisted and distorted that makes everything. For example This week, U. S. News World Report, John Leo talks about some contemporary cultural manifestations. of the glories of 20th century American culture, MM, as a singer. He talks about a couple of movies that are very popular and winning awards now. One of them He's about a cannibal, a very cultured and educated and rather winsome fellow, actually, he says, as he's portrayed in the movie. There's one scene in the movie that if I were to describe to you what happens, I would get howls of protest from parents who said your kids couldn't sleep the rest of this week. Trust me. It's gory beyond description. And this fellow is portrayed as appealing. Or you take the other movie, which has Its hero up for best actor, Quills, about the Marquis de Sade, from which we get our word sadist We get that word from him because he kept servant girls prisoners, beat them and raped them, strong advocate of incest and pedophilia. He was a man utterly without morals or thought for anyone else's pain, but simply used women, particularly, for his own wanton, corrupt pleasure. In the movie, he's portrayed as the winsome character, those who seek to contain him and imprison him. Are presented as those who have the hang-ups, the corrupt establishment. And Leo raises the question: what kind of a culture produces these kinds of values? We see it's a culture in which the earth is not filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. This is no small thing. When the earth is not filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea, life becomes twisted, and there's misery. But there's a day coming, brothers and sisters, when the earth will be filled. But point three, you see, that's the promise. The earth's going to be filled With the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. That's a beautiful poem. If let's say it together, you just read it with me. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. As the waters cover the sea. You see that? Filled. Filled with what? The knowledge of the glory of the Lord. How? Let's say the last line together. As the waters cover the sea. Now what does that mean? Well, where is there sea and there's no water? That's where there will be creation and no knowledge of the glory of God. You see, by definition, everywhere, the fullness of the knowledge of the glory of God will suffuse reality. There will be no place, there will be no person in this kingdom of the Lord Jesus where there will not be the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. And that knowledge transforms, that knowledge produces a culture of beauty and delight and peace and justice and joy together. Amen? That's the hope. Now the question is, what's the gospel got to do with that? See, when will this be? First of all, well, I got referred to the prophetic series to catch up on that. But let me give just one verse as a clue as we think about missions. If you look at uh Isaiah chapter 11 in verse 9, it seems like Habakkuk was probably quoting from Isaiah, who wrote about a hundred years before Habakkuk. And so Habakkuk is likely quoting from Isaiah 11 9 when Isaiah says, In this day of the kingdom, there will neither they talk about uh uh lions and snakes. They will neither harm nor destroy on all my holy mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Now, that is at the return of Messiah. However, if you read that chapter, verses 10 and following after that, talk about what is happening in history as the gospel goes forth. And so there is this idea that history will move toward this fulfillment of this verse. Not just after Jesus returned, but also before his return. It will move toward that in great progress. And that's exactly what we're seeing today. See, how does the Great Commission relate to this? The sixth point. The Great Commission is simply the means of the fulfillment of this dream. of the nations coming consciously to be aware of the knowledge, to be aware of the glory of the Lord and the transformation that that glory produces. The Great Commission is not an end in itself. The Great Commission is simply a means toward God receiving the glory that is due to Him, the credit for His wonderful works. In creation and in your life and in mine. Where are we then on that road? Habakkuk III says, that happened after the Exodus. Acts 1, verse 8 says that Jesus' death and resurrection was the fulfillment, the true liberation of God's people. And so Jesus says, You'll be my witnesses of this, both here in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the othermost parts of the earth. So in chapter two you have the nations coming, they hear this word in their own tongue, and you have the first fruits, three thousand converted, as the nations begin to hear of the glory of the Lord in creation and in redemption. And there's this tremendous burst of mysiological activity in the first century. All the nations, all representatives of the civilized world Heard the gospel by the end of the first century. And yet, by the end of the first century, it is estimated that for every Christian there were 360 unbelievers. Now we look at the population explosion today and see over five billion people, and we say, well, it's probably a lot greater number of unbelievers for believers now. But in fact, the best myssiological studies show that at the beginning of the third millennium, we are now down to six unbelievers for every believer. The gospel has exploded in this century. That's what we were talking about in various things through this month. You have an example of that right in your own insert there in your bulletin. Where it talks about the church around the world, on the back it talks about closed countries receiving the gospel. It says that two years ago The staff, this is Campus Crusade at one center in the Middle East, was excited about receiving 500 letters of inquiry about the gospel per day. But today they often receive more than 3,000 letters. This is just two years later. From people in North Africa and the Middle East. They expect more than a million letters this year. Then it says that where they give out gospel literature to ports of entry in Europe and other places where Muslims can come and they can pick something up. They say sixty to ninety percent of the people gladly receive gospel literature even though they know they can get in trouble bringing that back into their homelands. There's a hunger, there's a thirst. Holy Spirit is moving. And you see, you and I are seeing all this, and the question is at the end of this, where are we? What does this mean for us? What does it mean in Howard County? Pray for the pastors that as we meet together and pray together and study the book City Reaching To talk about revival and renewal here, that we would thirst as pastors to see Howard County at least be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover this little lake of our part of the harvest. What does it mean for you? Well, in order to help you to dream about that, to think about that I've given a little response sheet. And in that response sheet, what I'm asking you to do is to consider Whether Habakkuk 214 is your longing and a couple of simple steps that you might be able to make toward that. It's not guilt that motivates us in missions. It's the glory of Jesus Christ. And so as we think about that I'm offering to you the opportunity to initial some of the items on there. Not all of them, just whatever you see as you pray for the Holy Spirit to lead you to do. For instance, deciding occasionally to talk to people from different culture that you see here at CPC. Not that doesn't all do it this morning, you know, but um just so that all of us feel that we're part of the body here, that we're all being welcomed, and that you and I are being stimulated by that interaction as we Fellowship together is people who have different backgrounds and understandings. Uh that you think of Thurman's message on the Samaritan, who's your Samaritan, that person that You just can't believe good about person you have real problems with, culture, race, political affiliation, whatever. Who is your Samaritan to seek to get to know one such person representing that group? To talk to somebody this week about Habakkuk 214 or about Jesus? Maybe. And the third one means maybe talking to a Christian about Habakkuk 214 and dreaming about that together. Maybe it means uh talking to some friend at work just about Jesus and with Habakkuk 214 in your mind and in your heart. To consciously offer yourself right now to the Lord, to the vision of Habakkuk 214, to control you. To come into your heart. You know, the gospel's never going to transform the nations until the gospel transforms your heart and my heart. And it's got to be that he takes that vision, that dream, and it becomes, as we think, of the glory of Jesus Christ. We think of The fact that the God who knows the end and the beginning of history and looks down upon it as a pilot can look out of a plane and see hundreds of miles looks in your heart, looks in my heart. knows all the evil, all the corruption, and yet at infinite cost to himself, he sent his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. To become man, to take your sin, to take my sin, so that he would be able to forgive you Of everything that you've ever done that has been so utterly self-absorbed rather than centered on him That's the glory of Jesus Christ revealed at the cross. And it's that understanding That when it captures you, when it captures me, makes us long for the nations to be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Fill that out. And there's two things on there that if you want help on those, you can tear off the bottom of that at the line. Put those in a box in the back of the World Missions Task Force. We'll get back to you. You can read it on your own. I just want to take the last minute to pray. Let's pray together. Father, we want to come at the end of this month Some of us, Lord, are at times in our lives where we're making big decisions about the future. And some of us, Lord, look at that in the future. As kids, we're thinking that's way off, and yet, Lord, we know that you can be shaping in the hearts of kids here, middle schoolers, younger, high schoolers. A longing, Lord, use me, use me to be part of what you're doing, this wonderful thing you're doing in our day, the explosion of the gospel among the nations. Lord, that you'd be taking us wherever we are, at whatever age. Lead us into steps of obedience and faith. That will help us, Lord, to grow in our participation in the mighty thing you are doing. In bringing global history to the climax where the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. As the waters cover the sea, hear us and receive us. In Jesus' name. Amen.