And to know that we can no no greater fulfill our vows than their parents can fulfill theirs outside of the power of Jesus Christ. And so we're driven back to him again. As Alan has been in Philadelphia for this past week, I have the privilege of opening God's Word. for us this morning. And finishing up Psalm 36, which we began some months ago to look at, section by section. So turn with me now in your Bibles to Psalm 36. And I'd like to read the whole psalm so that we can enter into it again and and grasp a new feel for the entire context, even as you look at the last three verses. of this psalm today. Hear then with an acceptant heart the reading of God's holy word An oracle is within my heart concerning the sinfulness of the wicked. There is no fear of God before his eyes, for in his own eyes he flatters himself too much to detect. Or hate his sin. The words of his mouth are wicked and deceitful. He has ceased to be wise and to do good. Even on his bed he plots evil. He commits himself to a sinful course and does not reject what is wrong. Your love, O Lord, reaches to the heavens, your faithfulness to the skies Your righteousness is like the mighty mountains, your justice like the great deep. O Lord, you preserve both man and beast. How priceless is your unfailing love! Both high and low among men find refuge in the shadow of your wings. They feast on the abundance of your house You give them to drink from your river of delights, for with you is the fountain of life. In your light we see light. Continue your love to those who know you, your righteousness to the upright in heart. May the foot of the proud not come against me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. See how the evildoers Lie fallen, thrown down, not able to rise I don't know about you, but there are some mornings, more than I perhaps would care to admit, when I find it rather hard to pray to God. Do you ever have those mornings? Sometimes I really just don't know where to begin or what to say to God. I wake up in a rather grumpy mood, with a stone-cold heart, really, towards God. And I can't even think of anything to say or where to begin in my day or how to begin to approach God. I have a vague, fuzzy awareness of Of my sin and my distantness from God. There seems to be a huge chasm there between me and Him. And to have a vague notion of God's holiness, His His otherness, the fact that He's perfect. And I'm not. What do I say to God on those mornings? What can you say to God on those mornings I think the writer of Psalm 36 can answer that for us today. As we've looked at the psalm over the past months We've seen how the psalmist sharpens our vision of ourselves as the first four verses of the psalm describe our character and ourselves. And then the psalmist goes on to sharpen our vision of God and his character in the next few verses. In verses 5 to 9, we have God's character described. But now, on the basis of all of that, on the basis of a sharpened look at ourselves and at God, in these final three verses, the writer makes his requests to God. And I think we can learn an awful lot from the psalmist requests to God. It can help us to see how we can pray to our God. As the psalmist moves from a descriptive mode to a really a prayerful mode in these last three verses, beginning with verse 10, he shows us What we should seek from God on those cold and rather hazy mornings. What should you ask from God? You should ask God to show you more of His love for you and more of His righteousness for you. So that you'll see more of his power available to you. Ask God to show you more of his love. And that's the first blank that you can fill in there on your sermon outline. But look again with me there at verse 10. And the psalmist starts out this section of supplication or request to God. He says, continue your love to those who know you. Now what's he saying here? Obviously God is not saying, obviously the psalmist is not saying to God, God, continue to infinity your character. Continue on and on and on in your love, because God is an infinite God. His character never changes, his love never changes. God's love lasts forever. So rather, the psalmist must be saying something else. And I would submit that the psalmist is saying, God, continue to show your love to those who know you. In other words, God show more and more and more of your love to those who know you. More More, there's always more of God's love to know. There's always a vaster quantity than we've yet experienced. And the Psalmist is really talking here about love and faithfulness combined together, as he's talked about that previously in verse 5. God's love and his faithfulness are so closely linked, they're virtually the same thing. They're virtually spoken of in the same breath. The Lord's love reaches to the heavens, and his faithfulness reaches to the skies. And sinners, the wicked, of verses 1 to 4, need to see constantly and need to sense more and more God's love for them. And as we've looked in the past months, we've realized that the wicked there in verses one and four are ourselves, whether we like to admit that or not. And so we need to see more and more of God's love and his faithfulness. And how does one experience or sense or see that love? How does one come to grow? In his understanding of God's love and faithfulness. Or how does one come to know God at all? Because as the psalmist says, he asks God to show his love to those who know him Well, the New Testament makes that clear for us. We must look to Jesus to see the demonstration of God's love for sinners. Think of Romans 5, verse 8. A beautiful passage, a beautiful verse in and of itself. Paul says there that God demonstrates His own love for us in this. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Are you a Christian who needs to sense a new God's love for you this morning? Then I'd encourage you to look to the cross. Look to Jesus. Look at him as he suffered and died for you there. In Christ, you see, God has shown you all the love he could possibly show you. God summed up the entire demonstration of his love in Jesus Christ. Now imagine that for a moment. God could not have given you more than Jesus. God, the Father, did not have more to give in love than sending his own son to die for rebels. Jesus sums up God's love. He is the full embodiment of God's love for sinners, such as you and me, this morning. And if you're a believer, you need to look to Jesus more and more to see more of God's love for you because Christ is the full demonstration of God's love for you. Or if you need this morning a new glimpse of God's love for you and what that means, consider a passage like Galatians 4, 4-7, a passage that I've been meditating on regularly over the past months. And Paul says there, when the time had fully come, God sent his son, born of a woman, born under law, to redeem those under law that we might receive the full rights of sons. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And since you are a son, God has made you also an heir. Ponder that passage. You see, we don't have just some of the rights of sons. We have the full rights of sons. We can approach our God, our Heavenly Father, as daddy, just like my daughter Lauren interrupts me whenever she wants to to make her demands and her requests known. She has no restraint in coming to me. She'll crawl up right into my lap when I'm reading the paper or anything else and seek my attention freely, boldly, confidently, that I won't turn her away. She has the full rights of a daughter. Well, you and I have that total freedom of access to our Father as sons in Jesus Christ. No longer are we slaves, but we're sons in Jesus. And not only are we sons, but we're heirs in Jesus Christ. That means that everything that belongs to Jesus belongs to me. Everything that belongs to Christ, all the riches of heaven and all of the earth and the universe are really mine, as I lay hold of Him by faith. You see, Christian, that's how much God loves you. He loves you enough to give you the full rights of sons and to make you an heir with Jesus Christ, his only begotten son. And yet it's hard for people to get on board here, even people who have been Christians for years. I find it hard to get a grip on this. And I think that's why the psalmist says to us here, continue to show, he says to God, continue to show more of your love, O God, to those who know you. And in my own life, over about the past year, I'd say I've come to a deeper understanding of God's love for me in Jesus, a deeper understanding of my sonship than I've ever had before. And it's been an amazingly freeing experience. And as I've reflected on that, why has it taken me so long? Why has it been so hard for me to get a grip on the fact that God loves me as a son in Jesus' name? Christ. Well I've come up with with three reasons that perhaps maybe you can relate to, three factors that have kept me from getting a grip on this for a long time. One of those things was my earthly father and my relationship with him. Now don't get me wrong, he's a very fine man. I respect him in many ways, and he was a fine father in a number of ways. But my dad was really an emotional cripple. in some important ways. He could never bring himself to say out loud and verbally to me, I love you, Mark. I don't ever remember hearing that growing up. And like uh many other people I think in our culture today I have shared that disappointment of not having a healthy earthly father image. And so it's been very hard for me to get a grip on what God means when he says that he loves me as a son. It's been difficult. It's taken a long time. I'm finally coming to grips with some of that. But moreover, I think a second factor that I've seen in my life that's kept me from getting a grip on this. is the abuse of this idea of sonship that I grew up seeing time and time again in the church I grew up in. Now again, I don't want to slam any particular particular denomination But the body that I grew up in, going to church almost every Sunday, the body I grew up in was thoroughly infiltrated with a liberal theology, it's technically neo-orthodox theology But it's a theology that stresses really the universal fatherhood of God and the universal brotherhood of man. And you see, that sounds okay for a while. Until you realize that that drastically undercuts the biblical idea of sonship that is particular and specific in Jesus Christ. And I grew up hearing that week after week. And so this notion of being a son of God became something that was very watered down to me, deluded virtually of any meaning at all. And so it was very hard for me to come to understand the biblical view that adoption is in Jesus Christ, specifically in him and through his perfect work alone. Being a son of God was a nebulous and watered-down idea for many years for me. And yet a third thing on top of all those things that I've isolated in my own life. Is that I've seen current abuses of this notion of sonship in the church, even among people who go to church regularly. I wish I had a dollar for every person. And you know you used to say I wish I had a nickel for every person such and such. Well, it's up to a dollar these days, I guess. I wish I had a dollar for every person that I've heard say to me in the past five years when I've asked them why God should let them into heaven. They've said, Oh, he'll let me in. I'm a child of God. You say they've said that rather glibly. They've said it as if, so what? Isn't everybody And as I've looked at those people's lives, very often, I see little or no evidence of the fruit of the Spirit in their lives And they claim they hang on to this notion of sonship rather cheaply, as if to say, Aren't we all sons of God? You see, all these kinds of abuses and and problems, barriers in my life have kept me from seeing what the Bible really means by this doctrine of adoption in Jesus. Christ. All this made me hard to appropriate that. The fact that I am a son and an heir with Jesus Christ in a specific way because of his finished work for me. And not that I've arrived now, don't get me wrong, there either. But God is working a deep change in me. I've seen it over the past months. I've seen a new joy in my life. A deep and thoroughgoing and observable newness of joy. And I'm coming to see more and more God's fatherly love for me as I've come to grips with some of these disappointments, with some of these barriers in my past, and I've given those over to God. I'm coming to build my life more consciously on Jesus and his free love for me and his free justification of me. And not in my own expectations or other people's standards. As I've meditated on bits of Galatians like Galatians 4, my heart's really been changed. And have been deeply moved by God's love for me. Now how about you this morning? How do you need to see more and more of God's love for you and Jesus today? If you're like me, you wake up many mornings with a cold heart And you say to yourself, boy, I sure don't feel very lovable this morning. And you get out of bed and perhaps you grump at at your wife or at your roommate or somebody, and you just don't feel very lovable. Well, I'd encourage you to start each day, whenever that is time-wise, and for some of you who are homemakers, you might start your day later than others, even if you start your day at noon or 7 o'clock at night. Start your day, whenever that is, with preaching the gospel to yourself again. That God loves you in Jesus Christ. That he sent his only son to die for you. Ask for a new vision of that. I'd encourage you to sing a hymn that encapsulates this. A classic hymn like another of Charles Wesley's. We sang one of his this morning, but another one that I find very helpful here is And can it be? And can it be that I should gain an interest in the Savior's blood Died he for me who caused his pain, for me who him to death pursued. Amazing love. Sing a hymn to warm your heart before you go on to anything else. Or perhaps meditate on just a small piece of scripture like Romans 5. 8 or Galatians 4:4-7. Just take that one piece, meditate on that, sit on it long enough that it really changes you, that you feel your heart warmed by God's love for you in Jesus'. Christ. And as you saturate your mind and your heart each morning with that truth, that objective truth outside yourself that God loves you permanently and forever in Jesus Christ, your heart will be changed. And not only should you ask God to show you more of his love for you, but ask God also to show you more of his righteousness for you. More of his righteousness. And you can fill that in in the blank or in your outline if you'd like to. But look with me at the last part of verse 10 The psalmist says in verse 10, continue your love to those who know you, your righteousness to the upright in heart. The psalmist says there in effect at the end of that verse, Lord, continue your righteousness. To the upright in heart. In other words, continue to show more of your righteousness to those who are upright in heart More and more and more of your righteousness, O God. Show that to your people. Now you say, whoa, now I I don't really want to see more of God's righteousness. I mean If I see more of God's righteousness and justice, I'm going to be consumed. I'm a sinner. I'm shot through with sin. And I say, you're right. You are. But notice how the Psalmist puts this. He says, continue to show your righteousness to the upright in heart. Now who are the upright in heart? Well, since all men are rebels against God, since all men are the wicked, as described in verse 1-4, in thought and word and deed, born in sin, the psalmist is obviously not saying, God, show your righteousness to all mankind. Because if that were the fact, God would he would basically be saying, God, destroy everyone on earth. No, the psalmist says, to those whose hearts have been made upright. Those are the ones, Lord, show more of your righteousness to them. To those whose hearts have been made straight and pure and righteous before you. Show more of your righteousness to them. Those who have been clothed by God's righteousness. Oh God, show more of your righteousness. Now, how does a person become one of those who are upright in heart, those who are clothed with God's righteousness? Well, the New Testament again is very clear for us, fortunately, that this is through the perfect work of Jesus Christ. And him alone. You see, Jesus Christ fulfills in himself both the righteousness and the justice that the psalmist has talked about there in verse 6. Jesus fulfills both those things in himself. Think of how 2 Corinthians 5. 21 puts it. Paul says there that God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us. so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Now ponder that verse for a moment with me. Christ, the righteous one, who knew no sin, became sin, underwent the judgment of sin in his death for us. That we, on the other hand, who were sinners, shot through with sin, might become the righteousness of God in him. You see, there's a two-way transaction going on there. And if you are a Christian, Christ is your righteousness. Not only is your sin forgiven, not only are you cleansed of your transgressions. But also, Christ's perfect record is transferred to your account. Not only is something taken away from you, but something is given to you. Jesus' righteousness. You're clothed in that righteousness. You're clothed in that perfection, so that when God looks at you, he sees you not as a sinner, but as someone who he is loved in his son, as someone who has been clothed with Christ's righteousness. In fact, he sees Jesus. He sees Jesus' righteousness when he looks at you if you're a believer. And again, this is outside something that you've done or anything that you could do. It's God totally accepting you because of Christ's perfect work. And so while the psalmist says, continue to show more of your righteousness to the upright in heart, You, if you're a believer this morning, should make that a daily prayer. Lord, continue. Show me more of Jesus' righteousness today. Because freedom comes from seeing that righteousness for you. Now it's hard for many of us to get on board here again, personally, with this It's been hard for me. I think God is teaching me some things here. But I know a certain full time homemaker who um who has really come to see this in a new way. She's a believer. And she's a fairly well-organized person. In fact, uh you or I might call her a real achiever. She gets a lot of things done in a day. But for years, even after she became a Christian, she was burdened with a keen sense of all the duties in her life. Both other people's expectations and her own, very high expectations, weighed on her and burdened her down. And it became so bad that she would uh virtually have as her motto in life, life is all of obligations, it's all duties. It's cleaning the house, it's taking care of the laundry, it's taking care of the kids, it's looking after my husband's needs. Endless to-do lists written down and in her head and everywhere. All she could see is duty, obligation. That was her life. That was her Christian life. But when she started to get a handle on the truth that Christ is her righteousness outside of anything that she's done, and that that is enough, that that's all that matters. Then she really saw some transformation in her life. She saw that her struggle for righteousness was over as she rested in Jesus. In fact, she even started to get up each morning, and whenever sh as soon as she got up in the morning, she'd make a mental X on the floor. And then she'd walk over and she'd put herself physically on that imaginary X on the floor. And she'd repeat to herself something like this, Christ is my righteousness today. And he is enough. And she'd preach to herself the gospel in that way. And then she would go on to commit all her to-do lists to God for that day. After having saturated her heart and preached to her heart again the truth of the gospel, outside of anything that she's done, Jesus was her righteousness. When she saw more and more of that righteousness for her in Christ, she really began to see some freedom in her life. She saw life not defined by other people's standards. Or even her own standards, but she saw that her life was defined by Christ. Her identity was defined by Him and His righteousness. And she saw whole new avenues of freedom open up to her. She found a new joy in her life. Her heart was changed. And she she became freed from that burden of constant obligations. How about you? How do you need to see Jesus' righteousness for you in a new way this morning? If you're like me, you often wake up in the morning and you say, Boy, I sure don't feel very righteous this morning. I sure don't feel very acceptable to God. And that's why you see you need to preach the gospel to yourself each morning, every day. You start out by taking that objective truth of Christ's righteousness and claiming it anew for yourself. And saying to yourself, Jesus is my righteousness, and he is enough. Even if it means making actual chalk marks on your hardwood floors, I'd encourage you to do that. Find some way. To get a handle on that, that Jesus is your righteousness. Some even some physical reminder of that. Because as you show God, ask God to show you more of Jesus' righteousness, you'll see more freedom. You'll see more joy. You'll see real change in your life. But not only should you ask God to show you more of Christ's love for you, and to ask God to show you more of Christ's righteousness for you, But as you do those things, ask and expect God to show you more of His power for you. More of His power for you. And that's the third point you could fill in on your outline. More of God's power available to you. And there's two ways that that power comes through to us. It comes through in more defeat of our sin, ongoing defeat of our sin. We could fill that in in your outline if you want. And notice how the psalmist captures that here in verse 11. He says, May the foot of the proud not come against me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away. You see, the psalmist is crying out to God. He knows his foes are actual people, the wicked, the proud, who are coming against him. And he senses that the battle is still going on here, there's still struggle as the foot of the proud comes against him, as the hand of the wicked seeks to drive him away. He realizes that there's a not yet to the battle. That the battle isn't completely over yet. There's struggle going on. The righteous against the proud. The holy against the wicked. Sin has not been completely vanquished. The struggle of sin is still going on, still going on. And for you and I who have trusted in Jesus Christ in this day and age, we should think in terms not merely of other sinners, but really of our indwelling sin. As being the issue here, as being the constant struggle here. We're often our own worst enemy, aren't we? Someone once said, we have seen the enemy, and the enemy is us, or something to that effect. But that's the idea. The enemy is us. You see, our own pride is often our own downfall. It's often our own worst enemy, rather than the proud foot of someone else. Our own pride is often what comes against us. And if you think you no longer struggle with pride, well, your your problem is a lot deeper than you think. Because that pride is there as an insidious root. It's part of what Paul calls the flesh, our sinful nature. It remains in us. Even though we're Christians, even though the power of sin has been broken, as long as we're on this earth, we had that struggle against that indwelling sin. In Romans 7, Paul more clearly than anywhere else describes this struggle. And he talks about it as real warfare going on. He says it's it's so bad, so intense That in verses 17 and following of Romans 7, he says, sometimes the very thing I don't want to do, that's what I end up doing. Sometimes the thing I'm dead set against doing is the very thing I fall into. Paul knew the struggle of that indwelling sin. You see, that's the bad news, that the flesh remains. That the struggle goes on as long as we're on this earth. And at times that flesh seems extremely powerful. I know very well my own prime remains in this struggle. And I've seen it in new ways in the past few weeks and months. The Lord has been showing it to me. And it hasn't been easy to see that. But I'm glad he's been doing that to me. I've seen that pride flare up in angry outbursts with my wife, or in setting goals that are actually very subtly selfish goals. I've seen that pride, and yet, as I've seen that pride more and more in my own heart, I've asked God to show me more of His love for me in Jesus. And I've asked God to show me more of His righteousness for me in Christ. And as I've laid hold of those truths in a new way by faith, and as I've repented, not just of surface sins, but of that deep root of pride down there. As I'm learning what it means to repent of that pride, God has shown me his power to defeat my flesh in new ways. I've seen his power as I've meditated on his love and on his righteousness in Christ for me. And you see that power of God to defeat more of my flesh in this not yet period. in this period of struggle is all based on Christ's perfect victory over sin. All of that power available to me is really based on that finished victory of Christ. You can fill that in in your outline if you want. The already is captured for us in verse 12. As the psalmist says, see how the evildoers lie fallen, thrown down, not able to rise. What's the psalmist saying here? He's just said, May the hand of the wicked not come against me. The struggle is still going on, Lord. Then he bursts out and he says at the very conclusion of this psalm, See how the evildoers lie fallen. They're thrown down, unable to rise. You see, the psalmist ends his whole psalm here on this resounding note of victory He's so confident of the definitive victory of God over sin that he talks as if it's actually happened. And he says the evildoers are already thrown down. He's that confident of victory that God will have. And you see, we from our New Testament perspective know that Jesus Christ has won the definitive victory that that psalmist was looking forward to. Jesus Christ, in his death and his resurrection, won that definitive victory over sin. Death is dead. The debt is paid. In this season of Easter, we're going to be reflecting on Christ's last words on earth. And his very last words on the cross, as you remember as well as I do. are the words, it is finished. A Greek commercial term, it really means the debt is paid. In other words, the war is over. It is finished. And you see, Jesus' resurrection sealed that victory. We who are reformed Christians like to make an awful lot of the fact that Christ's death and resurrection really accomplished something. And so we speak often of Christ's finished work or Christ's perfect work. And that's what we mean by that. That Jesus Christ's victory is definitive. It's perfect. It's finished. On the cross and in his resurrection, Jesus has done all he needed to do to defeat death. The war is over. There was a point towards the end of World War II when the German High Command had surrendered, but there were still skirmishes and pockets of resistance here and there throughout Europe. And an observer at that time made this comment, the war is over, but not every battle is finished Was it Winston Churchill that said that? I tried to find out this week and I couldn't. Well, if Churchill didn't say that, he should have said that. Sounds like something he would say. The war is over, but not every battle is finished. And a wise professor of mine in seminary said that most Christians are so painfully aware of the not yet in their own lives and in the world around them that they easily forget the already And I think that's so true. I know it's so true of me, and I think it's true of you too. We forget the already. We forget that the war is over already. We so aware as we grow in Christ that the n that not every battle is finished, that we can forget, that the definitive victory is ours, that the power of the cross has really done something and it's available to us. As Paul says in Ephesians 1 The power that raised Jesus from the dead is already available to us who believe. We have that power, that definitive victory. How about you this morning? How do you need to see more of that power in your life? Do you find yourself saying to yourself, boy, I sure don't feel very powerful against my flesh? Well, you're right. You aren't. But Jesus Christ is. And his power is available to you as you trust in him. The power that raised him from the dead is yours. Christ's finished work, his perfect victory over sin already on the cross. Is the basis of the ondwelling, ongoing defeat of sin in your life. What should you ask of God this week? If you find it hard to pray, I'd encourage you to ask God to show you more of your sin. And not just the surface sins, not just the presentation sins, if you will, but the deeply roots the deep roots of pride and fear and unbelief that are below those things Ask God to help you to be specific with Him. Even write those things down in a journal or somewhere else. Ask God to get specific with you about your sin. But then also ask God to show you his power. Ask him to show you the power of Jesus Christ. Ask him for the faith to lay hold of Jesus' love for you on the cross. And Jesus' righteousness for you, so that you'll see more of his power to defeat your flesh, that you'll see more of his finished victory applied to your life to help you to overcome temptation now. To help you to overcome sin now. Because as you preach the gospel to yourself, as you saturate your heart and your mind with God's love for you in Christ and Christ's righteousness for you. You'll see ongoing defeat of the remaining sin in your life. You'll see the power of the cross defeat your sin May God really help us to claim what we already have in Christ, to be who we already are in Jesus Christ For Christ's greater glory in our lives. Amen.