Matthew chapter twenty-eight is our text this morning, reading from the New International Version. Beginning with verse sixteen. Hear the word of God Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. Then Jesus came to them. And said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I will be with you always to the very end of the age. Thus far the reading of God's Word, and let's pause for prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we do acknowledge afresh that this is your holy, infallible, inspired word. Help us, we pray, Father God. To hear your word, help us to see Jesus, our Savior and our Lord, and help us to give ourselves to you in worship and obedience. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. I know that at this particular congregation, you like to have the sermon nicely outlined for you in the bulletin. So I'm going to give you my outline in the first sentence, and then I'll unfold it as we go along. If I was to summarize the message this morning in one sentence, it would go like this. On the basis of Christ's triumphant authority, he commands you and me to bring his salvation to the nations. And you can do it. We can do it. Because he's with us Number one, we're motivated in world missions because of Christ's triumphant authority. Number two, we are motivated in world missions because it is a commandment of Christ. On the basis of that authority. And number three, we are motivated in world missions because Jesus is with us. And as we get involved, we learn of him. More and more. Look at verse eighteen with me Then Jesus came to them and said, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Now that's a lot of authority. I can't think of anywhere else except Hell, which God made for his enemies. Jesus Christ, when he came forth victorious from the grave, receives all authority in heaven and on earth. I was impressed as you were with our new president's inauguration day. You know, he stood there and said those thirty-five or so words, and in that moment He was given the office of president, a sacred trust of our nation. And he received the power and the authority and the responsibility and the privilege of that office. And we all, I think. are awestruck when something like that goes on. It's it's really hard to comprehend. But imagine our Lord Jesus Christ receiving all authority in heaven and earth, not because some people gave it to him as a sacred trust, but because it came to him from the Father. All authority in heaven and on earth. Now if you're like me, you uh have to pause and say, Now wait a minute Isn't Jesus Christ the eternal Son of God? Hasn't He always had all authority in heaven and on earth? Isn't He equal to the Father in power and in glory, as our confession says? How is it that now he should receive any authority or power? It's already his, isn't it? Well, yes. But you know what we learn as we look through the Gospels is that when Jesus came into this world, To bear our sin and to be your Savior. His authority and power was curtailed as he took upon himself Our low condition. And he willingly humbled himself. He became nothing, as it says in the second chapter. Of Philippians. He became a humble man born in a stable, walking the dusty roads of Judea, experiencing all the temptations and trials of our life. He was even humbled all the way unto death. Where he bore our sins and his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Jesus willingly humbled himself, Jesus, the greatest, greatest of all missionaries. The ultimate missionary, even his own authority and power were curtailed, as it were, as he came into this world. But it's really glorious to read through the gospels and to see that. That authority and that power really is there in the background as he performs miracles, as he heals the sick, as he raises up the dead, Jairus' daughter, the widow of Nain's son, Lazarus. as he casts out demons, as he controls the elements of nature, and as he has authority over human hearts Who do come in repentance as they hear the message of the kingdom? Jesus, who has authority even to forgive sins. Yes, that authority and that power is there. But as he came into this world, it was set aside. But when Jesus declares this great triumph and this great authority here in verse 18, he's really telling us the significance of the resurrection. It's resurrection authority. It's resurrection triumph that he declares. That now our enemies are defeated. The anger of God is now satisfied as it was at the cross. And our sins can be forgiven as we come to Him, Jesus, the perfect Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. Jesus Christ has all authority in your life today. You're a believer in him. And even if you are outside Christ, he still has all authority. In your life. He has authority over your enemies. He has authority over your trials and temptations. He has authority over the burdens that you bear. And you know, as a Christian, it's wonderful to rest. in that authority. I'm glad I'm under his authority. I hope you are. Praise God that your Lord and your Savior has all the authority In heaven and on earth. Do you rest in that? Do you take comfort from the authority that Jesus has? Or are you like me and like so many of us who forget this? And begin to look at our enemies and look at our problems and think that somehow they are bigger than our God. Praise the Lord Jesus has all authority in heaven and on earth. And as we go to France this far, I'm thankful that Jesus Christ has authority in science. He has authority over human hearts in France. He has authority over all peoples, all nations in heaven and on earth, over spiritual powers in high places. He has all authority Our God. I rest in that authority. I take comfort in that authority. And you should too trust in him. He is the one who is exalted now at the right hand of God. Who has received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, and who has poured that promise out upon the church. And He is our living God. He is the comprehensive fulfillment of all hope. Jesus. All authority and all power is his. Now you know, as we think about this, another question comes into our minds. Now wait a minute If Jesus has this tremendous power and authority, why is the world going the way it is? Why do we see evil seemingly gaining the victory on all sides? Why do we see the crime rate soaring? Why do we see missionaries kicked out of Iran and uh other missionaries murdered in the Latin American countries? Why do we see things like the Islamic Revolution growing and then the godless ideologies of communism and other uh humanistic philosophies just taking over the minds of men? Where is the authority of Jesus Christ? As we see the church in the West declining, leaving the faith of our fathers and succumbing to the humanistic Philosophies of our day. Where is the authority of Jesus Christ as we look at our own families and see the struggles of our covenant children who so often are tempted into the ways of the world? It's easy to look at the enemy and to look around us and to be a little bit nervous and discouraged. Well, I want to assure you today, on the basis of God's word, that Jesus Christ is still building his church. And the gates of hell are not prevailing against it. He still has all authority to forgive sins and to be defeat our enemies. even though so often we forget as we look around and see that there is a raging battle going on. And that battle is going on. And that victory is an a is a is a victory that's in the midst of a battle. It's not a victory that's Outside of a battle. The battle is there. And Jesus Christ is victorious. So I'm encouraged as I study the history of missions and read up on what has gone on in the last a hundred years And notice how the church has grown around the world. An interesting quote that I read in an article by Leslie Leall. A quote of Bishop Stephen Neal, which says the following: It is only rarely possible in the history of the church or in the history of the world to speak of anything as being unmistakably new. But in the 20th century, one phenomenon has come into view which is incontestably new. For the first time, there is in the world a universal religion, and that the Christian religion. And brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ, as you study the history of missions and the growth of the Church today, you would be tremendously encouraged. The Church of Jesus Christ is on every continent and growing As a result mostly of world missions and the obedience of God's people. In Latin America today, the church is growing at 10% a year. 2. 9 times uh percent uh of the birth rate in Latin America. In Africa, it's growing twice the population growth, the Church of Jesus Christ around the world. In Korea, we see a wonderful example of the success of missions. In 1884, the first missionary went to Korea. Now, almost 100 years later, the church in Korea is 18% of the population and growing fast. In nineteen eighty-four they're going to have a great convocation and send out some cows and missionaries or something like that, I heard recently. There are new churches in in all over the world and it's so wonderful to hear of the church behind the Iron Curtain which is vital and living and moving. Brethren, the church is growing. Jesus Christ is building his church, even in the United States, as you see the growth of Christian publishing houses and the Christian school movement and evangelical churches, it's encouraging. Jesus Christ is still saving sinners and building his church everywhere. It's wonderful to look at it. Uh even in Iran where my roots are as a Mishkid, I grew up in Iran and uh I I know that even though the missionaries in Iran were kicked out last summer The Bible is selling in Iran like never before, and there's a vital Presbyterian church in Iran, very small, but growing. Praise the Lord. And you know, as we look at the world and we see Christ building his church, it's a great blessing to do this. And that's something you might think about. To read up on the history of missions, it's a great encouragement. We are part of a great cloud of witnesses that have gone on before us. And we have a great and wonderful heritage and a great and wonderful future in the Lord. But even in the midst of this we look around and we see and Many areas where the church is small, where the bright candlestick has been taken away under God's judgment. Think of North Africa, where at one time the early church was very strong. Today the candlestick is hardly there. And I think of Europe where our own heritage is as Presbyterians. And I think of France. France where there are 53 million people. And of those 53 million people, some forty-five million. never come in contact with a church or have a Bible. France, where less than two percent Of the population. Our evangelicals are Protestants, even in the broadest sense of the word. There's a great need for missions to continue I'm moved when I hear that thirty-five thousand towns and villages in France have no Bible witness of any kind. And yet this is the country where in the height of the Reformation in the 1500s there were over 2,500 Reformed congregations. And there was a tremendous strong and powerful Reformed church that over the years through persecution and through liberal theology has declined now. Down to next to nothing. And it's for this reason that we're going to France. France, which represents a tremendous opportunity for world missions. Yes, Jesus Christ has all authority over heaven and over earth. And it's on the basis of that authority that we go. And notice in verse nineteen that he commands us to go. Go, therefore. This could be translated more accurately, having gone, therefore make disciples. The going is assumed. The going part is just tied into this commandment, make disciples. Having gone, make disciples of all nations. This is a tremendous commandment to us. It's not a suggestion. It's not Something that uh Jesus sort of thought of at the last minute, but it's a burning desire in his heart. These disciples, these a few people, were to go into all the world, not just to the Jewish nation, but to all the world. Jesus came first to the Jews, the historic people of God. But he also clarifies in this scripture that the gospel is to come to the Jew first and also to the Gentile. In Matthew 10, 5 he says, do not go in the way of the Gentiles and do not enter any Or in Matthew 15, 24 he says, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But now because of the resurrection, now because all things have been fulfilled in Christ, there's a new age of going. And the Holy Spirit is going to be poured out upon all nations. And Jesus now has this burning vision for the church to go into the whole world. And he leaves that commandment with his disciples. Go. It's an imperative. Go to the unreached people. of the world. You know, often among Christian circles you find that there's this myth going around that the day of foreign missions is kind of over. But the fact is, it is not over at all. There's a group of s scholars that are called missiologists, people who Make it their career to study missions and to come up with observations and to encourage missions. One well-known person is Peter Wagner, who's produced A book, uh Unreached People, that comes out periodically with the statistics, and I find it very useful to look at this. And one of the observations that has been made is that if you were to round off the world's population To the nearest billion, we would have about four billion people in the world today. Now, it's getting so it's going to be five billion when you It's almost four point five billion now, but four billion people for the sake of our uh statistics. I if the world has four billion people One billion people in the world acknowledge Jesus Christ in some form or another. They do acknowledge him. and they have some tie with the historic Christian faith. Then there's another billion people in the world today who may have heard of Jesus Christ. They've heard of him through Islam or through some indirect way or through some inaccurate way. And then there are two billion people in the world today who have never heard the name of Jesus Christ. That's hard for us to fathom, isn't it? Two billion people who have never heard the name that is the only name under heaven by which men must be saved. And it's interesting to uh follow through on some of these uh observations, and that is that of all the people in the world today who have not been reached with the gospel, two billion people in the world today cannot be reached. Unless people are willing to learn another language and go into another culture. Peter Wagner puts it this way: no matter how earnest all of the local churches in the world were to reach out to their neighbors. Only a third of the non-Christians in the world could be reached by Christians who speak their language and understand their culture. If this church here was 100% faithful to God in reaching Columbia, and if all the local Bible-believing churches in the world did a 100% job in reaching their neighborhoods, still There would be two billion people in the world that would not be reached unless people are willing to learn another language and go and adopt themselves to another culture. The day of foreign missions is not over. And many of these people that need to be reached are not where you'd think they are. They are often called hidden people. People that are tucked away in in the heart of civilizations. Like the two million Moslems in France, more Moslems in France than there are evangelicals. There are many, many people in the world that need to be reached. And Jesus Christ is burdened for these people. And he commands us to go to go and make disciples. Making disciples is more than just having evangelistic campaigns and Having people come forward and receive the Lord. Making disciples means planting churches, where people can come under the oversight of elders. And all the blessings that Christ has for us in the church. And so under our Presbyterian way of doing things, we're going to plant churches to train elders to nurture God's elect lambs around the world. Jesus Christ has chosen us to do this work. You know, we're so unworthy for this. We're just clay vessels. We're such frail sinners. And we're so tempted to think we can't do anything. Maybe you're like that. I can't do anything. I I I barely know my Bible and my prayer life is so poor and How can I be used of God? But God in His wise and merciful providence has chosen to use us, clay vessels, for this great working. No, he could have chosen angels, perhaps. But he's chosen us. And we can't believe it, can we? We we have a hard time fathoming this. I think of the disciples in Acts chapter 1. As they went up with Jesus there to the mountain from which he ascended into heaven. And you remember in that account as they're going up, they in effect asked the Lord Savior, now is it the time that you're going to restore the kingdom to Israel? Are you going to do it now, Jesus? And Jesus answers them back, in effect Well you're not supposed to know the times, but in effect, no, you are gonna do it. You're gonna go from Judea to Samaria to Jerusal from Jerusalem to Judea, Samaria, and the rest of You're gonna do it. And then Jesus Christ does something that blows their minds. He really gives the most profound sermon illustration in the Bible. After telling them that they're gonna do it, he leaves. He ascends into heaven. And there they are standing, looking up at Jesus, where he disappeared. And here we are standing, very much like the Reformed faith. You know, we're standing around just gazing at what where Jesus was and just reveling in our own fellowship and when is he coming back and just enjoying the Trinity hymnal and our nice little circles of friends and loving our fellowship and just waiting for Jesus to come. But you see then the Lord sends an angel and says, now listen, get to work. You're supposed to go out there. He's coming back the same way he left. But he's left you here on this world to build his church. Yes, you pathetic disciples, with all your sins, with all your problems, he's going to build your church with you. And That's a command. Praise God. He's going to use us. And yet we so often are like those disciples gazing into heaven where Jesus disappear. May he help us, yes, never to take our eyes off of Jesus, but to do it in an obedient way To give our lives, all of us, to missions, to ministry. You know, as I go around uh to the churches, I sometimes get the impression that people think, well, if missions, foreign missions, if that's your thing, fine. You know, my thing is something else, maybe choir or maybe maybe I have some other aspect in the church, but I'm not particularly into foreign missions I'd like to suggest to you today that foreign missions in the church is everybody's thing. And that there's a great joy for you as you get involved in foreign missions. As you get involved in uh being in this tremendous work of building a church around the world, and he's he can use you He's commanded you to go. Even here in your neighborhood. He's commanded you to be involved. This command comes to you through the scriptures, through the through these disciples who are our example. And so as we stand here feeling overwhelmed by this command, and as we look at the statistics in the world, it seems so overwhelming. Look at verse 20. And surely I will be with you always to the very end of the age. Jesus is with us in this. On the basis of his triumphant authority, he commands us to be involved in world missions, and we can do this because he's with us. Jesus is with you as you step out in faith To obey him. The one who says, I am who I am, is now saying, I am with you Emmanuel. My grace is sufficient for you. I will never leave you nor forsake you. Jesus is with you. And you know, if this wasn't true, we couldn't do anything. And and and we'd be we'd there'd just be no hope. But Jesus is with us in this great task. He is with you as you step out in faith at work or in school or in your neighborhood and try to Share the gospel. So often we uh we think I'm the only one here now and I'm trying to persuade this person to be a Christian. But Jesus is there working in hearts with all his authority. And his word is going forth in power as you share those verses and as you love people in his name. Jesus is involved. Forgive us, Lord. For the way we do evangelism is if Jesus wasn't there. Yes, he is with us as we step out in faith and participate in the Great Commission. He is with us by His Spirit. You're so aware of this in the scriptures that we are equipped by the Holy Spirit of God. He is with us in his word. Which gives us that sword, that power, that content, that message that saves. He is with us through the ministry of the church and all the means. of grace that are here. He is really with us. And he's with us as we seek, for instance, to pray for world missions. You know The Apostle Paul constantly asked people to pray for him. Jesus needed prayer. We need to pray for one another, for your pastor, for your elders, for each other as you witness and share and move in the church. And you need to pray for your foreign missionaries. Please pray for us. A number of you receive our prayer letter, and I hope that you will Pray for us as you receive that letter and remember us. It's a great need, it's a great ministry. But isn't it wonderful to know that Jesus is with us as we pray? Because all of us probably would have to admit if If you look at my prayer life closely, I'd get very red in the face. How often do we really pray? How Our prayers are stained with unbelief and with bad motives and with laziness and with uh Wrong attitudes, selfishness. Our prayer lives, let's face it, they have so much to be desired. But isn't it wonderful to know that Jesus Prays with us and for us, as we read in Romans 8. He is the one who intercedes for us at the right hand of God. And our pathetic prayers are lifted up to him, and he cleanses them in his blood and makes them acceptable to God. And our prayers are heard, and they are significant. They are powerful. Very powerful. Without prayer we can't do anything The Lord God is calling us all to pray, to pray, and to learn more and more about the power of prayer as we do pray. I think of Jesus who went into the garden on the night of his great passion. And he he wanted to pray, and he didn't want to pray alone. And he asked the disciples, come watch with me, come pray with me as I face this cosmic battle, this terrible trial. And what did the disciples do? They fell asleep. That's what we did. We fell asleep. But you know something? Our Savior doesn't fall asleep on us. When we pray, He's there with us always when we pray. He's watching with us. And so when you get into your prayer life, remember He's with you and He's helping you. That motivates me to pray. That strengthens me. Jesus is with us as we pray for missions and for one another. He is with us as we consider the financial part of missions. You know, missions is expensive. Inflation doesn't help. Europe especially is not the cheapest place to live. But God has all authority in heaven and on earth. He owns the universe. All finances are his. And as you pray and as you consider, remember he's with you in your giving. Like the church in Macedonia that gave even out of poverty and found that God provides a wonderful wealth. It's good to see God providing. And do you know that the church in the United States is highly gifted? I'm not talking about money now. The church in North American continent is one of the most wealthy churches in the world. It is the most wealthy church in the world. When you consider Special blessings like Bible believing seminaries, Christian schools, Christian publishing houses, many, many sound churches. I I noticed in one of the navigator presentations that eighty percent Of the world's ordained ministers are in the North American continent. How wealthy we are. We have so much. And then there are so many ministries going on in America. Inner varsity and radio ministries, many, many parachurch groups that are used of God and we are so wealthy in America in the things of God, in the word of God And yet in other parts of the world people risk their lives to have a Bible. Or they try to invent a printing press out of old washing machine parts and run it in their basement so that they can print Bibles for themselves. We are so wealthy in America in the things of God and therefore we must be giving. We must be giving our lives, our children. And as I look around this congregation, I see young people. And I want to ask you, what are you going to do with your life? Have you really asked the Lord if you might be called to foreign missions? I believe every young person who has any inkling that he might have gifts in that direction should go to the Lord and say, Lord, here am I. Send me. The need is overwhelming. The time is short. And God has clearly commanded us to be involved. And he's with us. And as you grow in your walk with the Lord, I want you to consider that, young person, or someone who's about to retire and who has A nice pension all lined up and who has good health and a good mind and lots of experience in the church, the Lord might use you overseas. You have more background than the average pastor In many, many countries. May you be challenged by the Word of God to wonder if God might call you to work overseas in foreign missions. Yes, he's with us as we give our lives to foreign missions. And I want to just conclude with This illustration from Scripture by saying that He is with us, and as we give our lives to foreign missions, we learn more of Him. If you want to get to know your Savior, the way He wants you to know him. If you want to come close to Jesus, you've got to get involved with foreign missions. Because one of the things that we see in all the different resurrection accounts of Scripture is that foreign missions is the burning concern of our risen Lord. In every single resurrection account, Jesus says, as the Father has sent me, so send I you. Go into all the world and preach the gospel. Go, go. At each one of the gospels and in Acts, Jesus is concerned with foreign missions. With reaching the world. It's his burning burden. And if you want to get close to anybody, you've got to get close to their burdens. I think of that last chapter of the Gospel of John. Where Jesus comes in the resurrection account there And stands along the shore of Galilee. And there the disciples are, Peter and the others, they've gone fishing. And they fish all night and they don't catch anything. And Jesus comes along the shore and he says, Put your nets over there. And they do, and all of a sudden they catch a huge, huge number of fish. And it's hard to manage. And all of a sudden, Peter realizes it's the Savior. They realize it's the Savior. He's come from the forth from the grave. And Peter is so excited to see Jesus with all his clothes on. He just jumps in the water and swims ashore. And then the others finally come in, and there Jesus is, he's built a fire on the shore, and they have fish cooking for breakfast. And there you have this wonderful, blissful scene of restored fellowship with our Savior. The disciples. Oh, you y you won you uh are amazed at the peace and the relief and the joy that they must have experienced as they come together. The old the good old times are back Jesus is back. The victorious risen Lord is back. And the wonderful, uh, blissful fellowship that is there in a heavenly way And you know, I'd like to say that if this was a Cecil BD Mill movie, that's where it would end You know, the sunrise would come up and the golden light would be in the background and the music would rise and the camera would back off, and there would be Jesus and his disciples on the shore blissfully having fellowship for eternity. But that's not the way the gospel ends. In the midst of that wonderful fellowship with Jesus, he comes to Peter. Peter, do you love me more than these? Thieve my sheep. Jesus is concerned about his elect lands around the world. And even in the midst of heavenly fellowship, Jesus is burdened for world missions. Even at the right hand of the Father, he's burdened for world missions. It's his burning preoccupations. And if you want to get to know Jesus, you've got to get involved with his burning preoccupations. This sort of was illustrated to me when I got married to Robin. You might know that Robin's family is Jewish and none of them know the Lord. And you can imagine that this is a great burden in Robin's life, that her loved ones would come to know the Lord, and many of you, I know, pray for them. Well when I married Robin, this was a new experience for me to have family that don't know the Lord, and I realized I was taking on her burden. And so in a very theological way I realized now I've got to pray for them. And I I I had a sincere concern. But as our marriage went on for a year or two, I began to realize that Robin's burden wasn't really mine yet. You know, she wanted to go over there all the time, and I have better things to do And I'm learning now still that as I take on her burden, I come closer to her. And we share something together that brings us very close together. And if you want to get to know your Lord Jesus Christ, you need to get involved in ministry. Street. He didn't introduce himself to the disciples in a seminary or in a classroom. He introduced himself to his disciples on the road, ministering to the hordes of people, getting involved. And that motivates me in foreign missions. That as we together, as God's people, get involved in this great worldwide endeavor, we're coming closer to Jesus, sharing his burden, understanding what he's all about, really, the one who came to be the Savior of the world. May you be motivated, young people, parents, elders, those of you who are involved in educating people in the church Be motivated in this wonderful greatest task of all, bringing the gospel to the nations. On the basis of Christ's triumphant authority, He commands us to be involved in world missions. And we can do it because he's with us. Amen. Let us pray Our Heavenly Father, we do thank you for Jesus who came all the way to where we are, who bore our sin. We thank you for the many missionaries that you sent to Europe. To America. We thank you that we've heard this gospel. And now, Lord Jesus, we pray that you'd send us out, young people, adults. And fill our hearts with that prayer life and that concern for world missions. Lord Jesus, we want your church to grow. We want your people around the world to be brought in. We want sinners to be saved. Lord Jesus, we want your glory to be seen in the nations. And we want you to return with great joy and triumph. We praise you through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Let us continue our worship as we sing hymn number 370. We have heard the joyful sound. Jesus saves, and let us sing this as our commitment Hymn number three seventy