This is my third message on giving, you know, our seven and a half years together. It's appropriate for our mission series because one of the main ways that most of us participate in missions is through are given. But secondly, the message is particularly occasioned by our meeting on Friday, where we as a congregation passed the largest budget in our history. Not only the largest budget, it is a budget that exceeded last year's budget by over fifty percent. Maybe you uh didn't know that and you said, oh yeah, I knew I should have gone to that meeting. What have you guys done and done? That is a significant step of faith for us as a congregation toward the accomplishment of the vision that we had to see Columbia changed for Jesus Christ. It was a vision that we came together about. That would require us to readjust some of our priorities. I know it will for us as a family. We're going to have to readjust some of our giving priorities. Uh, it means that uh for some of us it's going to require sacrificial giving beyond all we thought before. We pass a budget when we consider the deacons giving and the other matters that we will be given as a congregation of almost a quarter of a million dollars on Friday evening. You believe that? The congregation is fine. nearly a quarter of a million dollars. But he did that as a step of faith, but I must admit he is a bit scary. It's scary and it it carries with it certain temptations. That we need to deal with in the Word of God. It carries rid of the temptations on my part. The temptation would be, how am I going to lead these people to give that much money? You know? Are you going to motivate you to dig deep enough for us as a congregation to come up with a quarter of a million dollars of ministry money available for the Lord's Works? How are you going to do that? And the temptation would be for me to appeal to certain selfish motives you might have, or particularly to appeal to your guilt in order to get the money that we're going to need. When you stop to think about it, that's absolutely terrible. And that's mystickable. But think that we would think that Jesus Christ, the head of the church, is calling us to backhand sacrifici sacrificial giving and a step of faith in his word, and then resort to subtly manipulative means in order to carry it out. But you'll have a temptation too, and the temptation will be for you to give out of wrong notice. Uh to give to face as a church. To give out of about motives of what you may get out of it in the long run and investment in the property. It'll be just more pleasant. Or for you to to give out of your own guilt in some way to think that you're going to gain certain expense. Acceptance from God by doing that. And I'm convinced that if God has called us to this kind of a step of faith, then for us to attain that, to be able to celebrate at the end of 1986, let's say God. God has no idea of nearly a quarter of a million dollars of ministry money for his work this year. Then with that will come a great spiritual blessing rather than oppression. And that's why I believe that you and I We need to begin after such a decision by looking to God's Word in order to get our priority straight. And therefore I want to call our attention to 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 7. One verse. 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 7. seven. That one verse reads, each man should give what he has decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion. Loves a cheerful givers. That verse tells us two ways that we are not to give and two ways that we are to give. Paul was doing some fundraising among the Corinthians for the benefit of the Jerusalem ministry in these chapters. He had a missions project going, a missions project of relief among the Jerusalem Christians. In doing that, in his fundraising, he refers and Chapter 8 to the generosity of the poor Macedonians, who gave as much as they possibly could in what seemed like even beyond that. And he uses that as a motive. He also motivates them by the ultimate giving and the sacrifice of Jesus. Jesus, you remember in chapter eight verse nine that we looked at at Christmas, who remember the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich yet for your sakes he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. Then the seeks to uh state to them that he believes the best of them. He believes they're going to uh be eager to help in this project. And and so he's simply providing an opportunity for them. And it's in that context that he gives us a chapter nine verse seven, but verse six goes with it. So let's read those two words, remembering that they're not written simply to the Church of Corinth in the first century. Those two words are by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and are written to the Church in Columbia in nineteen eighty six. 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 6 and 7. Remember this. Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. And whoever sows generously will also reap generously. Each man should be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be ab To give what he has decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly, or under compulsion. For God loves a cheerful giver. First of all then How are we not to give? We are not to give reluctantly. Pay your attention to the bulletin outline on this if you're not familiar with this, so you can follow along. We are not to give reluctantly. Literally means of grief or sorrow. It's the word that Paul used in chapter 7 in verses 8 to 11 when he says, For I caused you sorrow and grief over your sins. You know, it made you feel bad. You felt terrible about it. And it's a word that can also be used uh to for anything that causes you reluctance or grief or sorrow. And so Paul's saying when you think about partying with your money, how do you feel? Paul says, you know, some people feel reluctant. You feel sorrow, you know, you you pull out the wallet and you sort of gaze at the bill, you know, and you say, Well, the night knowing, well, you know, I guess I have to do this, you know. Yeah. You know, there's a uh there's a a joke that goes around in the reform circles that I always sort of uh think about with myself because I find myself as a Christian to be very frugal and I don't know if you've ever heard of, you know, what's the Titus what is tighter than a frugal Scotsman? The answer is a generous Dutchman. Well, you know, I can identify with that, you know, not because I'm Dutch, but you know, because I think, you know, man, you talk about frugal Scotsman, and as a Christian I'm taught to be frugal, you know, to be a good steward, to manage my things. But there's a very subtle distinction between being a good steward and a hoarder. And so I may just be tight. And and that tightness, which I justify it for stewardship, makes me reluctant to give. And Paul says you shouldn't be reluctant in your giving. And because marketing people know that People in general are reluctant, and Christians are reluctant to give. They've decided that there's two ways that you can motivate people to give. One is the trade motive, and the second is the gift motive. Now, the first thing is what Paul's talking about here. not here reluctantly. And so how are you going to make a person part with his money when he's dropped into him? Well you build him a trade. You produce some sort of a return that he can have that makes him more willing to partner. And you know how it goes. So all kinds of trades and games that you can get. Give this mark, and we will send you our latest book. And some of them even scale it, you know. I mean if you give ten bucks, you get a track, you know, a little booklet or something. But you know, if you get from twenty to a hundred dollars, that will give you this nice paperback, you know, and it's the latest thing, it's just that, you know. How can get the bookstore says they maybe haven't bought it. If you want it, you know, 'cause it's a big offer and everybody wants to get his books. So there it is, you see some induced it. Yeah, it's just it's just a token of our appreciation, you know. You know, if you give over a hundred dollars, you know, we'll send you a whole dictionary, a theological dictionary, Greek dictionary of the New Testament. So you spend a hundred some dollars, you know, and you get the thing. I don't know why I said that. I don't even read Greek, you know, but I I just think it was just the offer. And that's the key. You see it as an offer. It's not giving to Christ for his work. It's saying Well, yeah, it's a good word. And I'll get something for it. And so I feel better. You know, my problem is not with the gimmick. It's not with the fact that gifts are given. It's not with the fact that if you uh you know, give to our new building uh you know put your name on a plaque somewhere. You know what I've heard of a church once? Everything in the church was labeled. Stained glass windows had the bottom corner given by Mrs. Sosa. Everybody pew every pew had somebody's name on it, that somebody had dating it's a pew. Even the guest register in the back, we looked on the cover of the guest register. It was given by somebody in the church. You know, the whole thing was like a looked like an auction, you know? The problem isn't just that there's some sort of a return there. It's a gimmick to get us to give. My main problem with that is it causes us to never really face our motives. To never really face why we're giving. Because we can justify it by feeling a little better about our reluctance. Because we're going to get something back. Rather than saying, do I simply want to give to this because of the integrity of the work and the glory of Jesus Christ, and I want to do it for him? That's my problem with all the kinds of inducements that we have. to produce a pardon in reluctant giving. We can do that here as a church. There's all kinds of things that we could do to raise money for property and for building and all that kind of thing. But you know the problem is if we If we do any of those kinds of inducements, then when you as a congregation come to that new building or that property that God would provide, then when we come to the planning of the building, the congregation splits. You know why? Because everybody feels like they've invested in that building and because I've paid so much, I have a right and a voice in how that room should be designed or what furniture should go here or there. Why? Because there's soon to pass. It's reluctant giving. Paul says, every man should give what he's decided in his heart to give not reluctantly, not needing to be induced to part with his money for some Alterior motive is free giving. Most things attack is to the Lord Jesus. The second way he says not to give is under compulsion. See that? Not reluctantly or understanding. Under compulsion. Now, if the first motive is the trade motive or the gain motive of giving, I call the second one the guilt motive of giving. The guilt motive of giving. The word there for under compulsion is is a word which means under pressure. Very interesting, isn't it? That's a very contemporary kind of verse. Paul says, don't give under pressure. And that is the pressure that is generally brought to bear to people to give. The pressure is the pressure of guilt. There's that dull-eyed, emaciated little child staring at you out of the pages of your magazine to disrupt all the other glossy colored pictures. There's a The message from that page is, are you going to refuse me? You know, you say I turn the page and you sort of feel guilty about having a hamburger, you know. How are you gonna be able to enjoy what you have without giving something for this phone that you never heard of? You don't want to do with their money, but somehow you can't resist that picture because it makes you feel guilty. Well the the string of letters that you get, I don't know how many mailing lists you're on, but you know, man, uh you're in my position, you know, you know, ten percent of Janet's job in the office is opening the mail that we get from everybody that thinks that, you know, I mean if anything a budget we passed this year, we're going to be doubled on our mailing list here. But everybody's got the same kind of line. Not everybody, but so many. You see this common theme. It goes like this. And God bless them on every front with a few anecdotes to help you to feel the specifics of it. But there's just one problem. kept up with our expansion and we're really going to have to cut back and you know we may have to cut back on our staff and all these projects that we have and surely you don't want the ministry to be hindered. So please, this week Send before the ministry goes under it and we declare bankruptcy. You know, and it's that kind of a message. How are you going to be responsible for that tremendous ministry that is owned by the Holy Spirit coming to a collapse because you didn't send in your children? This month, you see. Guilt motive of giving. Giving under compulsion. What's Paul said that? He says, Don't give that way. I'm not saying that there are a proper place for urgent appeals. I'm saying as a tech Of fundraising. Paul says that is wrong. Your giving should not be giving under pressure. The word also means under necessity, being constrained to do something by some external pressure upon the same thing. upon you. Sometimes you may even be pressured into living by guilt simply by the fact that so many Christians feel guilty that they're in a lucrative profession and not in quote full time Christian service. And so the picture is a hey if you're going to be out there maybe in the bucks at the least you can give a lot, you know. And so there's that kind of guilt pressure that I've got to give because I feel guilty if I don't. We can do the same kind of thing. Now we're at a great disadvantage as a church to use guilt giving. And you know, because we know each other too well. I mean we know what we're doing, you know the state of the ministry, you know week to week what's going on. We don't send you the pictures and the letters that build up the kind of an emotional case that so many others could do it. the same kind of thing. You know, if you take nearly a quarter of a million dollars, that means by this summer we need to have just in the the line item budget of missions and homework, which is over two hundred and thirty thousand dollars. We're going to need over one hundred and fifteen thousand dollars just in the next Five months. So we did. Now suppose only a hundred thousand has come in. You know, we could make the appeal with, hey, we're fifteen thousand short. What's happening to you people? Why aren't you getting? I mean, clearly God has called us to do that. Fifteen thousand shirts, somebody's messing up somewhere, you know? And so the pitch is that you feel guilty because you're not doing your part. And you don't examine why am I giving to this? Why do I believe in the vision what this ministry is going to, then it just sort of feels guilty and we're sure it says that's wrong. Then notice why we should give. He says every man should give what he's decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion. But God loves a cheerful giver. There's two positive reasons in that. The first thing, he says, is to give what you've decided in your heart. See that? Each man, each woman, every Christian should give what you've decided. He has decided in his heart to give very interesting principle of scriptural giving. Coming right from the Old Testament, right on through from Genesis to Revelation, in Exodus chapter twenty. In verse 2, the first fundraising project of the Bible, Moses tells the Israelites, he says, Bring to me an offering for the tabernacle. You are to receive the offering from me from each man whose heart Prompts him to give. That's a trust in God. See, we gotta trust God to move his people to give what he prompts them to decide to give. Not by pressure? Not appealing to reluctant givers to part with their money in some way that puts pressure on them. Paul but uh Moses says they're doing a willing offer. The same kind of thing that Paul talks about right here in this chapter, right in this these um A couple chapters of his fundraising in uh to the Macedonia uh about the Macedonians to the Corinthians. He says in chapter eight, concerning the Macedonians there, you notice in the the end of verse three, he says entirely on their own, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service to the saint. In fact, you know? They say, Hey, can we give to this? God plays it on our hearts to give to this. Our brothers and sisters in Jerusalem are hurting and we don't have very much, but we never hurting because of the gospel. They've been disenfranchised by their society because as Jews now who have turned to Jesus Christ, they don't have a means of supporting themselves. We want to help them. Also if they ask for the opportunity, they pleaded to the privilege of sharing in the service. And they did so, they did not do as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and then to us, in keeping with God's will. Also they're giving. They're they're uh opening out their checks and passing on their shekels, you know, was the outpouring of the fact that they had given their lives as living sacrifices to Jesus Christ. And this was simply the outpouring. But their gratitude for him. Gratitude for what? Well, see what he said there, remember, down in verse nine. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became rich. fools, so that you, through his poverty, might become rich. The response of grace that gives you a willing heart. And it's that willingness, Paul says, that's The real issue. You see, it's that grace that transforms you to a willing giver. That Paul says that God is really looking to. And so it goes on in verses ten and eleven to speak of that. And then in verse twelve, notice what he says. The gift is acceptable according to what one has, not according to what he does not have. Understand what that means? not this congregation here to pass a quarter of a million dollar budget. That means that you don't say, quarter of a million dollars, man, what have I got a cough up for that? It means that the first issue is the giving of yourself to Jesus Christ. If you haven't done that? Money doesn't matter. See? Doesn't matter at all. It is not an acceptable offering to him. But where there is that willingness, that as you decide in your heart what God has had you to give for the ministry. And God says, I'll take care of supply it. You and I are simply channels of the means that God wants to provide to glorify Himself through this. And he says, the glory Among my people. I'll take care of it, I'll provide it for all that's needed. I saw that again and again and again in university in the ten years I was with Innivarsi. One of the things that always amazed me is when we were short of funds and are supposed to be a good thing. was falling behind. But we would go out and we would know that we would need to do something about it. We couldn't just simply pray and not mention it to me to anyone, particularly the people that said we want to know what the needs are. But the interesting thing to me was ever And I would tell people of the need that we had to continue in the ministry. But what would happen was that, first of all, I would probably I would generally not get a response from the people I contacted. Because I wasn't pressuring them, I was simply blanking. For what they had done in the past, that they wanted to know about the needs, I would mention to them about those needs. And I generally did not get the response from the people I contacted. But I would get the response from people who I had not contacted. And it always struck me that it's as if God would kind of a sense of humor. They're saying when I was not doing anything, I was not supplements in my faith by my works, he was falling behind. But when I began to move and act on my faith by my works, God provided the Just so I didn't think that it was I who had done it. By the raise of some totally unlikely source to provide for it to say, That's right, Alan, that's what I wanted you to do. Now, notice who's the one that provided this. Very humbly and beautiful experience. Yeah, I sort of hate it. I sort of love hating relationships. I hated rain fundraising. But I missed that experience of God's precious provider. And that's what Paul's saying here. What is the willingness for our congregation? We don't know how God will provide. All we have to do is say, I have decided in my heart, out of my love for Jesus Christ. This is why I want that he I believe he wants reading it. I owe to him the tithe just out of the right of his possession. I will give whatever beyond that is an expression of my love to him because of what he has done for me in his work. Then a second thing to notice that he says there. The second motive is to cheerfulness of it. Let us already speak to that. Each man should give what he's decided in his heart to give. Not reluctantly, not for gain motive, not under compulsion, not for guilt motive, for compassion God loves a cheerful giver. Word that cheerful is the word gilaros in the Greek belief we get our word hilarious. Exhilarating. Exhilarating giving. Giving with joy. Hilarious giving. Baby. pick out the wall you say, hey man, I want to do this. You know, imagine it? For me that that's really that's a simple thing, you know? Giving with joy. Giving to say, this is what I would want to do. That is a supernatural Work. To me, that is a supernatural work. I don't know about you. But when I experience the joy of seeing the kingdom of God build and say, What a gift to this. I left the God's done a transforming work in my life. Yeah, and that's why we pray. For the giving. So it really is, he said. It's a supernatural work. It's a supernatural work that the Holy Spirit has to do in you and me to transform our stingy tight hearts so that we are cheerful with our giving. Not reluctant, not under compulsion and pressure. But say, I want to give for the work that will build up and honor Jesus Christ and His church in Columbia. I believe that Jesus Christ wants to change Columbia. I believe that Jesus Jesus Christ wants to produce structures of justice and righteousness in this city. He wants to bring the churches together and he's going to lift up his name, just going to be worshipped in for me as such as we wouldn't believe at this point. And Jesus Christ is going to become an issue, a big Issue in the flyer, a bigger issue in the political structures, in the school system, and everything else. And I believe that God's gonna do a mighty work here. And I'm cheerful as I give to that. Because I say it's the best use that I can make of my money. And God gives We joy in giving. That's supernatural. That is kingdom giving. That is response to the grace of Jesus Christ in our hearts. And I believe that's the kind of giving if God wants to produce the full. Of the ends that He has for us in this year. It will produce spiritual blessing with our giving rather than a burden and pressure. The heart with understood grace looks for opportunities to give. The heart with understood grace Is created in finding ways to express gratitude to Jesus Christ for his great gift to us. I'm reminded of a little tract that I received from the mail. And uh But got some positive qualities to it and some negative qualities. But I think it makes the point I'm trying to make here very well. Then a fun of this little track, which you can't see that you kids can all run up and look at it afterwards. Cartoons are kinda cute. Because these are two fathers and two sons. It says once upon a time there were two men and each had a son. They were very good friends and often did things together socially. Where they are, they're saying what they're fish, you know, the little two little kids that are full, you know, and the father smiling and all this. They turn in the inside and it says now there's one problem. One of the boys was a brilliant lad. Then he got this other one down here and it says, uh but the other one was uh well shall we say uh not civilians. He's standing there pick sitting there picking his nose with a bag of tricks, you know, watching the Bluetooth, you know, pickers on here and says that one I know I'm a one with continuing growing in talent and ability and everything tap dance. legs all over you know running around. Uh the uh the other one, uh well, you know, he seemed to have a knack for getting in trouble. Because with a paint paint on his hands, you know, and his brushing on standing there by the house. Then one day the two boys were playing in the ocean. Unfortunately, the troublesome youth swam out too far and began to ground. There is flouring all around out there. The brilliant lad immediately came to the rescue, jumped right into the water, you know, probably got all his badges and swimming at life saving. Through great effort, he saved his friend. However, in the process, he himself drowned. And there's the some sort of fellow there looking back on the beach and the bubbles are coming up. and his friend's gone down. But he moves over and it says, the father of the troublesome youth cannot comfort the other father. The father of the dead son and spare and grief, paroxysms of grief there. When a father says, Boy, I'm really sorry about what happened. Then he turns to him and he says, That's uh let me make it up to you. When a father sends you something, he says, uh, here, here's two bucks. And it says Sounds good. Of course it does. They said, well, uh, how about three bucks? Will three bucks cover the loss of your son? How many of us both in life try to buy God's favor with our efforts? The last panel here shows them uh how about four fifty. Would that cover it? Jesus said, you mean. But yet how many of us have this idea? If you look at what Jesus Christ is done, we say, Well Maybe my giving is a a way of either earning God's favor, or maybe it's a way of somehow paying back, you know, I mean, here he's done that for me, but you know, it's not very easy for me to give, and it really kind of hurts. Listen. If you've ever given your life to Jesus Christ this morning, you don't know anything about grace. He's done that for you freely. He did not do that for you, for any money that he was ever going to get out of you. Jesus Christ gave his life for you because he loved you. And because he wants you to have life through him. And if you've never given your life to Jesus Christ this morning, the giving you Is a very secondary issue. So far down on the scale we can't even see. Number one issue is to see Jesus Christ and his sacrifice for you, and to give your life to him, to turn from your sin and to Trust him in his work. And if you have given your life to Jesus Christ this morning, I'm not talking about making a budget out of reluctance, out of compulsion, out of But I'm saying we as a congregation on Saturday night decided in our hearts, this is what God would have us to give. It's up to you to decide you're part of that now. But if you're ever going to decide willingly and cheerfully, is going to be because you simply receive with empty hands that work of Christ. And you never look at a dime and a hundred dollars at a thousand dollars at whatever you will give as in any means paid. Back for what Jesus has done for you. But it's simply the creative response of the beloved to the lover. He's loved me so much. How can I show my love for him? As I you for the work that he is erecting here in Colombia. Cheerfully, without compulsion, I give as an expression of my love. Because I love Jesus. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we know that we are in a prepared position as a church now. Taking a step of faith like this, Lord, is something that's not easy for unbelieving sinners to do. We're doubters, Lord. So we want to have and need to have a bigger view of you. and of your sufficiency. We need to understand, Lord, that our giving to this is not going to gain any credit from you. We pray, Lord, that you would strip us from such motives. Help us, Lord, to see that grace is a free gift. It is not with strings attached that we have to buy it or earn it. But that you, Lord, have given your life. Life for us. You have placed upon yourself eternal restrictions because of that great love for us. Lord be prayed. You will help us as your people to be used by your spirit, supernaturally, to be freed from reluctant goal-giving, from compulsive gift-giving. You might be a people who this year would experience the great blessing of our God. Then we might come to the end of the year and maybe even be perplexed, wondering how we ever made it. But Father might worry about it. engineering that. And simply as you work in each of our hearts the willingness in response to your grace to let you take care of providing the means. Lord, we want to commit ourselves to you for that as a congregation now. We want to go on record publicly as trusting you to do this. And Lord, we want to bring ourselves before you now in terms of our own motives and of own desires for this, that you would work in us right now our response to the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ.