Be with you. Please turn in your Bibles to Second Corinthians five. Second Corinthians five, be reading verses fourteen through twenty-one in a minute. I told you uh five years ago That Japanese is a hard language and I shared with you some of the mistakes I made. Like instead of telling the uh friend we had uh Carrots last night. Ningin Tabe Mashta, I said Ninggin Tabe Mashta. We had people last night for supper. And you laughed and I told you that we had uh in that uh my friend who instead of saying Oroshte Kudasai please let me out at the corner right here uh he said Kuroshte Kudasai please kill me right here And uh and other mistakes that I made. And you know, I I have to tell you the last five years it's gotten better, but as the conversations have gotten deeper And as uh we've done now marriage counseling and preaching every week and baptism preparation, I have to say the mistakes are worse, you know. And uh I d in fact I can't tell you what they are. You might cut off our support or something, you know. But uh I'll tell you one fr one of our friends on on our team, um he was sharing with a prayer meeting. uh what a great time our team had had for a three day retreat, you know, and uh just trying to just share from his heart and he wanted to say uh that we had had such a uh spiritual time. What a seitekinatoki, what a sexual time our team had had over the last several days, and they're looking at him, what kind of missionary is this? Well the point of that is what a joy it is to share with you in English, you know. And to uh be able to preach this morning and to to look at motivation for mission uh from God's word to apply it and think about the world and to do it in English, it really is a joy. But even more than that, you know, to worship with you here at CPC. To worship in English is a great joy. And it's just so good to be back here with my family this morning. Let's read from 2 Corinthians. Chapter five verses fourteen through twenty-one. For Christ's love compels us, because we are convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. And he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised again. So from now on we regard no one from a worldly point of view, though we once regarded Christ in this way, we do so no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old has gone. The new has come. All this is from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ And gave us the ministry of reconciliation. That God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ, not counting men's sins against them And he has committed to us the message of reconciliation. We are therefore Christ's ambassadors. As though God were making his appeal through us, we implore you on Christ's behalf. Be reconciled to God. God made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Before we talk about motivation for mission, um wanted to to express to you Greetings from the church in Japan. You know, as we got on, as we left our chapel to go to the airport to come back to America. About 40 Japanese people gathered, most Christians now, most have been baptized right there by us, by me. And one lady, Mrs. Iguchi, handed me a letter. And that letter, uh I was going to read it to you, but it's three pages long. I'll just summarize it for you. It was in English. And on the outside it said to the Christians in America who have sent the Iversons to Japan. And it goes on, it says, I'm going to share I'll read a little bit of it in the uh middle hour. But she said, Thank you for sending this family to Japan. She tells how she wouldn't have come to know Christ. Of course, God might have led someone else to to her to her door. But uh but she came to Christ, her daughter came to Christ, her other daughter came to Christ, one of her daughters is at Covenant College right now, uh here in America. And so she said, please tell the Christians in America thank you. Now I hope you're encouraged by that. You know that it's not our work, it's our work that we're about in the world, through our going Through our praying, through our giving, you know, there's through our reaching out to internationals that are around us. This work of missions is our work. And I I t want to begin this morning as we talk about motivation permission to say that I was a a committed Christian who wasn't committed to missions, who wasn't committed to God's work among all the peoples of the earth. I was raised in a Christian home. Those of you that know me have maybe met my family. Uh I mean my I grew up, you know, my father embarrassed me talking to Christ, talking about Christ with all my friends, you know, now my kids have the same worry all the time, you know. Uh yeah, I remember him talking about Christ with the with the mechanic. I mean, as they uh under the hood of the car, you know. But uh but I had missed the what I thought must be the small print of the scripture about all nations, all peoples. Every tongue and try it. Well, as you saw from our reading this morning, and that was a it was so hard for me to cut it down to just those verses, you know. as I went through the the Bible on computer and looking, oh, there are just so many. What I started doing in seminary is I started reading through the Bible, I started putting an M next to my next to the things that talked about all the peoples, all the nations. Every tongue and tribe. You know. And I it's it's not small print. It's the the s it's right there as a central theme of the Bible. We say the theme of the Bible is redemption Redemption by a redeemer, and we reformed people are quick to add a red redemption by a redeemer of his elect. But we forget to add his elect from every tribe, every tongue, every nation. You know it's easy to put it aside, and we want to think this morning about motivation. Not just from this passage, from several passages. And I was in the Marine Corps and I know you used to joke with me when I was here and about all the Marine stories when I'd preach sermons, you know, especially May Beth Williams, you know. I know no more Marine stories, Dan, you know Well, you know, I uh it's a Marine story. I I was a amazed by the mar you know, the motivation of people in the Marine Corps But I've also been amazed by the motivation of Japanese businessmen and the motivation of Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons and others But what I want to say to you today is we look at some of these motives that we have as those who know Christ, that they are so far superior to the motives of those groups and others. Uh if you'd put that that uh transparency on. Al Harris taught me this and I It's dangerous to try to do, but improved on it. Maybe you've seen it before, and we're just gonna look at three of these motives today, but you know the top one. Can you see those? Can you can you see those? You know, the top one facing towards God, the command coming from God to obey, you know, the duty motive of uh of taking the gospel across the street and across the world. You know, up on the right, Psalm 67, worship. We'll talk about that one today. Compassion for the lost, you know, uh a real love for the lost, caring for those. That's facing down towards man. Over here number three is responsibility. You know, their blood shall be on our heads facing towards man, meaning us as God's people. And then uh Acts 1. 8, just the natural working of the Spirit in our hearts to uh to give us a desire. to take the gospel to the lost and and the one down at the bottom here on the inside as well. The ultimate joy that that really comes with being a part of what God is doing in the world. And I'd say that's Amen to that. I I was a my wife and I we had our heels dug in, you know. Lord, you know, it's kind of like the final step of Lordship, you know, which isn't true, but uh we thought, Lord, we'll do anything, but don't make us missionaries, you know And we struggled for several years with that. And I I tell you now, we could not be happier. We've had plenty of struggles and challenges. But God blesses, you know, the center of God's will is the place is the place where you really do experience the most ultimate joy. And it may not even be in this life, of course, as the the great missionary named Patton from England to the tribes was uh his friend in England said, the cannibals will eat you. And he said, My friend, the worms will eat you. And uh and and and he you read his life and other missionary biographies, the ultimate joy that of just serving Christ and being a part of what he's doing in the world. And there are others as well. But today we want to focus on what's up here, number four, worship The number five represented by uh the the kingship of the the crown there, the kingship of Christ, the expectation of success, that God will win, and and how that affects us. And then represented by the cross From uh the passage I read today, uh the love of Christ Compelling Us. Okay, you can flip that off. That's uh just those three. Worship, the kingship of Christ and the love of Christ compelling and constraining us. These are the three friends that have helped me as a missionary, I think maybe more than any, more than duty. You know, I used to be And Al used to talk to me about this when I was his intern. You know, duty and command and those kind of things were were the strongest for me. And I've really seen these last years that that you know duty and command, the one that we talk about most of the time, just it it only goes so far, and that these others were more powerful. Let's think about worship and why that's a motive for mission. I know you've heard some of these things from Al Harris before, but from a missionary's perspective I want to share them with you. I had the the great privilege about uh uh eight years ago of going to Korea In the morning I went to a Japanese church. There were seven people there gathered for worship. And none of them were Christians yet. They were seekers. Seven people You know, it was uh we were new in the country, uh we hadn't started our church planning work yet, and we just prayed, oh Lord, would you work in Japan? Seven people, the first church Our family visited Japan. Our first week in Japan has seven people. We doubled it to fourteen. How's that for church growth? But this church, only seven. We went that afternoon to Korea. And we visited, you've heard about these big churches in Korea, you know? We visited a Presbyterian church in Seoul, 5,000 people at the Sunday evening service worshiping. You know, 5,000 people. You know, flying into Seoul. You see steeples everywhere, you see, you know, uh lit up crosses, you know, as you're driving through the city to the hotel, churches everywhere Is that as we worship that night, I didn't understand the words that were being spoken, but I cried. I cried And long that the people in Japan would worship the true and living God. You notice how many of the passages we read this morning talked about: let the peoples praise thee, O God, let all the peoples praise Thee. Let the nations rejoice. You know, Psalm 96,4, declare his glory among the nations, you know. And then it goes on and says, why? So that they can worship. The longing of someone who knows the true and living God is that people worship from every nation and tribe. In Acts 17, 16, you know as Paul comes into Acts, and I never really understood this before. As he comes into Athens, we see there that he sees the city filled with idols. In Acts 17, 16, and as he sees a city filled with idols, remember what happens? What does it say? His heart was provoked within him, his heart hurt Now I didn't quite understand that when I, you know, before I went to Japan, why seeing a city filled with idols would make your heart hurt. But the best illustration I can give you of that is is someone from your own congregation, Jennifer Calgary. When Mrs. Iguchi, the lady I told you about, that handed me the letter at the beginning of the message, took Jennifer to the temples down in Kyoto in Japan. And she was a new Christian, uh Ms. Mrs. Igucchi, and she didn't know, you know, there was anything necessarily wrong with that and that's a debate whether it really is or not, but she went there And as Jennifer saw the people offering incense and worshiping there at these at these uh to and giving worship to false gods, Jennifer started crying. And Mrs. Iguchi said, you know, Jennifer, look, this is just culture. Why are you crying? You know, and she couldn't explain it to her, but she just was crying. Because she was jealous for the worship of God. We live about this way. Alan and Kathy when they were there got to visit us. You know, a a Buddhist temple this way a hundred yards, and a Shinto shrine that way a hundred yards. And I'm sad to say I get calused. More than countless used to idol worship all around. But maybe you do too, because you have it all around you of another sort, don't you? Are you jealous for the worship of God? As we read this morning, you know, in Psalm 67, it talked about Your produce that God gives you Eva. What's the purpose of it? That the nations would worship. Read back through your antiphonal reading The produce, the things that He has given you. Part of the purpose. Of course, their whole purpose is that God would be glorified. An essential way that your produce brings glory to God is that you participate in the nations worshiping. Those who haven't worshipped coming to worship. You know, we started a church in a place in Japan that there has you know there was no church, we moved in there, there were no Christians, we didn't know anybody, and we started And uh and I tell you, you know, it was so exciting seeing people come to Christ, seeing people that were gonna you know, one lady who was gonna commit suicide and over a month she came to Christ, she's a small group leader now, seeing people's lives change Of course, lots of struggle, just like here. We're we're a mess, like Sandy said this morning, and and they're a mess too. But to see God change people, that what we read in Second Corinthians five seventeen is true. New creatures and yet More exciting than seeing people come to Christ and be changed. That compassion motivation. More than that, friends was the first worship service, you know. That in an area where since the beginning of creation, that there had never been the worship of the true and living God And that morning. You know, we'd work is anybody gonna come? You know, we didn't know that anybody would, or we knew a few people would. And it's People see like pr kind of like CPC, you know, everybody comes at the last minute, you know, or maybe in a few See, it's harder in Japan though, because you've got to take your shoes off. Can you imagine everybody showing up at 8 30? They gotta take their shoes off. That's the way it is in Japan, you know and put them over on the side. Everybody has to lose their souls when they come into the church building, you know. I'm sorry. But uh as uh You know, that that morning was so exciting that here in all of history there has never been the worship of the true and living God. And today, he's being worshipped here. In this area. And friends, you are a part of that. Does that not excite you? I hope when you s when you're here and you worship week after week after week, that you'll remember that you're practicing for heaven You know, our day of missions is going to cease. Have you ever thought about that? You know? The day of doing mission work is going to cease, but the day of worship will never cease. And who will we be there worshiping with as we read this morning the last passage there? Every nation, every tribe, every tongue, a multitude too great to number. Think about that. You know, and this really goes with our first catechism question. A lot of people say our confession, our our Westminster confession and catechism that we that we uh Presbyterians use. That uh it it's not mission-minded. That that's not true. The very first catechism question. If you think about this motive of God's glory through worship, what's the first question? What's what what is man's chief end, right? And the answer? To glorify God and enjoy Him forever You know, my dad used to say, We Presbyterians, we talk an awful lot about man's chief end, but we Presbyterians need to get off man's chief end and uh get on with participating in bringing his glory You know, that that he would be glorified among all people. Now think about the connection there. That that's what we're about, to glorify God. And what's better than one person glorifying God and worshiping him You know, two people and it people say the numbers don't matter. Numbers aren't important in in a sense maybe that there's an element of truth there. But why does Acts record the numbers worshiping? Why does the passage we read this morning talk about a multitude too great to number? Don't you long for more and more people to lay down their idols and worship the true and living God? That's what we're about. That's really what missions is about. Let's think about the kingship of Christ. This kingship of Christ motive has been so helpful to me going to a hard country. And I guess you can best illustrate the power of this, and you might say, well, why is that a motivation? Yeah. I I guess to think about the the the baseball game last Saturday night, you know when uh I hadn't seen a Orioles game in five years, so I stayed up and watched it, you know. And uh and it and it was overlay and my friend I was watching it with, a pastor of the church where I was preaching the next day, we were both wanting to go to bed but staying up to watch. And he uh and right at the end there it looked so bad, you know, the Orioles just weren't gonna make it and uh and the and the Yankees brought in those two pitchers that are supposed to be so good and no one ever wins against them. And uh in the in the picture for the Orioles, he just didn't quite look like he had much umph a couple times. And and my friend said, yeah, they've given up You know, yeah, isn't it true that when you just have no hope of winning, or your your hope is so uh weak, you just give up, you know? But the opposite, when you know That Christ is King and He rules. And the gates of hell will not prevail against Him. I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against Him. It puts iron in you It affects you that you know you have this confident expectation because Christ is King that regardless of all the struggles, and there will be a it is a battle that he is winning and he will win. History is his story, as the word says. Think for me uh to to illustrate it with our own experience in Japan. Going to this place, Oyumi no, you know, and a Japanese pastor said, What a good name, you know. And some of you may remember, I said, How do you remember Oyumi no? By answering the question, who will build this church? O you, me, no. You know? Only Christ. And I said, Oh yeah, that's biblical, you know. And I said that Japanese people didn't really understand that very well. But anyway, you understand it. But uh but is but you know, the I remember the first five people that gathered, none of our team was there yet. We were the only ones there and we started a little English class. First time to meet people in in our new Target area where there's never been worship, no Christians, nobody You know, and it I mean I had had some doubts, I have to confess, of will Christ really build a church here? I almost wanted to ask you to raise your hand. How many of you wondered as you You know, you your church give so much money and praise and send us to Japan. You know, they start churches in Japan where there's no church. How many of you had doubts? No, that's right. You don't have to raise your hand. But you know that that would it really would a church really be born there? You know? And I remember that morning as we had English class, first five people ever in our target area, you know. And uh and they said, Well what are you doing around here? Wha why are you here? There are no other foreigners live around here and we said, uh, well we're missionaries and we're starting a church. They said, Oh a church, oh we didn't know there were any believers around here. Are there are there Christians around here? And uh I said, Well no, there are none And you could kind of see them smirk, oh, you're starting a church? And uh, you know, I remember such a set of confidence as I saw them smirk kind of. You know, Japanese are very polite. Trying to cover the face, you know, but I could see it, you know. Christ will build his church And the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And it just, you know, not just from the Bible, all the promises of Scripture, read back through the ones we read today, the certainty that his kingdom cannot fail. You know, as the in Acts 4 is the disciples pray to the Lord in the midst of all their struggles, they pray. The Greek word is despotes. They're praying to the despot of the whole earth. And we Americans don't like that word very much. because of our uh the way we don't like the idea of a king and absolute rule. But friends, when the a when the one who has absolute rule is the Lamb on the throne, as I understand we're going to sing in the second service today. Oh to be his that the Lamb is on the throne and He is winning, He will rule. You know, if you go throughout history, it would have been so hard to believe That really he is in charge, that he is ruling. Think of the disciples, you know, when Jesus says to the uttermost parts of the earth. No, come on, you guys, think about it. A few of those disciples How hard it would have been to believe that you and those through you are going to go to the ends of the earth. Think about in Rome. You know, if you went to Rome and 60 AD and and asked about Christians that oh there's this guy Paul over here, he's under house arrest, you know, and he's telling about this Christ, and a few people are going, but you know, there's no one. There's nothing there. If you went to If you went and took over the Roman Empire. If you went to my my ancestors, Norway, just uh just uh nine hundred years ago, you know And uh you went there and missionaries had come and been killed, you know. And if you ask, you know, what what is the strong power that's here, they would have said, Vikings, you know. That's my first pun in Japanese by the way, because Viking and Viking means uh and there's no V in Japanese means uh bacteria and I said my ancestors were bacteria, you know But uh anyway. Uh and uh then I use it as a joke from then on, you know. But uh, you know, my ancestors when I when I read about what happened. And if you had gone there, people would have said, oh, Christ uh Christians, disciples of Christ, they're that's it. Norway. The gospel came in effect in Norway sent sent sends more missionaries even today per capita than any other country in the world. If you went to Korea 60 years ago and asked the question, who is king? Who has power? What would they have said sixty years ago? The Koreans, they would have cried as they told you what the Japanese army, Imperial Army, was doing to them. How they were raping their daughters, taking their daughters as sex slaves for their platoons. stealing all of their miner all every resource they had, changing their language, even making Christians bow to the Emperor of Japan before starting worship on Sundays. And they would have said, Who could ever deliver us? From this powerful army. I mean, really, if you were a Korean then or a Christian, it would have been so hard to believe it could ever change, you know? It would have been so hard to believe his kingdom cannot fail. Korea won less than one percent Christian, just like Japan is today. Sixty years ago, friends. How about fifty years ago? Not one Imperial Army soldier in Korea. You go there today, like I said, the biggest churches in the world. You know? His kingdom cannot fail. He rules. He is the despot of the whole world. And this puts strength in us. This gives us This gives us a hope that is a certain hope. And sure, there's struggle. Every church, every Christian, all the the pain of being mortal and and and our faith is so weak. It's kind of like during the Gulf War, you know uh that there was a platoon of of Marines that were that were surrounded and they were and they and they're hearing over the radio, we're winning. It's a route, you know And it's a who do they think they're kidding, you know? And they're in the middle of it, it just it looks like they're they're all gonna get wiped out, and then the next day they find out it was a route. You know? And that's the way it is, friends, as you look at his story, history. It's a route. His kingdom cannot fail. And that ought to put iron in you It ought to just thrill you to be a part of what he's doing in the world. I think of the ask and receive groups from Columbia Presbyterian Church, how if any one of these motives goes with prayer It's this one. That we're praying to the King and participating with him through our prayers and taking the gospel to the ends of the earth and hearing them ask, you know, about what about this, what about that? Is over these four or five years, is month after month. Praying when there was no church, when there's only one church, and now more and more the gospel spreading out in Sheba, and more and more people coming to Christ, participating with the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords through praying What a marvelous thing to be a part of. I hope that excites you. But the last motive, the love of price constraining us, we want to think about for a few minutes as well. Like I said, the Japanese they don't know anything of a motive like this. The Marines know nothing of a motive like this. It's all duty and command and and a prideful honor and all this other s all this other the Jehovah's Witnesses The Mormons, they don't know anything like this. You know, and the Marines, they you they were they were motivated. They said, you know, they taught me if the Marines, if we wanted you to have a wife, we would have issued you one, you know. And boy, they demanded so much commitment, you know. But you know the Japanese businesses, it's worse. If the company wanted you to have a wife or a life, we would have issued you one. But oh the how hard that is on people. But this motive, the love of Christ. Why would this why would this couple on our team go back to Japan three months ago? With a baby, their son with leukemia. Now think about that. Yeah, the Japanese, Christians and non-Christians alike, are amazed. They're coming back with a two-year-old with leukemia? Why would someone do that? Why would those Moravian missionaries, those Moravian missionaries, sell themselves into slavery? Now we twentieth century Christians have a hard time grasping this kind of commitment, you know, that they sold themselves into slavery to go on the slave ships to be missionaries to the slaves. Why? You know the the uh the course, the prospectus course that our brother was sharing about this morning. I I'm reading that myself right now. And one of the chapters is why were the Moravians so motivated for missions? But you know, I think, not to downplay the course, a great course, but I think he misses a point. His answer all the way through that article is they love Christ so much. It says over and over again, they love Christ so much. And I kept waiting for him to talk about what comes before us loving Christ so much. What is it? Not that we loved him, but he first loved us. The love of Christ constrained it. That love compels us. That love compelled them. Spurgeon says it's like a river, you know, it just it just constrains you to move and you you just can do no other uh uh of uh went tubing about a month and a half ago. and uh in on the Maury River in Virginia and as that you know go as we're going down that river those one places I kinda got up and looked look boy it didn't look you know I I like danger. I've jumped out of airplanes and all kinds of stuff but I don't like the idea of getting my head bashed up against a rock. Some little My wife will say it's pretty hard headed, pretty hard, but not that hard. And uh is and I I tried to get to the side, I was paddling with everything in me, and I just couldn't get to the side. That river just compelled and constrained and it just Pushed me right now. I knew exactly what Spurgeon was talking about. In a positive, marvelous sense. That as we come to know that this gospel of Jesus Christ That is verse 21 here in 2 Corinthians 5 says, He who knew no sin became sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. That love begins to compel us and move us. You know, sometimes I just wonder what would the angels have said if they had some degree towards omniscience, if they knew about my life When they're seeing this plan of the eternal Son of God being unfolded, that He would go to Bethlehem, that He who knew no sin, who was perfect light Perfect God, very God, and and yet become very man, and go to that manger of Bethlehem. Be just struggle with all the struggles that we go through yet without sin for thirty-three years every day fulfilling the law, though fully tempted just like me. And then go to the cross for me. If those angels knew about my life, all my All my mixed motives, all my failures as a husband and as I seek to love my wife as Christ loved the church and loved my nine children and uh and I fail the work becomes so important, you know, Sandy talked about uh some of the motives of the heart during the confession of sin this morning. I said, that's just that's me. And I think these last five years I've seen it's man, it it it's just As I grow and go closer to the light I see I see more and more of my sin. I think my motives were more pure going to Japan and now that I'm there and I come home I want to Tell you, hey, you know, I'm really a good missionary. I come back to my home church and preach. I have you know, yeah, I want to glorify Christ, but man, I want them to think well of me as well You think the angels thought about you as well? Maybe? Why would Christ do that for Dan Iverson or for you? As I think about that love, and as I as I grow in seeing that gospel, and how marvelous it is That the cross is bigger than I thought it was. His love for me is greater than I ever knew and I will ever know. Maybe even in heaven, when we see through a glass more clearly. Maybe. Maybe we'll have more maybe w you know, I wonder if in heaven when we when we see our sin and its death and how selfish we've been with our with our time, our money, with our the things we should do, we don't do, the things we do that we shouldn't do, just j just in my family life alone. The times when my my my words are not encouraging to Carol and full of love and grace and and to my children, you know, uh just those sins in the home alone. I want to say, Lord, can I have another chance? You know, once we see, oh, how and when I see what Christ did for me in that day, how will it affect me? How will it affect you when we see his great love? And think how is this motive more than duty? More than the the try harder, push more. In most mo most mission sermons, you know you you hear don't talk about this motive. They talk about the duty, the command, the compassion for the lost. Think about how the Father is pleased when we respond to his love, you know, and that becomes this this compelling force in our hearts for all Christian obedience, but especially. for as we think about the gospel we've received taking it to others. I remember when my children one day, you know, we go we have nine kids so we go out on a date. We we always have since uh being here in Columbia, Friday nights, you know And I bet Al Harris's schedule is still the same. You know, when I call from Japan, I know exactly what Al's doing. It never changes. What day of the week, you know. Friday night is date night, I guess. I don't know. Maybe it's changed. But anyway, we we still do it, Al. We still go out Friday nights And we were going out not too long ago and it came back. And we always tell the kids, you know, get get the uh get uh here's what I want you to do, get the kitchen clean and and do all this and And you know when now you you folks are either parents or children or both, so you you know you you know what we go through. We're we're hoping, did they do it? You know. You come back and they don't obey, you're disappointed. You come back and they obey, you know, you're you're you're really you you're happy. You know, but sometimes they obey out of fear or out of trying to get, you know, maybe their motives aren't as good as we would like, but one night we came back. And friends, not only was the kitchen clean, but the dining room was clean, and the living room was clean. And they're standing there like this, you know. And we came in and walked around, you know, kind of you they didn't say it, but you know, do you do you like it, Dad and Mom? You know? Now friends, what motive takes you beyond the line between the kitchen? And the Dhanira. Beyond the line of duty. Beyond the line of command. Isn't it love? You know? As our children grow up and they need lots of duty and command and and other motives and uh of course we know that. Believe me, I know that. But i isn't it which delights the father the most as you stand there. That they obeyed from fear, or that they obeyed out of love as they begin to experience our though imperfect, unconditional love, as they begin to experience that love. And they respond in love. Isn't that bring great joy to your heart? Doesn't it bring great joy to the Father's heart when we delight in Him, when we delight in His commands as a response to what He has done for us in Christ? Heard a pat a preacher on a tape the other day telling about he you know he if he brought flowers home to his wife on her anniversary. And he ring he rings the doorbell, she comes to the door, he says, Happy anniversary The beautiful roses, she says. Oh honey, they're beautiful. You shouldn't have. Why did you do that? He said, Well it's just my duty Why are you laughing? Now duty is important. It's biblical. But doesn't the one who is being honored delight more in? It being done from love and delight. If I if you know if I said, honey, I delight in our love for in our love relationship and all those things. You know, that's what honors That's what honors the Lord so much when this love of Christ, what he has done for us in the cross of Christ and His continuing intercession for us, it more and more just moves us to love him back. Friends, as we think about your part and my part in all of Christian obedience, but especially in being a part of what God is doing in the world You can't sit it over here on the side. It's kind of like when you buy a car, you know, this is optional. You know, this stuff about all nations. And every tribe and every people group. It's at the heart of what we're about. We're rehearsing for heaven today with our worship. And in that day, there will be people from every nation and tribe. And as Glenn Mitzel used to say when we were here, I always appreciate it, you know, we participate was the word he would always use when he prayed. I pre- I couldn't appreciate that more. That we have the awesome privilege of participating with Christ in bringing about his kingdom throughout the whole earth. With our going, with our giving, with our praying, with our going to the internationals that are around us, you know. What does he want you to do as a response to that love? What is your part? How has he particularly gifted you? You know, like Isaiah, we all need to say, as Isaiah saw the holiness of God and as he looked at his own sin and says, Woe is me, I'm undone. And he experiences forgiveness. Remember his response, here I am, send me. And isn't that what we all need to say this morning? Here I am, Lord Send me. It may be across the oceans, it may be across the street, it may be to the bank, it may be to the prayer meeting. You know, here I am. Send me, Lord. In response to your love, that the nations would worship and with the confidence that He is king, His kingdom cannot fail. Let's pray together. Lord, we just are thrilled to be a part of your family, this marvelous family that now is indeed in every single Political country on the whole earth. And Lord, we're longing for the day when every single nation, every ethne, every people group will have a worshiping church among it. Lord, until that day, would you indeed help us as we seek your chief the chief end of man that we would, Lord, with zeal as a res response to your grace with longing that the nations would worth worship, with confidence that you're king and and Lord you rule and through all the struggles of history your kingdom's perfect plan is being worked out. And little Little O Us and Little Columbia Presbyterian Church has the awesome privilege of being a part of that. We thank you so much, Lord. Work in our hearts. Thank you for the gospel. Lord, thank you that this gospel is so true and so gives us so much joy. And thanks for the forgiveness of sins. In Jesus' name. Amen.