He's talking about who's going to read the scripture. I'll say a couple of words first and then Read the scripture. If you um have not been here for a week or two, you may be rather surprised as you look at the fact that we're Considering Matthew 21 this morning, and you think, you know, I missed one or two weeks, and uh he's covered uh been covering about one verse per week. And I go away and he covers 16 chapters in the last week or two. So that's not what has happened. We're actually leaving the exposition through Matthew that we've been doing. And I'm going to resume that on Labor Day. Pick it up again. Why am I stopping now? Well, Two reasons. One because it's hard to do anything with continuity in July and August. Um people come and go and so you just can't keep the train of thought. So I figured it would be good to resume that in September, but the main reason is that the next section is on salt and light. And that's critical to CPC's vision. And I thought it would be a great series to do as we kick off the new year. to spend four weeks considering what Jesus says about our being salt and light within our world That gives me an opportunity to do a summer series. And so I'm going to do a series that I've wanted to do for some years, a brief three-week series on prayer. Now, there are many notable strengths at Columbia Presbyterian as a church, but one area that I think we could grow in is the area of prayer. Over the years, we've continued to have a Thursday morning prayer meeting and uh 6. 30 to 7. 30. What's interesting to me is as the congregation doubles and continues to grow, the prayer meeting stays about the same. It doesn't grow commensurate to the congregation. even though we record and see numbers of answers to prayer. And um we have a Sunday service prayer team meets back in that room to pray for the worship and for the preaching of the word to change lives. And that too hasn't grown through the years. Now I can't speak for your life and my life individually, but certainly Who here can say that I don't need any help or encouragement in my prayer life? I mean, for Christians, there are a few things that you can get a guilt reaction more quickly than to ask, so, how's your prayer life? Um are you praying for the TexMex team that's been down the there for a whole day now? Have you been praying for the Bulgaria team that's been there for a number of days? You know. Heck, you do even pray for your own family. You know, I mean I think it's ludicrous sometimes the things that people think that we all pray for. And we have to focus, but do we really pray with expectation for even the things that are close to us? So I would like to do a three-week series on prayer dealing with three topics. This morning, faith. Next week, doubt, and thirdly, What difference does prayer make in the real world? So we're going to skip forward from Matthew chapter 5 all the way to Matthew 21. And you may say, well, that means you're going to cover this twice because you're going to cover it when you go through Matthew. And I ask, when do you think I will get to chapter 21? It's taken me thirty three messages to get to chapter five, verse twelve, and I thought as this week as I was preparing this, am I living in denial to think that I will ever get in my ministry here at Columbia Presbyterian to chapter twenty I don't know, but at least I'll have covered chapter 21, verses 18 to 22, which is a rather difficult section. It's difficult because just look at verse 22, what Jesus says there. If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer. Now what do you do with that? So now let me back up and do what John was going to do and read the passage to you for us to consider this concerning prayer. Matthew 21, verses 18 to 22, God's word to you. Early in the morning, as he was on his way back to the city, this is Jesus, he was hungry. Seeing a fig tree by the road, he went up to it, but found nothing on it except leaves. Then he said to it, May you never bear fruit again. Immediately the tree withered. When the disciples saw this, they were amazed. How did the fig tree wither so quickly? They asked. Jesus replied, I tell you the truth. If you have faith and do not doubt, not only can you do what was done to the fig tree, but you can say to this mountain, go throw yourself into the sea, and it will be done. If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer. The situation is that this is the last week of Jesus' life. It's probably couple days after the triumphal entry, probably the munday and the Tuesday. Now you say, why Monday and Tuesday? Well because Mark tells us that um whereas it was probably Monday morning the Jesus and the disciples are living in Bethany and they commute into the city by foot each day, that probably Monday morning when they went in, Jesus was hungry. Saw the fig tree, um no figs, cursed the fig tree, and whereas Matthew says immediately the tree withered, Mark's account tells us that more precisely what happened was that he said that they continued on into the city. Jesus interacts with the leaders, the scribes, the Pharisees, more tension, cleanses the temple, drives out the money changers, comes back Monday night, stays in Bethany. Now this is Tuesday morning when they're coming back into the city, and the disciples see the tree totally withered up and dried dead. And then they say, how did that happen so quickly? That is in 24 hours this tree has totally withered up and is dead. Well, Jesus' response to that is, of course, about faith that can move mountains, and whatever you ask for, if you have faith and believe, you'll receive it. From that, many of us deduce that prayer is something like this thermometer. We think that prayer kind of works like thermometer here. Where's our thermometer? There we go. I don't know how well you can see this, but it's kinda like, you know, the more faith, the more you can get done. If you have just a little bit of faith, that's maybe enough to find a parking space. You're on the left. A little more faith to balance your checkbook. Some of us need more faith than others in that. Then a little more, find a job, go on up a little more if faith to heal the sick, then uh lead thousands to Christ. Then you got faith that will move mountains up there toward the top and major miracles, you know. So that what happens is when I pray and if I don't see a prayer answered or I see a prayer that seems unanswered I concluded, oh, I didn't have enough faith. I needed to have more. If I had more faith, it probably would have occurred. Because that's what Jesus says here. If you believe, you'll receive whatever you ask for in prayer. If you believe. So I must not have believed enough. And from that, we begin to conclude after we see prayers that are not answered the way we pray. That prayer must be, I mean a faith must be some sort of a mystical gift that certain people have. And um, you know, you either got it or you don't, and uh I don't, obviously. So I lose my expectation, my confidence in God to answer my prayers. That's for certain people that have that. And that is certainly not what Jesus is teaching. It's important for us to understand what this passage means. It's a difficult passage, but let's try to understand what Jesus has for you and for me because I think there's a lot of practical encouragement for you in this There's also an insight, not only into the brilliance of Jesus' mind, but also into the compassion of his heart that you see in this passage. Because you see, Jesus is teaching here two lessons. The one is the lesson he intended to teach, which the disciples totally missed. And then rather than rebuke them and say, no, no, no, you dummies, that's not what I was talking about, he accommodates himself to teach from their question another lesson, which is on prayer and faith. So there's really two lessons. One look at the lessons and one look at the application. Two lessons that we see here. First of all, notice what are not the lessons. This is, first of all, just to clear these out of the way, obviously this is not saying that Jesus is petulant in saying I thought I could get breakfast from this tree. It let me down. So damn you tree, you're never going to bear figs again. Obviously, this is not what Jesus doing. Um He's not petulant. Secondly Jesus is not teaching a simple way to excavate mountains by just praying so that they'll get removed Thirdly, he's clearly not promising unqualified answers to prayer, just whatever you ask for, simply believe and you'll get it. what I call the Pinocchio Polar Express kind of faith. Lord, just give me a Jaguar XJS convertible. I believe, Lord, I believe. Give it and uh didn't get it. Well Lord, I really believe, I really, really believe, Lord. Put that thing in my driveway, you know Obviously that's not what Jesus is saying. And so some of us have problems because we say, well, it seems like it's what it's saying. And if it's not what he's saying, how do you ever figure out what he means? Is God just playing games with us? He says these mysterious things and we can't figure them out, and so we just kind of distance ourselves from Scripture and the Bible and from God. So I want to show you that Jesus is saying something here that makes sense and that is, in fact, very practical for us. First lesson that he's trying to teach here is that hypocrites will be cursed. It's not about prayer. It's about hypocrites. The hypocrites will be cursed. How do you get that? Well remember the situation is that Jesus is interacting day by day intensely with the Jewish leaders who are trying to trap him. because they're jealous of him and um he is uh interacting with them intensely Now, this is Passover time. Turns out that fig trees produce figs just after Passover. But what's interesting about fig trees is that the leaves and the figs come at the same time. So when you see leaves on a fig tree, you assume there's going to be figs. So Jesus from a distance sees leaves on the fig tree. He figures there's going to be figs on it. He gets up to it. And there are no figs. And in his mind, because he's concerned for his disciples to understand the danger of hypocritical, dishonest religious profession. People who say, I know God, I love God, but in their hearts they don't trust him, they don't follow him. There is the show like the fig tree of leaves of religiosity, but there is no fruit. There's no substance. There's no real knowledge of God, no real heart desire to please him. And Jesus saying that kind of dishonesty is despicable and it's it's cursed. God will not look lightly upon somebody, whether here in this room or Anywhere that says, oh, I know Jesus, I love Jesus, Jesus and me are tight. But your heart is far from him. He knows your heart. And so what Jesus does is that he pronounces this curse on the fig tree for an object lesson for his disciples. He then goes into the city, casts out the money, changes, interacts, comes back, the disciples, the next morning, probably Tuesday morning now, see the fig tree all withered up, dead, absolutely dead. They're not interested in the lesson. It's kind of like, you know, if you're in family devotions, you're trying to make some little object lesson for the kids and you're saying, now look, kids, you need to, you know, you learned this little trick. It could keep their attention. And you say, now watch this, you know, and you do this little trick. And you say, now you see how that shows something about God. And they say, how'd you do that? Well, you know, forget how I did it. But see what, you know, no, no, how'd you do that? This one know how you did the trick. So that's what they're saying. Oh no, you know, how'd you do that with the fig tree? Help us to know. What do you do to get them to do that? But in his gentleness, Jesus doesn't say, Will you forget how I did it? I want you to understand the lesson. But he accommodates himself. And that's an important lesson, you know, when we're making disciples, whether it's your kids, a friend, somebody that you're trying to bring along in Christ, we need to have an agenda for things we want to teach them about the Lord. But oftentimes a person's simply not there. They're not where we are. And so they'll have another question. Follow the question. Jesus doesn't say, well, we'll get to that later. Talk about faith. That's not on today's lesson. What he does is that's where their hearts are. It's a teachable moment. So he says, well, let me tell you about faith. And so he gives them a lesson about faith that is connected. Second lesson then, faith in God can remove mountains. Now there are three parts to that lesson, did you see there in your bulletin outline? Number one, there is no obstacle that God cannot remove to accomplish his purpose. Mountains here, what he's using, refer to, stands for, symbolizes obstacles in our life. What seems impossible, and yet it seems to be God's will. What Jesus is saying here is the question is never, can God do it? The question is simply what's his purpose? Now hang on to that thought. Look at the second point of it. Therefore, if you are praying his purpose, not even a mountain can block it from being accomplished. I tell you the truth, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only can you do what was done to the fig tree, but you can also say to this mountain, go throw yourself in the sea. He's probably looking at Mount Olivet. Probably talking about the Dead Sea, which couldn't even see there. But he's saying you could say to Mount Olivet here, go throw yourself into the Dead Sea and it will be done. If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer. So the third point in that is, but you need to have faith. God's work is not automatic. The mystery of the Christian life Is that God interacts with us as his children to accomplish his purpose? He wants to build our confidence in him, in his absolute sufficiency, in his faithfulness. in his capacity to do anything. And he wants that confidence to be in him. It's interesting, Mark's parallel account, where Mark where Matthew says, I um Tell you the truth if you have faith and do not doubt. Mark says, have faith in God. I tell you the truth, if anyone says to this mountain, go throw yourself into the sea, it'd be done. Mark specifies what Jesus must have also added into Mark Matthew's account. Of course, a number of times Jesus says a number of things, and they're not all recorded. But Jesus also said on this incident, have faith in God. In other words, it's not just faith, it is a specific faith in a particular God, the biblical God, the God of Scripture. The true God, beware of saying you trust Him and not exercise any confidence in Him. Beware of saying that you are a Christian, but you are a practical atheist. that you actually live as if he is unable to rescue you, to care for you, to provide for you day by day. Now, what are the applications of this? Three applications. You may be frustrated at this point saying Well, you know, the fact is still, if I was standing there and I said to the fig tree, you'll never bear figs again, I doubt that would happen. What am I missing? How do I get into where Jesus was? And how does that apply to my own daily needs, disappointments, longings? Three things. Number one, you and I need to cultivate Jesus' heart so that we can pray with greater authority. You see, Jesus wasn't playing games with the disciples. He was walking into Jerusalem that morning, and his heart was so in tune with his heavenly Father. that as he sees this barren leafed fig tree, he immediately seizes on the opportunity to teach a spiritual lesson. His heart wants to impress on the disciples how terrible it is to give the impression that you know God when your heart is actually far from him. And how that kind of person will be cursed. That kind of person, left to follow the course of their life, will be the kind of person who will nail the Son of God to a cross. That's how terrible that kind of heart is. Jesus sees that. He knows that. He wants to warn his disciples. So you see, because Jesus' heart is so pure, he doesn't second guess himself, he doesn't analyze, he follows his immediate instincts, and he pronounces a curse on the fig tree. For the purpose of teaching his disciples. And they say, how do you do it? And he says, the question isn't Can God do it? How do you do it? The question is simply, God has the capacity. You need to get your heart aligned with his purpose, because the question is never. Is he able to do it? You and I need to cultivate a greater confidence that what you're praying for is what will glorify God. And you do that by the kind of thing that John was showing us and illustrating in this morning's prayer. Pray Scripture. Pray the character of God. Pray his purposes. Pray his will. Faith, you see, is simply God glorifying confidence. Let me say that again. Faith is God glorifying confidence. So you need to know him. Father, this is what you want. This will please you. This I believe is on your heart. And so I begin to pray with greater authority. Because I believe that I am in line with his purposes. And the question of is he able to do it recedes more and more in my thinking. That's not the question. I know he's able to do it. He's the God of all things. He's created all things with the breath of his mouth. So the thing that Jesus is addressing is have confidence in him. Grow in your confidence, so that's not the issue. Secondly, focus your gaze on the God of the mountain, not on the mountain itself. Shift your gaze from the mountain, the obstacle, whatever it is that seems insurmountable, to focus on the God of the mountain. Do you remember when Jesus came to the disciples in chapter 14, when they were tossed in the storm on the Lake of Galilee? And Jesus came to them and he he uh called them. Um Peter at that point said, Lord, if it's really you, bid me to come out of the boat and walk to you. And so Peter gets out of the boat, and remember he's walking on the water. I mean, talk about faith. Walk on water, faith, you know? He's walking on the water because his eyes are fixed on Jesus. And you remember, as soon as he begins to look at the waves, he begins to sink. And Jesus compassionately rescues him tenderly anyway. So you and I, when we look at the mountains, when we look at the obstacles, our faith wavers. Jesus wants us to look at the God of the mountain, to see him. Now let me give you a few um antitheses I thought of this week to correct our notions about what a passage like this would teach. This passage is not intended to motivate you by guilt. That's the thermometer view of faith. Say, I need to work up more faith. You know what? I have never met a Christian who was an effective prayer warrior who said, you know what really got me praying? Guilt. Man, I used to not pray and I my life was just, you know, so and and all of a sudden I began to realize how rotten that was, what a lousy prayer warrior was. And man, that really fired me up. Now I pray and God has given me Just a keen desire to lay hold of his promise. Guilt doesn't do it. It's not a question of guilt, it's a question of confidence. Jesus is trying to build your confidence in him. See his adequacy. Romans 8. Realize that he who spared not his own son but delivered him up for you, how will he not with him also freely give you all things? He sent Christ to the cross, rose from the dead, so that he is able to do all things. Nothing can separate you from the love of God. So as your confidence in Him grows, then your prayer life grows. It doesn't happen just by feeling guilty about how you don't pray. It's not a question of trying harder, but of looking harder. Not trying to work up more faith, but rather of looking more focused upon Jesus, to see how fully adequate he is, to fix your attention on him. Do you remember Hebrews chapter 12 verse 2 says, fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith? That word there, fixing your eyes on Jesus, is the Greek word afferentes, which means a steady, fixed, habitual gaze, locked in on Jesus. It's not a matter of trying harder in prayer, it's a matter of looking harder, more focused on Jesus, who is fully adequate, whose heart is for you. It's not a half-hearted prayer. You know, that's the prayer that said, hey, you know, prayer can't hurt, so I'll try it, see if it works. But even as you're talking to God, you're writing down plan B. So you're distracted. That's the person that James 1 describes. Double-minded. I'm trying to pray to God, but I'm working out plan B in the back of my mind here. In case it doesn't work. You notice in case it doesn't work, you know, prayer is a thing that it you know it works or it doesn't work. And Jesus is trying to direct us to here to say, no, this is not a question of does it work. Have faith in God. Trust Him, the God of Scriptures, the God who sent His Son and raised Him from the dead. Trust Him. And you honor him by that trust. It's not a matter of the quantity of your faith, but it's the direction, a small faith directed to a very great, powerful God. You don't dishonor him with your doubts, thinking of all the times your prayer wasn't answered. Why, why, why, why, why, why? You know, why was my prayer this and that? But rather you honor him. Remember Mark 9? Two blind men come to Jesus and they say, Lord, heal us. And he says, Do you believe I can do this? And they say, Yes, Lord, we believe. That honors him. See. And so Jesus heals their blindness and he says, according to your faith, be it done to you. You had confidence in me. You honored me. Wasn't working it up It wasn't out of guilt. It was simply building your confidence in me. Now I want to share with you an example of this that I think well illustrates it. From the life of Bill Hybels, and it's in his book, Too Busy Not to Pray. It's about a time that he was on a mission trip in India, and um Was working with a fellow Yesu who had planted over a hundred churches, great man of faith, had annual evangelistic meetings. And uh the basic uh pattern was that they would have some music and uh then uh somebody would preach a kind of a warm-up sermon of something about the Christian life. Then they'd have some more music and then would come the main sermon to present Christ to these Muslims and Hindus and various other people that would come. And he had seen many, many people come, as I say, playing over a hundred churches. So many people would be coming to Christ through his ministry. And uh then he would invite them at the end of that service. Well, let me give it to you in Heibel's words, which would be better than my trying to do it. He says, From Tuesday through Thursday, I had manageable assignments. Either I spoke at a much smaller meeting in the morning or gave the warm-up sermon in the evening But when Friday came around, Yesus said, I received a leading from God, and I want you to give the main message tonight. Dumbfounded, I wondered why I hadn't had the same leading. I was content with the kind of speaking I was doing, and I doubted that I could handle the larger assignment. The language barrier seemed almost too difficult, even with a translator. I wasn't familiar with the culture, so I couldn't speak relevantly to situations. I would have a hard time with humor. There were so many unknowns that every time I tried to pray, I would be stopped by doubt and fear. What's the use? I thought. The barriers are insurmountable. Evening came. We took our seats at the back of the stage. As I looked out, I saw one of the largest sea of faces I have ever seen in my life. One of the Indian leaders poked me and said, 20,000 here tonight, maybe 30. Without any nugget of confidence I may have had departed. This is going to be a disaster, I thought. What am I doing here? I looked over behind the stage and I saw Yezu and several of his trusted leaders on their faces in dirt praying. Yeah, I know what they're praying about, I thought. They realize this American is going to give the main message is perfectly capable of emptying out the whole park in a matter of minutes. I knew that those praying men were living in poverty, fighting unbelievable odds in order to tell God's message. They had given their whole lives so that people caught up in false religious systems could come to know the truth of Jesus Christ. And since these annual meetings were the focal point of their whole year's efforts, I felt sick at heart over the setback their work would suffer because of my inept preaching. At that point, the first speaker ended the message. That meant I had about ten minutes left before I was on the firing line. Sherry, vocalist from our church, stepped up to the microphone to sing. I probably should support her in prayer, I thought. But my turn's next. When the chips are down, it's every man for himself. My praying took on new earnestness. Oh Lord, deliver me. Lord make it rain. Make me disappear. The mountain looked so large I saw no point in asking God to move it. I'd be content if it would simply cave in on me and put me out of my misery. As my pitiful prayers were bouncing around in my doubtfelt mind, I faintly overheard Sherry's song. Great is thy faithfulness, O God my Father. I didn't tell John that I was going to read this. There is no shadow of turning with thee Thou changest not, thy compassions they fail not. As thou hast been, thou forever wilt be. Great is thy faithfulness. Great is thy faithfulness. Morning by morning, new mercies I see. All I have needed, thy hand hath provided. Great is thy faithfulness, Lord. unto me. Something happened to me as Sherry sang that song. Great is thy faithfulness As the words rolled over my mind, it suddenly dawned on me that the focus of my attention had been all day on myself. My language barrier, my cultural confusion, my inexperience, my weakness, my fear of failing, my terror of a crowd that size. I was looking squarely at my mountain, and all I could see was my inability to move it. My prayers were pitiful because I was looking at my inadequacy instead of God's adequacy. As Sherry continued singing that great hymn, I said, wait a minute. Let's change the focus right now. Let's look at God, not at Heidel's. I didn't have many minutes, but I started saying very intensely, Lord, I am praying to the Creator of the world, the King of the universe, the all-powerful, all-knowing, all-faithful God. I'm praying to the God who made the mountain and who can move them if necessary. I'm praying to the God who has always been faithful to me, who has never let me down, no matter how frightened I was or how difficult the situation looked. I'm praying to a God who wants to bear fruit through me, and I'm going to trust that he's going to use me tonight, not because of who I am, but because of who he is. He is faithful. By the time Sherry finished the song, I was a different person inside. I still would have taken a rain check if one had been offered, but I wasn't panicky anymore. I was willing to proceed because a faithful God was the object of my full attention. When I walked up to the podium with my translator, I prayed a mountain moving prayer because it was firmly fixed on God's adequacy, not my inadequacy. I spoke with spirit-given confidence that night. It was based on God's sufficiency. I told those people that someone has shed his blood to pay for their sins. That this someone wasn't a Buddha, not a Hindu god, not a character in a myth, not a fairy tale. He was a real human being named Jesus, and he is God's only Son. I told him over and over again, you matter to him. He shed his blood for the forgiveness of your sin, so that you could go free if you put your faith and trust in him. As I was speaking, I knew God was working. I ended the message. Yesu came up to give the invitation. I went back behind the stage, got down on my knees, and started praying. Oh Lord, I know these people matter to you. Draw them to yourself. Hundreds and hundreds of people came forward, Hindus, Muslims, unbelievers of all sizes and shapes, colors and ages. So many came that I thought that my heart would burst. I was rejoicing for all the people who came forward and found new life in Christ, and I was also rejoicing. Because that night God, through prayer, had taken a mountain called fear and cast it into the depths of the sea. When I began to focus on God instead of the mountain, he was able to work through me. You have a mountain in your life this morning, and all you can see is the mountain. Jesus is calling you right now. Get your eyes off the mountain. Get your eyes on him, the one who is able to move the mountains and cast them into the depths of the sea. Get your confidence in him Would grow. Not looking to yourself, not thinking about all your inadequacy. It's simply his sufficiency, his faithfulness, and his adequacy. To see as Ephesians 3, 20 and 21 tells us that it is not That God is able to do immeasurably more than all that you and I could ask or think. More than we could have asked, more than we could imagine, according to His power. that is at work in you, so that to him would be the glory The times that I have most seen God answer prayers that have built my faith have been when I didn't have a plan B. And all I could do was cry out to him, God, if you don't come through, I'm sunk. It's when you're Your heart and your mind and your confidence are fixed on him because he is the object of your attention that you begin to learn what Jesus is teaching in these verses. So my last point to you is to urge you to build what I call a faith portfolio. A faith portfolio is based on the simple principle that faith is like a muscle. It increases in strength the more you exercise it. So you need to begin by praying faith-sized prayers. You're not going to pray this morning about a fig tree being cursed and withered. Because you and I don't have the kind of faith that even if we believed that that was God's purpose, that we would say, I believe he could do that. Believe what pray what you believe he could do. And as you see him answer, keep a record. A faith portfolio, a record of his faithfulness. And as you move on through the coming weeks and months, the rest of the summer and this year, as you build a faith portfolio, your faith, your confidence in him builds, grows. So that you're able to move from those things which seem now impossible to things that I believe God wants us to believe Him for as a church. I wish I could take the time to give examples, a number of things that he has done, but just you know, you just look where we are now, this summer. In addition to our regular budget, which we are basically on target with, we need, you know we need over $24,000 a week to run this operation? Every week, and we're on target, and we added to that for this summer nearly $100,000 in missions. $50,000 for the Sandtown project, 17 is in, we need 33 more. The Tex-Mex trip, about $35,000 for that, $29,000 is, still need six more for that. Bulgaria, Ukraine, Japan. All these things. Can God do that? It's not a matter of searching, well, how much should I give? Pray, Lord, do that. Let's see you provide I want to be available. But what is it that he wants you to do? You think of the terchericos that we support. They're in Uganda from our church, uh from our presbytery. And uh the way they operate in Uganda is they have a medical mission. And the medical mission has three nurses, no doctors, three nurses, people come for healing and then they present the gospel. Recently they found out two of the nurses had been robbing from them. And so they confronted them and they said, well, you could work it out to repay it and we'll keep you on. They said, nah, forget it. And they walked off. The third nurse, a man, was one of their leaders in training and the best translator Al Tricarico has. Walked off the job. That's it. Close the clinic. They're saying, God, what are you doing? Will we join them? Lord, raise up nurses, restore them, bring new, whatever. Open that clinic. Your name's at stake in this. The House of Correction at Wayne and Hartwork. We pray for that because God's name's at stake in it. We have chaplains in our denomination that work with the Navy. The Navy is now being put under pressure from American Civil Liberties Union to not allow naval chaplains to pray in Jesus' name in any public situation except a formal worship service. There is one naval chaplain now under disciplinary action for praying at a press conference. We look at our nation, the immorality, the anti-Christian bias, the secularism, we say, these are mountains. Where do we start? You start by building confidence day by day in a Jesus who is able to meet all your needs. For five years we prayed for a neighbor next door that God would work in these neighbors. Talk to the wife about spiritual things. Husbands never talk one more. This week I'm out weeding. Calls me over, starts talking. Some things in his life have come that have been difficult. And all of a sudden he starts asking me, how do you know God? We talked for an hour about how do you get to know God? You can't see him. What do you do? And how what is what is his purpose for us? You know, uh and then he borrows a book, a Christian book from me. Wants to get into a Bible study that we're having here that Dick and James are leading on True Faced. God is able to do more than you and I can ask and imagine, not because of our faith, because he is faithful. You want to know more about that, lay hold of him? Let's pray. Let's pray now for a moment. Lord, we come to you. We ask in Jesus' name that you would open our hearts to see faithfulness, the adequacy, the power of you, our God, that we would pray according to our faith, our confidence in you, to honor you. Not to dishonor you with half-hearted, maybe you can kinds of prayers, but the kind of prayers that say, Lord, I don't know if you want to do this, but I believe that you can do it. And I want to know your heart. I want to know what glorifies you. I want to learn how to claim your promises and pray Scripture and pray. Pray what honors you. Lord, teach us how to pray. Lord, increase those that come and pray Thursday mornings for our church, our neighborhood, our community, the world, our missionaries, to see answers, to record and watch and grow in faith. Those who would pray in the back, as some are doing right now, for those in this service to see your power and your spirit come and use your word to change lives on Sunday morning. Lord, we look to you because you're our only hope. But you are sufficient in Jesus' name. Amen.