Month of missions. A time when we can lift our eyes from our own small, narrow worlds. To be judging whether God is working only by what he is doing in my world, to see what he is doing in the whole world To judge whether or not God is working, not by whether you got that parking space that you prayed for and so needed this week. Or whether you prayed that your family wouldn't get sick and they all got the flu, somebody right during the service here in the back or whether your computer crashed in spite of all your best sincere efforts and prayers, but rather to get a bigger picture of what God is doing. For instance, to realize that a hundred years ago at the beginning of the last century, there were about one quarter of one million evangelical Christians, Bible-believing Christians in all of Latin America. You know how many there are now? Over sixty million Or to consider the fact that currently in South America, 10,000 people come to Jesus Christ every single day. A hundred and forty thousand Africans come to Jesus Christ every single week. 900,000 Chinese profess every month. Ten years ago, 1990, around the globe people were coming to Christ. The church was growing at the rate of about 70,000 people per day. By 1995, that had increased to a hundred thousand people per day. And the best estimates that I have for missiologists today is that currently about a hundred and sixty-five thousand people are coming to Christ every single day. To get a little perspective on that, from the years 1960 to 1985, the church was growing at the rate of about 1% per year. That was less than population increase. We were losing ground. 1985 things took a shift. From nineteen eighty five to nineteen ninety, the church began to grow at the rate of three percent per year. From 1990 to 1995, the church continued to grow and accelerate. Growth rate was at 5% per year. Nobody is exactly sure what the current growth rate is from 1995 to 2000. Somewhere between 5 and 8 percent continues to increase. You realize that if the church were to grow at the rate of 7. 5% per year Half the world would be Christians in 25 years. That'd be three, almost 3. 7 billion people. Lift up your eyes, brothers and sisters. So when we move into the missions conference, we're not talking about, oh well, now we've got to endure this. We're talking about some exciting stuff. Now, how is it that we can lift our eyes to see what God is doing and to understand and large our vision for what's taking place? I would suggest there's two dimensions to that. There's the vertical dimension and there's the horizontal dimension. The vertical dimension has to do with our relationship to God. And the missions conference, the month of missions, addresses that. There's three purposes to that vertical dimension. And you see them there in your outline. First is that you would be confronted with God's word. We would understand what the Bible says about missions. We would understand that as we turn the corner on a new millennium, that four thousand years ago God spoke to Abraham and he said, Out of your family I am going to bless all the nations of the earth. Three thousand years ago God spoke to a king David and he said, Out of your house I'm going to raise up a king. who is going to rule all the nations of the earth. Two thousand years ago the king came and he said, All authority has been given unto me. And he said to his disciples, Go and make disciples of all the nations. And that's been happening for the last 2,000 years. So we want to get the biblical picture. We want to understand the mandate. Be confronted with God's word. Be fixed on that again. But then that moves us to the second thing. We want to be confronted with God's world. We want to see what he's doing today in order to accomplish that. That's the second purpose of our missions conference, missions month. And so we'll be bringing in people from different parts of the world in order for us to understand a little bit of what's happening. For instance, have you ever heard of the Church of Deeper Life in Lagos, Nigeria? Now we have two families in our congregation from Nigeria, so you can check this out with them after. But Deeper Life Church in Lagos started as a Bible study in 1974. Currently, it now has a Sunday morning worship attendance of about 120,000 people meeting every week. But that was not enough for these folks, and so they started planting churches. In fact, they've planted 500 churches in the city of Lagos alone. But that wasn't enough for them either, so they began to plant churches elsewhere in Nigeria. It's the largest church in Africa, by the way. And it's uh planted 5,000 churches throughout Nigeria. But that wasn't enough for them, so they started looking for other horizons, and they've planted 3,000 churches in other parts of the world So God's doing some stuff. Missions is not blurring stuff, you know. And we need to see what God's doing in the world. We want to think during the next month a little bit like missionaries. We want to think about the strategy. What is God doing? What is he using today? So we're part of that. Our hearts are engaged in it And then thirdly, we want to be confronted with God's will. First of all, his word, secondly, his world, and then thirdly, his will. We want to personalize it. What does this mean for you and me? You belong to Jesus Christ. That every one of you are the objects of the Great Commission that has been given to you and to me to go and make disciples of all nations. So what does that mean for us? Does it mean that we all pack up and go? It does mean that you and I learn how to pray more strategically for missions. It means that some of you God may call to participate in and join the World Missions Task Force Which helps us to be more involved in missions. We need to build that task force. We want to augment it. We want to enlarge it so that more can be done. It may mean that for your seller small group you would choose to adopt a missionary, a particular person from a particular country, and have more meaningful contact with them, write them and know what their needs are. Uh it may mean that you will go on a short-term missions trip like Kathleen and Chloe over here are nodding and amening and are Amen. Uh participate in some specific effort to get some experience somewhere. And to see what God is doing. It can mean all kinds of things. But basically what it means is that during this month, we learn again What it means for us to just simply say to God, Lord, I'm a living sacrifice and I'm at your disposal. What does it mean to be consciously excited about what He is doing, participating? Not reluctantly, but eagerly, in whatever way that he calls you and me to be involved in that. That's the vertical dimension. And the missions conference addresses that But there's also a horizontal dimension that helps us to open our eyes to see what God is doing. And by that I mean making friends with people from other cultures. Make a friend from someone from another country, from another country, culture, from another race, and you will find that the effect of that is that it helps for you to open your eyes and to become interested in the world in a different way. You begin to see the world a little more through their eyes. People of different races and cultures simply think differently about the world. And so as we do that, and as the church does that, as we as a body become more diverse As we reflect more of the nations and the cultures within our worship, within our fellowship, then I think that there is a biblical principle that says a church that is more diverse culturally will be a church. more involved in missions. Now you say, give me a verse to prove that. Well I can't give you a verse, but I can give you a case study, and that's what I'd like to do this morning. What is the very first church in the New Testament that sent out missionaries? Anyone that wasn't here in the first service? What was the first church in the New Testament that sent out missionaries? You're as timid as the first service. Antioch! Very good. You're at the first service. That's right, you weren't. Okay, very good. The first service I had to say begins with an A, and then everybody said, Antioch! It was Antioch. You see that in uh Acts chapter thirteen. So if you have your Bibles here, again it's not on the overhead because I want to use a a number of verses around this, so But in Acts chapter thirteen you see that most succinctly stated in verses one to three. So let me read that to us now. This is God's word. Let's hear what he says In the church at Antioch there were prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Menaeon, who had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul. While they were worshipping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. So after they had fasted and prayed, they placed their hands on them and they sent them off. Paul and Marnabas were the first missionaries. That was the beginning of Paul's missionary journeys Now um let's look at that a little bit closer to see some very interesting connections. First of all, what about Antioch, this place? Antioch was a uh city that was located in Syria. It was in a place that is now Antake, Turkey, about uh 300 miles north of Jerusalem, near the Mediterranean Sea. It was founded in 300 B. C. by a Syrian general by the name of, guess what? Antiochus. And uh so uh Antioch grew from that. It was a beautiful city, fed by clear mountain streams. It was on uh banks of a navigable river out to the sea. It was so beautiful it was used as a vacation spot as well as being a wealthy commercial center. It was a very cosmopolitan place. In fact, it was the third largest city in the Roman Empire after Rome and Alexandria. Several cultures met in Antioch. The Latin, Roman, Greek culture from the West and the Oriental culture from the East all met there. There was also a very large Jewish settlement there. Sort of sounds like New York City, doesn't it? It was also known for its uh magnificent architecture, magnificent temples, the theater of Caesar, the amphitheaters that were there It was also known for its uh sexual orgies devoted to Apollo and to Daphne. Very interesting place. And in that place, the Church of Antioch was born. It was born out of persecution. If you read in Acts chapter 8 verse 1, the persecution came to Jerusalem, and it says that uh the disciples were scattered except for the apostles, the leaders remained But uh the lay people, those who had not gone to Jerusalem Seminary or any other seminary, folks just like you Working in regular business workday jobs. We're going around, it says, through the Empire, spreading the gospel. Now if you look at uh Acts chapter 11 in verse 19, it picks up on that story from chapter 8 and tells you some of the places that they went. In Acts chapter 11, verse 19, now those who had been scattered by the persecution in connection with Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus. An Antioch telling the message only to Jews. Well that sounds fairly natural, doesn't it? Um people go out and move to another place. Uh who do you tend to associate with? Well, you look for people like you. People that look like you, who speak your language, who have your cultures, who like your kind of food. And those are the ones you associate with. So they went as Jews out to Antioch and they found the Jewish community there and they began to talk about Jesus to them and only to them. But look at verse 20. Some of them, however, men from Cyprus and Cyrene went to Antioch and began to speak to Greeks also, telling them the good news about the Lord Jesus. It's interesting that one of the deacons of the church in Jerusalem was a fellow by the name of Nicholas from Antioch. Perhaps he was one of those that was here, but at least we know there were people from Cyprus and Cyrene People who were at least bicultural. These were people who had been part of the Jerusalem church, but had Gentile either backgrounds or were Gentiles. uh converted, but uh these people were comfortable with Gentiles. And so they went and they talked to the Gentiles and The Bible tells us God greatly blessed our efforts. Look at verse 21. The Lord's hand was with them, and a great number of people believed and turned to the Lord. Now, you remember that Peter had already been rebuked for saying the Gentiles had to become Jews in order to be part of the church, become part of followers of Jesus. Back in Acts eleven that was dealt with with Cornelius. And so the Jerusalem church was a Jewish church that welcomed Gentiles and said that they at this point Acts fifteen would be finally settled, but that they would be accepted fully. But now you got a new thing, because here you've got a group of people That are not basically Jews in control, and these other folks are tolerated and welcomed, but you have a mixed group from the beginning, different cultures that are the basis of this church. Uniquely diverse. It's the first non-Jewish church in history. And so verse 22 tells us that the Jerusalem church, it says news of this reached the ears of the church in Jerusalem. And they decided to do something very wise. They decided to send a very bicultural man named Barnabas up there to check it out. Actually, his real name wasn't Barnabas, that was his nickname. His real name was Joseph. He was a Levitical Jew who had been a native of Cyprus. So he was bicultural. He was Gentile background. He was from a Gentile area, and he was of Jewish stock. Interesting that his nickname, Barnabas, means son of encouragement. So he's a peacemaker, and that's probably what they had in mind. Because this is a pretty volatile situation up here. You got these Greeks and Romans and all these folks up there and they're coming to Jesus and you got these Jews and they're what are we going to do? And you know, this thing could be pretty tender, so Barnabas, would you go up there and check it out? And so verse 23 says, true to his name, when he arrived, he saw the evidence of the grace of God. He was glad and he encouraged him. Don't miss that play on words Barnabas, son of encouragement, encouraged them all to remain true to the Lord with all their hearts. And God continued to prosper the work. Verse 24. He was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and faith, and a great number of people were brought to the Lord. That's the second time the Lord said that, and you get the idea something's going on there In fact, so much is going on that Barnabas needs help. He can't handle this whole thing himself. And so Barnabas has to look for somebody else who's going to help him out in this very bicultural diverse situation, and he does not look back to Jerusalem. He goes out even further, north to Tarsus, because he knows of a new believer up there that's got quite a reputation for evangelism. In fact, this guy is so bicultural, he's got two names His Jewish name is Saul, his Greek name is Paul. We know him better by Paul. And so verse 24 tells us, uh verse 25, that Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul. And when he found it, he brought him to Antioch. And so for a whole year Barnabas and Saul or Paul met with the church and taught great numbers of people. The disciples were called Christians first. at Antioch. Don't miss that last sentence. That's extremely important. You see, till now, till this point, Christianity was considered to be a sect of Judaism. People had different sects and they followed different rabbis, Gamaliel or this one or that one, Hillel, Shemai. And so there's these ones, and they followed this rabbi Jesus. Now, these folks are a little more fanatical about it. They actually worship Jesus. They think he's risen from the dead, but there's still a sect of Judaism But now you've got Greeks, you've got Romans, you've got Jews, and they're all claiming this Jesus. So what are you going to call them? It's not Jewish anymore. It's kind of like if you put apples and pears in a bowl, you can't call them apples. Pears don't fit. You can't call them pears, the apples don't fit. You don't just call them apple pears, so what do you do? You come up with a bigger category, so you call them fruit. And that's what they did. They said, what do they have in common? Well, there's really only one thing they have in common. They all follow this Jesus, so we'll call them Christians, because Christos is the Greek word for Messiah. And so they called him Christians. Probably their enemies, making fun at first. Doesn't really matter. The fact is, it was a new label for a new thing God was doing, bringing cultures together. In order to show that it was the gospel that would unite them. In fact, this was the fulfillment of the Old Testament promise. So look at this church. Five characteristics of it, and notice how diversity permeates each one. First of all, it's a witnessing church. We've already looked at that. Verse 21, verse 24. The Gospel is going to different cultures and they're all being brought into notice one body. They don't start a messianic congregation. on one block, an African American congregation on another block, and a different congregation on different blocks, Asian congregations, Korean, Chinese. It is the Church at Antioch. Very significant. Secondly, notice it's a maturing congregation. You notice that in that maturity there is diversity of leadership. The uh those who were of the Jerusalem church don't hold on to the leadership. If you look at chapter 13 and verse 1, we read before. There's five leaders that are mentioned. And you notice that Barnabas and Saul are listed there, but they're not listed as the first two to show that they were the top dogs. They're not listed at as the bottom two, the last two in some sort of false humility saying, oh well, you know, the yes, they were there, but but they're kind of mixed in. First and last. But notice what's in between. First of all, you got Barnabas already told you he was a Jerusalem Jew from Cyprus. Then you got this fellow, Simeon. Niger, Niger means black or dark, so he's possibly from Africa, as Simon of Cyrene. But at least we know that Lucius Of Cyrene was from Africa because Cyrene's in North Africa. Here was a guy who had moved to Syria and he was not Jewish, not with a name like Lucius. He wasn't Jewish So you have here a pure African Gentile. Then you got Minaeon, whose foster brother, or at least raised with, Herod the Tetrarch, that is Herod Antipos, who was the son of Herod the Great. of the Christmas story. Herod Antipos was the one who beheaded John the Baptist. He was the one at the trial of Jesus, the one who had put James, the brother of John, to death. And so here's two guys who had grown up together. One of them became an enemy of the gospel, another one became an elder. Talk about a diverse group of people. And then you got Saul of Tarsus. Very diverse group. But you notice there seems to be an equality of the leadership. Thirdly, notice it's a compassionate church because chapter 11, verse 27 to 30 says a famine hit Judea. And that these people extended themselves and they sent a very, very large diaconal offering through Barnabas and Saul to the Church of Jerusalem. And I believe that's because when you have a diverse group of people, if they're diverse ethnically, culturally, racially, they will also probably be diverse economically. And a group of people who are diverse economically tend to be more sensitive to the needs of others who are hurting. And so it tends to be a more compassionate church. I believe that's part of the fruit of the diversity of the church at Antioch. You notice, as I said, it's a united church. There's no indication here of any kind of strife or division, which is very significant because in chapter 6 of Acts where you had the Jerusalem church with very little diversity. You had Hellenistic Jews and Judean Jews. You had all kinds of strife about whose widows were getting cheated and all this kind of stuff going on But here you've got real diversity, and there's no indication of divisions. Now I don't believe that that was because they were just nice people I believe that that is a supernatural thing when you see that happen. In fact, Paul says in Ephesians 4, remember in verse 3, make every effort to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. So I believe these people were consciously working at the unity. It is not easy to talk about how you're going to worship with people who worship on the wrong deep. Or people who like music that you don't relate to very well, or the kinds of instruments that you would not choose to have up here, or back there, or anywhere. And so these people are working. By the power of the gospel, but why are they able to do that? Well, because you see, fifthly, they're a worshiping church. Their focus is on the gospel. Chapter 13, you see, after it states who they are, it says in verse 2, while they were worshiping the Lord, He said, Well, of course every church worships. Yeah, but look at this. While they're worshiping the Lord in fasting, that means this wasn't any one-hour service. He means these people were worshiping in a devoted, concentrated, earnest, desperate, heart-seeking way where they had set aside a significant amount of time. And these people were seeking the Lord together. Their focus was on him. It was on the gospel. And that's what I believe held them together. We had a congregational meeting Friday night. We talked about all the ways that God has blessed us as a church. He's brought us into great abundance. Growth, prosperity, a lot of means to do a lot of ministry. And I think the tendency would be for us to say, well, I guess we're doing things okay and we must be praying enough, and so let's go. just kind of coast on into 2001. I believe that'd be a big mistake. I believe that as the edifice of ministry grows, the base of prayer needs also to grow to support it. One of my biggest concerns right now for CPC is that we would have an inadequate base of prayer. Our Thursday prayer meeting, Sunday service prayer teams, and other prayer ministries are not growing commensurate to the growth of the rest of the congregation. I'm very thankful for three of you who said you're interested in joining the Sunday service prayer teams in this last week. May your tribe increase. May you be back there in that room praying for us, that God will be working through this as well as coming sixth day on Thursday mornings to pray. Because that I believe is significant in the church at Antioch. Because you see there that while they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, which means they were praying, You never have fasting in the Bible without praying. The Holy Spirit said to them, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. That must have been a test of faith. Two-fifths of the leadership Can you imagine the Holy Spirit coming to one of our fourth Thursday session meetings and saying, I'd like you to set aside five of the elders here to Move out to somewhere else. We you know we struggle about sending Gary Aaron's to Western Howard County. So gonna release that group. Let them go. You know, that's what God wants us to do. God bless you. We're gonna start a church in Western Howard County someday. We believe it. Amen. Nobody here from Western Howard County, I guess. They all come to the first service, yeah. But there's here's a group that's willing to set aside two key men. These were the guys who came the strongest, most mature. The original group from Jerusalem. Because the Holy Spirit said to do it, so they're going to trust Him. The church will continue to grow. And so you see that this church becomes the first church that sends out missionaries. And I believe that that's significant. I believe That the principle of a church that was the first diverse church became the first mission church is the same kind of principle that continues down through the ages. Churches that one people only like themselves and are very homogeneous will probably not be very involved in missions. Or it will be involved in giving, but not real participation. A church in which there is a lot of diversity will be a church by its very nature that is world conscious and therefore be involved in missions. And that's PC the basis, that's the gospel. You know, God said to Abraham, I'm going to bless the nations out of your families. So he calls out a group of people, the Jews, and he says Things like Psalm 96 declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples. This is not just for people like us. And so the Messiah, Isaiah 42, 6 says, is going to be a light to the Gentiles, to the nations. Wherever we read Gentiles in the Old Testament, that's really the word nations. Same way in the New Testament, the word, the Greek Hebrew word, mean nations. And so you can always translate it helps you sometimes be realize how how at its core the Bible is missiological Then you have in Matthew 28, the Messiah comes and he says, All authority is given to me, so therefore go make disciples of the nations. You have then in Acts chapter 1, verse 8, he says, You'll be my witnesses among the nations, and that's unfolding. And you see Antioch is one chapter of that. It's what Ephesians talks about as the essence of the gospel. Chapter one talks about how God has brought us By redemption into Christ, chapter 2, our need, and then he talks about how after the vertical reconciliation, the horizontal reconciliation among people that are by nature enmity at enmity with each other. Jews and Gentiles. Blacks and whites, Asians, Latins. All those who would tend to just congregate among ourselves in the gospel are brought together. In fact, chapter 3 says that's the mystery of the gospel. That there is now no one ethnic group. The gospel brings us together. So you see that little box. Look at the box at this point up here. The essence of the gospel you see is that the church is one diverse people saved by grace. God is magnified when people can't explain the church in anything else except the gospel. If you can explain it in sociological terms, these people tend to congregate together. That's natural. But when you get peoples that do not tend to congregate together and are joined together And you can only explain that through their identification with and devotion to Jesus Christ. That's supernatural. God gets the glory. Amen? And so if we're going to establish credibility for the gospel in Howard County, the more diverse we are, the more the credibility and the magnitude and the majesty of our God is exalted. You see, by the law, the law always operates with superior-inferior. Under the law, I must always demonstrate that I and people like me are better. That's the nature of the law, to justify myself. So under the law, I will always want to associate with people like me and look down on people not like me. The gospel turns out on its head. As we come to the cross, the gospel helps me to realize my need of Christ. that I have nothing to offer and nothing to prove. Therefore, when I see people from another culture, another race who are different from me, I see it as an opportunity to learn more about the multifaceted wisdom and glory of my God as it is reflected in that person and their background and their way of thinking of life and their way of seeing the gospel. Because they'll see it different. They'll be sensitive to aspects of God that I'm not. And so it's not just because somehow we ought to do it, it's because it is a delight to do it. And God has exalted that in principle we at Columbia Presbyterians seek increasing diversity. And therefore, let me close with four observations. A healthy church is a mission-minded church. It's simply the case because the Bible is mission-minded. God is a mission-minded God, and therefore If we are in touch with him, we are a mission-minded people. Secondly, that's why we devote a whole month to this to concentrate on it. Secondly, you cannot long for the nations abroad to worship Jesus and ignore the nations at our doorstep. If we care for the nations to worship Jesus, then we will reflect the nations within our own body worshiping him here. Thirdly, it cannot be a culturally diverse church And ignore the nations abroad. Simply can't, because the more culturally diverse you are, the more cosmopolitan you are. The more your interests simply are broader. You're interested. Who cares what's going on in Belize, you know, but uh, you know, Kathleen and Chloe and what? And what But you do. And so when we hear about what's going on, they'll tell us about it, you know. Dan McQueen just back from Argentina, you know. When we are in touch, you see with different parts of the world, Dick Barnes talking about Russia Belarus, Ukraine, then we become interested in those things. And as we become interested in those things, we're concerned for the gospel. And for those people without Christ to know him. So it just moves in that direction. Fourthly, a church is always either growing in its diversity and missions or becoming more narrow, never static. Now which is CPC? I thank God if you look over the last couple years, we are clearly becoming more diverse We're becoming more diverse culturally. We have people within our congregation from every continent except Australia, so we sent a family there to go live. The Madsons used to be our youth worker here, youth leader. But we have over a dozen countries represented. Good to see Cecilia back from Sweden. You know, and people from all over that are with us uh that that are just uh glad to be part of this body, more and more Korean Americans in the last year. In fact, I'm delighted to say that uh this Thursday, February the first Peter Lee will be coming on staff with us as our first Korean-American intern in leadership See, I think it's very important that we as a congregation don't simply say, well, we've got a lot of diversity within the congregation. We don't have diversity in our worship or among our cell leaders or our worship leaders or our elders. Now that's playing games. So diversity, as in the church at Antioch, has to be diversity from top to bottom. And so uh I see us God moving us more and more in this direction, and I believe that uh myssiologically That is going to be healthy for us. I believe that it means that we're in touch with the gospel and what God is concerned for. And so for you personally I ask you to consider, whether you're Anglo or whether you're from some other culture, consider joining the World Missions Task Force, having your input on what we're doing and where we're going as a church and all that. You'll be seeing more diversity in our worship. You experience it this morning. You'll be experiencing more. Because if you come to a worship service and there's only one kind of worship, the signal is we only expect one kind of culture to be here. But if you see a diversity of worship, as Evans course talked about the last couple of weeks, we realize that as we come, we're comfortable with certain things, but as we grow in that, that's spiritually healthy for us. It helps us to see God as a bigger God than simply our culture. And I also suggested in your cell or small group that you consider inviting somebody from another culture or race into your group. A little more stimulating. It's a good thing to do. And if just to start from that, after the worship, talk to people who are different from you. But it's not just talk to people who we're naturally gravitate to Talk to people who look different, who may even have a different background, culture, in order to be stimulated to learn things. Because this is what we're going to be pursuing. This is what the gospel is about. This is what we'll be looking at in the next month. We'll be having two missionaries from foreign fields, and then we'll be having two from one from Baltimore and one from DC, from very culturally diverse churches. And we'll be looking at the connection, consciously thinking about how we as a church, as we grow in the gospel based diversity to see that God is also enlarging our heart for the nations. I wanted uh again to close with a picture of a banquet uh that somebody um had written but uh won't be able to do that. But at least let me invite you to come to the banquet this Saturday and to experience some diversity there. Hopefully in foods and dress and some of the things that we do. But that's before next Sunday. This Saturday evening. Six o'clock, right here. So don't miss that. Come to the middle hour times. You folks particularly have to remember that. Come an hour early where these missionaries will be presenting things about their culture as Dick did this morning. Fascinating things about Russia. uh to be able to enlarge our picture of God. But let's pray together now as we as we close. Father, we repent of the ways that we are so ethnocentric and tend to look at our own culture as superior. That's just natural. Lord, we pray that you, Lord Jesus, who are so transcendent of culture, will work in our hearts to come to the cross with those of our brothers and sisters here within this body. And to esteem those who are from different cultures, different uh racial backgrounds. Lord, we thank you for how you're increasing that And pray that you would continue to increase that and move into leadership, those from different cultures, that we as a body would be only able to be explained by the gospel, and that the gospel becomes the only glue that really holds us together But that that glue is totally sufficient. And it will grow in our love for you and our our ability, Lord, to to love others because we see you working in us. The God who is the God of the nations. Lord, do what it takes to make us that kind of church and make us individually those kinds of people we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.