O Jesus, we do long to love you more, and yet we know that there are times when we feel so distant, much like the Israelites in Babylon. And yet, Lord, we long to know that you're acting redemptively, that you are drawing us to yourself, and that we will love you more and more. As we come to your word this morning, Lord, teach us, challenge us, draw us to yourself, feed us, we pray, that we might be men and women of God who will bring pleasure to you. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen. Let me read the passage again to refresh us with where we are. God comes to Ezekiel and he says, This: At the end of seven days the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. So hear the word I speak, and give them warning from me. When I say to a wicked man, you will surely die, and you do not warn him or speak out to dissuade him from his evil ways, in order to save his life. That wicked man will die for his sin. And I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do warn the wicked man, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his evil ways, He will die for his sin, but you will have saved yourself. Again, when a righteous man turns from his righteousness and does evil, and I put a stumbling block before him He will die. Since you did not warn him, he will die for his sin. The righteous things he did will not be remembered, and I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do warn the righteous man not to sin, and he does not sin, he will surely live, because he took warning, and you will have saved yourself. I want to recap Ezekiel's call this morning so that for those of you who weren't here last week and for those of you who have short memories and for those of you who've been distracted, you'll be back up to speed with us. And in order to do that in the most effective way I can, I created an outline that has a number of boxes on it, and I hope that it's clear enough that the AA simply accused me of showing off what Word could do. It's not true. I use this all the time. At any rate, I want you to look at that first heading, because the Israelites are in crisis. And that crisis is that they are in exile in Babylon Now, we might read this passage and simply pass along the fact, well, of course they're supposed to be in Babylon at this time, so what's the big deal? But the issue is they're in crisis. They have been taken from their home. They have lost the temple. They have lost the city where God has dwelt. They have lost every way they knew to worship him. And they're in crisis. Now, in this crisis, there's a pattern that we need to look at that everybody ought to follow in whatever your crisis, but certainly ought to apply in this particular crisis, and that is there's some questions we have to ask. And the first two questions are is God meaningless and realistically I think you ought to write right now in there not is God meaningless, but is God abandoning Israel Not only because it's an A that goes with the acting, but it's a better way of saying what's going on. The question is, has God abandoned us? Has God abandoned Israel? That's one side of the question. The other answer is God is acting. Now, if I'm thinking that God has abandoned Israel, it's either because he won't act Or because he can't. Either way, it doesn't matter. He's abandoned me. And I am on my own. And there is no hope beyond my own abilities. And the Israelites had to ask themselves that question. Are we alone in Babylon? Has God been defeated by the gods of Babylon and shown to either be not powerful enough or not even there? And when you come into crises, those are the questions you have to ask yourself as well, whatever the crisis might be. Has God abandoned me? Am I alone? Is this one of those do-it-yourself jobs? On the other hand, God's acting. And if in this crisis I see that God is acting, there's still a problem for me that has to be resolved. Because God can be acting vengefully. See, some of you have fathers. Five of you out there have me as a father. And you may relate God to what you know of your human father, and your human father may at times have acted vengefully. He may have punished you for the sake of smiling at your pain He may have been so fed up with your behavior that you finally got your come-uppins. And he sort of chuckled. Because he was acting vengefully. And the Israelites have to ask in this situation: has God finally gotten so fed up with thousands of years of behavior that he's just cast us off? And he's having a great old smile that now the sins of the fathers are visited to their children, and we're alone. See, if God is acting, it's not necessarily good news. But there's that one last choice. That God is acting, and he's not acting vengefully, he's acting redemptively The book of Ezekiel is written to answer this question, and it's written to answer the question, you bet I'm acting redemptively. I want you to think for a minute. If God were acting vengefully, would he want to speak to his people? Would he want them to know what he's doing? Or would he most likely just sit back and watch? Vengeance doesn't require communication, it simply requires observation. But God calls Ezekiel. And what's the call? Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Hear my word. Give them warning from me. The setting is the Israelites are in Babylon, and now if they answer that God is abandoning us, whatever we do is fine, so let's make the best of where we are. We've lost him, let's embrace the gods of Babylon. The Israelites might be saying, well, gee, you know we have an opportunity here. Now we're part of the strongest kingdom in the world. Let's enjoy this. Let's go forward. Let's worship their gods. Let's eat their foods. Let's live their lives. But Ezekiel's call is to warn the wicked away from wickedness, and to warn the righteous away from his turn into wickedness, which he might do if he believes God is abandoning him. If he's alone, he'll do what he must. She'll do what she must. And so the question before the Israelites is, Am I alone? And God says, No, I've given you Ezekiel. God is acting redemptively, and we'll see more of that in the fourth message in this series. But the word that God gives to Ezekiel is a redemptive word. His desire is to bring the people back. For you see, what's happened, and Ezekiel makes this clear, is that over the history of Israel The sins of the Israelites have so killed that marriage that God describes between himself and his people. In the book of Hosea, he describes himself using the analogy of Hosea and his wife Gomer. And it's clear in his mind that there is an unfaithfulness on the part of the Israelites, a sin that has deadened their marriage. And God so longs for the truth of a passionate marriage that he's unwilling to allow the pretense of a dead one. And so he sends his people into exile in Babylon so that they will know the consequences of their sin. And he doesn't leave it for them to figure out. He doesn't say, okay, you guys have heard me over and over and over again, and now you're going to face it. And when I'm not so angry, I'll come back to you. God says, No. I'm going to send you into exile for your sin, so that you will know that you have killed our marriage. But I will go with you. You see, the Israelites thought that as God left the temple, or as they left the temple, there was no access to God. And so they were alone. God says, now I'm going with you, and I'm going to speak to you through Ezekiel. And what I speak to you will be so life-changing. Then our relationship will be restored. Ezekiel is speaking to the people for the purpose of restoring them to God. Another analogy that God uses other than marriage is that of parenting. We call God our Father. In Deuteronomy 8, verse 5, God says to his people, Know then in your heart. That as a man disciplines his son, so the Lord your God disciplines you. God is not concerned to let his people go because they have earned the pain that they have experienced. He is using that pain to bring them back. In Hebrews chapter 12, later on from where John read in the beginning of the service, you hear, endure hardship as discipline. God is treating you as sons. For what son is not disciplined by his father? If you are not disciplined, and everyone undergoes discipline, then you are illegitimate children and not true sons. Moreover, we have had all had the human fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them for it. How much more should we submit to the Father of our spirits and live? Our fathers disciplined us for a little while as they thought best, but God disciplines us for our good that we may share in His holiness. No discipline seems pleasant at the time, but painful. Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it. The author of Hebrews is able to reflect upon this entire historic event with the exile in Babylon. And I wouldn't at all be surprised if this is part of what he's reflecting upon as he thinks about the discipline that God has exercised over his children. God loves us. If you ever doubt that, look at the cross. If you ever doubt the depth of God's love for you as his child, look at the cross and the pain that he took upon himself, both as the Father who judged and the Son who bore that judgment. Look at the alienation that God allowed himself to experience because he loves you. Pain, both physical, which indeed was intense, but even more so spiritual. As Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? God loves us, and you have to cling to that as you look at your crises and the crisis of the exile in Babylon. But that's only a sub point for today's message. Today's message really is much more than simply whether or not God is with us in our crises, in our struggles, and our trials. Because last week we looked at what it means to be a watchman. We looked at the calling of Ezekiel and we saw what God called Ezekiel particularly to do. And if you're like me and you want to find loopholes, One of the best loopholes to see is the fact that we spoke about the uniqueness of Ezekiel's call. Now I can listen to Ezekiel's call and think, whoa. That's difficult. But it doesn't nearly faze me if I think that's Ezekiel's difficult call. This morning, one of the things that we need to focus on most entirely is How broad is that call? The question that's the sermon title for your outline is, am I called to be a watchman? It gets personal today. There are three positions you can take on whether or not this title or who this retal title of watchman refers to. The first position you have listed down in your outline is the minimalist position. Don't ask me to spell it off the top of my head. I like spell checkers. The minimalist position. Ezekiel was unique in his call. We spoke last week about the fact that Ezekiel is the only prophet to whom the name Watchman is given in the text of his call. Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Chapter 3, verse 17 So one position we can take if we really want to be narrow in how we understand the scripture is that Ezekiel is the only watchman described in the Bible. Therefore, the functions that this passage describes apply only to Ezekiel, and we're free. We can sit back and watch as observers. Because I don't have to be a watchman. Now, the second position you can take is the clericalist position. Doesn't mean we're all clerks. It means those who are the leaders in the church Have the function and therefore the calling to be watchmen. I'm a watchman. God has called me to the office of teaching elder, and therefore He has called me to be responsible for your spiritual well-being as He's called me to this church. Therefore it's my job to be the watchman. And all those demands are mine. And you can look at this situation much like you would at any other because You're not an officer in the church. Now, those of you who are elders would have to struggle with this as well, and so the job becomes yours. There are those who believe, and a lot of the commentaries will point out that this is clearly the job of the church leadership. It is an ongoing job. It didn't end with Ezekiel. But it is not a job that is for the general believer. And so you guys are still off the hook. But there's a generalist position. And I think there's a lot of scripture to back it up. And this morning I'm going to take some time and I'm going to show you that scripture. Because I believe Ezekiel's call is to each of us who name the name Jesus. We each have the function of watchmen. How do I back that up? Well, first of all, we need to look at what Ezekiel chapter 3 points out are the functions of Ezekiel as a watchman. Hear my word. Ezekiel is the watchman who is commanded to listen to God, to know God, and to know what God expects both of Ezekiel and of the people. So that's function number one, to listen to the Lord. Number two, give them warning from me. The watchman must cry out to the people And proclaim the Lord in his truth. Clearly, that is a function of pastors, because they are to preach the Word of God. That is the function of Ezekiel as he is to speak what God spoke to him. Implied is the warning that they are to know the people. Because Ezekiel had to know what the people were doing that was sinful before he could warn them of it. So he had to know the people And lastly, in that proclaiming God's word is not only warning, but is the gospel. It is the plan of redemption. Ezekiel chapter 36, which we'll get into in a couple of weeks, is so clear. In the redemptive plan of God, that Ezekiel is specifically charged to speak out. So it is to listen to God's word. It is to warn the people, and in warning the people, it is to know what they are doing and how they are living. And it is to bring about God's redemptive plan by proclaiming that gospel to the people. One of the things that we need to do as we understand any particular passage of Scripture is to understand how the rest of Scripture speaks about that. And I want to reveal some passages to you that speak to us. About these four functions. John chapter 8, verse 47, Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees. They're challenging him and they're challenging his teaching. And Jesus comes to them at the end of this section, and he says, He who belongs to God hears what God says. The reason you do not hear is that you do not belong to God. There is no exclusion in the statement. Jesus doesn't say that church officers hear God. And the reason you don't hear is because you're not a church officer. He doesn't say Ezekiel hears God, and the reason you're not hearing is because you're not Ezekiel. He says, everyone who belongs to God hears God. It can't get any plainer than that. We all as believers belonging to God listen to Him. Speaking about how we are to be compassionate and how we are to care, Jesus is teaching his disciples in chapter 9 of Matthew some important points about their relationship with the sheep. It says in verse 35, Jesus went through all the towns and villages teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. They ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. Now there are lots of one another verses that speak to how we are to relate to believers, and we'll get to some of those in a minute. But I think this is a very intriguing passage relating to the issue of our caring for those around us, because it's the crowds It is not simply those who are believers, and it's not simply those who are not believers. Jesus is looking at the mass of crowds before him. And he weeps. His heart is broken because they are harassed and helpless. They need a shepherd. Now you may say, well, Jesus is the one that's compassionate there, not the disciples, and it's not a general call to all believers to be compassionate. No. Jesus is shown as compassionate because that is his heart, but his desire is to see his disciples' heart break as well. And so he says to them, the harvest is plentiful. Look at this need. See more than simply the crowds, see the people who are broken and in need of redemption. Whether they belong to God's people or not, they're already all Israelites But they're the crowd. And Jesus is not content to say, I break for their hurt. He says to the disciples, Beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into the harvest. He is taking his disciples from a position of looking for the coming kingdom where they'll rule in authority to showing them the needs of the many around them, who need redemption, who need the gospel, who need a watchman. And he begins to move them that direction. Jesus' concern in this passage is to build a heart of a shepherd into the disciples. That in connection with the other passages that speak about how we are to love one another. Jesus' own command, the night that he is arrested, he says, Love one another, even as I have loved you. By this all men will know that you are my disciples. If you love one another, Jesus is building in his disciples a heart of compassion for the lost and for the wounded. Going back to the Old Testament, there's a passage in Ecclesiastes chapter 4 that speaks of our need for this kind of watchman. Solomon writing in Ecclesiastes says, Two are better than one, for they have a good return for their work, because if one falls down, his friend can help him up. But pity the one who falls and has no one to help him up. In the Old Testament, prior to the exile, prior to the call of Ezekiel, God is concerned about the redemption of those who have fallen Ezekiel is a fulfillment of this passage, being the one who will lift those who fallen up. But it's clear that this is a human need. And God intends to meet it. The statement is clear: we need someone who will lift us up. The implication is also clear: we need to be people who will lift others up. If we want to escape that, we need to turn to Galatians 6 Where Paul speaking to the church in Galatians says, Brothers, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should restore him gently. But watch yourselves, or you also may be tempted. Carry each other's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. We can't escape the command. We have to care for one another And we have to care gently. Paul is not saying go out, look for the sins in the lives of the people around you, and blast the sin. You can't do that unless you want to be blasted. Because his warning is you too are a sinner. And you too are subject to the same confrontation and the same need for a watchman. 2 Timothy speaks about this as well and says, And the Lord's servant must not quarrel. Instead, he must be kind to everyone, able to teach, not resentful. Those who oppose him he must gently instruct in the hope that God will grant them repentance, leading them to a knowledge of the truth, and that they will come to their senses and escape from the trap of the devil who has taken them captive to do his will. Do you see that compassion expressed must be gentle, must be kind, not quarrelsome, not focusing on being right But focused upon bringing the wayward to the Lord. Most clearly we see it in Matthew chapter 18, verse 15. If your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault. Just between the two of you. If he listens to you, you've won your brother over. The goal of this watchman is not to have people fall down and agree that they're wretches. The goal of the watchman is to bring them back to fellowship, both with the person and with their Lord. God's purpose in the crisis is redemptive. God's purpose through his watchmen is redemptive. And brothers and sisters, you are his watchmen. Let that sink in for a moment. Because the things we spoke about last week and this week that need to be done by a watchman need to be done by you. It is your call with Ezekiel Certainly, Ezekiel's was specific and particular to him, but you have clearly seen biblical warrant that says you have the functions of the watchman. You are to care for one another the way a watchman does. You're to be involved in one another's lives. Well now the question that we have to ask ourselves as we look at this calling that we've been given is how in the world can I do it? I am not adequate to the task. No, you're not But you're not left alone in the task either. For in order to be a watchman means you have that relationship with God that He is already working in you to redeem you. You have the presence of His Holy Spirit to guide you and to counsel you. You have the Spirit working in you first and foremost to show you your own sin. And secondly, to lovingly help those around you as God gives you insight into their lives. So how can you be a watchman? The first point is to listen to God. Listen to Him. What does He tell you? He tells you that you're a sinner fallen from Him, that God has loved you to the degree that He has restored you and is continuing to work in your life to bring you to that complete restoration. And He tells you that you are not an only child. You have siblings that you cannot count. And you are to love them. Bear one another's burdens. Love one another. Meet the financial needs of one another. Listen to one another. Love one another So, how does that apply to the people around me? And if I'm going to do this, what does it mean for me to live this lifestyle? How do I know what's going on? I'm a busy person. Are they just going to call me up and tell me their needs and then I can go deal with them? No. No. You will not get a hearing until you've earned it. Nobody's going to bear their burdens to you unless they know you love them. So the step is to love one another And that doesn't mean a word. I do some marriage counseling, and I've heard from people that they still love one another, even though they're in the midst of crisis. They want to be able to affirm that they can say the words, I love you. But when you ask what that means Does that mean when they offend you that you'll be quiet and you'll forgive? Does that mean when they have a need and they're hurting you'll listen? No. They're a jerk. Okay, so you love a jerk. Well frankly, folks, we are jerks. Each of us offends somebody else all the time You're not a watchman from a position of purity. You're a watchman from a position of love. How do you find out enough about people to love them? Sunday morning isn't enough. Being here for two hours and sitting with people together as you worship and they may be behind you or in front of you and you may hear the same sermon and you may You may give to the same church. You may even be involved in the same ministries, but you don't know one another. You're not sharing with them your hurts. Why do you expect that they'll share their hurts with you? It means time. It means a heart. It means love. Not in a word, but indeed. One way to begin to do that, be involved with their lives. And be involved in a heart-to-heart. Be involved in a heart and home dinner group. Be involved in in a small group together. Spend time with these people. Find people you enjoy and get to know them. That's what love shows. When you see a red flag, as they begin to trust you and open up, as you begin to care enough to look and to contemplate and to think about how they're doing. As you see red flags, don't cover them up. If there's a question, don't assume you know the answer, but don't cover it up. Find out what's going on. Ask questions kindly and gently. And care enough to listen to the answer. And if you find that the facts measure up to a problem, don't shirk it. If perhaps they offend you. Matthew 15 says, if a brother offends you, go to them in private. Share with them the affairs. Do you love them redemptively and therefore will you go to them to restore the relationship, or you will you write them off? Will you simply say that that's their personality and that's the way they're going to be and that's all I can hope for, and therefore I will put up the walls and I will not allow the offense to hurt me Did Jesus put up walls? Did Jesus refuse to bear the pain of the offense? Did Jesus declare you unworthy of his love? Can you? Follow through. Follow through with your kids. Let's start at home. Follow through with your spouse. Do you love them enough to be able to know what's going on in their lives, down in their heart of hearts? Not that you're being an inspector general, but do you listen? Do you think about what they say? Do you respond to them? Do you challenge them with what can be? How about your friends, your family members, your co-workers, your neighbors, your brothers and sisters here at CPC? I know, I know it's hard to think of even beginning the process, of taking the time to care enough about the people around you and listening to them. But they will share. They do share. The next time someone says to you, hi, how are you? Are you going to simply say fine? Probably nine out of ten times the answer is yes, you will just simply say fine. But that tenth time, when you know the person really cares, will you be honest? The next time you ask, hi, how are you doing, will you continue to walk waiting for the answer to follow behind you? Or will you stop and look? You see, we can communicate that we do care, or we can communicate easily and we regularly do that we don't care. Will you stop and look them in the eye and wait for an answer? And if they're walking past you, that's fine. Still stop. Give them the opportunity to either stop or to walk past. But the second time you give them the opportunity to stop, I bet you they don't walk past. It's too embarrassing to walk past somebody who's standing there waiting for a conversation with you. Take the risk. Find out about those flags. Are they really red? Are there really issues to be concerned about? Do you have the time? Yes, you do. Do you have the heart? Yes, you do, because your heart isn't the only heart involved. Jesus' heart isn't. He wants to work through you. God gave the Israelites in exile Ezekiel. He gives off each other Follow through. Choose the people you think God's calling you to be a watchman for. Begin small, but begin. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you have demonstrated that you are the watchman of the watchmen You know us. You know every part of us. And yet you have accepted us and you have died to redeem us. You have acted always redemptively. And Lord, we long. We long to be more clear on the redemptive work you have done in loving us. But Lord, part of knowing that work is to be part of it ourselves and to be willing to be watchmen for those that you call us to serve. You call us to be watchmen for the house of Israel. Lord, show us who you want us to care for. Give us that love beyond measure. Help us to see that it's not so much an issue of resources, it's not an issue of personality, it is a calling, and that you make us suitable, give us the resources, and enable us to be watchmen. Lord, I pray that you would strengthen this church. We are strong, but we need to be stronger. And Lord, you can do that by helping us to fulfill our calling as watchmen To love one another, to welcome one another, to build one another up, to be thinking of the needs of others before our own. Well, we long to see that come to fruition here. And so we pray that you'd change us, that you would continue to sanctify us and make us men and women who will please you, particularly in this way. Jesus, it is your work that must be done. We can't do it in ourselves. Make us open and make us effective. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.