In the December 31, 1984 issue of Time Magazine, there appeared this letter, the letters to the editor section. Quote I was overjoyed and excited by the medical breakthroughs. recorded in your story of December 10, 1984, especially the artificial heart. As a nineteen year old, I refused to accept the probability of disease, the inevitability of death, or my duty to die. That was a remarkably candid note. You know, most of us really feel that way, don't we? We refuse to accept the inevitability of our death. But we're not about to say it. We're not going to say, well, I refuse to accept the fact Everybody else is going to die, but I'm not. And yet somehow there is that sensitive in us of how could the universe go on without me? I think it's all I've known, you know. Uh surely everything must center around my existence. And it's it's very difficult for us to really accept the fact of our own death. Interestingly enough, in that same issue of time, where Miss Fellow refused to accept us, there was a list of 21 famous people who had died over the the past year. Or you think of just this past year, nineteen eighty five. You think of the record number of deaths through airline accidents. You think of twenty thousand people in Mexico who died from the earthquake. Do you think of twenty five thousand who died in Columbia because of the volcano? Do you think of Rob Hudson dying with AIDS? You think of Rick Nelson dying in an airline collision? as just a few days ago. I mean, Rick Nelson was just a few years older than me, and I remember watching that guy as a kid and Artie and Harry. I mean, how many watched Arzie and Harry and I see that? Look at that. Rick Nelson's dead. Isn't that hard to believe? He was a kid on television. He used to watch him fall around with his brother Dave, you know, and all the stuff that you get into. Now he's dead. Gone. And and I think that uh w when I see that, when I hear that, that that touches me more personally. We think of the uh film last week that we saw here, C. S. Lewis and the story of his wife dying of cancer. Perhaps we were disturbed as we saw that, and we felt very vulnerable and uncomfortable as we saw that film. We saw such a vivid portrayal of death and of grief. As we come to the beginning of a new year, I think we're more forcefully hit the defense of time than perhaps any other time except maybe your own mercies. And so because we uh you know can't share all the merces together, it's a good time as a congregation at the beginning of the year to reflect on the passage of time. To reflect on the fact of the inevitability of our own deaths. And to do that this year by considering the words of Job chapter 10, verses 20 to 22, where Job says, Are not my few days almost over? Turn away from me. so that I can have a moment's joy, before I go to the place of no return, to the land of gloom and deep shadow, to the land of deepest night, of deep shadow and disorder. For even the light is like darkness. Now, Job, as you recall, was speaking these words out of a great deal of personal pain and anguish. And it is pain and anguish in our own lives as an that always makes us reflect on life and death issues. If when we're brought up short and can no longer continue the normal routine, the hurry and the hectic pace of the fast lane, but all of a sudden we're stopped and we begin to consider what life is about. And Job in his own anguish here raises life's largest questions. His pain is so great that in verse 19 they said he had never even been born. He'd rather not even live. If only I had never come in. into being or had been carried straight from the womb to the grave. Not a very optimistic sort of thought. There's a man that's really hurt it. And in this hurt, he raises the question of death. And in that he sees how very brief life is. And he gives us a rather gloomy picture of it. He considers his death, his days, and his death. And that's what I want for us to consider together from God's word in B. These three verses. His death days and his death and our days and our death. First of all then, consider his days. My days, verse twenty. Are not my few days? Almost over. Turn away from me so that I can have a moment's joy. You see two things about his days here. First of all, that they're few, and secondly, that they're full of trouble. First of all, notice how few his days are. He emphasizes that. Are not my few days almost over? That scene goes again and again through the book of Job, just a just a few verses before that, the uh chapter nine. Look back at that chapter nine and verses twenty-five and twenty-six. It said, My days are swifter than a runner. They fly away without a glimpse of joy. They swim past like birds of papyrus, like eagles swooping. down on their prey. Jim says that my days are more pictures there. Swifter than a rudder, he says. There's Dave Chisholm charging down old Montgomery, you know, and uh or uh Oakland Mills Road. And he says it's swifter than Dave Prison. It's swifter than George Broadway running a marathon. It's swifter than Janet McGiller trying to keep up with George and passing him maybe sometimes. But swifter than a runner going down the road. 'Cause my days are swifter than a bird or a bee. You ever see a kind of slot of flying zipped the ghost and you think, how can that thing so small move so fast? My days were even swifter than that, swifter than a bird or an insect, something that would take Far, swifter than boats of papyrus skimming silently past on a swift current. Swifter than an eagle as it swoops down to grab its prey, faster than the eye can see. likes me. It just seems like it's so swift, it's just moving by so quickly. My few days are almost over, almost over. Billy Graham says, I tell college students that they're lying Will soon be over, but they don't believe me. I find that especially meaningful from a man you look at and think coming to the end of his life, what it means is he sees colleagues. students by the hundreds by the thousands of all the people he's talked to. And you're such a longing in his voice as he said, I tell college students their minds will so soon be over. But they don't believe you. And do kids, and they find it pretty hard to believe wouldn't you this morning that so soon your life will be over. Because let me give you an illustration of that. Do you ever see a train and it stopped at a platform, stopped at the train station, and the train just starts getting going You ever notice how slow it starts? You know, it's you know, sort of if it's an old steamer maybe, you know, here chugging, chugging, chugging. You know, you see this train or any large, maybe electric current, you see it going slow, and then it begins to pick up speed faster. faster and faster and pretty soon the thing is really moving, you could never jump on it, and it's going on down the track. I found that's the way my life is. When I was a kid, man, Christmas seemed like it never come. You know, we'd count for days and from Thanksgiving to Christmas were the longest days of the year. You know, but time is so subjective. You know, December twenty first is the shortest day of the year. We mentioned to Dewey that uh today is the shortest day of the year. It did seem to go by pretty quick. Time is so subjective that as we get older, it just goes quicker and quicker and quicker. And now it seems like the shortest span between Thanksgiving and Christmas, tapping on the wrapping presents, because it seemed like we were just doing this about a month ago. You know? So life picks up its pace for a few days or almost every day. You know if you live for seventy years, how many days that would be? Let's pick that, it's a biblical one. Seventy years. You know how many days are 25,55 days. That's how many days? Now, if you figure the first 200, you weren't very conscious of things. Then you figure out 25,000 days to experience life. 25,000 days. And since the last message I gave on time, and the last Christmas season and moving into the New Year, another 365 have gone by just like that. Another 365 of your 25,000 days have just disappeared. And they're going faster and faster. One of my few days almost over. Our days are so few, so little. You know, in my home that I grew up. A magazine. And in that magazine is a quote by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow that says this: It is not until time with reckless hands has torn out the pages of life to light the fires of passion with. Did we begin to consider that the pages which remain are few in number. I remember reading that as a kid. The magazine is Louis Alice Messenger from Maine. 1941. That was before I was born. When that magazine was delivered into our home, my father was younger than I am now. My father's now been dead for twelve years. I'm older than when that magazine was delivered. And I began to see how very true Longfellow's words were. This modern so piled, reckless hand has torn out the pages of life to light the fire that passion did. So we stop to consider that the pages that remain are few enough. A lot my few days almost over Joseph's right. We have so few days. How are you investing those days? How do you invest them these past years for Jesus Christ? How do you plan to invest them in 1986? Those few days that you and I have for the person and for the kingdom. Of our Lord Jesus. The judges on the say that today find only few, he says they're full of trouble. But is what he says, turn away from me so that I can have a moment's joy. He's speaking to the Lord here. And he's asking God to turn away and hand of judgment. You think I'll look away from me. You can get a heavy hand of judgment so I can have at least a few moments of joy. Because you know life isn't a whole lot of fun. Just in the Christmas season there Many of us uh traditionally will read O. Henry's little story, The Gift of the Magi. There's a memorable quote in the beginning of that. You remember in Gift of the Magi, it begins with Bella weeping and sobbing concerning the fact that she's only got uh less than two dollars to buy her husband who she loves so much a present that would be worthy of him. And then she's thoughting, oh Henry says that that gives us a chance to uh reflect and he says this would This instigates the moral reflection. But life is made up of sobs, snipples, and smiles, with snipples predominating. Sniffles and smiles. With snipples predominating. You start like, what do you do, you know? Kirk three ladies playing with kids. Oh yeah? You see three kids playing together, happily? Here's the names, the kids you can call one another. Now I remember I had a friend, Billy Kramer. Billy Kramer was my best friend. Always wanted to play with Billy Kramer. But my mother always used to wonder why I always wanted to play with Billy Kramer, because every time we got together all we did just fight. We fought over which toys we played with, whoever had that toy, you know, was the red one. You know, I like the red one. You like the blue one? No, I don't want the blue one because you want the blue one. And we'd always like that, on and on and on. Pressures in school, competition, the heartbreak. of the dating years, the ups and the downs. Some called into marriage, and into marriage, possibly the disillusionment, the feeling trap. I've married the wrong person. How can I love this person? Getting into a job that I felt would be okay, but the job isn't what I intend what I had hoped for. And the job is disappointing. The demands seem unreasonable. The hours are too long, the rewards too small. Too much pressure, unreasonable pressure from my boss. How can I get out of it? Where can I move? What can I do? My days are full of trouble. At home, babies to feed and babies to die for babies. Ladies to try and keep quiet. Belonging for adult conversation. More demands. The loss of romance. failing health, the death of my parents and of my friends, growing old, finding I can't do the things that I used to do. And finally facing my own death. Joe says, My life is My days are few. They're full of trouble. Oh, for just a moment's joy. Just for a glimpse of a laugh or two. A little bit of enjoyment before I die. And he takes two verses to describe that. Just a moment's joy he says, before I go to the place of no return, verse twenty one, to the land of gloom and deep shadow. To the land of deepest night, of deep shadow and disorder, where even the light is like darkness. Joseph says it's a place that is both final and a place of utter darkness. Basically, two things that he points out here. Notice, first of all, its finality. He says it's a place of no return. Back in verse 9, he had said, Remember that you molded me like clay, when you've now turned thee to thirst. dust again. I'm headed to dust. Job is here reflecting on the fact that once I go through the door of death I never come back again. That's a significant birth, you know. supposed to believe in reincarnation. And so what does the Bible have to say about this? I do Job ten twenty-one, absolutely clear. Job says I go to a place of no return. There is no reincarnation. There's no second chance. There's no second time around. One way through that door. It's a place of no return. None come back. And then he describes it as a place of utter darkness. Utter darkness in verse 22 and 23. Notice how he heaps up image upon image so that you don't miss the point. It's a land of gloom, a land of deep shadow, a land of deepest night, of deep shadow and disappointment. Disorder where even the light is like darkness. The word there for gloom is a word used in Greek mythology of the river six, with all its gloom and uh mist and haze, the gloominess and the dismalness of And that he doesn't even worse than that. It's just deep shadows and deepest light. Again, it's deep shadows from disorder. The disorder comes from the fact that you just can't see anything. Have you ever been in such pitch blackness that you can't? see even to have a sense of direction. There's no light coming from anywhere to give you bearings. It may be totally pitch black at times, but you may have a light in the distance to see and you say, well I know that that light shows me that's a Direction toward a city, or someplace that I can get my bearings, or even the stars to give me my bearings. Just says there's absolutely nothing in death to give you your bearings. Absolute blackness and Disorders. The kind of disorder, which if you put people in that long enough, will cause them to go utterly mad. Because you become disoriented. And you lose your bear, and after a while you can't stay. It any longer. And then he says it's a place that's so black that even white is black. That's how black it is. Remember Dave Chism telling us some months ago about exploring caves and what it's like down in the heart of a cave. They told us about the fellow one time they were going through a passageway, an absolutely straight passageway in a cave. A a passage that took ten minutes to go from one side to the other with a light. They told me that that fellow lost his light. The light went out. All he had to do was go back just ten minutes walk. And he said after an hour, two hours, he still couldn't find his way out. Absolutely straight. No turns, no side passages, just straight. But because of the convolutions of the cave, because there was no order, he was disoriented. There was no light to give him any bearings. It took him hours. How many hours was it? Remember? Thursdays. Here. He loves day two, huh? Sounded some caterer now trying to find his way out. Took him, I think he said, a half a day. To find his way out of that passage, we could have taken ten minutes with a light. Absolute disorder and blackness. Utter darkness. That's the picture that Job gives of death to you. And of course, that picture is a picture that doesn't even take into account that a sinner apart from Jesus Christ is in that darkness and that blackness. And you know, when you're in darkness and blackness, you can either see it as friendly or as unfriendly. And as kids, we really want to make sure that when the lights are put out in work in our dead, that that blackness is a friendly blackness, don't we? We like to know that we're safe here at home. And that even though we can't see anything, it's okay. But when you go into death, apart from Jesus Christ, that blackness is a blackness of horror. It's a blackness filled with the terrors of an angry God, who in his righteousness is set to give you exactly what you deserve for your sins. To punish you to the fullest. of the law. And it's a blackness of abject horror. Of absolute terror. That you never know from one moment to the next, the next horror that you will meet. As you face an angry God and his punishment against you for your sin. That is the situation without Jesus Christ. But There's good news. It is not the situation with Jesus Christ. Because several hundred years after Job wrote these words, God sent his son, born of a woman, made under the law, a man like you and me, and human beings, who is subject to living alone. Finite number of years. And lived a relatively short life because he was willing, after keeping God's word, his law, perfectly, to subject himself to these curses of Darkness and terror upon himself. So that as Sandy said before, he would take, he would step in and take the punishment for your sin instead of you. And because Jesus faced that blackness and the terror of that death, and he rose again, he has reversed all four of the things that you see here. You see that? Jesus has reversed all four of the descriptions of our days and our death. Did we see in these three verses? Praise God for that. Notice how he's done it. Notice. Instead, you see, because Jesus died. On the cross and rose again. Instead of our days being few, while there are few on earth, because of Jesus, our days are eternal. We have an eternal stand set before us. believes in me shall never die. And beyond death there is an opening up of eternal life in his presence. As Newton wrote, when we've been there ten thousand years bright shining as the sun. We have no less days to sing God's praise than when we first see God. Not only are these days eternal rather than few, but they're also full of joy rather than Job says, Turn away from me so that I can have just a moment's joy. But Psalm 16, verse 11, David wrote, You have made known to me the path of life. You will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand. The Lord Jesus says, In the world you'll have troubles, but take heart. have overcome the world. And your joy will be full. Jesus has given to give us not a come to give us not just a moment's joy, but nothing but joy. Not grief and competition. Disillusionment, the loss of romance, feeling trapped, disoriented, but rather the joy of knowing exactly who we are, where we are, and how we fit into the scheme that God has made. relationship is to him and to one another, to never have to distrust a person's motives again. To know that we live in the context of absolute love, joy, full satisfaction of all that God has intended for us. No trouble whatsoever. No pain. No sickness. Perfect joy. Can you even conceive what that is? Not a moment's joy. Eternal joy. Eternal joy. And then death says I go to a place of no return. But we pass through that portal, as they say, of death. We will not return. But because of Jesus, we'll never want to return. Somebody goes, Well we'll never want to come back. You know, it's hard to believe, but it really is true. If Jesus came or if we went to be returned, on Christmas Eve or the Eve of our wedding, we wouldn't miss it. You know, I I hear so many people and may have not come, but not before next week. Christmas is almost here, I'm really looking forward to this, you know. Please just wait for a month, you know, and this would be too good to miss. And then I weren't saying, hey hey, this is a place of no return, and I want you to know, once you're with me, you won't even think or call to mind the things that work. My presence and the life with me will be so wonderful. Nothing could distract you from that on earth. You'll look in your laugh to think that you wanted to wait another week, yes, even another day down there before. coming to be with me. Then finally, it's a place not of darkness, but a place of light. Absolute light. Did you ever think of that image in scripture? Have you ever meditated on that? Suggest you do that. Take a little time this week to just meditate on the image of light in the Bible. It has a number of things in mind. The light of God's grace, the light of his righteousness, light speaks of knowledge. There were all curious people. And in heaven, the light that God gives is a light that will satisfy our infinite curiosity with ever-increasing knowledge. Isn't that wonderful? No matter what you look at. No matter what you discover or explore, he will fully be able to comprehend it and you will continue in increasing in your learning and your understanding of it. I don't understand that. He will have perfect knowledge and yet increasing knowledge. The focus sends you true. And it will be a light of knowledge in which there's no darkness of ignorance. It's also the light of purity. That's another image of light in Scripture. Is contrasted with moral evil in darkness. And the light is a light of absolute purity, in which, as I said, you'll never need to distress anyone's motives, because everything will be absolutely pure. And that light also speaks of radiance. It speaks of the light of a diamond. You know, you look in the diamond and you see all the facets of that light reflected in the beauty of it, and you see it reflected, you know, they Like a different little thing up here, you know, you can turn all the lights out and shine a spotlight. You see all the different reflections of the blues and the greens from that revolving ball up there. You think of the light, the beauty, the radiance of that light. And then you think that response. Revelation 21 tells us that there will be no need for any created light in heaven. Why? Because the light of heaven is an uncreated light. Light. Didn't think that? Look, check it out later. Revelation 21-23. The light of heaven comes from two sources: God's glory and the Lamb. the sun is so brilliant that we can't even look at it. And its radiance is so beautiful that it's dancing. And that's simply created light. Can you imagine what uncreated glory must look like? What a light of heaven must be. It is a light in which there is no darkness. The glory of uncreated light. And for every single one of us here this morning, there is an either or option. Not one single person in this room, after our few days of silver, over in to the dim and gloomy grayness of a twilight zone. That's a fairy tale. It is absolutely unspeakable glory of uncreated light. Where it is darkness so dark that even light is darkness. We don't deserve to be brought to the place of light. Not a friendly It's a gift by grace through Jesus Christ. And if you have never received that gift at the very beginning of this year, I want to invite you, I want to call you, I want I want to plead with you, I want to exhort you, I want to command you in the name of Jesus Christ that you come and you receive that gift of light and life. Not through anything that you or I can do. But only through what Jesus has done. And if you say, I don't know how to do that, then talk to me or to Sandy, the back door. Just say, I'd like to talk more About what you said this morning. Same need to say. And either I, someone else, will meet with you immediately to be able to talk about how you can have light and light. Through Jesus Christ. Because of either or it is either light in Christ or it is absolute darkness, and there is nothing in between. Oh my God. We consider Joseph's words. And our hearts identify with what he has said. Our days are so few that they're almost over, no matter what our age. Our days are full of so much trouble, disappointment, crying. Where we realize that when we go to death, we can never return, we can never do it over. We can never have another chance here. Lord, we realize that apart from you, that death is absolute blackness. It is the darkness of terror. As we are in the presence of an angry God. How we thank you. For while I do, we can do nothing to get ourselves out of that situation. But like Job, we know that our Redeemer lives. And at the last day he shall stand. And Lord Jesus, because of your death and resurrection, you will welcome you. us to eternal life, to the fullest of eternal joy in your presence. To a joy that is so wonderful that we will never want to return to the greatest times on earth that we could ever have. And we will be in your uncreated light. Lord in the light of that. We pray that you would help us to invest our future wisely in 1986. That you'd help us, Lord, that we would set before us a vision of what it means to walk with you and your calling for us. That we would not be foolish and waste our time. But Lord, that we would walk with you more single-mindedly this year. And Lord, for any who are here this morning, whose only prospect ahead is the blackness and the darkness of the terror. Of a wrathful God. Pray, Lord, that you would stir their hearts in the terror of that. An honest and a wholesome terror. It will lead them to see what they're do sin is in the light of your presence, that I might flee to Jesus Christ and receive the wonderful gift of life that you offer. Lord then allow them to put it off. Make them miserable until they're ready to receive that, lest they perish. We ask you to do these things because of the love and the mercy of Jesus and his finished work.