As Pastor Tim shared with you this morning, that uh this morning beginning a new series, it is itself uh a mini-series That is a series of Advent. As we remember the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we look towards the celebration of Christmas. God made flesh, making his dwelling known among us. And the theme for this series is the light in the darkness. Light is itself an important metaphor, an image in Scripture It's an image of many different things depending on its context. But specifically, what we're going to be looking at over these next few weeks. Is that God is light, and Christ specifically is the light of the world who has come into darkness? The darkness of sin and brokenness? The darkness of suffering. But darkness nonetheless. And everyone who is here this morning Has in some way, shape, or form experienced darkness. As light is an important image in Scripture. So is darkness. And principally it is often the darkness of suffering, generally The darkness caused by sin and brokenness in the world. So everyone here in some way, shape, or form, has been touched by that darkness. Principally because of the belief that all have sinned, that is, all humans have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, we are sinful in our very nature. So each of us has experienced the darkness caused by sin, but also the darkness that comes because of sin of others. And of the brokenness and the suffering in the world. But I want to be clear that the goal of this series is not simply to trace the theme of God as light. It is my desire to discover that Christ, who is the light who has come into the world Is meant as an opportunity for us to pursue how and in what ways the doctrine of God is like Christ. Who is light, who has come into the world, and though the darkness has not understood it, how and in what ways does God as light in Christ intersect with our daily lives? The darkness that we experience. And so we will begin this morning by looking at Psalm 27. Now you'll see some verses here before you in just a moment. I've also connected it with the series that we just ended, series in 1 Peter, specifically 1 Peter 5, 6 through 7, which I will also read this morning. And as I do so, you may be wondering about the connection. I will establish that as we go along. But I want to be clear, you'll see in your bulletins this morning an outline. You'll see two points. That was back on Tuesday that I wrote that outline. Today it is just one point. I've written more than one sermon. So I'm only going to give one point this morning. Turn with me in your Bibles if you have them. If you don't, you can follow along in front and please forgive me, projectionists. I'm not even sure which verse we're going to see first. I believe it might be 1 Peter 5. Is that it? I can't see. There we go. So let's begin there. I'll help you, you help me. So the whole the whole psalm is not in on the screens, but I want to read it for us. So feel free to just listen. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When evil men advance against me to devour my flesh, when my enemies and my foes attack me, they will stumble and fall. Though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear Though war break out against me, even then will I be confident. One thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life To gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to seek him in his temple. For in the day of trouble he will keep me safe in his dwelling. He will hide me in the shelter of his tabernacle. He will set me high upon a rock. Then my head will be exalted above my enemies who surround me. At his tabernacle will I sacrifice with shouts of joy. I will sing and make music to the Lord. Hear my voice when I call, O Lord. Be merciful to me and answer me. My heart says of you, seek his face. Your face, Lord, I will seek Do not hide your face from me. Do not turn your servant away in anger. You have been my helper. Do not reject me or forsake me, O God my Savior. Though my father and mother forsake me, the Lord will receive me. Teach me your way, O Lord. Lead me in a straight path because of my oppressors. Do not turn me over to the desire of my foes, for false witnesses rise up against me, breathing out violence. I am still confident of this. I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait for the Lord. Be strong and take heart and wait for the Lord. And now First Peter, humble yourselves, therefore Under God's mighty hand, that he may lift you up in due time. Cast all your anxiety on him because he cares for you. Pray with me. Father of light Father of Jesus Christ, the light of men, who came into darkness though the darkness did not understand him, we appeal to you this morning. As the light of men. May you bring to us this morning the light of your truth. From the psalmist, from your word, to give us courage and strength in darkness That you would lift us up, and that we could cast our anxieties upon you. Because as a Father of light, you care for us. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning I want to make you aware that Psalm 27, verse 1, is the only place in the Old Testament where it actually declares that the Lord is light. We hear it of it in the New Testament. We hear of Christ as light in John 1, verses 4 and 5. We hear it in 1 John, where John declares, For God is light Here, the psalmist is calling on God, who is his light, that is, specifically, his salvation. In the context of this psalm, the psalmist is writing that God's light, and God as light, He's not saying that literally God is the light. He's saying, in doing so, he's suggesting that what God is is the provision of salvation in the midst of darkness. And so this morning I want to do something a little different. I want to do something overtly pastoral. Not that sermons are not pastoral, but this morning I want to do something a little different. And this morning I want to say that I'm very thankful for my mentors and those books that I've read, mentors specifically Dr. George Robertson, who I have the opportunity to serve with and serve under Whose ministry continues to shape me and my ministry. But also Dr. Ed Welch, whose book Depression, A Stubborn Darkness, is an important work. So virtually everything I have to say is not unique to me But before you get ahead of me, I use the word depression because this morning I specifically want to talk about the darkness of anxiety and depression. Now some of you may think, well, that's a good Thanksgiving message. Nothing says advent like depression. But I don't know about your household. But so oftentimes major holidays were often the season of seeing darkness of depression. And so my concern is that for many in this congregation, you may be suffering with anxiety and depression. And I want you this morning. To hear the light of God, his salvation, that your heart may not fear. So if you will, if you have your pens, you'll see in the darkness, I want to cover that first. And then we're going to look at how the light addresses the darkness. And then some application. First in darkness. Suffering in Scripture Is in many ways synonymous with the idea of depression. You won't find the word depression in Scripture. But you will hear profound prayers in the scriptures. Particularly in the Psalms. Consider what the psalmist wrote in Psalm 88 For my soul is full of trouble, and my life draws near the grave. I am counted among those who go down to the pit. I am like a man without strength I am set apart with the dead, like the slain who lie in the grave, whom you remember no more, who are cut off from your care He continues. I call to you, O Lord, every day. I spread out my hands to you. Do you show your wonders to the dead? Do those who are dead rise up and praise you? Is your love declared in the grave? Your faithfulness in destruction? Are your wonders known in the place of darkness, or your righteous deeds in the land of oblivion? Friends, you don't hear the word depression in these verses, but you're hearing it described. A darkness, a stubborn darkness. He gets to the point where he actually says that darkness is my closest friend. What are the reasons for the darkness of depression? Researchers and writers alike Have seen that there are so many times events or episodes that cause depression. They can be events or episodes in the past, present, or the future They can all be part of the source of depression that when these events happen, whether they be in the past or the present or the future, they can happen to us and when these events take place in our lives, oftentimes our response to them, our interpretation of them becomes together this complex source of the darkness of anxiety. And sadness. What I want you to know is what I believe to be the case. that the causes and reasons for depression and anxiety are multifaceted and very complex. Therefore, we must be very careful in trying to provide quick answers to this very difficult issue But what is clear is that things such as these, major moving From one place to another, changing careers, divorce Abuse, the death of a loved one, can all be part of a complex system and sources for depression, oftentimes not even associated immediately with the event or the episode. Sometimes they can come months, years, even decades after an event. One of my dearest friends, the very man who led me to Christ. Who had suffered abuse as a young boy, buried it And successfully over years, as a follower of Jesus Christ, grew as a Christian, grew in grace. was involved in the church, would go to seminary, graduate, become a pastor, a successful pastor. But in the midst of his middle thirties, all of the things that had happened to him in his youth came calling again And he had no resources. He wasn't sure where to turn. And he was tempted to deal with his depression and darkness in ways that were neither biblical nor helpful. He found himself in his car late at night, going through parts of town where prostitution was prevalent, tempted. By God's grace, he did not give in. But he did give in to hopelessness. Until he began to ask, why do I feel this way? Another friend with whom I have spent so much time, who quite honestly wasn't even a member of my church, he began visiting our church in New Jersey. At first, I'll be honest with you, I felt that he was so hard to relate to that I felt this distance because every time we would talk, things would go six feet deep. But then he began to reach out to me in the middle of one winter in January. He called me on the phone, utterly in despair. Of God's promises, of God's goodness, of God's truth He had begun to seek out medical treatment, but he had not sought out enough pastoral counseling. He was only dealing with it in one way. And not dealing with his spiritual needs. He began to find out that oftentimes what he would see is that in the middle of winter He would just grow so despondent because of the season. So something as simple as a doctor providing him with a light. In his apartment, which he would sit next to, would help him physically But then what else he needed? He needed, as he called me, he needed for me to remind him of the promises of God in Christ in the midst of his doubt and despair. And it's at these times that yes, he would sit himself next to the sunlamp, but he would also hit play on his CD player, where he would play his favorite hymns. Because he needed both physical care, but also spiritual care. I outline these illustrations to remind all of us that the stubborn darkness of depression is a very complex matter. It is not easily treated with trite or pat answers. And we need to take it very seriously In fact, what I want to say is I do believe that particularly in an audience and a congregation such as this, where we have a lot of over-educated adults. A lot of folks who are prone to perfectionism. A lot of people who've been able to experience success, but also know its precariousness. That we, as the body of Christ, need to come again to the scriptures and to say This darkness that I feel, that I'm experiencing, that my education, my success. My pleasure cannot truly deal with. How do I address it? I want you to see here in the psalmist three quick things. In this psalm. That the psalmist, in the midst of his difficulty and darkness, calls on God's promises. God's presence, God's provision. Look at God's promises, verses one through three. What does he say He says that the Lord is my salvation. That God as my light, he is the source of life. That even though that I don't feel his salvation, I can call upon its promise. Just like I can walk out in the middle of a winter day with deep clouds and know, though I cannot feel the sun nor see it directly, it is Present, even though it is veiled with deep clouds. The psalmist says: the promise of salvation is in the Lord alone. He continues and he says, It is the Lord who is my stronghold, my refuge, my hiding place In other words, he is the one, the one that I can go to, as Peter says, and cast all my anxiety on him, because I know as my refuge, as my stronghold, He cares for me. He says that when evil men advance against me to devour my flesh, when my enemies, my foes attack, they will stumble and fall. Though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear. What does he mean? It is this that the God who is light of salvation provides eternal life Provides life in the midst of darkness, the one who is my refuge and my stronghold, because he is the one who has provided it. No man can take it from me. Though my flesh may experience deep anguish, deep difficulty, deep darkness, what I know is that the Lord, who is my salvation, Is with me in it, and my heart does not need to fear. He calls on God's promises. But he also looks for God's presence. And where does he do? Look at verse four When verses 4, all the way through verse 6, what he's talking about is the presence of God in worship. Hear it again. One thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord All the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord, to seek him in his temple For in the day of trouble he will keep me safe in his dwelling, he will hide me in the shelter of his tabernacle, set me high upon a rock, above my enemies who surround me. At his tabernacle will I sacrifice with shouts of joy, I will sing and make music to the Lord. He's saying that it is in the midst of worship. That I am comforted by God's presence. For in worship, I'm reminded that God is present and victorious. Even over my enemies. It is in the midst of my enemies, as the word tells us, that God sets a table before them. He sets a table before you, even though your enemies may be fast after your heels, even though the stubbornness of depression And the darkness of anxiety and sadness may be nipping at the heels of your soul. It is in worship that the psalmist directs us to God's presence. For in worship, when the people of God are gathered together in his name, God's promises, there I am also. And he is here in a particular and powerful way by the spirit at work in the heart of those who believe. Together with this mighty word, and what begins to dawn on the soul in the midst of God's presence is a renewal of courage. Of strength, the rekindling of hope. Not in our understanding. But in God's and his presence. The psalmist directs us to his presence, but he also directs us to his provision. Towards the end of the Psalm, he says to the Lord, Do not hide your face from me, do not turn your servant away in anger. You have been my helper. Do not reject me or forsake me. O my God, my Savior. Though my father and mother forsake me, the Lord will receive me. He's saying that there are relationships on earth in which we invest a lot of hope. But oftentimes in the deepest, darkest places, no one is there. And he says, even there, the Lord provides for me. What does he provide? He provides reception. Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. The rest of God's provision, you see. And he continues, he says, Teach me your way, O Lord, lead me in a straight path because of my oppressors. Do not turn me over to the desire of my foes or false witnesses. Rise up against me, breathing out violence. Not only does God provide care, He provides wisdom. Isn't that what he says? Teach me your way, O Lord. Lead me in a straight path. He's saying that God not only provides the promise of his salvation, not only gives his presence in worship, God provides wisdom. And discernment in the midst of darkness, in which I can turn to my enemies. And here I want to animate the enemies that are on the page in black and white. And not think of some abstract idea of enemies, but to take these words and to enliven them in your life. And I will tell you, if you have experienced or know someone who has experienced the dark place of besetting anxiety or episodes of depression. They will tell you that what they often hear in their hearts and their minds are the false accusations. That you are not worth anything. This is all your fault. You should have known better. What is your problem? Look at these other Christians. They're happy. They're joyful. And so you feel tempted to pull down the shade of the smiling Christian face. While all the while you suffer and you hear the enemies Even as I speak this morning, some of you may be hearing the very temptations of Satan himself, who says to you, this doesn't apply to you though, does it? But God provides wisdom, and that wisdom is I am your salvation. I am your refuge and your stronghold I am goodness, I am light. And it is for us to hear That the psalmist directs us in the midst of darkness to God's promises, God's presence, God's provision. How do we begin then to address the darkness? One of my concerns, and it is not just my concern, it's the concern of many who write about these things, that so many Christians and non-Christians Have fallen into the faulty thinking that science is for the body and religion is for the spirit This thinking that goes back all the way to the Enlightenment itself that has reduced our thinking and understanding and reducing humanity and human persons to those who are only physical or those who are only spirit. Oftentimes there is this assumption That anxiety and depression are biological realities and not spiritual ones. But there are also those within the church who've taught that depression and anxiety. is only spiritual. Dr. Ed Welch in his book, Depression of Stubborn Darkness, says this That when we look in our lives, we will always find sin. Sin can cause depression. But you must be careful about connecting the dots between the two. But in the light of God's promises, provision, and presence We can begin to ask the question, why am I feeling physically and spiritually this way? Because the gospel of Jesus Christ, of which this psalm encapsulates, Points us to why I think Christ as light is so necessary for us to renew and reappropriate for this generation. Because of this. You see, anxiety and depression are so often spoken about even within the church as that which is the result of sin. And there are many who suffer under the mistaken understanding that because they believe that all depression and anxiety is the result of sin, they begin to feel guilty. And they feel alone in their suffering. Or some think that it's merely a medical issue. And so they just biologists rush in And when we think that biology is the first answer, we will go and somebody will provide us with a necessary medication. But then try to address the spiritual problems, and it would be like telling someone who is bald, eat these potatoes, it'll help your hair grow. It doesn't make any sense What we need is the light of Christ to renew a truth. And it is this That Christ in his incarnation, as John speaks about it in the very first chapter of his gospel, when he says these words. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it. And then these words in verse 14: the word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only, who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. And we're going to be looking at these verses in greater depth in the weeks to come, but I mentioned them this morning because we need to come to this reality that when Christ was incarnate. He was incarnate in the flesh, in the body, as well as soul. He was an embodied soul. When Jesus lived, he lived and he suffered in anguish as an embodied soul. When Jesus went to the cross because of sin to suffer the wrath of God, On the cross, he did so as an embodied soul. His body went to the grave. His soul went to the Father. But on the day of resurrection, he was resurrected as an embodied soul. Why do I highlight this? Because Christ, who is light, is not an abstract theory. He was a human being who came into the world by God's appointment to do more than to save your soul. He came to save your body as well. He came to provide salvation and redemption and restoration of not just the soul and the mind and of the will, but of the flesh too. That is what the hope of the resurrection is all about. And it is this that this hope and the light of Christ Who came as our salvation, as the presence of God, as the provision of God Which the psalmist only looks toward, John declares to us, and Peter directs us to it as a reality, that God has come and made his dwelling among us. Which means that the stubborn darkness of anxiety and depression is always spiritual because it leads us to ultimate questions. Why should I live? What is the purpose of living? Why am I feeling this way? In other words, it leads us to ultimate questions. But it also oftentimes has a biological root, even a genetic root. But we need to know that the light of Christ isn't just for the soul, that we can go to Him as the light of our salvation and not fear the darkness. And ask that God, by his promise, by his presence, and by his provision, give us wisdom to discern in the company of God's people, why am I feeling this? It means we need to pull up the shade of the smiling Christian and admit that we need. I could give you illustration after illustration of theologians and hymn writers Who've suffered with this darkness of depression. But following the example of my mentor I share my own. There have been at least five or six seasons and episodes in my life. Where I've experienced a darkness that has settled over me, but it didn't look like that from the outside. I've always been a people person, but I use people to hide from that darkness I've always been incredibly energetic and active, but I often would use my energy and activity to overcompensate for the weaknesses that I didn't want to face. Sometimes they have been the result of major life events. Other times they've been the result of sin But one thing I know that what I needed as a non-Christian is the same thing that I needed as a Christian Is that I needed the gospel. The gospel of light and salvation. And so I was able to find Christian counselors. I was able to find brothers and sisters in Christ in the church Who I could simply share what I was going through with. I needed them to remind me of these promises Of God's presence, of God's provision. I need people who are here this morning I need you this morning to worship and to sing when I forget to worship and sing. I need people like Vern Rushing, who after every sermon comes to me and shares with me something from God's word. To take me to a place perhaps that I didn't think about. I need people who are spiritual accountability partners who I can express what is going on in my heart, who can remind me of the word. Because I know it as a professional, but I often fail to apply it to my own life. I need doctors I need coaches to remind me to get physical exercise. I need my wife to remind me not to eat more Chick-fil-A And to eat the right things. I need people like Martin Luther who said, Is it as important for me to get my rest and to take my medicine as it is for me to read the Word of God? Do you hear a theme? I need. I am needy. Are you needy? Have you come to that place where you're willing to acknowledge this morning That you need the light of Christ will hear the words of Peter Humble yourself under God's mighty hand The hand of his promises, presence and provision, casting your anxieties on him. For he cares for you. Seek someone out with God's wisdom The gospel and his word and his people. We can see the light into the darkness. Let's pray Heavenly Father By your Holy Spirit, the light of your word, come and bring healing. Bring forth the light of your truth, that we might receive it and apply it and embrace it. For any who are here this morning, Lord, who are in the darkness of suffering, I pray that you would give them hope. And may this church be a place where we dispense with the shades of the happy Christian May this congregation become a hospital where grace and mercy, truth are dispensed. And where we are pointing one another to the source of light, salvation, Jesus Himself. In whose name we pray. Amen.