A major part of being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ is understanding his purpose for the world. And yet, as Americans We're notably woefully ignorant of the world. We can phone England, but only half of Americans can locate it on a map. Only 15% of Americans know that Mexico City is the largest city in the world now. Only half of Americans can tell you where the Contras are fighting the Sandinistas. Only half can tell where the Arabs are battling the Jews. And only half can tell you what country a practice is apartheid and where it is. And yet, God is doing amazing, breathtaking things in his world today. And we want to understand those things, and as his disciples, we want to understand his world and his purpose for it. And if we were to have a missions conference in a traditional way that missions conferences are run on a week-long basis or a long weekend, then those who are probably already somewhat acquainted with what God's doing in the world and how they fit into it would come. But we believe that what God is doing in the world today is so breathtaking, and it involves all of us to such a degree that we must involve all of us in our missions conference. And so at Columbia Presbyterian we spread our missions conference out over three weeks or so. It will involve three successive worship services and three successive hours after the worship services. It will involve the March Lord Supper. It will involve a congregational dinner and a meeting after that in March. And it will involve two special interest weeknight meetings, one of them tomorrow night and another one later on in March. We hope by doing this that all of you will get a better understanding of what God's doing in the world and how we as his people are part of that exciting program of what he's doing in what may be the wrap-up of history. Here to kick off this year's Missions Conference is our first speaker, the Reverend Carl Dortzbach That name is somewhat familiar because Carl is the son of Elmer and Marjorie Dortzbach, Elmer on our pastoral staff team here at Columbia Presbyterian. Carl and Debbie have been working in Nairobi, Kenya since 1984 with the African Evangelical Presbyterian Church and the Presbyterian Church in America. During that time, Carl has been planting churches and training Kenyan pastors for leadership. So far with his Kenyan colleagues. He's helped to plant three churches in that area, one of them in a slum in Nairobi. I first met Carl at a general assembly of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, since Carl and I are both pastors within that denomination. And I met him about ten or fifteen years ago, I think, in the dorm there. And I sensed within Carl a true kindred spirit with me. And so I commend to you now a man of God worth hearing both now and in the next hour. Carl, I welcome you to our pulpit in the beginning of our missions conference. Good to have you. Bueno Safe Mungo Nimba. God is great. It's good to be together. We praise his name. The special time to be with you and the special passage of scripture that I want to take you to. By God's grace I want the privilege and the opportunity in our second hour to share with you some some of the greater details of uh the vision that God has given to me and the opportunities that He's given to me in these last years. But uh this morning hour I want to especially turn your attention to the Word of God as we've read it in Isaiah chapter 52. You uh have in your bulletins a blank piece of paper. And uh if you think that somebody made a mistake, you're right they did. Uh and that somebody was me Uh I was supposed to give you a sermon outline and um uh I guess my brain was about as blank as this paper and so you didn't get one. But uh if you can write, then you have the opportunity to uh fill that blank piece of paper in. And by God's grace, may our hearts be filled with his praise, written as it were by his Spirit upon our hearts Let's consider the 52nd chapter of Isaiah, and I want you to think with me on the whole promise of God that He's given to us, that His name Will be great. Let's pray and ask for his blessings upon us. Father God, we ask that you might come now and descend upon us. Teach us. Move us. Focus our hearts upon you. Father, we come to you this morning and we might see Jesus. That we might know Him glorified and lifted up. Father, this morning, right upon our hearts. That we might truly be your people. That through us, because of your spirit, your name will be great. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. What's in a name? That's what I want to talk about this morning. What is in a name? What does a name do to you? When you hear your name, what does that do to you? Probably causes you to turn around and pay attention. When you hear somebody else's name, what does it do? Let me try some names out on you and ask you to be in touch with yourself. Some of these names maybe won't mean anything. But maybe they will. Maybe they'll elicit a certain emotional response. Maybe simply an intellectual response If I say um Michael Gorbachev, what what does that mean to you? Or Oliver North? Or Robert Bourke? Or Jessica Hahn? Or perhaps Jesse Jackson. Or maybe Jimmy Baker. Or Peter Boffin. What do those names mean? A world, a direction, a God God has said, my name will be great. It will be great because you and I, by God's amazing grace, will show it to the world. It seems to me that if God were operating under human ways and means, he would have never chosen this means to make his name great. To choose people like you and me to represent the greatness and the power of an everlasting name. Because we're weak and we falter and we fail. But God has chosen, Wonder of Wonders, people like you and people like me, to make his name great. What does it do? How does that name work in and through us? Isaiah 52 identifies a good number of things. I'm only going to focus on a few of the verses that we've read this morning. It starts with an understanding that God's name identifies the messenger of the Lord. God's name identifies the messenger of the Lord. Look at verse 7. How beautiful in the mountains are the feet of those who bring good news, who proclaim peace and bring good tidings, who proclaim salvation, and who say to Zion, Your God reigns. Beloved, the name of God identifies the very messenger that comes from God. Now there are a lot of people throughout the world that claim the name of Christ. They are called Christian. President Moy uh has said in public that 80% of the people of Kenya are Christian. Maybe, maybe not. Sort of like saying Americans are all Christians. What does Christianity mean? What does it mean to have the name of God upon us? It surely means more than to say, Oh yes, I'm a Christian because uh I go to this church or to that church or uh yes I I went to uh I went to this church uh just six weeks ago. And that makes me a Christian. Surely it means more than that. To have the name of God upon us as we go That men and women might look at us and say, there is the living presence of God. I don't understand it. The name of God identifies the messenger, the true messenger of God. What does it do? Look again at this verse before us, verse 7. How beautiful on the mountains are the feet. Have you ever thought about your feet being beautiful? Mine aren't. That's why I cover them up. Maybe you don't feel like yours are either. But God's word says that his name will be upon our feet. It will go with our feet. Our feet are made for walking. They're made for moving. That old proverb that uh rings again and again uh many times is always true, isn't it? The longest journey starts with a single step Our feet are to carry us. Now, you're familiar perhaps with this passage of scripture being used to talk about foreign missions, and it's appropriate that we should consider it this morning as we uh consider the beginning of your missions conference. But I don't want you just to think about faraway places like Japan or Kenya or South Africa or South America somewhere. Or even nearer places like Mexico City. I want you to think about your own house, the street that you live on, the address that you go by, the place of work that you're going to go to tomorrow. I want you to think about that. Because I want you to focus on your feet, not on my feet. On God's name that sets you aside and sets you apart as a messenger of God. God's name must be upon our feet. We are to bring the message. And the bringing of the message is not always crossing an ocean. That doesn't make us a messenger of God. In fact, sometimes we can cross oceans. They try to escape God. We have a whole book in the Bible about that. Jonah. Trouble is he tried crossing the wrong ocean, the wrong way. God used him anyway. In spite of himself, God used him. God's name is to be upon our feet. God's name is to be upon our lips. Because we're supposed to be proclaiming something. Beautiful in the mountains are the feet of those that bring good news and that proclaim a message. God's name identifies us not only because we're going, we're active, we're involved, we're meeting somebody, we're breaking out of our common, comfortable Christian circles. We have to get outside of that. And once we've stepped outside of that, we have to have something to say. There surely must be a message. There's not a silent witness. God's word never commends us to silence, even in worship. The rocks are silent. The trees clap their hands No, not silence. We have a message. Something needs to be upon our lips. We need to speak And that's how the glory of God is made known because we speak. And it's then that we become beautiful. Because we're not beautiful, but the message is a beautiful message. That which people want to hear and need to hear. Yes, and sometimes refuse to hear. God's name is upon our hearts because that message that we're proclaiming is finally good tidings. Good news, verse 7 says, those that proclaim peace and bring good tidings The angels announced the good news of the birth of our Lord because there was to be peace on earth. Among those upon whom God's favor was to rest. And we, beloved, those that God has put his name upon us, have that message. It's a message of hope. Now, what do you do if you have a message of hope and you hold it? Hasn't it often been true that as God's messengers, we're busy polishing our trumpets? We're busy redefining the message. We're busy tuning our violins. And when the moment comes to strike the chord, we're busy polishing. We have a message, a message of hope. And it is that hope that is spoken, that we carry, that makes the name of God great. Why did God in all of his splendor and all of his wisdom choose to be born in a stable? Why didn't he choose to come today where he could surely find a place among many famous televangelists and proclaim the message on television? Maybe in this last year we can answer that question better, can't we? Good thing that he didn't come as a televangelist. A good thing that he came as a child in a manger. The greatness and the glory of God moves through the commonness of our hands. The name of God is to be upon our soul because there's something that comes out of it. It's not just words that we mouth It's something that we feel. It's something that grips our very soul. And that's why those words, that message, is a message and a word of salvation. That God has reclaimed me. He has not taken something that he found already good and put that good thing to use. No, he's taken something that's spoiled, that needs reclamation. And that's God's business of salvation. It touches my soul. I need not fear Because I feel like my life is in disarray. I need only to yield it to the greatness of God's transforming power. That his name might be great in me as a messenger. And when people can see, yes, there is the hand of God transforming that man, that woman. God's name has identified me as the carrier of his message. Who are the messengers? Here was Isaiah. Isaiah writing to a people that were rebellious, a people that were forgetting, a people that were wandering away from God. He was the messenger. And of course, he only pointed to the great messenger that was yet to come, Christ Himself. Who was to come as the messenger that was to bring the message in person. Who was not only to bring the message in person, but it was to be proclaimed in his life, in his death, the messenger. And you and I are called to be messengers like Christ. I don't understand it. But that's God's purpose. That the glory of God throughout the earth is made known through simple people like you. And me. I want to tell you about a man whose name is John. Those of you that stay for the second hour get a chance to look at John's picture. I first saw John when he came stumbling down a rough dirt pathway in the midst of one of Nairobi's many slums. And I observed from John's gate that he was drunk. But as he came closer, it was obvious that other people around me knew him. And I thought, well, it's strange. I don't know how Debbie always knows all kinds of people, and it wasn't s terribly surprising. I mean she greeted John. It was when he responded that I realized he wasn't drunk at all. But it was the neuromuscular disease that kept him stumbling around like drunken stupor. He could hardly speak. John has been living for a number of years on the mercy and the grace of God's people in that great city of Nairobi. And one day he was kicked out of his house because he couldn't pay his rent. Now let me describe his house to you. His house was made out of plastic bags, stretched, tacked, draped over sticks. He was kicked out of his house because he, did you hear me, couldn't pay the rent. He had been a member of God's people there in that flock, and they said, now we have to take care of John. They themselves had nothing. But they got out and they they looked for a place that John could live. And uh in their searching they finally found a house for John that was much better than his plastic bag house, and they gathered their few shillings and uh ten centers together and rented that place for John. And the next week he came to give testimony to God's greatness, stumbling down that same rocky road. to come to the small tea shop where that congregation meets. And he stood and he uh gave testimony to God's greatness. One of the women asked him Strange question. John, does it have a door? And John said, Well yes, it has a door. And I can put it on every night You ever praise God for the door in your house? To mud house? Beloved, he was the messenger of God. Stumbling down a dirt, rocky path. A messenger of God. Because the power of God was made known in his life He who has nothing may have everything. God's name identifies the messenger. You may feel this morning like your life is upside down. There's no beauty to be seen. You say, yes, here it is. Beautiful are them in the mountains. Yeah, well, I'm not beautiful. It seems as though God has crushed my life. Have you ever seen a an artificial flower? You know, the kind that's made out of silk. always looks fresh and you have to sort of reach over to touch it to see if it's real. And have you ever compared that that artificial flower with a real rose, the real thing? About six days after the real thing's been cut. There's the real thing all wilder withered and wilted and uh you know, the petals starting to fall off and And there's the artificial one still looking as crisp as the day it was made, and if it gets dusty, you can just blow it off or maybe hold it under the water for a moment and it'll be fresh again. And you might say, why is it that in my life it seems as though I'm that wilted, falling-apart flower with a bunch of thorns on me? How can God use that? And what I want to say is that God uses real things and real people To show his glory. The seed comes out of a real flower, not out of a silk flower. And God has called us to be his messengers in a real world as real people. And that's how his glory is made known. Look at the second thought, and that is that God's name identifies the message. Not only are we a messenger, but God's name identifies the very message, what it is that we are to speak and to proclaim. God's name is upon us that we might speak his message. And this is his message, and it's a very simple one there at the end of verse 7. Your God reigns. Your God reigns, yes, when it's light. Yes, when all things are going well. God reigns, and it's easy to praise God for it. But your God also reigns in the darkness. And in despair. Yes, God reigns when we're successful, when we receive the promotion When the bills are paid, when we're able to do that which we have wanted to do, when our goals are accomplished, when success is upon us, yes, God reigns But if you're ever going to failure like me, then you know that also God reigns then. When we fail. When we're not successful. In the struggle, God reigns. Yes, God reigns in peace. When our children are all doing well. When they rise up and and call us blessed, there's peace, and we're thankful. God reigns. But God also reigns in persecution when things aren't going peacefully. God reigns Yes, God reigns when we're healthy, when we're strong, when we're able to go and to do that which our hearts call us to go and to do. But God reigns in sickness and in disease. God reigns. And that's why He gives us sickness and pain. And that's why he takes success away from us, so that God's reigning power may be seen in us. The message of God is your God reigns. It's a wonderful message Your God, it's a message of a personal relationship. That's what our message is. That's what the name of God has set upon us to do and to be and to be heard. Your God reigns. It's not enough. It's my God. My faith will not set you free. Causes me many times to stumble. It's hard enough for me to reach up. It's not going to help you. Your God must lift you up. And that's our message. That our relationship with God is a personal God, not something that's far out there. But something that we hold that is our God that reigns. And it is only then that we can call up and reach up to God in the midst of our struggles and say, Yes, my God Not the pastor's God, not the missionary's God, not the elders God, not my friend's God, but my God reigns. And our message is that God may reign in your life, the way he reigns in my life. So that your God may reign. It is also that it is God that reigns. It's not my reign. It's God's reign. And that's why God sometimes presses us down. That's why God sometimes takes the flower of our lives that has been cut and to be set into that vase to give scent and beauty to the world. And sometimes it seems like he takes the delicate flower of our life and he crushes it. Because it's God. It's not my reigning, it's God. It's not my life, it's not my strength, it's God. Beautiful is the message that points to God who reigns. We don't have our act together. And if you think you've got your act together, it's not God that reigned. It's you that reigns. And you won't rain very long. God reigns. And the message is finally: not only does my God reign and your God reign, but he does reign. He does control, he does lift up, he does keep us, he does sustain us. He does care for us. He does give us direction. Beloved, be sure that your life, be sure that your message reflects and speaks the message of God. That God rains. Be alive. Be the flower that is not a flower made of silk, made up of our own efforts and labors, as nice as it might be. Be the flower that is alive in Jesus Christ, the one from whom a true seed may come. And when the true seed comes and is planted into the ground, there will be a new seed formed, and a new flower that will grow and give beauty to the earth The silk flower will eventually just get dusty and will be thrown away. The real flower will be buried and give birth to a new flower. Be a real flower. Allow God to reign in your life, and the name of God will be great upon the earth. The third thing that God draws our attention to here is that God's name identifies the ministry, not only the messenger. Not only the message, but the ministry of God. You've got to be more than going, and you've got to be more than talking. You have to be doing. Because it's the doing that validates our message. It's not enough to stand in the street corners. It's not enough to proclaim the power of Jesus Christ. That power has to be seen in our very ministry. It's hard. But beloved, look at all of the words that God gives to describe that ministry. Look at the wonderful list that God has given to us here in these verses. Verse 9, burst into songs of joy together, you ruins of Jerusalem. For the Lord has comforted his what? He's comforted his people. That's their ministry to bring comfort. If everybody has their act together, we don't need any comfort. If God's people all have their act together, they don't need to be comforted. But it's when we're hurting that we need comfort. And it's when others are hurting that we need to give comfort. Comfort. God shows us the end, even when the present is bad. That's what I'd like to call comfort. God shows us the end when the present is bad. That's what brings me comfort. When I can stand back and see my set of plans that are going to fold up and aren't going to happen. And I realize that all my goals may not be reached. In fact, maybe none of them will be reached. When the middle of where I am seems the worst place to be The comfort that God gives to me is to lift up my eyes and to see his glory and to tell me and to show me, Carl, this isn't the end. Look to the end when my name Will be made great amongst the peoples of the earth. God gives us comfort. God redeems us. The Lord has not only comforted his people, but he has redeemed Jerusalem. He has brought us back. He's transformed us. He has taken the bitterness out of our hearts. The bitterness in which we feel, God, you've dealt me a bad hand. It's a raw deal that I've gotten And God reaches down into the heart and he reaches out and he pulls out the bitterness of the heart and replaces it with thanksgiving. Only God does that. That's redemption. When God takes the things that bind me, the temptations that I seem to be powerless over, and God breaks those chains, he redeems me. When God takes me from being a rebellious person and makes me finally be able to take a step and then another step, God redeems me. And it's the message of redemption helping people change that God gives to you and me. Helping people change. And you know what's hard about that is that I don't change very easy. But God wants us to help each other change. It's the message, but it's also the ministry of redemption. Look on to verse 10. The Lord will lay bare his holy arm in the sight of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth will see the salvation of the God. When the holy arm of the Lord is revealed, beloved in Jesus Christ, God's holiness is a ministry. Being set apart in character, being set apart in our actions That when you are about your labors tomorrow and Tuesday and Wednesday, that your character is seen as a man or as a woman of God That who you are is not just a function of what you do. It's not just a function of your position in a company or a business. But who you are is a function of your character, of holiness. Character is a ministry. And that's what makes the name of God great upon the earth because we are many, and our character is to blossom and to flower. To reveal the glory of God, the character of holiness. God's salvation will be seen when the church is really the church. When we really act like God's people. When we demonstrate before the world that God has redeemed us. And we're not afraid of sin because we know the Savior. And we're not afraid to look and to deal with people that are locked into their sin because we've been set free and we know the bondage of the chain. And sympathies in our heart. But upon our mouth is the key of redemption. It's seen in our lives. It's a ministry. It's a ministry of character. God says something else in verse 12. Look at it there. But you will not leave in haste. Or go in flight. For the Lord will go before you. He will lead you. The ministry of God is to lead us. Commit your way unto the Lord, Scripture tells us. You question, you have a doubt, you're not sure, ask of the Lord, and his direction will be made clear unto you. Scripture says. God will lead. And it's the ministry of God. God's ministry in our lives is to lead us. Our ministry in others' lives is to lead into the direction and the hope. That God has given. Guard. Look at that final word that God gives to us there in verse 12. The God of Israel will be your rear guard. Do you know what the rear guard is for? To keep you from retreating as well as to keep people from getting at your backside. The church needs to be both. Sometimes we're our own worst enemies. Those of us that are in the back rows are busy firing straight ahead. And the people in the front rows get knocked down God is our rear guard. God protects us from the back. But God also keeps us from turning around and retreating. And perhaps you've known that in your life, that at the moment that God gives to you an opportunity to move ahead, to allow your faith to be strengthened, you find yourself retreating. God gives you an opportunity to speak as his messenger. To make his message clear and you retreat. You can't retreat very long before God changes the scene. And squeezes the flower and the bud a little bit. You may feel like the squeezing of God's hand upon you Is a judgment for a failure. It's not always a judgment for a failure. But God sometimes does bring about squeezings in our life because we have failed Sometimes he squeezes us simply so that he can make perfume out of the petals I believe that's how perfume is made, isn't it? The petals are squeezed and pressed, and the oil and the scent is released. So God does in our lives. He squeezes us, he presses us, that the oil and the perfume of his mercy and of his grace and of his strength might be released and poured out. As the perfume is poured out upon our Lord's feet to give glory and praise to Him. Maybe today you're poured out. At least you're pressed in. And you wonder why. And you wonder how it is that God's name is going to be great in the midst of your life. I want you to be a flower today. And you may feel like you're not blooming anymore, and that's alright. If your time for blooming has passed, allow God to squeeze you. And if the squeezing is completed and all you are is a puddle of oil, give it away. Pour it out. That the sent and the savor of Jesus Christ and his redemption might be seen upon the world, and give up the seed that is within you, and pour out and put that seed into the ground of somebody else. That the life of Jesus Christ might spring forth again. And beloved, God says, My name Will be great because he will make it great through you. The name of God. Make sure that your activity is in ministry of God. Not just business. And God will bless it. Let's pray. Loving Father, we come before you this morning. So much aware that you have placed us in a world of hurt and of need and of problems. And Father, we we call out to you because we feel the pain and the weight of that. We're going to go to the office tomorrow or see some neighbors tomorrow. And perhaps our voices will be muted. We'll be hiding. Your character perhaps we won't want to show. Father breaketh loose That through us, your message of greatness, your ministry of redemption and of comfort might be seen and known. Oh Father, put your name upon us. That we might be your messengers in this place. That your name and the greatness of your name might be made known. Father, use us. Not because we deserve to be used, but because you're great. Father, thank you that in the midst of our inabilities we may lay hold of your greatness. Father, for your church across the world. People just like us that are struggling in their lives Father, we pray for them, that your greatness might be poured out, that all the ends of the earth Might know and see and hear the salvation of our God. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen