And now I want to address the issue that I was going to address last Sunday, which would have been the Sunday right after the inauguration. What I had wanted to address at that time, and will take the chance now to address is that it's been widely observed that Bill Clinton is expected to be fiscally conservative and socially liberal. In fact uh religious freedom lawyer John Whitehead observed that on election night when Bill Clinton acknowledged his victory, the song that was playing in the background was the Beatles Power to the People, which is a song of radical social revolution. And so we see that the movement toward an acceptance of the kind of lifestyles and legalizing of social standards that are in direct violation of the scripture that has been stemmed uh by a conservative orientation during the twelve Reagan Bush years now seems like it's a dam about to be unleashed and to come pouring forth to catch up for lost time, in which we'll see the acknowledging, the legalizing, and even the promoting of lifestyle. that is much more uh palatable and in keeping with a generation that has been raised on MTV value-free school anything goes, uh TV in general, and a general relativistic culture that says that there is no absolute truth and therefore there are no absolute standards by which Basic to this movement is the cry, and this is very important, and this is what I want us to notice because don't see a whole lot about it articulated. But basic to the whole social movement that we're seeing and expect to see in the next months and years is the cry that government has no business legislating. Morality. That's very basic to this whole thing. In fact, probably one of the few things, there are probably a few other things, but one of the things that Ross Perot and Bill Clinton agreed on was a statement, here's a quote from Ross Perot where he said, what people do in their private lives is their own business. The idea is what I do in my private life is not government's business, as long as I'm not hurting someone else. The three examples that are Use three freedoms that are touted as my business and no one else's, or at least not the government's business, are the freedom uh of choice, the freedom of sexual preference, and the freedom of freedom of press or freedom from censorship. Freedom of choice concerning the issue of abortion, one of the most quoted and um if you remember in the marches one of the signs you see most uh is the one, keep your laws off my body. And the inference you see is that uh uh your laws, the government's laws, have no place intruding into my private choice as to whether or not I keep a baby. In the second uh area, uh the freedom of sexual preference, the implication is that my sexual preference is my own business. And so in the degree in matter of homosexuality. Uh the whole cry now in this matter of lifting the ban in the military on homosexuals is that these people just happen to have a different sexual orientation. And that's their business, and any restriction of that is persecution. It's a violation of their civil rights. And so again, basic to this is the idea that what I do in my private life is not the government's business. It's not the public's business. It's my own business. Where you take the third area, the freedom of the press or freedom of speech. freedom from censorship, which deals with the issue of pornography. I should be allowed to look at what I want to look at, and if I enjoy looking at Sato Mass That's my business. It's not your business. You have no business intruding in that. You have no business imposing your values on me. Never mind that nine out of ten serial killers in the United States States have been found to be addicted to pornography. It's my business. You can't impose your values on me. And that really is the raw business. That's where we Christians become intimidated. When people begin to say to us, you have no right to impose your values on me. That really focuses the issue. What I do, what I choose The way I live is my business. And if I'm not imposing my values on you, don't you impose your values on me. In fact It seems sometimes that the worst sin that could be committed in our society is to impose your values on someone. The only problem with that, of course that if we live in a society that is a society that functions together, somebody's values have to be imposed. Otherwise, you have anarchy and the law of the jungle in which might makes right. Now that's a basic axiom of human life If a society functions together, somebody's values have to be imposed or at least agreed upon, and not everybody's going to agree on them, so for some people it would be imposition. Now, the problem is here that for Christians we tend to be intimidated by that argument. The assumption of MTV and the rest of our society that individual actions have no public consequences. Is the issue that I want to address. Because you see that idea that my individual actions have no public consequences and therefore are my private business and should not be the matter A concern of government legislation flies directly in the face of Scripture. Common sense, but also it flies in the face of directly. what Scripture teaches. There's many places we could look at to see this, but what I've chosen this morning is a passage from Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter 3. Chapter 5. I only chose that passage because I was going to speak on that passage originally concerning the matter of the sanctity of human life. And I postponed that because Steve spoke on it. that and so the second part of that which was going to be today and this was going to be the first part which is last week I'm doing today and I'm going to put the second part which is today today to next January. Now if you didn't follow that, just stick around until next January and you'll get the rest of it. But what I want to deal with today is the basic foundational principles that you see in Jeremiah chapter five. This question of individual action And public consequences. Because in Jeremiah chapter 5, you have Jeremiah, who was God's prophet to Israel, speaking, beginning his ministry around 626 BC. Speaking to Israel of the fact that God's doom and judgment were impending on them because of their actions, because of their lifestyle. And he was mostly largely ignored, and so the judgment did fall, and Israel was carried away captive into Babylonia and destroyed, so the city sacked. by the Babylonians. Now what I want to do is to look at Jeremiah's argument here. Because if you look in Jeremiah chapter 5, you see that Jeremiah begins with a whole chapter is a flow of the picture of Israel's doom that is sealed. Now notice how he develops that. In verse 1. I'm going to give you different verses again. different times so that we uh get the drift of this thing. But notice that in verse one, Jeremiah begins, go up and down the streets of Jerusalem, look around and consider, search through her squares. If you can find but one person who deals honestly and seeks the truth, then I will forgive this city. Find just one person, Jeremiah. And I will God says that he will forgive the city. But that hope quickly fades, surely it's got to be one person. When you see in verse 7, God says, Well now why should I forgive you? Your children have forsaken me and sworn by gods that are not gods. I supplied all their needs, and yet they committed adultery and thronged the houses of the prostitutes. And so in verses nine and twenty-nine, God gives the unanswerable question that seals their doom. Verse 8 he says, They're well-fed, lusty stallions, each neighing for another man's wife. White, then the question, should I not punish them for this, declares the Lord? Should I not avenge myself on such a nation as this Then verses 27 to 29. Like cages full of birds, their houses are full of deceit. They have become rich and powerful and have grown fat and sleek. Their evil deeds have no limit. They do not plead the cause, the case of the fatherless to win it. They do not defend the rights of the poor. Should I not punish them for this? declares. the Lord. Should I not avenge myself on such a nation as this? And then Jeremiah tells how God is going to judge this nation because of He says that he's already begun to judge them in natural disasters. He's withheld the rain, verses 24 and 25. Look what he says. They don't say to themselves, let us fear the Lord our God, who gives autumn and spring rains and season, who assures us of the regular weeks. So God says, not only this, that's just been the warning. What's coming is that I am going to bring a nation upon you you to invade you and to destroy you. And so there's the promise of a future invasion in verses 15 to 17. Look what he says there, O house of Israel, declares the Lord, I am bringing a distant nation against you. An ancient and enduring nation. A people whose language you do not No. Doesn't name them, but it's the Babylonians, of course. People that you do not know, whose speech you do not understand, their quivers are like an open gloom All of them are mighty warriors. They will devour your harvest and your food, devour your sons and your daughters. They will devour Your flocks and your herds, devour your vines and your fig trees. With a sword they will destroy the fortified cities in which you trust. Now what I want you to notice is the reason that Jeremiah gives for this. That's what bears on us today. See the reason for God's judgment is a basic disease called livefaction. Now what is this disease of labofaction? See, this point you never see these little calendars? that have these little things, you know, one definition per day. This one, uh, somebody gave me this a couple years ago, and I use it for scrap paper. Now I looked on the back and said, that's our problem, lavafaction. I wondered what it was. Labofaction is a weakening or decline in public morality or civil order. Now you see next time somebody says, What's the problem with the merits today? you say, Well, you know, it's labofaction. That'll sound so profound that they'll think that you've finally, you know, the nominal Fallacy. You've solved the problem here because you've named it. You've precisely identified. But you see, what is lavafaction? Well, you You see, it's it's not some vague kind of civil disorder or decline of morality. It's people doing the wrong stuff It's people who are living in violation of God's law. And that's what corporately produces a decline, a degeneration of the standards, of what's expected. And so from one generation to the next, what was expected and tolerated in the one generation, what was not tolerated in the one generation, gradually then becomes tolerated and even expected Expected in the next generation. So the idea of marital fidelity, which was the expectation a couple of generations ago, now has declined to what's called Just simply serial monogamy, be faithful to one person at one time for at least a period of time. And that is what Jeremiah speaks to. He says, your people may be You see, the point is it's not just the society in general, but you see the uh flank there is that it's comprised of the attitudes and actions of private individuals What Jeremiah points out is what people are doing that is bringing about God's judgment on the society, the private individuals. Now you see this. In verses 12 and 13 and 19 to 31 in particular. Look, for instance, at the contemptuous attitude that is described in verses 12 and And notice how contemporary that attitude is. Jeremiah says, They, the people, have lied about the Lord. They said, we will do nothing. No harm will come to us. We will never see sword or famine. The prophets are but wind. The preachers are a bag of wind. The word's not in them. So let what they say be done to them. They're going to talk about curses and God's going to judge. Well, let the things talking about happened to them. We're not afraid. There are no consequences to our actions. You see we had read just earlier about how in verses 7 and 8 that adultery and infidelity were one of the hallmarks of that society. And the people who are doing this stuff say It doesn't matter. What I do in my life is my business. God's not going to judge it. God doesn't see it. These warnings that are coming about how there's going to be consequences For our nation in this, but when? There's no word, there's no God's word in that. There is no absolute truth to judge and to be feared. Then you look at how he develops this in verses 19 to 31. First of all, in verse 19, he says that they have forsaken the Lord. Now notice again. Specifically, this is the reason. When the people asked, why has the Lord our God done all this to us? Why has Babylonia come and invaded us? And why has our city been attacked? Why is God not defended? Why are we going through plague, uh famine, attack, invasion, destruction? Why is our nation falling apart? Why has this happened? Jeremiah says, Then you will tell As you have forsaken me and served foreign gods in your own land, so now you'll serve foreigners in a land not your own. Now, you know you have to be very careful here. You see, I'm not claiming that America is Israel. And I'm not claiming America is the new Israel. But I don't think we can ignore the fact that a nation That had as a basic foundation of its structure at least an explicit and uh obvious Or or stated uh intention in most of its uh documents and carved on stone in various places, the fact that this was a nation to be a city set upon a hill alight to the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in which up until a hundred years ago at least, every school child that went to a public school was taught through the MacGuffin reader the Ten Commandments and the Gospel, the saving gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ in our public school system as it developed. Has now come to the place where it is against the law to mention God in a term paper and read it in a public school. And there are many suits that are going on today about religious freedom. and even the possibility of stating anything about Jesus Christ or any kind of a distinct God, not the generic civil religion God, in our society That can't be ignored. We are not Israel. We are not the covenant nation. But we are a nation that has identified itself with the gospel of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ and with him publicly. And that has been forsaken utterly, in any official stance. Jeremiah says, when you wonder what's happened and why you see my heavy hand upon you, know that it's because you've forsaken me. And then he goes on in verses 21 and 22 to talk about their foolish arrogance in doing this. Hear this, you foolish and senseless people. Who have eyes but do not see, and who have ears but do not hear. Should you not fear me, declares the Lord? Should you not tremble in my presence? It seems to me that's all just as relevant to us as it was to Israel in the fifth century, uh in the seventh century BC. I made the sand a boundary for the sea. An everlasting barrier that it cannot cross. Waves may roll, but they cannot prevail. They may roar, but they cannot cross it But these people have stubborn and rebellious hearts. Not only is there no fear of God, not only do they mock spiritual things. But he goes on to say that they're stubborn. They won't even listen when people call them back to reason. They have stubborn and rebellious hearts. They turned aside and gone away. They do not say to themselves, Let us fear the Lord our God, who gives autumn and spring rains and season, who assures us of the regular week. To the hardest. But rather, your wrongdoings have kept these things away, and your sins have deprived you of good. You're so arrogant that you blame the government for the AIDS play. As if the government had some sovereign responsibility to solve the problem. And so Jeremiah speaks to the people. He says, it it's you people, you individuals It's that collective mindset that has developed within the nation as people have said, I choose to live my own way. To live according to my own standards and no one's gonna tell me what to do or how to live. Now before we too quickly conclude that I'm preaching here to the choir, well we all are Christians And we're all following the Lord. We don't have stubborn and rebellious hearts. God tells us our hearts are the same quality and character as the hearts of our neighbors. we get up this morning to come and to worship the Lord is no credit to us as if we are better people inherently. We know better than that, don't we? The Spirit of God has changed our hearts. We're all a stubborn and a rebellious people. God has worked a transforming work in us to have that same basic quality of Rebellion and stubbornness. God has moved in us that we might have compassion on those that we see, not to think that we're better than these wretches who live up and down the street from us. And practice ungodly lifestyles, that we might realize that we are in a danger. He goes on to talk about the greed and the disgust Of these people in verses 26 to 29. It talks about the junk bond salesmen and of the rest of the people who are in positions where they can take advantage of others. Among my people are wicked men. And this is among his people he's talking about. Wicked men who lie in wait like men who snare birds and are like those who set traps to catch them. Catch men. Like cages full of birds, their houses are full of deceit. They become rich and powerful. They've grown fat and sleep Their evil deeds have no limit. They don't plead the case of the fatherless to win it. They're comfortable. They don't care about those who are disenfranchised and have no one to. care for them and their needs, they don't defend the rights of the poor. Should I not punish them for this, declares the Lord? Should I not avenge myself on such There's implications of that, I believe, on the protection of the unborn, but again we'll deal with that next January, more specifically. So kind of keep the background of Jeremiah 5 in your mind for a year and we'll pick up on some specifics. But you see, this is the characteristic of the people. in mass, each one saying that what they do has no effect on the nation and is not the responsibility of the corporate good And so its destiny. The scene, verses 22. Should you not fear me? Should you not tremble in my presence? Verse 24. They don't say to themselves, let's fear the Lord. And so God says that I'm withholding good from you. My judgment is coming upon you. What those individuals did affected the course of history. And the way that the history of Israel unfolded, each one thinking that they had no effect. But particularly responsible were the leaders. You see that in verses 3 and 5 and then verses 30 and 31. Verses 3 and 5 Jeremiah had talked about how people were sweating They were hypocritically using God's name. He talks about the various things there. The Lord, do not your eyes look for truth, verse 3. You strike. You crushed them, but they refused correction. They made their faces harder than stone and refused to repent. Does that sound like 1990s a month? America or doesn't amazing how many people I'll tell you it's nothing like going through a funeral and the death of someone close where you hear people talk about About all their prayers and their hopes and you know, we know your mom's in heaven, one person wrote we're all going to the same place and we'll all be there together. You know, no acknowledgment of how we get there through the saving word Work of Jesus Christ. Somehow it's all going to get there, and don't tell me that I'm not deserving of God's allowing me into his heaven and the rest of this. There's a refusing to hear God's judgment. And the only possible way of salvation through Jesus. They made their faces harder than stone and they refused to repent. Jeremiah says, I thought these were only Now they're foolish. They do not know the way of the Lord, the requirements of their God. So I will go to the leaders and I'll speak to them. Surely they know the way of the Lord, the requirements of their God. But with one accord they too had broken off the yoke and torn off the bonds. Then verse 30. A horrible and shocking thing is happening. In the land. The prophets prophesy lies. The priests rule by their own authority. And my people love to have it this way. What will you do in the end? A searching question. You love to hear what you want to hear. You don't care that there is no word from God coming to make you see sin and repent of it. You love to be comforted and hear an upbeat message. Jeremiah says, What are you going to do in the end? Not the end when Babylonia comes, the end of the ends. When we stand before our judges Maker. What are you going to do in the end? So it's reference here to the religious and to the political leaders that Jeremiah has in mind. Just Friday I saw in the Washington Post the clergy who were applauding a repealing of the ban for homosexuals in the military. Saying that this was a step forward in affirming the dignity of all people. These were people who were doing this in the name of Jesus Christ. Christ. Now again, as Steve said before, and I must make absolutely clear, I know that within a congregation our size, that we have people who are involved in and have homosexual background. Backgrounds if are not practicing that currently. I have personally counseled people in our congregation who have been practicing homosexuals. Right? We're not talking about that as a sin to be singled out as specifically worthy of God's condemnation. New more than adultery and fornication and other things. It's the acceptance and the approval of the lifestyle in a public way that is what I'm addressing. That attitude of our nation that says that what I do in my primary Private life has no public consequence. Jeremiah shoots that to pieces. And he says, You particularly who are leaders are responsible for what you do. You see, we can't buy into the lie That individual private reactions have no public consequences, because there's a basic principle in Scripture that Jeremiah is articulating here, and that principle is The third point there called corporate solidarity. The principle of corporate solidarity. You see, what we do affects other people If not directly, then indirectly and spiritually, which is for either protection or play. A classic example of this, of course, was the case of achieving. You remember in the book of Joshua? Do you remember how God called the people as a people to march around Jericho? And then God Himself broke down the walls of Jericho and gave God's people a great victory. One man, Achan, decided that there would not be any harm. Even though God had put a ban on all that existed in Jericho and said, Don't take a single thing of it. Nothing. It's all to be destroyed. wardrobe fresh from Babylonia. He said, now what harm can there be? Just take a suit of clothes. Well there's a little gold and some silver there. Leave it there. It's not doing any good there. I can use it. I can use it for the Lord. And so Achan took it. It with a guilty conscience, and so he hid it. What's interesting to me that when you read Joshua chapter 7, verse 1, God doesn't say Achan acted unfaithfully. You get a chance, take a look and see what it says. It says, Israel acted unfaithfully when Achan did that. Have you ever stopped to think at some point in your life this week or last week? When you were tempted and you thought, I can do this in obedience to the Lord. Jesus, or I can go my own way and say, it doesn't matter. I'm only doing this, it's just my life. Whether I act faithfully or unfaithfully, that God writes. CPC acted unfaithfully when you sinned, or when I sinned. You see, when you and I obey or disobey the Lord, that affects us all as a body. Our individual actions have public consequences. There's a corporate solidarity of God's people and any entity of a people group as God sees them. And so when Achan sinned, and then Israel went up to Ai, just a little suburb of Jericho, and said, Well, we don't need much of a force for this, we'll just do this as a mop-up operation. 36 men died because of Achen's sin. And Achan and his whole family were stoned together because of Achan's sin. You say, I don't like that. I'm an American. And what I do should affect only me and nobody else Well then you reject God in his way that he ordered reality. Because when Adam sinned, you sinned in Adam. That's what the Bible tells us. You and I were in Adam, and you and I suffer for what Adam did, not just for what you do. We suffer enough for what we do. We also suffer because of what Adam did. And all of us are wrapped up in Adam, and God sees the whole human race in Adam as its representative. That's a corporate solidarity. His actions in the Garden of Eden had public consequences that are moving down through history to this very day. Now, if you don't like that, then you don't like God's plan of salvation either. Because God says that it's exactly the same principle by which you and I are saved through Jesus Christ. Because Jesus comes through Adam and he becomes the new Adam. And the Bible tells us that when Jesus kept the law of God, and when Jesus died on the cross to bear the penalty of those who believe in him, They are seen as a corporate identity in Jesus and receive the benefits of Jesus because of what Jesus did. So if you don't like receiving all of the curse because of what Adam did, then you won't receive the benefits because of what Jesus did, because it's exactly the same principle. And so you and I need to get away from this American thinking that says that what I do affects only me. And we need to not be intimidated when people say And whether it's in the area of pro-choice or sexual preference or the freedom of press to look at and to publish whatever I want, you and I need to realize that is a lie from the pit of hell. What we do, whether it is in keeping with what God says or whether it is not, has public consequences that affect our history as a nation. And so what do we do for that? In conclusion, let me just suggest that the lesson for us today In 1993, is that on the one hand, I am not implying that we should force our morality on other people through legislation. It won't work, for one thing. You can't force them. Prohibition is the classic example of that. And to force an equal rights amendment would not stop abortion There must be a revival, a changing of the hearts, a spiritual renewal within America, in order for God's laws to begin to have enough of a consensus. For us to begin to enact them in legislation. So the leading edge must always be the evangelistic mandate in order to change lives, as changed lives then produce changed laws and changed standards. That's the only way. And so I'm not saying that you and I should somehow seek a political solution to a moral problem. That was tried in the last 12 years in many ways, and it's been seen to utterly fail. In fact, I believe it's having a backlash. In a recent survey, 50% of the people surveyed said the people they most fear were evangelicals. Fundamentalists. Fundamentalists. Because you and I are seen as those who impose our values. Just last week, when I was up in Philadelphia, this is This is the front page of the Philadelphia Inquirer magazine. It says on it, uncompromising position. There's a man holding a Bible. You see the Bible in the front page, there are big Bible. picture of the guy on the inside. And boy, I'll tell you, read this article and say, boy, I I wouldn't identify with the people he's talking about. He's talking about evangelicals. He's saying we have a hidden agenda. We're trying to control this nation by imposing our laws on people. You see people react to that. They fear because they don't adopt our value system and so they view us as sinister people who have this history. agenda to try and control. Now what then do we do? I think what we do is that we do not retreat into privatized Values. We don't seek to somehow force people, but on the other hand, we do need to speak out because our whole nation is at stake in that. Perhaps the best way to speak of that is to conclude with a brief illustration from history. When the Puritans and the Pilgrims established uh This their settlement in the early 1600s in this nation, it was that America would be a city set on a hill. And as they did that, the first generation were uncompromisingly committed to God's laws and his standards, but things began to deteriorate. Materialism set in because of the prosperity that they Enjoyed because of so much of God's blessing. And by the second and third generation, the 1660s and 1670, things had really Deteriorated spiritually. Well, God sent King Philip's War to wake them up. King Philip's War was the Indian Uprising. Uprising in which Indians slaughtered and mutilated the pilgrims and the Puritans in a backlash as God's judgment upon them. Proportionately took more lives in America than any other war, any other war that we have ever been involved in. One of the key passages was preached by increase in cotton mather during the early. That time was Jeremiah chapter 5, verses 15 to 17, calling God's people to repentance. They called a fast day and they said, Yeah, we need to repent. But it was superficial, things got worse. More and more people being slaughtered, town after town, burned and pillaged. Until finally the message got through and the people realized what we are doing is having effects on our nation. And then all over New England prayer meetings, fasting, prayer, and repentance broke out. By April nineteenth sixteen seventy-six, the year after the war had broken out, it was considered unpatriotic to be repent. Repenting and searching your heart concerning sin. It was not supporting the war effort. The direct connection was seen. And then the tide began to turn. And God raised up Christian Indians. Service scouts and those who then turned the tide. And by August of 1676, the war was over. But America had changed as a nation, because the basic lesson, our individual actions are having public consequences. I don't know what it'll take in our own day. But may God get the same lesson through to us, Ms. Brainford. Lord, we ask that you would speak to our own hearts that as Christians we would not be intimidated. That we'd be able to speak our convictions. We would gather together and we would pray and we begin to ask, Lord, that you would help us to know how to infuse Christian values in gentle ways. By the power of your spirit into our society. Lord, we pray that you would bring renewal and revival. We as a nation would once again see that what we do affects other people, and that your law is absolute. Hear us, Lord. Hear us. We pray. Have mercy upon us in the months and the years to come. For Jesus' sake. Amen.