Continue now in our series in Ephesians, looking at the three postures of a disciple. By the way, I found a fourth posture. I'll tell you about that one in the fall. There is a fourth one. But we're looking at the three main postures in Ephesians. Sit, walk, and stand, chapters 1 to 3, learning how to sit, how to rest in Christ. Chapters 1 to 3, remember, are all the indicatives, statements of fact, simply telling you who you are and what you have in Christ Then chapters 4, 5, and 6, the imperatives telling you what to do, how to work that out, how to walk following after Christ, how to stand against sin and the evil one in Christ and in his strength. And that's linked, you remember, in Ephesians in chapter four, verse one, the crucial verse of the book to understand its meaning, linking both the indicatives, statements of fact, and the imperatives, the commands. As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received. Remember that means bring your experience into equilibrium, the two balances of a scale, bring your experience into equilibrium with who you are and what you have in Christ. That's what Ephesians is all about. The last time we looked at this, we noted that where you see in verse 1 of chapter 4, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you that that statement of his identification is very significant. Paul doesn't just throw that in there for no reason. He's a prisoner as he is writing this. And so we saw the last time in chapter 3 that he begins for this reason, I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of you Gentiles, and begins to give a little bit of autobiography stating both the privilege conferred as well as the price paid for his bringing the gospel to the Gentiles. He says, remember in verse 7 of chapter 3, I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power, although I'm less than the least, I'm the leastest. Of all of God's people, this grace was given me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And because the Jews were so infuriated by his taking the gospel to the Gentiles, that they caused his arrest and imprisonment. This point he's been in prison for three years. Paul a prisoner, not simply of Nero, of the Roman government, but of Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles. Verse 13 of chapter 3. I ask you therefore not to be discouraged because of my suffering for you, which are your glory. And so we have seen that This is the minister who brought the gospel. I called these thirteen verses of chapter three in our resting, our sitting in Christ. recognizing the mystery and the ministry of the gospel. Chapter 3, the most probably unknown chapter of Ephesians. But the mystery and the ministry of the gospel. The last time we looked at Paul, the minister of the gospel, as a prisoner of Christ, the commission given to him This morning we're going to move on and look at the revelation that was given to him, the mystery of God's promise in Christ. It's very important that you and I understand the mystery. what it is. I said to you a couple of weeks ago when I introduced this that uh probably if I put a survey out and said, What is the mystery of the gospel, that most of you, perhaps all of you would get it wrong. Well a couple of you were Quick to tell me you would have gotten it right and I appreciate that. But for those of the rest of you, and I'm not sure I would have been all that clear on it, uh, we need to understand what that mystery is I believe that we're all too often satisfied as Christians with a very superficial understanding of the gospel. And therefore, in we when we're satisfied with that We then wonder why it is that there's so little passion in our worship, so little faith in our praying, so little eagerness in our obedience, so little earnestness in our witness. And it's because we haven't entered into the mysteries of the gospel. We haven't gone deeper into the truths of the gospel. We skim along the surface and say, I understand Jesus died for my sins, I'm going to heaven. I just try to follow them, live the best I can, add a few other things about uh end times and maybe uh promises of scripture or some of these other things. And, you know, how to live basically, but we do not take the time to contemplate the mystery of the gospel. And that's what Paul's talking about here. It's very important to him that you understand this mystery. He uses this word mystery four times in the book of Ephesians. It appears five times in English. In chapter one in verse nine, if you remember Hebrew. And he made known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, to be put into effect. When the times will have reached their fulfillment to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. And then in chapter 3, he uses that same word three times, appears four times in the English. Pick up once a long sentence, so they use the word twice where it appears once. Notice that as I read from chapter 3 now, verses 2 to 13, pick out if uh your Bible has it four times. Maybe you only have it three times, which is what the Greek has. But notice each time it appears and what is being said about this word mystery. Surely you have heard about the administration of God's grace that was given to me for you, that is The mystery, made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly. In reading this, then you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ Which was not made known to men in other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God's holy apostles and prophets, This mystery is that through the gospel, the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. Although I am the least, less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given to me. To preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ, and to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery. Which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created all things. His intent was that now Through the church the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms, according to his eternal purpose, which he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord. In him, and through faith in him, we may approach God with freedom and confidence. I ask you therefore not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you. Which are your glory. The first thing that we must be clear on then is this word mystery. The word mystery is a bit different in the Greek from our understanding of it in English. And so the first thing that you see in your outline is what is a mystery? What does this word mean? In English, the word mystery refers to a puzzle, something that's difficult to solve. It could be a crime or it could be a game, but it's something that's difficult to figure out. If you're clever, particularly if you're given some clues, you can do it. That's very different from the Greek. In Greek, the word mysterion, which is translated mystery, is not a puzzle. It is rather something which it is impossible to figure out. Something that you simply could not know without special revelation. Paul emphasizes this. Look at verse 9. He says, to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery which for ages past was kept hidden in God. So it's absolutely hidden. You could not know it. Look what he says in verse five, which was not made known to men in other generations. You see, it it's not a matter that was difficult to solve, it simply wasn't made known. as it has now been revealed by the Spirit, the apostles and the prophets. So it's now been revealed. Before it was revealed, there was no way you could possibly know it. Verse 3, that is the mystery made known to me. How? By revelation, not by cleverness, not by looking at the clues and figuring it out. Paul said, Aha, now I understand the mystery. No way he could have possibly ever done that. A mystery is something that is absolutely hidden until God makes it known. The Greeks had their mystery religions. They were occultic religions in which there was secret knowledge that you could only have if you were given this special revelation to the initiates. Something like the Masons, you know, I'm not saying they're occultic, although it's not particularly Christian, but the Masonic order has secrets that you must be a Mason to know, or the Mormon church to go into their inner sanctums, to go into the temple, to know certain rituals and their meanings. you have to have special revelation given only to those who are on the inside. That's the idea here. So to maybe make it the most simple, if you think in terms of English, a mystery is a puzzle. But you think in terms of Greek, a mystery is a secret. Okay? It's not a puzzle, it's a secret And it cannot be known unless it is revealed. Having said that, then, what is this mystery that Paul's referring to? He takes four verses to build up to it. This is a big deal, guys. Four verses. From verse 2 to 5 telling you how this was not made known. It's now being made known. He's got insight to this. Are you ready for it? You know, and all of a sudden then finally in verse six he says, This is what it is. This mystery is that through the gospel the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel, members together of one body. and sharers together in the promise in Jesus Christ. Now, what is the impact of that on you? Did it take your breath away when I read that? Or you said, Boy, I'm glad I was sitting down when you read that to me. You know, are your palms getting sweaty? You notice your pulse racing a little bit? That's the mystery. Well, doesn't look like it. Back, wake up over there. What is the mystery? Now why is it that here Paul is so excited about something and you and I we read that verse and we say, Well, what's the big deal about that? I knew that Well, in order to understand, to feel a little bit of the immensity of the impact of this mystery, you've got to put yourself back in the first century You've got to place yourself in your imagination as one who is receiving this letter, as one who is part of that culture, as one who thinks either as a Jew in that time or as a Gentile Let's particularly think of ourselves as first century Jews and think about what God revealed concerning the plan of salvation. It was clear that the Old Testament taught that Gentiles would be blessed when Messiah came. Do you remember in Genesis chapter 12, for instance, when God called out Abraham? He said, I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you, and I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you, I will curse, and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. No question. Gentiles are going to be blessed when Messiah comes. Or you take, for instance, Isaiah chapter 49, verse 6. Now there's many verses, but this is another example. Speaking of Messiah, Isaiah says, That he, Yahweh, the Lord, says, It's too small a thing for you to be my servant to restore the tribes of Jacob and bring back those of Israel I've kept. I will also make you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring my salvation to the ends of the earth. But that's very different from what Paul is writing to the Ephesians. You see what Paul is writing to the Ephesians, follow it in your bulletin outline there, because I wanted to write it out so that you can see Uh the immense new revelation of this mystery that Paul's writing about here, so we can begin to unpack and understand it. What Paul is saying now Is that the Gentiles, the Gentile nations, are being fully included with Jews As God's new covenant people, with no distinction of requirements Status or privilege. Let me read that again. Gentiles are being fully included with the Jews as God's new covenant people with no distinction of requirements. Status or privilege. Consider what a radical new development this is in their understanding of God's plan of salvation. Remember, after the fall, you and I, following after Adam, and in Adam, were utterly alienated from God. Now, again, we have to we have to feel what that means. We have no approach, no access to God. We are cursed. We are under the death sentence. We have lost our place in the universe. We now can no longer call God Father. We can't be intimate with Him. We are separated from Him. His smile is no longer upon us. There is only His curse We work and we sweat because now there is no longer God's blessing. There's a curse upon the earth Now, God in his mercy said, I am going to provide a plan of salvation by my grace to bring you into fellowship with myself. And how does God do that? He calls out in Genesis chapter 12 one man, Abraham. And he says, Through this one man I am creating a people that are separate and distinct unto me. Now, the separateness of these people is the most essential thing about their identity. The word holy means separate. They are a holy people. They are separate from everyone else. These people are distinct to God. And so in order to know God, to be made right with God, the only way that you can do that is to become part of these people and all that is involved in that. You must be, if you are a male, Circumcised. You must go to the temple. You must offer sacrifices at that temple. Your life and your identity, your worship of God and who you are in having salvation and a hope of eternal life are wrapped up in the revelation of this God, in the covenant And in the Ark of the Covenant, in the Holy of Holies, in the temple. You are separate in the feast days that you keep. Seven feast days through the year to constantly remind you that you are separate. Your diet is separate. Your clothes are separate. Your Sabbaths are separate. Everything that you do is regulated. By the fact that you are a separate people. Over 600 laws regulate every aspect of your life to show you you are separate and distinct. And you and I are not able to keep this. Not because the laws themselves are bad. The burden of the law is in our weakness. The fact that we are not able to please God and do those things which in all these laws are simply a reflection of his character. And so what does God do? God becomes man and keeps the law in our place God reveals that He is in fact three persons. And the Father sends the Son. And the Son keeps every one of those laws perfectly. From the most minor ritual to the most all-encompassing heart attitude, Jesus kept the law. And then, for those who trust him, for those who say they need a savior because they cannot keep that law themselves. For those of us who recognize our weakness and our inadequacy, he took the curse of the law upon himself at the cross. And when he did that, the veil of the temple was rent from top to bottom, and the access was made available to draw in all nations, now not simply to be blessed. But to be heirs together with the inheritance given to Israel, to be joined together with them as one body without any distinction of status or privilege. And to be sharers together in the promise that He has given through Messiah. See, that's what verse 6 is saying. Look at it again. This mystery is through the gospel. The Gentiles are heirs together with Israel. You don't have to become an Israelite. You are an heir with them by the grace of Christ. You are now a member of one body with them, no distinction. You are a sharer together in the promise of Messiah without becoming a Jew Paul uses here three words, three prefixes that he attaches to words, in one case invents a new word, in order to emphasize the unity. It's a word that could mean joint or co or a fellow or the NIV translates it together. You see the word together if you have an NIV appears three times. That's relating to this little Greek prefix that means a joint something or a co-something or a fellow something. Notice what they are. He says you are joint heirs. That's the first one of this inheritance. The mystery is through the gospel the Gentiles are heirs together with Israel. What's that mean? Do you remember that the land was the inheritance? Psalm 37 and many other passages spoke of Israel inheriting this beautiful and abundant land. It was a land that was peaceful, a land that you could settle in without any care of. prosperity or safety. It was the kind of land that God would describe having streams and mountains and hills. an abundance of farmland, a land that you would look at and salivate to say, What a place to live. Boy, would I love to belong there. Would I love to have a citizenship there? And God says, that is simply a picture to you Of the new world that I am creating. And so he describes that in chapter 1 of Ephesians in verse 18. Do you remember? He says, I pray the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. In order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. What's that glorious inheritance? It is that which is set ahead for us when Jesus comes again. That new world, that kingdom in which he rules, in which there is no death or disappointment or disease. It is that inheritance, but there's also the transformation in you So it is eternal bliss with a renewed capacity to enjoy it. It's an inheritance not only for you, but also an inheritance that is in you. And as you see that inheritance, you realize that God has given to you and to me the infinite delights that He has promised for His people Israel. Because of Messiah, simply given to you as a free gift. Secondly, you notice that you've been made a joint member. Joint member of a body. The Gentiles are heirs together with Israel. Members together of one body. He invents a new word which is kind of like the word co-body. That's literally what he says here. He says, you are a co-body. Not a no-body, a co-body. 1 Corinthians 12 12 and 13, we read that the Spirit has baptized us all into one body, whether Jew or Gentile. We've been made one spirit into one body. Do you ever feel inferior? To the body of Christ. You sit here for worship or in a small group or just in your day-to-day activities, rubbing shoulders with Christians, do you ever feel like you're inferior to the others? You don't have as much to offer. You have more to hide. God doesn't notice you as much or care for you as much. Do you see what Paul is saying here? Paul is saying that you and I have equal status, co-joined in one body, with Abraham, with Moses. With David, with Solomon, with the prophets, we all stand together in one joint body before our Heavenly Father. There is no inferior, superior. You are joined together in one body. You may know more or less of his love or of his power or have a sense of that in your life by the choices you make to draw near to him, but in terms of status. You sit in the heavenlies, joined with the rest of the body in Christ. Thirdly, you notice that he says you are joint sharers in the promise in Christ. Joint sharers in the promise. Heirs together with Israel. Members together of one body. And sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. Now Actually, the verse says in the Greek that you are sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel For some reason the NIV is put through the gospel at the beginning of it. But in the Greek it appears at the end. You are sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. And I think that there's a reason for that I think Paul intended that to be at the end. Because you and I are not simply waiting for the promise when Jesus returns. We are sharing in that promise now. And what is the promise that he's referring to? It's the promise that goes all the way back to Eden after the initial curse when God said to Adam and to Eve, I will send a hero who is going to crush the head of the serpent. The serpent will bruise his heel, but he will crush the head of the serpent and remove the curse, all the curses that I have stated this day, including death. And that promise, you see, was the promise that was renewed and made more articulate to God's covenant people It's that promise that's the summation of his name. Remember when we looked at the names of God, Yahweh. And where is Yahweh defined? Remember Exodus chapter six. If you're a quick turner, take a look at it again. Exodus chapter 6, verses 6 to 8, because there you see the promise of the gospel. And that promise is a threefold promise, the unpacking of his name. Every time you see that name Lord in the Old Testament, with an L capital Small capital O R D, that's God's covenant name, which is defined in Exodus 6, 6 to 8. Three aspects to it. Verse 6, he speaks of new life. Therefore say to the Israelites, I am the Lord, there's that name, Yahweh, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians, I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm. And with mighty acts of judgment. New life in the Old Testament depicted as freedom. In the New Testament, depicted as justification. Being forgiven your sins and granted life in Jesus. Then verse 7, he describes a new relationship with himself. I will take you as my own people, and I will be your God, and then you will know that I am the Lord. your God who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. Old Testament described as I will be your God and you will be my people. And the New Testament is expanded into You are my children. You are my sons. I have adopted you, Paul says in Ephesians 1. Adopted as sons in the beloved. Adopted in love as sons in the beloved. And so you are now being given a new relationship. And then verse eight, a new kingdom, he says. And verse Exodus six eight, and I will bring you to the land, the kingdom that I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. I will give it to you as a possession or an inheritance. I am Yahweh the Lord. In the Old Testament pictured it as a land of milk and honey and safety and peace. In the New Testament it is pictured as a transformed world. It is pictured as a new world of God's kingdom, God's rule and reign and his people, ultimately where the world will be transformed. And what is the root of that promise? They give you a lot of stuff here. I hope you're following along through this. You say, well, no, this is all this going. You know, man, this what a blessing to your heart if you're if you're able to see what he's talking about in Ephesians 3:6 here. What is the root of that promise? The root of the promise is new life in resurrection. El Shaddai, the God who raises the dead. New life in resurrection. Again and again, if you look in the New Testament, the promise of the gospel is stated as resurrection. For instance, in Acts chapter 13. You see this again and again in the book of Acts. He just gives me one verse. In Acts 13, 32, you have these words, we will tell you the good news, what God promised our fathers He has fulfilled for us their children. Okay, what is it that God promised that He's fulfilled for us? Raising up Jesus As it is written in the second Psalm, You are my son, today I have become your father. He's fulfilled the promise in raising up Jesus, or in Romans chapter 4, in verse 13, he speaks of the promise given to Abraham. And he describes there, he says that it was not through law that Abraham and his offering received the promise that he would be an heir of the world. There it is, that idea of inheritance again. But through the righteousness that comes by faith. Then he goes on to describe how Abraham was as good as dead. His body and Sarah's body were as good as dead, but they believed and God accounted their faith as righteousness And because of their righteousness they were transformed from dead to alive. They were given new life. Then he says at the end of chapter 4, verse 23 This is Romans chapter 4. The words it was credited to him, to Abraham, were not written for him alone, but also for us. To whom God will credit righteousness for us who believe in Him, who's Him, Him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. You see there again the promise is resurrection He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. Brothers and sisters, the promise is the promise of life in Jesus. Jesus has given us that life by grace. You don't have to become a Jew. You don't have to keep the law. The law in all of its burden is simply a means to express gratitude to Jesus for what he has given. by his death and his resurrection. Now Paul says, that's the mystery. You never understood that grace was so fully graced as that. God's grace is so infinitely beyond anything that even the prophets could imagine. Now, having said that One last point. Tie this together with what we looked at in chapter 2. You remember that Paul says in chapter 3, verse 3. This mystery made known to me by made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly. He's referring particularly to chapter 2 there. And so when he says in chapter 3 verse 6, that this mystery is through the gospel, that through the gospel, the Gentiles You need to understand that that word Gentiles is the word nations. It is not simply some distinctive word for Gentiles. It's the word nations or people groups. It's the same word in Matthew 28, disciple the nations. Now this word nations then expands your understanding as you see chapter 3, linked to chapter 2, to understand that what God is doing is He's drawing together all the groups of all the nations together. to become co-heirs, to become one body, to become sharers together in the promise of life in Jesus. You see, God is more gracious than us. We say, boy, that's right, that's great, that's good to know that God had this plan of salvation. He's extended it to include me. I'm glad to know that. Thank you. I'll go home and have dinner and I'll relax and enjoy it. What God says is, no, no, no, no, wait, guys, it didn't stop with you. You see, what you and I forget is we're part of the missions movement. And the chapter 3, verse 6 is one of the great missionary verses of the Bible. You see, what it's saying is that this mystery is that through the gospel, the nations are being made heirs together. With Israel. The nations are being members, being made constituted members together of one body. The nations are being made sharers together in the promise in Christ Jesus. And so when you and I look at ourselves, we have to understand that we are part of that missions movement. Paul was, in some sense, the very first missionary in the world. Because up until Paul, the gospel was still seen by the church as basically for the Jews. But Paul was the one apostle specifically appointed to the world, to the nations. And so when Paul went to Asia Minor, he was breaking new ground, new territory. But when he was in Asia Minor, he had a vision of a man over in Macedonia that said, Come on over to Greece here and bring the gospel to us too. So Paul crossed a new boundary and he went into Greece and from Greece he said, I must go to Rome the headquarters, the empire's capital of the civilized world at that time. Paul went to Rome and from Rome the church was established and from that church missionaries went out throughout Europe and from Europe to America. And most all of us trace our Christian heritage from something that happened in America. And so we are part of that which is moving on as God is constituting a new people. Who are joint heirs, joint body, joint sharers in the promise in Jesus Christ. Do you see that? You and I are part of that We are part of that as a team goes out to Jamaica and has come back this week, thirteen people for twelve days bringing the gospel to Jamaica and the great things that God did in the vacation Bible school. Tremendous answers to prayer. I hope you're here tonight for the Lord's Supper and that somebody's going to tell something about that. You're part of those that uh are hosting people coming from Slovenia this summer who are now at a camp and are going to be part of us in these next days and weeks, not only to learn English, but something about Jesus. At least he will be going this Wednesday to Hong Kong to bring the gospel as part of it. team there so that people there will be able to understand that Jesus is not just for Americans. We are part of God's constituting a new covenant people who are joined together around the earth in order to demonstrate the glory of Jesus Christ. Amen. That's the mystery, brothers and sisters. And you and I need to take more time to contemplate it. And then be obedient to the purpose that He's given to us. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, the wonder of your grace is so much more magnificent than we generally realize or stop to contemplate Lord, you could have determined that forever after people who would come into a relationship with you would have to become part of that separate and distinct Group of people who are localized in Israel. But your grace is so much greater. than any of our magnanimity, than anything that we have of any kind of generosity in our own heart. Your heart is open to the world Oh Lord, how we praise you and we thank you that you, in your mercy, included us in that plan and purpose. Lord forbid that it would stop with us, that we would become a comfortable people, that we would not even bother to greet people who come to worship and visit with us. That we would keep to our friends and our family and our own comfort. But oh Lord, expand our horizons Open our eyes that we might see that we are part of a great and glorious purpose that you have for the nations. Thank you for what you did in Jamaica. Lord, work and power among those kids who have come from Slovenia. Work through Lisa in Hong Kong in power and glory to yourself. Thank you that you continue to work. You continue to call not only Gentiles but Jews such as Nancy To yourselves to join together as we become members of one body. Thank you. Thank you, Jesus. Thank you. Amen.