If you brought your Bible this morning, please turn to the book of Ruth. The book of Ruth, chapter 4, for those of you kids, that's right when you hit the Samuels, the Kings and Chronicles, it's right before that. In a moment we'll be reading verses thirteen through seventeen. But before we do that, let's just take a moment and bow our heads Father God, we do thank you for this opportunity you've given us, this time to gather together as your children. Lord, this time to come before you and worship you and praise you. And Father God, we thank you that in your sovereignty you have set a time for all things, for everything. And Lord, that you have set a time for us to dwell on your word in this special way. And Father, we thank you for this word. We thank you for the way that it is able to make us wise unto salvation through faith in Jesus Christ. And Lord, amid all the many things that you have set times for We thank you that you have set a time for our salvation. Long ago, through the prophet David, you talked about a day called today. Now is the time of salvation. Lord, we ask that by the power of your Spirit in us you would open our eyes that we might see Christ through this word, and Lord, that we might know this salvation, this redemption, the forgiveness of sins. It's in the name of Jesus, our Savior and our Lord, that we pray. Amen. So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife. Then he went to her, and the Lord enabled her to conceive, and she gave birth to his son. The women said to Naomi, Praise be to the Lord, who this day has not left you without a kinsman-redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel. He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves you and who is better to you than seven sons, has given him birth. Then Naomi took the child, laid him in her lap, and cared for him. The women living there said, Naomi has a son, and they named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. I want you to think for a minute. Think for a minute about something that drives you Something that is a need in your life, something that's a want in your life, something you've got to have, something you're willing to do just about anything to get I think we're all thinking of something right now. Maybe it's better grades. Maybe it's a spouse. Maybe it's a better relationship with a spouse you already have. Maybe it's kids, maybe it's grandkids. I know for my mom it's daughters-in-laws. Anyway, maybe it's a promotion at work Maybe it's a new job or a job to begin with. But it's something for all of us, isn't it? All of us live our lives and if we're asked by somebody who's not a guy with a Bible in his hand behind a pulpit on Sunday morning, What are you trying to move towards in your life? Generally, we're not going to say, ooh, a closer relationship with the Lord, a tighter walk, you know, a stronger devotional life. We're going to talk about things in terms of getting from point A to point B. This is what I need to accomplish in my life. I need to finally finish these seminary degrees. I need to finish this student teaching at Hammond Middle. I need to get a job. I'd like to buy a house. And we think about our life in terms of meeting these needs that we have. And I'm glad that Dick read from Ruth chapter 1, because in order to understand the book of Ruth, you have to understand Naomi. And Naomi was just like us. Just like us. In fact, Naomi could pass for an American any day of the week because Naomi had needs, and she did what she had to do to meet them. What were her needs? She was hungry. She had to eat. At the very beginning of the book, we read about how there was a famine in the land. And so this guy from Bethlehem in Judah, irony here, Bethlehem in Hebrew means house of bread, decides, well, there's no bread in Jerusalem, outside of Jerusalem, in Bethlehem, there's no bread in Judah. There's no bread in the house of bread, and I'm hungry, and I've gotta eat. So I'm gonna just go live in Moab for a while. And that makes perfect sense to I bet you every one of us here. I would dare to say that most of us have at one time or another in our life actually up and transplanted, moved to a different geographical location because of a job or because of work. Or because we could get a better education there. We've all moved all over the place because that's where we could meet our needs. That's exactly what this man, Elimelech His wife Naomi and their two kids Malon and Kylian did. They said, Well, the work isn't here in Bethlehem, so let's go to Moab. Simple, easy, sinful, wrong. What's sinful about that? It would not be a sin for anyone in this room to decide Monday morning I'd like to go take up a subsistence agriculture in uh northwestern Saudi Arabia. That's not the sin. But the sin is that this Family committed the very sin of Esau, the one whom God hated, despised their birthright, and walked away from their inheritance. The promise God made to Abraham, the covenant was to give them the land Land so precious that to the Levites we read in the book of Leviticus, they could sell their houses, which could be redeemed. They could sell themselves, which could be redeemed, they could do anything, but they could not get rid of their land. Because that land was given them by God. Not only that, but these people went to Moab. They went to Moab for food And for us the irony of that situation is lost maybe. But what do we know about Moab? Moab wasn't just a country next door that had bad political relations. It was a country where in Deuteronomy 23, verse 3, the Israelites are told, No Moabite or Ammonite to the tenth generation may enter the assembly of God. Why? Because when you, my people, were traveling through the wilderness, when you were traveling to get to this promised land which I gave you, they did not give you food. Think of the irony. If you were listening to the book of Ruth being read during the reign of David when it was probably written, And you heard about this family, the head of which was a man named Elimelech, which means my God is my king. Who says, I'm going to leave my God, my king's land that he gave me because he's not providing for me, and I'm going to go to his worst enemies Think about what you would be feeling towards Naomi and Olimelech then. What an act of rash disobedience. Going to Moab, what are they going to do for you and Moab? What have they done for God's people in the past? What has God told us about those people today? But they go to Moab. And there's a note of irony to live for a while. And in the next section we read that ten years pass. And I'm spending time dwelling on the beginning of this book because the book of Ruth, I would argue, is about Naomi. And Naomi is redeemed. But what is she redeemed from? This act of sin in Naomi's life and in her husband's life has results. Results which are caused by her sin. And the sin that Elimelech and Naomi go out and commit is the sin of meeting their needs, their ways. And I've been working with high school folks here at this church, especially for about five years now, and it's something that i I I don't know at what age this becomes a habit for young Americans, maybe people all over the world, but it's there We want to do things our way. We have our needs, we have our goals, and we're going to do what it takes to get them taken care of. Very often the last thing we think about is our God, our King. The last thing we think about is where he has us, what he wants us to do. Naomi's driven by this need for food. So much so that she, after being widowed, after having her kids died, doesn't even make the decision to go back to Bethlehem until what? We're told exactly what her motive was here. Verse 6 When she heard in Moab, so she's still living in Moab, a widow, alone, nothing. When she heard in Moab that the Lord had come to the aid of his people by providing food for them, Naomi and her daughters-in-law prepared to return home. Ah, now I can meet my needs back where I ought to be, so now I'll go back to where God wants me. And there's a note of tragedy here Because Naomi, and it's understandable given the age, given the time, given the economy, she's so driven to feed herself She's so driven to fill her life, thinking in terms of her stomach, that in effect it's emptied Naomi recognizes that God has punished her. Naomi recognizes that the Lord's hand has gone out against her. And when she tries to convince her daughters-in-law, don't come back with me, let me go back by myself. She says, It is bitter for me, more bitter for me than for you, because the Lord's hand has gone out against me Reading down further, verse twenty one We've just read about how Naomi finally gets back to Bethlehem. Maybe she's approaching the city gates and she's recognized, much like the prodigal son. And her old friends, playmates maybe, say, could this be Naomi? Which means, what does it mean? It says it down at the bottom, pleasant. And she says, No, call me Mara, which means bitter. For the Almighty has made my life very bitter. I went away full, but the Lord has brought me back empty. And there's a tragic play on words there that sets the stage for understanding what Naomi needs to be redeemed from. She was full. She had a family. She had life And she went away because she was hungry. And just like today we talk about being full or empty in terms of food, the expression was just as true back then. And Naomi understands what's happened. Naomi understands that she was empty in terms of her need in life, and so she went away to fill it. And in retrospect, having come back to Bethlehem, she realizes that no, she had it all wrong. She had been full when she left Bethlehem, and she's come back well fed but empty. A picture of bitterness? A picture of no hope? A picture of a woman who realizes that God has chastised her, the way that we read in Hebrews, that the Lord chastises the son or daughter that he loves. And a picture that kind of perpetuates itself. Because all through the next two chapters, when the spotlight shifts from Naomi over to Ruth, her daughter-in-law. We still see Naomi doing what? Scheming, doing everything she possibly can to feed herself. And over the next two chapters, we read in the text a whole different sermon altogether about how Ruth is redeemed. And some of us are maybe sitting back going, but what about Naomi? What about this lady, this poor woman who's been all caught up in her life and in the poor decisions she's made, who's tripped on the traces, who's gone down for the count, who's out. What about her? Is there any hope for her? This woman whose life is empty, who lost her family, who probably doesn't have much of a reputation? Who sees people saying of her daughter-in-law, what a godly woman. What about Naomi? We read in verse 13, that Boaz took Ruth and she became his wife. Then he went to her, and the Lord enabled her to conceive, and she gave birth to a son. The beginning here, if you're taking notes, I know I just left sermon notes. It's kind of a surprise ending at the end here, and I figure, you know, if you have sermon notes, you kind of blow it, because the first thing I do is read the sermon notes and when then it cats out of the bag. The first thing we notice here is that God acts again. And that is significant. Not just because God acts here to enable a conception. I want you to think for a moment about how many times God enables a conception. He enables the conception of Isaac. He enables the conception of Samuel, the prophet, of John the Baptist. All of these miraculous conceptions where we're told in Scripture that God enabled them in some way, that God caused the conception, all are a figure, a type, a kind of a foreshadowing of Christ Himself. But not just that, but throughout chapters 2 and 3, there's not really anything that tells us that God is acting. And in in fact this kind of gives Orthodox Presbyterians, you know, something to twitch their necks about. But when when Ruth goes out to go greening, back then, you know, here we have two ladies living in Bethlehem. They don't have land, they don't have money, they don't they don't have anything. The only way they can survive is to go out into the fields and walk around and pick up what the farmers missed and the guys that were reaping the crops missed. The Hebrew text says, now she chanced upon the fields of Boaz, as if it was a lottery, as if there was no providence, as if she just happened to luck up and hit a field of a good guy. God is in the background in those two chapters because God only acts two times in this entire book to punish Ruth. Pardon me, to punish Naomi and then to enable this conception. Why is that significant? Because the women said to Naomi at the birth of this son, Praise be to the Lord who this day has not left you without a kinsman-redeemer. And you're thinking, Well, who is this redeemer? Who is a kinsman-redeemer for Naomi? The women here say to Naomi, at the birth of Ruth's child, you have a redeemer. Now we have to take a sidetrack for a minute and say, what's a redeemer? Because I know that a lot of words kind of work their way into into jargon and you kind of use them and you're not exactly sure what's being talked about. Redemption is described two places very clearly in scripture. There's many other places and many, many examples, but in In Leviticus 25 and in Deuteronomy 25, we have two pictures of redemption that give us, I think, a good handle on what it is. And in one case, we have a picture of two brothers Kind of living together, so the idea is probably that one of them is single and the other guy has a uh has a wife. And the brother who's married dies and leaves that woman a widow without any kids So his brother's line is cut off, his family's done, it's ended. And the kinsman redeemer is that brother who, in obedience to God's word, marries his brother's widow. to perpetuate his brother's line, thus redeeming his brother's name and his brother's widow, at great expense to himself. Because see, the first child that he has by his wife, his deceased brother's widow, will not bear his name or carry on his inheritance, but will do that for his brother. The other picture is one of a man who gets himself into, or a woman gets himself or herself into a tough situation, financially goes bankrupt has to sell himself or herself as a slave, literally. And has nothing to look forward to except for that year of jubilee, maybe fifty years in the future when she'll be released. And a relative, a brother, a cousin, an uncle, can look on that relative and take pity on them and buy them back And they can go up to the person that bought their relative as a slave and say, I am here to redeem my kinsman. How much does he owe you? How much does she owe you? Out of my pocket I'm going to pay that. And give them their freedom. So, in all cases, redemption is a picture of buying something back, rescuing somebody from a situation at your expense for their benefit. How is this baby gonna do that for Naomi? Surely she can't marry him. She can't buy him back. He can't buy her back. What's the connection? The connection is in verse 15, because there's two things that these women. Who say to Naomi, Praise be to the Lord. There's two things that they say that He's going to do. He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age. He will renew your life. You who had become bitter. You who went away emptyful and came back empty. You who describe that emptiness as a life made bitter by the Lord, this Redeemer is going to renew your life. Every time I think about Naomi's plight, I think about James Fenimore Cooper's Last of the Mohicans That's uh I don't know if any of you have seen that movie. It's I like the movie. It's also a book. I think it was a book first. But uh I'm not sure anymore. It gets tough to remember. But there's a scene at the end of the movie where there had at one time been three Mohicans. You know, that and at the very last scene of the movie, two of the Mohicans die. And that's bad news for the last one. And the last one, the last member of his tribe, that's it. It's over, it's finished. Curtain closes. You see this guy, kind of clever cinematography, not that I'm much of a critic, but the camera kind of pans over to him And they just watch this guy walking off into the woods alone by himself. No hope. With him dies his people. It's ended. There's a very sad, very depressing tone to that last scene. That's very much the sentiment that Naomi must have had. I'm it. This is the end. Nothing good is going to come of this line. This line of people who have Existed for so long that I have loved so much. I'm the last one. My life is empty Until the Redeemer is born. And you could just imagine this picture of loneliness turning to a picture of joy as this child becomes a part of his grandmother's life. As this child, as we will read later, sits on his grandmother's lap and does what? sustains her in her old age. That's the second thing he will do. Notice that First, God has given, God has acted to provide a Redeemer. That Redeemer is going to renew her life, and that Redeemer is going to sustain her in her old age. What has Naomi been trying to do for her entire life? She's been trying to sustain herself Her whole life she has been trying to accomplish her goals on her own, regardless of Her whole life she has been trying to go from one meal to the next, under her own steam, dependent on herself What is this Redeemer going to do? Think about for a moment, if you were uh say a 75-year-old lady A widow, not living in modern America, where you have a refrigerator, a freezer, or 7-Elevens on every corner, giant food stores, all kinds of stuff, Social Security. Think about yourself living good 3,000 years ago. Think about yourself going out in the fields to try to glean or get food or begging at that age. Think about the back breaking work that would be involved in first going out to find a field. Second, hoping it's there's still some food left there that the people hadn't already taken or the other gleaners that were going and picking up what was left hadn't already beat you to it. Then you'd have to load that stuff up on your back, go back to your house walking. And then you'd have to prepare the food. Now m my mother has a bread maker. It's pretty handy. I've never actually seen it operate, but I know that, you know, you just pour in some of this, some of that, some of the next stuff, and put just walk away and an hour later, two hours later, you got a loaf of bread. And not for Naomi. Naomi didn't have a bread maker. She had to do it herself. Starting in square one. Pounding out that grain, making flour, maybe borrowing some oil from somebody down the street. Could you imagine the time it would take for her then to prepare that one meal? And how as she grew older and older it would become more tedious and more impossible until the Redeemer The Redeemer sustains her in her old age. And that word sustained doesn't show up very many times. That word is a particular word. It shows up in Genesis chapter 47, verse 12. I think it's important to note that there that word is used to describe how Joseph sustained his brothers during the famine. And what is it that Joseph did? During that time when food could not be found, during that time when his brothers would have surely died if they were left on their own, Joseph fed them. The Redeemer, he removes the effect of God's punishment And he brings Naomi to a place in her life where she no longer has to run around trying to meet her own needs. The very two things which got Naomi in the pickle she was at the beginning of the book. And I think as we pause to reflect on this picture, That we see in the book of Ruth. So often we think of the book of Ruth and say, is Christ portrayed in the book of Ruth? He's supposed to be in every book in the Bible. We say, sure, Boaz, the guy that married Ruth I think that Boaz is a shadow compared to this child. There's only one other child in all of Scripture who's referred to as a redeemer. Who has redemption brought up in context with his name? We read about that in Luke chapter 2. Baby Jesus, perhaps still in godly Simeon's arms. Is approached by an 84, 86-year-old widow, Anna, and she sees him and begins to praise God and speak to all of him. Who are looking forward to the redemption of Israel. This child came to renew Naomi's life, to bring a smile back to her face for her remaining fifteen years. To give her that hope of family, of continuity, of having done what all of us want to do, maybe leaving a mark, maybe leaving somebody, maybe being remembered. What does the child redeemer who came for you and for me? Do in comparison? He said, I am the resurrection and the life. He said, I have come that you may have life and have it fully. This child Redeemer, he will feed Naomi. For the next fifteen years until she dies. He will, at the expense of his own sweat and time and energy Go out into the fields, fields now redeemed, now his, that had been his grandfather Elimelex. He will bring her food to eat. He'll bring her that bread. But Jesus is the bread from heaven. He said, I am the bread of life. Come to me and you will never hunger. Never This child that we read about in Ruth Four also has a name A name which we, from the New Testament perspective, would be struck with if it had been translated into English. What is his name? The women living there said, Naomi has a son, and they named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. And in a book where names are so significant, where the name Elimelech carries such meaning, my God, my king, where the name Naomi pleasant, Mara bitter. What does Obed mean? Obed means servant. Women named him this, recognizing that this child would serve his grandmother. This child would redeem his grandmother. And what is this child in comparison to that suffering servant who even now, even now intercedes for you and for me, even now stands between God the Father and wretched sinners such as we What a comparison, what a picture. And a challenge for you and for me is to act like Naomi. Because Naomi does two things. She does two things in response to this Redeemer that challenge me and challenge us all. It looks like three, but it's really two. Then Naomi took the child laid him in her lap and cared for him. You could almost translate that that she took the child and she did these two things. She laid him in her lap and she cared for him. And laid him in her lap. If you have the NASB, I believe they translate that, brought him to her bosom. Brought that child close. Took that Redeemer child who would serve her, who would renew her, who would sustain her, and brought her to her heart. And have you and I brought our Redeemer to our heart? Or do you and I just come to meet him on Sundays? Have you and I brought him so tight to our life Or do we just shake his hand from time to time? Are we in constant contact with our Redeemer? Or just now and then a memo? She brought him to her bosom and cared for him. And again, if you have the NASB, it says, became his nurse. And that's a difficult thing there. And I've thought about how I could illustrate exactly what's meant by that becoming a nurse. And I figured I could maybe do that by saying I'm a football player. Or I play football. And you might say, yeah, sure you play football. You know, you kind of size me up and I'm almost 5'9, weigh 135 when I'm dripping wet. And uh yeah, I play football. If I can get someone to go throw a ball with me, I you might see me on the lawn and I'm playing football. But if Art Monk were to come up here and say I play football, you'd think something totally different You'd say, oh, that guy's a football player. Yeah, he doesn't just goof around with football the way Bob does. He actually plays it. It's his vocation. It's his livelihood. It's what he does. What do you think we read here, Ruth chapter 4? That Naomi, seeing this Redeemer come to her, Recognizing how God has done what He promises through His prophet Jeremiah, hundreds of years later in the Book of Lamentation, brings grief, shows compassion, has redeemed her. She brings the Redeemer to her heart, and she becomes his nurse. And it's an occupation. She redefines her life. No longer is she Naomi the scrounger. No longer is she Naomi, that uh stubborn, tough-headed, hard-willed American woman. She is the woman who waits on her Redeemer. And the Redeemer is at the center of her life. Is the Redeemer at the center of ours? Are we five different things and then a Christian? Or a Christian and then five different things? Some of you this morning may not know the Redeemer. Some of you this morning may still be trying to eke out a living in Moab. Living where you ought not to live. In ways that you ought not. Have you heard that you have a redeemer? Someone to fill that emptiness in your life? An emptiness that is there. Sigmund Freud, of all people, commented wryly that man is incurably religious. And although it's phrasely, the fact is, the teacher of Israel in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 says that God has set eternity in the hearts of men. And eternity is in your heart. That sense of forever. That sense of where you will be when you meet your Creator, your God, whether you have accepted him as Lord or not. Friends, have you heard that there is a Redeemer? That there is a Redeemer who will renew your life And will sustain you into your old age and into that eternity. His name is the suffering servant, Jesus Christ. And today, today is the day of salvation if you hear his voice. Today is the day to accept him as Savior and as Lord. For those of us who know him, perhaps today is the day to draw him to our hearts and to wait on him forever. Let us pray. Father God, we do thank you. We thank you and we praise you, Lord. For the way that it pleased you to lay on Christ the punishment, Lord, for our sin. Lord, we thank you and we praise you that you redeemed us. That you showed us that love and dying for us while we were yet sinners, so that you could fill our lives with joy. Lord, so that you could sustain us. And Lord, so that one day, having risen, you could raise us also, that we might be with you forever. Father, we just ask that by the power of your Spirit you would take these truths and seal them to our hearts. Lord, move in us. Holy Spirit, we ask you to move us to hold on to Jesus and to live our lives around Him. We pray these things in the name of our Savior and our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.