I find it important that we're able to receive these things from the Lord and not just from me. We're in a frame of mind to hear him. So let's pray again and let's pray now that God will Give us open and teachable spirits and hearts for what he wants to say to us. Let's pray. Lord, hear the longings of our heart, as you would in fact make us open and teachable to receive all that you have for us this morning. That we would hear you speaking to us. Give us grace to receive it, to act upon what you're saying. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want to be right up front with you. I am seeking this fall to persuade you. that you need to be in one of the small groups at Columbia Presbyterian Church, wherever you are spiritually. If you are a seeker and say, I don't have any faith, I don't know this Jesus, all I have is questions, all I have is confusion, great Come, what better way to be able to resolve some of those questions than to be able to get into a group of some people who say that they understand a little bit about the Bible, they have faith To be able to ask those questions honestly, be able to get some answers to those. So if you're in that kind of situation this morning, I'd ask you to put on your gray slip when we come to the offering. Put on the bottom there where it says comments on the back, something about I'd like to be in a group to answer some questions. I have questions, I'd like to get in a group to to um be able to deal with those questions something like that. We'll get the message. And then put your number on there so that we can maybe help you to get into some fellowship of people that are going to meet and you can just meet for four weeks or six weeks set a limit. We're not asking you to sign up for life. But to be able to get some answers to honest questions from what God says in His Word. If you're a follower of Jesus Christ this morning, then if you want to grow in Him Then I'm trying to persuade you that the Bible says that the way that we can grow together, the way we practice the one-another commands, the commands that have to do with what we are to do with one another in the Bible. Requires that we are in face-to-face fellowship, not just a Sunday morning crowd gathering. This is kind of the cream of all that we're doing. This is the focus of all of our worship. But there needs to be that time when you're meeting with a group of Christians that you know and they know you in order to practice what the New Testament says we're to be doing with one another. That's what I'm trying to persuade you. And we looked three weeks ago at the first of these one another kinds of commands we're looking at this fall from Colossians 3. 16, that were to teach and to admonish one another. To teach one another, that is to remind each other of truth, so that we are not telling each other lies, telling ourselves lies, but that we're reminded and we're instructed. And the Bible says this about how to live in wisdom. And wisdom means to live skillfully. That's what the word means in the Bible. Wisdom is skillful. And so how to live skillfully by applying the Bible. And not only do we teach, but we admonish. We looked at that too. And admonishing is simply helping each other to apply the Bible, to work it out in our lives, hold each other accountable in doing it. So that we're living more skillfully. And then last week we began to look at 1 Peter chapter 4. If you haven't turned to it, please turn to it. That's what we're going to look at this morning from God's Word. 1 Peter chapter 4, we saw that in the light of the very soon return of the Lord Jesus, and we are here one more week. Didn't come this week, maybe next week We don't know how many more weeks. But in the light of the fact that we expect that Jesus as he promised his coming back physically, visibly. In the light of that, we live with clear minds focused on what the priorities of life are. And Paul said Peter says the first of all those things is to love one another deeply, to love and to forgive one another deeply. 1 Peter 4, verse 7 and 8. The end of all things is near. Therefore be clear-minded and self-controlled so that you can pray. Above all, number one, love each other deeply. Because love covers over a multitude of sins. And then we saw that the second command was to love each other broadly. Verse 9 Offer hospitality. The word means love of strangers, those that you're not necessarily intimate and close to. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. The idea is of opening your home. uh to a group of people, group of Christians, a small group that some of whom you barely know, or someone that's new visiting in the area. And could use a place that they could be able to sit down and talk and have someone listen to them. Offer hospitality. Love one another broadly. Don't be private in your life, in your Christianity. And so the only people here that I'm not exer exhorting to get involved in a small group at Columbia Presbyterian are either people that's from out of town, don't want you commuting from Cleveland or something to a small group here, I'm not urging that. Or if you are new and you're a visitor and you're just kind of checking us out and you're saying, well, you know, what is this Columbia Presbyterian? We're not saying we're trying to sign you up for a year of small groups, you know, the second week you're here. If you're ready for that, fine, we'll find a group for you. But we are saying that if you begin to feel like I am identifying with this body as the body that I consider my church home, that at that point, the way that translates into your life, A major part of it is to say there's some group of people that when I come Sunday morning, those people I know and they know me. And I don't know everybody here, and I can't try to know everybody here. It's hard for Steve and I to even remember all of your names as people come in. We had ten slips turned in last week of visitors, not only that came. But w but recorded that they were here to say that we want to uh get some more information or find out more about the church. And so with that kind of growth, there has to be a group that we're saying these people I know, I recognize, I care for, they care for me, they know what's going on in my life. And that's what we're trying to do. Now, that becomes particularly focused when we come to this third command that I want to focus on this morning. The command that you see in verses 10 and 11, 1 Peter chapter 4. This is the third command that has to do with the nature of ministry. Let's read what God says to us. Here is God's word to you as well as to me. Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides. So that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. Let me go back and say just one other thing I wanted to say about involvement in small groups before I pick up on these verses. Many of you I know when we talk about small groups will say something like this, I'd really like to do that, but I don't have the time. You know, I'm taking courses or my family demands or whatever. You know, it's nice for you to talk about that. I'd love to do it. Maybe in a year or two I'll be able to do that. But right now, I'm not able to do that. Let me be frank with you. I would think it would be better for you to be in a small group that met once a month than to not be in any kind of fellowship. Now, you see, we have this idea that we translate in our minds small group means once-a-week commitment. But I'm saying whatever it is that you are able to do, It's more important to have some group of believers. If you met once every two weeks, that's better. But if you met once a month, at least there's a group of people that you're saying, these people I identify with. So I'm not saying that in every case, chuck your schedule, no mercy around here, get into a weekly group, that's it, you know. I'm saying we we deal with reality But what is important, I think, is for us to think about this verse. How do I practice this? These two verses have to do with spiritual gifts. And a lot of times when we think of spiritual gifts, we think about 1 Corinthians 12 and Romans chapter 12 and Ephesians 4. But how many people ever think of 1 Peter 4 as a key passage on spiritual gifts? And yet I believe That some of the richest teaching, the most succinct, clearest teaching on spiritual gifts today, is right here in these two verses of 1 Peter chapter 4. You know that a recent survey was done, I just saw the results of it this week, said only 39% of evangelical Christians can identify their spiritual gift. It's an area where people are confused, they want to know about it, and I think these two verses are among the clearest of all teaching that the Bible gives on that. So take a look, first of all, in verse 10, I would like to make quickly five observations or implications about spiritual gifts that you see in verse 10. First of all, notice that it teaches us that every Christian, the little blank there is to put your name or maybe your initials or your first name, whatever you want. That includes you. Every Christian, if you belong to Jesus Christ by faith this morning, this includes you, every Christian has at least one spiritual gift. See what he says? Each one Should use whatever gift he has received to serve others faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. He doesn't say some of you For those of you who have gifts, but you may be thinking, yeah, but I don't know of any spiritual gifts I have. Well, I just told you, only about a third Christians surveyed do know. But you do have a spiritual gift. There's no asterisk there with at the bottom your name except for Alan Harris or you know whatever your name. You know, that's you know that's the exception. Doesn't say that Everyone, each one should use whatever gift God has given. First Corinthians chapter 12, the Dick read from before, verse 7 says, Now to each one The manifestation of the Spirit is given for the common good. The manifestation goes on to talk about the gifts of the Spirit. That's the manifestation. Each one You say, well, it's nothing very important. I don't I don't I I don't recognize it. I don't see that it's really very spectacular to offer to the body. But you know, Ephesians chapter four verse sixteen talks about the body being built up, and in Ephesians four sixteen, Paul says, From him the whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love, as each part Does its work. You're needed. Dick read about that in Corinthians. Every part of the body needs every other part of the body. Did you say, yeah, but I can't imagine how somebody would need what I have to offer. I'm struggling so much myself, and I just don't see that my gifts really fit or offer all that much. How dare you say that? You say I didn't say it, you said it. No, but I heard you thinking it. How dare you think that? Look what Paul's Peter says here. The second observation is that you did not choose your gifts. The Spirit chose your gift, exactly what is appropriate for you and for this body. I'm getting worked up. This is too hot Look what he says. The Spirit chooses my gifts. Verse 10. Each one should use whatever gifts he has received to serve others. Use whatever gift he has received. It doesn't say the gift you chose or that you trained for or anything that you did. It's the gift you've received. That's the blank. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12 in verse eleven, Paul said, All these are the work of one, the same Spirit, and He gives them each one just as He determines. Isn't that great? You didn't have to choose it. You have more prominent gifts, there's more prominent responsibility. I never chose to be a preacher. I never particularly aspired to be a preacher even when I had gone to seminary. I didn't want to be a preacher. I want more for my own needs. We don't choose what God gives to us as our gifts. The gifts are as the Spirit constructs you and reconstructs you. He gives to you certain gifts. And you say, well, I sure don't seem to have a whole lot of satisfaction or sense of accomplishment in the exercise of my gifts. Well, there you go again. Look what verse 10 says. The gifts are not for your benefit. They're for the benefit of others. The third observation: the gifts are not for the blank as mine. The gifts are not for my benefit, but for others. Look at verse 10 again. Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. You see, they're faithfully administering. That word administering is the word for stewardship. And a steward is not somebody who owns something, he simply manages what is given him by the owner. He holds it in trust and manages it. Now that's the word that's used of the gifts of the Spirit that you and I have. Each one of you should use whatever gift he has received by the Spirit, sovereignly given By his wisdom to you to serve others faithfully stewarding God's grace in its various forms. So you are to administer that gift that God has given to you. Again, 1 Corinthians 12, verse 7. Now, to each one, the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the common good, for the good of the others. That's why you find that gifts change. I've talked to many Christians seen in my own life. You move from one area of the country, one congregation to another congregation, and your gifts change change a bit according to the need of that body. Ever experienced that? Different situations, different gifts come to the fore? Because it's the Spirit using you to minister to the body. In fact I go even further than that. The fourth observation is that your ministry to another is a means of grace. It is a means of grace. Look again, verse 10. Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. Faithfully administering God's grace. Now here, I want to say one of the most arrogant-sounding things I've probably ever said from the pulpit of CPC. I have great and profound respect for the reformers, for their wisdom, for their searching of Scripture, for the truths that they discovered, made known to us. But there is one notable area in which they blew it. If you read among the reformers, they say there are three means of grace the Word, the sacraments, and prayer Now, that means that those are three means by which God ministers to us his grace, three means by which we receive grace from God. Quick review, what is grace? Boil it all down. 30-second definition of grace. Grace is God's favor, undeserved. and his assistance in our weakness. Grace is two things. It's his favor undeserved and it's his assistance in our weakness. Now, the reformers said there are three ways that you receive God's grace, his favor undeserved, and his assistance in your weakness. It is through the word as he speaks to you, it is through prayer as you seek for it, it is through the sacraments, particularly the regular receiving of the Lord's Supper each month on first Sunday evenings here, that God ministers his grace. But it seems to me that there is a fourth means of grace that was never discussed in Reformation writings, and it's a major omission. A fourth means of grace is the gifts of the Spirit. And as one of the most prominent explicit passages I stand on 1 Peter 4, verse 10. Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace. You, when you use your gift in the context of other believers who know you and you're able knowledgeably to minister to them, you are a means of grace in their lives. God is using you to confer his favor undeserved and his assistance in their weakness. That's what it says here. His grace is being administered through you. You realize what that means? You have the power to either administer God's grace or to withhold it in the lives of your brothers and sisters. That's an awesome power, isn't it? There are people that God wants to build up within this body. And in some cases is going to depend on the participation of you as a particular child of his in the particular gifts he has given to you, and whether you are faithfully administering God's grace in the lives of your brothers and sisters or not. Now you know why I had to pray at the beginning. That's heavy stuff, isn't it? That's not me. That's not CPC's 1995 philosophy of ministry. That is scripture Look at it. Is that what God's saying or isn't it? He's called upon you and me to minister his grace In the lives of one another. He wants to build his people up to become more like Jesus, overcoming sin and knowing his power. And he uses people To do that. Isn't that amazing? He uses you. He uses me. Now, the final fifth observation I want to make on this thing is that this is not an invitation, but it's a command. You are commanded. To do this. Again, look what he says in verse 10. Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. This is a call to stewardship of the gifts. Peter is saying this is for each one Each of you should be discovering as you are ministering in some capacity, simply seeing whatever need there is in the body. Getting involved in people's lives. There is no group of people you can get involved in, small group in this church, that you will not see needs. And the more you get involved, the weightier some of those needs will be. But they're manageable within a small group context. And as you and I are faithfully administering, not what we can do, that's what verse 11 talks about. Get to that in a moment. Not what we can do, but what God does through us, exciting things begin to happen. Now, look at the second part. How do we do this? Peter says broadly there are two kinds of gifts. Verse 11. There are word gifts and work gifts. Now you may have more of one or the other, but all of us are involved in both kinds of ministry. Look what he says. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. First of all, there are the word gifts to reflect his word and to focus on Jesus Christ. That doesn't mean, beginning of verse eleven there, if anyone speaks he should do it as one speaking the very words of God that every time you open your mouth, that's God speaking. That doesn't mean that you guys better listen to me. McElroys, you should not go to California. God is calling you to stay here in Colombia. You know, that's God speaking. Don't show your house. You'll be sorry. Uh, you know, we don't have that kind of prerogative. When we speak, it is not necessarily the very words of God What's he saying? There's a number of things he's saying. I realized when I was doing this thing on Friday, this should have been two messages. We've got a lot of stuff to cover. It's going to be one. So very quickly, three things that are implied by this very briefly. First of all The word is central to our ministry here as a church. If anyone speaks, you should do it as one speaking the very words of God. The very words of God in the Greek means the oracles of God. It's referring to Scripture. Focus of our ministry is the Bible. Many small groups study Christian books. That's good. There's a lot of good Christian books written. Very good. Study some of the great stuff Larry Crab and Dan Alender and others are writing good stuff. But There is a qualitative difference between any Christian book written by any man or woman. And Scripture itself. Scripture is a means of grace. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. That's our focus. That's what we orient toward. When we speak, it is to speak and to consider what God is saying, teaching and admonishing one another with all wisdom as the Word of Christ dwells in you richly. That's the idea. And so it must be always that in our small groups we focus on what Scripture says, not simply what some book or tape that we heard or somebody that spoke and reflect on that. It is scripture that is the means of grace and of building one another up. Secondly, the message is not to be tampered with The very words, as I said, the of God means the oracles of God, Scripture So much of Bible study today is simply a shortened version of Bible study. No, a shortened version of Bible study is BS. That's what a lot of Bible studies are today. Here's my thought after ten seconds of reflection on this, about what I think this verse means or what it means to me or whatever else. And we call that Bible study. If anyone speaks, he should do it with a, excuse me. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. And so we must, as we come into Bible study, say, I am going to focus on what is this saying? What does it mean? God, give us small group leaders that are going to help us to focus on the text. And to be able to say, what is the very word of God here to us? Not simply what are my thoughts about it, or what does so-and-so say about it, but what are the very words of God to us in this. And then thirdly, the final thing I can just touch on about this word orientation of the gifts is that it implies that authoritative preaching is necessary. It says, if anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. I believe we've lost, nearly lost all sense of this today. Um there has been a very healthy emphasis in recent years on the priesthood of all believers, and I don't know of any church that seeks to Teach and emphasize that more than Columbia Presbyterian, that you are people who are gifted and equipped to study Scripture, to know what God's Word is, and to use that But Americans are very noticeably anti-authoritarian in our bent and our whole orientation And part of that notion is what is called in America populism, in which we believe that everybody's ideas have equal value. And so we have this notion that unless somebody can quote a lot of footnotes and they're research expert or something like this, if it's an area in which we can discuss it with equal opinions. Then my opinion, after 30 seconds of reflection, and depending on what I last saw on TV, is equal to your notion about it No matter if you've studied the Greek and the Hebrew for five or ten years and you know what the church fathers say in 2,000 years of the consensus of Christian history, it doesn't matter. Those two ideas are equal. But the scripture doesn't say that. The scripture speaks about the gifts of teaching. Now, that's not to exalt myself. All it is to say is for me that I've got to wrestle with the responsibility of that. But as you as a people hear that, you need to say, if anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. We want to know what God says. Now, how do you receive what I'm saying to you this morning? You know, if you go home and discuss it, what do you say? What do you think of that message? Oh well, I spoke too long. He always does that. But besides that, you know, I think he made too big a point about this small group business and No, I don't get this business about authoritative preaching and all, you know, I don't know, it just kind of seemed out the lunch to me. Fine. If you disagree with me, no problem. But are you disagreeing with me based on what Peter says, or are you disagreeing with me because you don't like it? Is it a gut reaction, or is it saying, I don't think that that's what the text says Ask men. If anyone speaks, let him do it as the very words of God. That's the means of grace that we minister as we speak to one another, as we seek to help one another in our walk with the Lord Jesus. Disagree with me, fine. But don't disagree with me simply because you don't like it. That's not going to help you to grow. Now, having said that, there is a balance Sermons emphasize the meaning of the text. That's my job. To be faithful, to work at helping you to see this is what the text says And to spend hours of prayer and study to continue to improve my skills to do that. The emphasis in a small group is on the application of the text. That's where you can take, and some small groups do sermon discussions. That's fine, because then you say, okay, well we got a lot of the meaning work out of the way. Now we can talk about how do we live this? How do we apply it But the emphasis, I believe, in the small group ought to be more on the application, the teaching and the admonishing, the exhorting, the loving one another deeply, the helping each other to find out what does this mean in your life and my life now. And I believe that if the church works in that way, we see God's Spirit work in power. Finally, last thing I want to say. Again, I'm apologize for going so quickly, but I knew that if I had Told the worship leaders that we were going to change the schedule one more time and postpone and divide this into two messages. They'd probably tell me go preach from the mezzanine. So we're going to keep on pushing on and finish. Last part of verse 11 Deals with the works gifts. First part is the word gifts. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves, those are the works gifts. Jesus, when he was on the earth, ministered in words and works. He showed the power of God and he showed the words of God. Now we reflect his ministry in the church. We speak the word as we speak his word, the very words of God. We also then in our serving Show his power. He should do it with the strength, the power God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. In both cases, the focus is on Christ. Two things that you see then without his strength. Number one, if I seek to minister the gifts of the Spirit, without his strength I will become resentful. I will become resentful. Whenever I begin to minister in my own strength, I find that I will soon run out of gas in serving others. I will begin to avoid people. They become overwhelming. The needs are too great. Just in our time of prayer here at the beginning of the time, we talked about some overwhelming needs. How do I deal with those things? If I minister without the strength of God, I will begin to withdraw. Self-pity sets in, and all the rest of that. If anyone serves, he must, he should do it with the strength God provides. That alone will enable you to continue in ministry. And then secondly, if you and I minister without the strength of God, others will not receive the grace or the blessing that's intended. You ever notice that some people, you see them minister and do good things, kind things, and your thought about them is so-and-so is a very kind person. Boy, what a kind person they are. Other people will minister, and you notice that they're kind. But you notice beyond that that when you're with them, your attention is drawn to the Lord Jesus. And you think, God is just a great God. And just by the way that they are, the attention is brought not to themselves, but to the Lord Jesus. That I would suggest is supernatural and what this verse is talking about. If anyone serves, he should do with the strength God provides, that is, in the power of the Spirit. Whenever I minister in my own strength, I will draw attention to myself. It's inevitable. I will always do that. Look at what I did for you. Look how kind I am. Notice that? If I do it in the strength God provides, Then in all things God will be praised through Jesus Christ. And so the focus will become on Him. And grace is ministered. You are drawn to trust and to love Jesus more through that. So that to him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. Therefore, as you look at your own life this morning, look at the questions, the end of the bulletin outline. Are you exercising your spiritual gifts? Do you know at least what one or two of them are? If you don't, you're in the two-thirds of evangelicals according to this survey. But how do you find out? Start simply by seeing a need, getting involved with some people. Corporately can do it, whether it's setup, nursery, children's church, whatever, but in a smaller group, get involved with some Christians and get to know them. Then as you do that, ask yourself, what's my goal in doing this? The glory of Jesus Christ, my goal? Do you even know him personally? If you can say that his glory is your goal, or are you still in that position of investigating? You want to get into a group to find out? That's fine. Are you in a fellowship where you can use your gifts? If you're not, Steve Green coordinates our small groups, and he'll be glad. Just put on the small on the gray slip this morning. Want to find out about a small group? We'll get back to you, try to help you in that In fact, we got a more specific offer. We have an elder that is starting a small group. He's already put together a number of people. He has room for one more couple or two more singles. And he's going to be there at the back door with me. And so if you're the first one to come back this morning and say, learn that good. then we'll consider it and take your application. Now we'll invite you joyfully into that group. And if there's more, then we'll talk about another group. But we mean business about this because we believe that God works powerfully in it. I still remember last April being called out of the men's fellowship breakfast hearing that Banalyn Dexter had just died. And I remember when Wayne Coke uh the Dexter's elder was called and he came over there as quick as he could and Kathy and I went over to the Dexter's home. And by the time we got there we were already preceded by Charlie and Lori Lees. And they were in a small group together. And Laura and Laurie had had their hearts knit together and a fellowship. And I still remember so vividly coming in the room there and seeing Lori kneeling on the floor, holding Laura's hand. And just ministering to her. If there's anybody that has the gifts of mercy in our congregation, it's Lori. So I you know, if somebody can receive mercy, Lori is a tremendous means of God's grace in that But I remember thinking so vividly as I was standing there, I don't have anything to add. God's already brought his agent of ministry here. She can do what I could never do because of the bond that has been knit in the lives of these two women. And so Wayne and Kathy and I watched as God ministered Tomara, and then we tried to minister some to Cal in that situation. If a crisis hits your life, who's going to minister to you? Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, how grateful we are that when you called us to yourself, you called us to a family. You called us to brothers and sisters that we can care for and who can care for us. And that you have given to each one of us gifts that we may not even recognize. Maybe we haven't tried, maybe we haven't been giving ourselves in the kind of relationships where those things would be seen. But Lord, we pray that you would change that. And in in our hearts this morning, Lord, you would call us. Take that step of faith to get involved with some people that we could minister to and could minister to us. We need that, Lord. We cannot survive alone. Lord, we pray that you will call that couple in the singles or whoever you want to be part of Larry's group and to join in that. Perhaps in other groups that would get going from that so that we would be a people who are not alone and feel strange on Sunday morning. We're people who have friends and brothers and sisters. That we're ministering to and being ministered to by. How thankful we are that you minister your grace through the lives of one another. That lifts you up. That honors you. May our goal be to the honor and glory and power of Jesus. Lord, work in us to respond to what you're saying to us this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.