Well things are very active here in Sousa. I guess capital cities are never dull, but it seems particularly true in Persia that they're always very active. And another year is almost gone. Just about drawing to the new year, and it isn't long. We're going to be writing four forty five BC instead of four forty-six on all our papers. I wonder how many checklanks I'll mess up as a result of putting the wrong year on them. Next year is going to be an anniversary year. Our king, our dexes, is going to have reigned twenty years. That just hardly seems possible. There'll be a lot of celebrating in that year, uh we do a lot of celebrating here in Persia. Anyway, but you know it's been a difficult time for our people in Jerusalem. They've had real ups and downs. What a blessing it was that Ezra returned and was able to rebuild the temple, and we really praise God for that. But things aren't going so well now. As the walls were going to be rebuilt, our king issued a decree that that would stop. And so there are real troubles in Jerusalem, and I really don't know how bad they are. It's been so long since I've had word from them. Well, I wonder who that can be, a caller so early in the morning. Well, Hanani, my brother, how are you? It's good to see you. I certainly welcome you. Won't you come in? Oh you look tired. Sit down and tell me about things. Annie, how are things in Jerusalem with our brothers? Let's turn to Nehemiah's word and hear directly from his recording of the situation. at that time. Turn with me if you will to meet to Nehemiah 1. The words of Nehemiah, the son of Hakaliah, now it happened In the month of Chislev in the twentieth year, when I was in Susa the capital. Bethanani, one of my brothers and some men, came from Judah, saying, came from J came from Judah came, and I asked them concerning the Jews who had escaped. escaped and had survived the captivity and about Jerusalem. And they said to me, The remnant there in the province who survived the captivity are in great distress and reproach, and the wall of Jerusalem is broken. Down, and its gates are burned with fire. Now it came about when I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days, and I fasted and prayed before the God of heaven. And I I said, I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who preserves the covenant and loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments. Let thine ear now be attentive. And thine eyes open to hear the prayer of thy servant, which I am praying before thee now, day and night, on behalf of the sons of Israel, thy servants, confessing the sins of the sons of Israel which we have sinned against. Against thee. I and my father's house have sinned. We have acted very corruptly against thee, and have not kept the commandments nor statutes nor the ordinances which thou didst command. thy servant Moses. Remember the word which thou didst command thy servant Moses, saying, If you are faithful, I will scatter you among the peoples, but if you return to me and keep my commandments and do them, though So those of you who have been scattered were in the most remote parts of the heavens, I will gather them from there and will bring them to the place where I have chosen to cause my name to dwell. And they are thy servants and thy people, whom thou didst redeem by thy great power and by thy strong hand. O Lord, I beseech thee, may thine ear be attentive to the prayer of thy servant and the prayer of thy servants, who delight to revere in thy name, and make thy servant successful today, and grant him compassion before this man. Now I was cupbearer to the king. For the next two Sundays, now I would like to examine with you Nehemiah's rebuilding of the wall in Jerusalem. Today we'll talk primarily about his planning of that work, and next week we'll talk about his actual actual doing of the work. I would encourage you, if you could, to read the first six chapters of Nehemiah sometime during this week. It's a very exciting and compelling story of one of God's servants and how he acted in God's kingdom and God doing God's work. We'll apply what Nehemiah has to teach us to our lives here today and see what Nehemiah tells us with regard to living here in Columbia. So let's look today at Nehemiah's planning. The task that Nehemiah had is set forth quite simply in verse 3. And they said to me, there in the province who survived the captivity are in great distress and reproach, and the wall of Jerusalem is broken down and the gates are burned with fire. You need to look a little bit at the situation of the times Because the wall had been destroyed more than a hundred years before, so that was no news as far as Nehemiah was concerned. But more recently there had been hope. Ezra had returned, had been giving the blessing. Of uh the king to uh rebuild the temple and the walls, and the temple had been rebuilt. And then the opponents had uh set in and uh really uh with a vengeance and had written to the king and said, These people are rebuilding the Wall, and when that happens, it's been the history of this city that they will rebel and cease to pay taxes. So he appealed to the king's desire for money that this work ought to cease. And the king heard their arguments and and was persuaded. persuaded by them and wrote back and asked the officials to stop this work and the rebuilding of the wall by force if that was required. So not only did this stop the building of the wall by force, but it gave the opponents an opportunity w to opportunity to exert themselves in a number of areas. So Jerusalem was now the work had stopped, it was unprotected, and truly that prompted the strong words that you hear recorded here of great distress and reproach, and led to Nehemiah's description of his response to this in verse four as weeping and mourning and of deep sorrow, fasting and praying. So what did Nehemiah do? He packed a couple of camels and decided he would head back to Jerusalem and and repair the wall, and that evening when he gave the king the wine to taste, he would he would ask to permission to go back. That's not at all what was recorded here. That's not at all how Nehemiah reacted. Let's take a look at that in the verses from beginning with four and Going through the next six or seven verses, what was Nehemiah's response? The first thing he did was pray, and he prayed fervently for himself and his people. And let's look at his prayer. Starting with verse 4, we read, Now it came about when I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days, and I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven. And then Nehemiah pleads with that God of his in verse 4. He says, Now it came about, when I and he goes on to say, and I said, I beseech thee in verse 5, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God of the heaven. God, who preserves the covenant and loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments, let thine ear now be attentive and thine eyes open to hear the prayer of thy servant, which I am praying before thee now daily. Day and night, on behalf of the sons of Israel, thy servants, confessing the sins of the sons of Israel, which we have sinned against thee. I and my father's house have sinned. We have acted very cruelty. corruptly against thee, and have not kept thy commandments, nor the statutes, nor the ordinance, which thou did c didst command thy servant Moses. So he pleads first And then confesses his sins and the sins of his people, as he is earnestly coming before his God for direction and strength in this particular crisis. He goes on then to claim the promises of God in verse. Verse 8 Remember the word which thou didst command thy servant Moses, saying, If thou art unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples. But if you return to me and keep my commandments and do them, though those of you who have Been scattered, were in the remote part of heavens I will gather them from there and will bring them to the place where I have chosen to cause my name to dwell. And they are thy servants and thy people, whom thou didst. Redeemed by thy great power and by thy strong hand. And finally, in Nehemiah's prayer, he becomes very specific in verse 11. He prays, O Lord, I beseech thee. May thy Thine ear be attentive to the prayer of thy servant, and the prayer of thy servants, who delight to revere thy name, and make thy servant successful to day, and grant him compassion before this man. And as we read A moment before he then discloses who this man is and says I am cupbearer to the king. So now did Nehemiah go ahead and act and move forward with his plan to go ahead. back to Jerusalem. Not really. If we begin chapter 2 and look at the first few words, it says, And it came about in the month of Nasan. And we find that that month is four months after Chisel. The month that uh nanny came to visit him. So that Nehemiah spent a period of four months from the time that he received this crushing news to the point that he took action. You may wonder what Nehemiah did with those four months, whether he just plain uh loofed off, he relaxed, he procrastinated, or something like that. But if you read much about Nehemiah, that doesn't seem very plausible. He's not that kind of person. You can draw, as you look at the response, the interchange of words between Nehemiah and the king in the early part of chapter two, you could begin to see what he might have done in these four months. And let's take a look at a few verses. verses in the early part of the chapter. Chapter two begins, and it came about in the month of Nassan that in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes, that wine was before him, and I took up the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had not been sad in his presence. So the king said to me, Why is your face sad, though you are sick? There's nothing but sadness of heart. Then I was very much afraid. At that time any dis anything that displeased the king could well resolve. result in death, and Nehemiah had every reason to believe if the king was displeased with him, that this could be a possible outcome. So his response there, then I was very much afraid, is certainly well appropriate. But in spite of that he goes on and encouraged the The thought process and the word process of the king toward the end that he wants to achieve. Verse 3 says, And I said to the king, Let the king live forever. Why should my face not be sad when the city, the place of the of my father's tombs lies desolate, and its gates have been consumed by fire. So he gives every opportunity for the king to pursue the subject, and the king does that. In verse 4 the king replies, then he said to me, What would you request? Very bluntly and forthrightly, he lays before Nehemiah the question, what would you request? Now, Nehemiah has been praying and planning and working toward this for four months. But he Even at this very moment, before he responds to the king, just a brief moment he records, so I prayed to the God of heaven, an arrow type prayer, that this man might respond favorably to the question. He was going to pose to him. And I said to the king: If it please the king, and if your servant has found favor before you, send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers, that I may rebuild it. Nehemiah. had decided that he was the one to go. Now you could make an argument that he was close to the king and he might have stayed there and continued to have the king's favor after all the wine taster was was daily in contact with the king and send someone else, but in that four month period He came to the conclusion that he was the one to supervise the rebuilding of the wall and makes that proposal. Then the king responds in verse 6, and the king said to me, the queen sitting beside him, How long will your journey be? And when will you return? So it pleased the king to send me, and I gave him a definite time. You can visualize that Nehemiah gave this considerable thought. There had to be some replacement. For him in this considerably high office that he held. There was probably a better time to go than another, some time of preparation. And he didn't say, Well, I'll I'll I'll go as soon as we can get all these things straightened out and we can get ready. He gave him a definite time which which indicates that he had thought this through and he knew precisely the time that he wanted to leave. In verse seven, I said to the king, if it please the king, let letters be given before the governors of the provinces beyond the river. That they may allow me to pass through until I come to Judah. So he had decided that he wanted letters to let him get through territories where he might be challenged. Now you say, well, that's a pretty reasonable thing to do. These areas are are uh have every likelihood of challenging him. But Ezra had not done that some years before. Ezra had decided that it would be a reflection on his God if he asked for letters to go through the territories. So Nehemiah had concluded, and why we don't know, That it would be desirable for him to ask for these letters, and so he had planned that. Not only that, but verse eight says in a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, that he may provide timber. So here here again Nehemiah. Nehemiah had laid quite specific plans, and it I think it's reasonable to assume if the king had asked him how much timber, he probably had some idea of what he wanted. So Nehemiah's plans have been made very specifically and his request. to the king is very specific, and this series concludes with the last part of verse 8. And the king granted them to me, because the good hand of my God was upon was on me. So Nehemiah here, in spite of his preparation and prayer and thoughtfulness in this, acknowledges where the source of the power is to change the king's mind. The good hands. We'll talk more next Sunday, but as we see Nehemiah planning the work of rebuilding the walls, we get another supporting view that Nehemiah is a very substantial planner. He inspects the entire walls at night so people don't know he's doing it, and you can just visualize his planning every last bit of the rebuilding. And finally, the assignments of the tasks in chapter three would indicate that it's a very well thought through and organized plan of work. So I think we we would uh very quickly agree that Nehemiah is a very substantial planner. As a result of this planning, Nehemiah was ready to act. Nehemiah was ready to make the proposal and his work was fruitful and one of the greatest uh uh tasks in recorded was completed in fifty two days, the rebuilding of the wall in Jerusalem. A very exciting uh work as you read these early chapters. It's in the setting of Nehemiah's planning and praying and working that I like to deal now in application and look particularly today at the planning aspect and the prayer aspect. I'd like to stress this in this brief time five areas that We can draw conclusions or at least draw applications to our own lives here. And the first is being sensitive to need. In verse 4, we read of Nehemiah's sensitivity of His weeping and mourning and fasting and praying. There's a great tendency for all of us to be engrossed in the things around us, engrossed in our families, engrossed in our jobs, engrossed in all sorts of things and to be insensitive to subtle needs that come about and are put before us. And we won't even be able to begin the task if we're not sensitive. To the need. In this so-called state of retirement that I find myself and have for the last year or so, I've got and I've concluded that I'm busier now than I was when I was working. And uh this is is something that it it may seem. seem kinda humorous, but it's really it really is a serious matter. Uh we're finding that there isn't the time that Dot and I should have together. There is a uh uh a a number of deficiencies in our priorities and In order to deal with that, I must be sensitive enough to that need to be willing to make a change. And if I'm not sensitive enough to that need to be willing to make a change, then that change won't be made. And it really is is is love and concern that drives us and motivat motivates us toward this sensitivity. It's only through the love of Christ, that unselfish love, that we're going to make these changes and that we're going to do the things and be sensitive to the things. things that God would have us do. The second area is being ready to respond. Nehemiah probably was prepared weeks and maybe even two or three or more months before they King raised this question, but he knew what he wanted and he was ready and prepared. I was impressed with John Fickert's visit here. John Fickert is our denomination evangelist and m many of you heard him at the family retreat. But John has prepared himself very thoroughly in an ability to respond with Scripture to all different circumstances in life. And he has just partially done this so that as As various circumstances are thrust upon him, he can respond with the teaching of the Word of God. And so it behooves us to be prepared to respond. One of the things that he did that I am contemplating doing, and that is is to put answers to questions together in the form of chain references in his Bible. In other words, uh, oh maybe in the back in a note page, note the question and the first verse that you want to use in responding to a repetitive question. And then at that verse in your Bible, the next verse, and then at that verse, the next one. So he can have a reminder. He's prepared to answer a question, in fact, many questions, with a series of scripture verses as he works. His way through these chain references. Memorizing scripture, practicing the gospel, all of these, the presentation of it, are ways to prepare ourselves to respond. Many of you, well, maybe many of you don't know. No, I work a couple of days a week in Manassas this summer. God and I go down there uh two days a week, attempting to reestablish a church that is faltering. And one of the things that I did was is to teach a seminar on presenting the gospel. with the very thought of having the people there prepared to confront people they contact with the gospel of Jesus Christ. So there's a sensitivity that we need to to needs and requirements. We need to be ready to respond and then thirdly we need to make specific plans. We perceived the need at covenant for discipling. I guess that maybe a year ago or something like that. one of our members made a presentation to our session uh describing what he thought were the needs in the discipling area. This prompted me to attend Al Harris's course here and I sat in with many of you folks in that discipling course. And so now we're at a point where we've perceived a need. We've made some preparations so that we're ready to respond. But I can just tell you for a certainty, if we don't make plans If we don't set some dates, say for this fall, if we don't uh put this in the church's calendar, if we don't start thinking and praying about people to for that course, if we don't think and pray about people to be discipled and talk with them. If we don't move forward in the planning phase of that, you could ask me and Al probably will, you could ask me a year from now what's happening on that, and probably we'd be in exactly the same position as we are today. So it's going to take planning, specific planning to move that particular work in God's kingdom forward. I've been concerned as I visited churches in our Presbytery that so many of them, and I don't say this in any malicious way, I I just is is a burden on my heart. That a great many of our churches tend to slide from one year into another. That's the only way I can describe it. There's a lack of purpose and planning and direction. And I I think that you are blessed here with a person as your pastor. Who is a planner and your session, I think, are planners. But we need to plan if we're going to get God's work done. We've had a burden at Covenant, and I mention our session so often simply because because that's the only one that's the one I'm closest to and most familiar with, where we've had a burden for the fact that we're probably doing too much rather than equipping people to do the Ephesians four, uh to uh equip the saints to do the work of service for the building up of the kingdom of God. Now again, if we don't lay specific plans in the way of training elders, training people, training deacons, and all that would go into it, we will have that need and nothing will happen for some So we draw from Nehemiah in searching out and knowing that need for planning specifically. Now, this isn't just true in some of these major church things. This is true in our personal lives. I've made A lot of calls as an elder on family sessional calls, and one of the most common things that keeps coming up over and over again is the lack of time for a daily quiet time. And this is often among our younger people, older and younger alike. Let me talk for a moment with the younger folks. So many of the young people will say the studies are just tremendous. There's a lot to do at night. Our workload at school is great. These times the teachers are teaching us so much in so short a time. It's just a battle to have any time for a class time at all. But today it's near the end of July and there hasn't been school for maybe a month and there won't be school for more than a month in the future. And I would presume then, I guess, that your daily quiet time is fixed, that probably you've got time now and you're having a daily quiet time every single day and and just uh setting up a pattern in your life that uh will carry through next year. I wish that were the case, but I dare say if I could talk to you young folks individually, that's probably not the case. And it's probably not the case because you didn't plan for that. How tremendous it would be if you said the summer in a addition to the refreshment of summer of being away from school, I'm really going to work at my quiet time when I've got the time to do it. And then in the fall when my busy schedule comes, maybe I'll cut back on it, but I'll have put that into my schedule and into my life. I suggest this morning that this won't happen unless it happens through planning. It's at this point, and I will remind myself and you folks two or three times during the process. It sounds like we're doing this in this planning. But we need to be reminded that it's God's sovereignty in our lives that brings these things about. It doesn't take Take away the need for planning. One of the as I wrestled with this in the Presbytery job where most of my work is planning, Proverbs sixteen nine was a very great help to me. The mind of man plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. So we are asked to plan, but the Lord will direct our steps, and we must be open to having those steps changed and redirected as we go along. A companion proverb to that that was helpful. is Proverbs sixteen three. Commit your works to the Lord, and your plans will be established. So if we commit our works to the Lord, then we have the foundation for planning. But then we must plan, we're told to plan, and then be sensitive to the leading, to the walk, where God again in His sovereignty guides us and leads us. So commit our works, plan, And then let the Lord direct our steps. And I think we will then not come into the pitfall of having man-made activities and man-made plans. And finally, after sensitivity, ready to act and planning, the purpose to act. Psalm seventeen three says, Thou hast tried my heart, thou hast visited me by night, thou hast has tested me and found nothing. I have purposed that my mouth will not transgress. I have purposed that my mouth will not transgress. That's a good word. To me it has a very strong connotation. It has a connotation of determination. It is a connotation of something will be done. So as we lay our plans, we must purpose that we're going to complete them as you see near Nehemiah next week in his actual doing of the work, had he not purposed that that work would be completed, it never would have been done. He overcame obstacles that almost seemed insurmountable. There's a close link, I think. I believe between this purposing and the self-control and the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5. 22. We must have self-control in order to purpose. And we're purposing against Satan. We're purposing against procrastination, we're purposing against all the outside forces of the world deterring us from this plan that we have. We're purposing against obstacles that will come before us in almost any work that we do. But we do this work in the power of the Holy Spirit, and we do this work open to God's leading as we purpose to act. And finally, I've listed, as you see in the outline in your bulletin, this particular point of being open to leading separately. I've elected to cover it with planning and with purposing, but I've listed it here separately as a matter of emphasis. The king brought a favorable response to Nehemiah, because the good hand of my God was upon me. We might ask ourselves the question. This morning, is the good hand of our God upon us? This is the foundation I've built on. I presumed in all of this this morning that the good hand of your God is upon you. And God saw fit after Nehemiah's time, considerably after, to reveal to us how we go about having the good hand of God upon us. And the answer to that is There is only one answer, and that is through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, was given that he might come to this earth and live among us. Live a perfect life, be crucified for our sins, be crucified in place of us, to be raised from the dead and sit at the right hand of God the Father. This is the only access, the only way we have to God, that his hand might be upon us. And if in your life you haven't come to that point this morning, I would urge you to do that. That. God has said in his plan, he set it forth very clearly for us. He said, We must recognize our need, we must recognize that we all have sinned, every one of us. And so subtly we have claimed dominion over our lives. Lives, we've claimed that we can run them, that we can direct them, and we don't say it, but we do it, that we've rebelled against Him in this way. And if we look at God's word, we'll see that. The certainty of death and the certainty of judgment and the certainty of the wrath of God that that particular path takes us to. But God has made a glorious promise to us and performed a glorious act in bringing his Son Jesus. Two were that our sins might be forgiven. It demonstrates his love. The Bible tells us that God demonstrated his love for us, that while we were yet sinners, while we were doing all of these things, that Christ Died for us. And then he wipes away this judgment. He says that he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and does not come into judgment, but is passed out of death and into life. Life. And well, how does he tell us that we obtain that? We can turn to the recording of Mark about our Savior's life personally to get that answer. Mark reports that Jesus came into Galilee preaching the gospel of God and saying, Repent and believe in the gospel. Repent and believe in the gospel. I would urge you to deal with this question. Because if you don't deal with this, all of the other things cannot be dealt with. They cannot be built upon this. Deal with that question today if you have not. And if you have dealt with it, and there are crumbling parts in the walls of your life, if there are any ruined areas or ruined gates, claim the promise of forgiveness. God's word says if you confess your sins, that I will be faithful to Confess your sins and claim that cleansing if you have crumbling parts in your walls. And then you can talk about Repairing and building the structure of your lives. You can search for crumbling areas and areas in bad repair and in ruins, areas of family relations, areas of priorities. Areas of problems that you've been neglecting, areas of a personal walk with Jesus Christ, and now you could begin to deal with them. I would pray this morning that you would learn from God's servant Neab. As you prayerfully look at being sensitive to need, being ready to act, making plans, purpose to act, and finally remaining open to God's leading. This is a lifelong process. It was just yesterday that Dot and I had our thirty sixth wedding anniversary and it was just a week or so before that that I had my sixtieth birthday. And I'm still rebuilding walls, I'm still repairing gates, so I can say to you children with an absolute certainty, and to you young folks, and to you older young folks, that you will be repairing walls as long as you live. You will be repairing walls until Jesus calls you to be with himself and then he'll fix them all once and for all. But until that time you're going to be continuing to work on them. And my prayer is that you will have learned from Miami, and that you will learn next Sunday how to deal effectively with these repairs, and that they will be made completely and effectively in your lives. Let us pray. Our Lord God in heaven, we come before you humbly as we consider the inadequate acquacies that we have in our lives, of all the crumbling areas, of all the shabby areas that we're not satisfied with, in fact that we're ashamed of. We pray, Lord, that you will work on these areas, that you will give us the strength. to deal with them. And I would pray as you confront us with life that you will test us and try us in these areas, that you will force us toward dealing with them, Lord. And we just pray that we can look to your Word and be fit and to know how to repair these walls in our lives. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.