The recall of Paul, a series of nine meditations, on following snapshots of love between a man and a woman, and the way that God intended. Remember that the first Psalm chapter one through chapter three to verse five, the question. between this man and this woman. And then in chapter three, verse six up to chapter five, verse one, we saw the wedding and the wedding night. And then in chapter 5, verse 2, through the end of that chapter, we saw the problem of ingratitude, the coldness, the deadness of love that settled in. to a man between two sinners. And we saw how the man responded and what happened in the woman as she then um revived in her love for him and saw his word And so now we come in the fifth message of the nine to chapter six, verse one, and we pick up the story here again, where the friends have now come to this life, and they have offered to this help. to get this man back. And so now let us look at God's word. Let us remember that this is not simply a romantic story. It is God's holy word in the reading that. So let's give our attention to God's word, Psalm Psalms, chapter 6, verse 1, through chapter 7, verse 9. Where has your mother of God those Judah? full of women. Which way did your mother turn that he may look for him with me? My lover has gone down to his garden, to the best of spices, to browse in the gardens and to gather living. I am my lover, and my lover is mine. He browseth among the lilies. You are beautiful, my daughter, and pure. Lovely is Jerusalem. Majestic as truth with bad. Turn your eyes from me. They overwhelm you. Your hair is like a flock of goose descending from beginning. Your teeth are like a flock of goats. Of sheep coming up from the washing. Each has its twins. Not one of them is alone. Your temples behind your veil are like the halves of a pomegranate. Sixty twins there may be, and eighty concubines, and Beyond number, but my love, my perfect one is me, the only daughter of her mother, the savour of the one who bore her, the maiden saw her and called her blessed, the queens and concubines, priests. The tears like the dawn, fair as the moon, bright as the sun Logestic at the stars in procession. I went down to the groves of nut trees to look at the new growth in the valley. To see if the vines had budded or the pomegranates were green. Before I realize it, my desire stepping among the royal chariots of my people. Come back, come back, O Shuma. Come back, come back, but we may gaze on you. Why would you gaze on the Shulamites as on the dance of Mahanaya? How beautiful. Your standard feet, O Prince of God. Your graceful legs are like jewels, the work of a craftsman's hand. Your label is a rounded goblet that never lacks blended wine. The erased is a mound of feet. Be settled by loose. Your breasts are like two thorns, twins of a gazelle. Your neck is like an ivory tower. Your eyes are like the trees of Heshra of the Dean. Nose is like the Tower of Lebanon, looking forward to massive. Your head crowns you like Mount Carmel. Your hair is like royal tapestry. The king is held captive. By its treasure. How beautiful you are. And how delicious oh love with you the light. Your stature is like that of a palm, and your breasts like crosses of fruit. I said I will climb the palm tree. I will take hold of its fruit. Let your breast be like the clusters of the vine, the fragrance of your breast like apples, and your mouth like the death wine. When the wine goes straight to my flow gently over lips and peace. Now, so far, God's word is much easier to Read than to understand, isn't it? This is one of the most difficult portions of scripture in all the Bible to interpret. Generally when you look at a passage you can check commentators and you will find that they sort of line up the On this side as opposed to an alternate interpretation. If you take a look at this passage, I have ten commentators, you'll find that not a single phylum will agree on exactly what this is saying. In fact, the interpretation I'm going to offer to you Some all of them in a few details. It's a very difficult passage to interpret. And yet, some general things, some that stand out crystal clear to us as we trace the line of thought. I want to begin opening up this. difficult passage by giving you an example of something that I think about our culture. Let's suppose that I were to show you my little cone case. And I were to say, see this little cone case, it used to be red. not very good anymore. Uh this coachcase is made for me by someone that I love very much. This coach case is made for Miss My wife and I had just begun to dates. And she was working with a pioneer girl We can see this case for me. Back in 1966, when we celebrated our 18th anniversary this summer. So I'll then describe to you what this came case means to me and how Kathy made that. Most people in our culture, particularly teenagers who are in their 20s, would look and they'd say, nineteen sixty-six That's practically pre-World War II. Two a guy that has gotten a cozy from someone back then. still be in love. Uh surely this I can't know what love and passion and romance are about. Because there's the assumption, you see, in our culture, that the longer you're married, the less romance and passion there must be. In their relationship. You see, romance and passion is pretty closely identified in our culture with heavy breathing healing bodies. And anything that's far beyond that has gotten to a settled into the stale and the boring and the routine, and there can't be very much romance to it. And I've made that assumption What I would like to show you from God's word this morning is a very unbiblical assumption. When you ask yourself, does God intend for my marriage, if you're married, and if you've been married But God intends for my marriage to be more romantic now than when we were first married or less romantic. Even though You may say, well, I guess he wants it to be more romantic. But in your own hearts, most people will say less romantic. You know, that romance and that passion, you know, that that's kind of immature. You sort of play with that stuff for starting. But you know, as you get older and you sort of settle down and you move on into fibership, you sort of put things in perspective. And that stuff just doesn't use so much anymore. It just you know, it doesn't buy the groceries and pay the bills. It it it's nice for a while. You know, you've got to settle down to reality. And then if you ask yourself, oh what what is the real ultimate reason that if we all sick in the same, I would stick with my wife or my husband? Then you will find the answers to both those questions. The question of romance, whether it should increase or decrease, the question of ultimately why you stick together through years of marriage and hardship of the sinner in this passage. And so you see this passage. While it may be a little difficult to walk on for us to understand, that's extremely important principles for under for us to understand today. And so what I want to do is I wanted to walk you through this passage again without an outline, but just to give you the grip of the thought. And then I want to bring from that as you follow along in the bullets and outline some principles that we see coming out of this passage to deal with those questions and some others. But first of all, notice now that this is a thought. It begins at the beginning of chapters for civil friends who are saying to this bride, to this wife, uh who's been married, as we say, it could have been a matter of weeks, months, or years. You don't know how long they've been married. This point. But we do know that there's been this alienation. He blessed because she drove him away. She wasn't interested in his romantic advancement. And then she began to see how foolish she was, and she has now come in her work and orders. Who was it again? But now her friends come along and they say, Now where's your mother going, most beautiful little women? Where did that dude go? And you know, men are all like that. Where did he go? We'll try to help you get him back. Come on, just Let's, you know, cry a little and we'll pull ourselves together and we'll go after this guy. Surely you'll find them and we can talk these friends over. And then verse two, I just love verse two to them. Because there they are, you know, yeah, she was talking about and she just looks at him and see first. Ah, I know where he is. My mother's gone down to his garden to the bed of spices. It's amazing to me that most commentators don't understand what that's talking about. He's a little recruiting. What's the Bible? We remember that in chapter 4, verse 12. He says what the garden is. You are my garden. Because You are a garden locked up, my sister and my bride. You are the brain slaves, the sea of fountain. Chapter 5, verse 1. I have come into my garden As they consummate their union and their marriage. I've come into my garden, my sister, my brother. Clearly she's his garden. And so what did you say to him? I was lovely going down to the garden to the basic spikes. I thought really when I went to go to see, well, by the way, you know, we don't need a hip home anymore. We've got to close the door. for a little while here to say. Because I had him. He's come home. He's totally reconciled. We're united. So why is it that we're united? And that's where verse 3 is so important. I am my mother, and my lover is mine. You see that? And that's so important for us to understand. He says, Why did he come back? I decided this problem of my driving him away and the ingratitude and the fight that he had and the misunderstanding and the hurt, sometimes the deep with the hurt Well you see you just can't be to her anymore. Why are we back together? So simply because I am my beloved. And he is my beloved. You see, it's not ultimately based on appealing. It's based on a commitment. There is a mutual possession and belonging here. So we're going to explore that a little bit more next week because it's a refrain that runs through the fallen song. Obviously just now for a moment. How important it is in understanding why we're back together. In Genesis chapter 2 and verse 24, we read the very definition of marriage is that a man will see his father and his mother and will be united. to his life and they will become the one flesh. And the word be united to is a word which means to cleave to. He will cleave to his life. But the word in the Hebrew which refers to Sickness of something. It's like glue. It's the word that you can go, chapter 31, is the best illustration I know of understanding this word In Joebe 41, he's talking about crocodiles. And you can't understand crocodile to understand Mary. Because he talks about the nature of a crocodile, and he says, if you understand a crocodile, whose back has raised seal. Tellfully sealed together. Each is so close to the next that no air can pass between them. Joe 41, verse 17. They are joined fast to one another. It's the same word as Genesis P twenty-four. They cleave to one another. They close together and cannot be parted. That's the meaning of marriage. That's what God's talking about in Genesis T twenty-four. There has been a commitment here that has brought these two lines together to stick together, to cling together, so there's nothing to separate them. Just like two scales on the back of a crocodile. They're prior to us. Nothing can come in between. You can run over top of them, you can pound them, you can do anything else, but you're not going to pull up apart. They cleave together And that's what she said. Oh yeah, he's like host. It's taken care of. Because our lives are cleaving to each other, sticking to each other. Nothing can separate us. The piece of first. The deepest difficulties and pain that we can go through will drive us closer together as ultimately. Nothing can separate. It's a promise, not a feeling. You stick with your wife, you stick with your husband, not because you feel that it's worth it, but because one day you made a promise in the presence of God that you were going to commit your life to that other sin. And because of that promised aid, nothing can separate you off. You are cleaning together, find by the loved, and he is mine. That's why he's rousing among the women. All the rest flows after that because there's a security of that commitment and that covenant made with one another. Now notice what this words are for her. She's had some They they come back together, the door closed. And what did he say to us? In verses four to nine, he speaks from the fact that uh verse five, Turn your eyes from me, they overwhelm me. Well you see that's just like what he had said in chapter four, verse mine. You fill in my heart like this in my brown. Will you fill in my heart with one glance of your eye? He says in verse six, your teeth are like a flock of sheep coming up from the washes. Remember chapter 4, verse 1? Uh excuse me, uh chapter um uh five, uh the second part of chapter five. This here is like a flock of boats descending from zero Remember chapter 4, verse 1. Your hair is like a flock of gates descending from the Alpine. Beginning at verse 6, your teeth are like a flock of sheep coming up from the water. Chapter four verse two that honeymoon might he said your teeth are like a flock of sheep just coming up from the washing. So why did you do anything? Because he's pretty unimaginative, did he not just say something nice and really worked on that thing in the honeymoon and you can't think of anything else so he's not, you know. I better come up with something so I think well that seemed to work pretty good that night. So I'll come back with the same stuff that else that he did. It's clear that he saw it unimaginative. Chapter seven will show you that The reason is because God is communicating something to us through this. He's using almost the identical language to her fear sometime after the home, once a year. To get across to her just one place, you're the same girl that I married. And my love for you is just the same now as it was last. Even though we've had this misunderstanding, even though there's been the first, I don't love you any last. My love for you hasn't changed. I'm not saying to you, Oh, you weren't the girl that I married. What happened to you? You used to be blah blah blah, but now you're, you know, look saying that he's saying to her now my lust to your service. And so he says that to her poetically, by saying the same things that he had said that night, so she'll get the message. So what he used that that must have been to her ease. He hear those same things Pleasures of love. Let us teach things about this though. First of all, that it's not sexual. This is the one time when he prays of her that he leaves out all sexual reference. So why is that? I think it's because he's trying to communicate with her that he sees her as a life partner, not simply as a sex partner. And that's particularly important when they're waking up together, so that she doesn't explain notice. She doesn't go well of course you don't make up, you know, because you know it's been a while with keeping together and so you're really motivated to get together. And he wants to say, No, I love you. Nothing to do with that. I love you. And I want you to know that you the person how precious he is. The second thing he wants to communicate, and that is in verses 89, that he would still choose her above all other women. He wants to be absolutely force, but it was very insecure at these people. One of the ways insecurity manifests itself in marriage is forced to understand If you had it to do over again, if you still marry me, you wonder that would you still choose me I mean no, you know, or what if it had been that other person debated, you know? Or that other one you know just talk about it once in a while. Would you still choose me and those He works happening. That's the most misunderstanding. No matter who it is. All the queens and the concubines and virgins and the king be afraid of all other dead spirits. Put them all lined up double road before the uh castle here, you know, before the palace and I still choose you above every one of them. You know, first change. Now the idea of the queens and the concubines does not indicate that Simon had already taken on a herald here. What that problem is referring to is his father's harem. It was the custom of those days that when you became saints, you inherited your father's harem And we know that David had begun to acquire one, and so it's probably a reference to what David had already in the palace. And these are possibly political alliances, but they're the people that had been living in the palace because of his father. And so it's not necessarily saying that, you know, every other night he's going off with someone else. His perversion is to hurt. But he's saying, of all the ones that I can choose, he's still the first choice in my life. And what is the effect of that in verse 10? The effect is that she begins to really abuse him again. Now when they were in the member to watch from far And they beat her in chapter five and verse seven. They bruised her. They took away the clothes. There was no respect for her. She looked kind of shabby at that point. But now, Once again they're reconciled. She's in her right step place again with him. They're joined together. And let us now what kind of an impression she gives. In verse 10, who is this appeared like it belongs? There is the meaning, brightness of sun, majestic and society and succession. You see when you're in the right relationship with your husband and your wife, does that bring out a certain beauty, a loveliness? a uh an appearance that is very attractive to other people because of that relationship. And that's even emphasized further in verse 13. When they say come back, come back, they'll sooner my come back, is when they gaze on you. She's so attracted. She's a delight to say Now in verses 11 and 12, what she may be doing there is reflecting back on when they first fell in love. And she's thinking about that Spring time. You remember this spring when the rain was over and gone, that they had gone out, and they had it first laid the foundation for their luck again. And so what she may be doing here is reflecting. I went down to the groove. I went down to see the new group, to see if the And we don't know how much longer. But if at least one year It's just before they manage. And she's now saying, is there then that Nima? Is there that romance again? Can I find that again? And she says Before I realized that my desire has set me among the royal chariots of my people. A couple of commentators said that's the most difficult verse. of all the verses in the following one is hand. But it possibly means maybe this is when it's all said and done, we said that she just slash from the desire to recapture the romance in the newness of their love again. Before she realizes it, Simon has taken a list Better as an affirmation, you are mine. That love is here. I have found that love. We are joined together. With God's affirmation that that new love is to be rechaptured with his intention And then that is developed, he sees in chapter seven. One of the quotes he noticed in the end of chapter six is the there she calls Shulaman. First time she's given a name. And sure and I was simply the feminine form of Solomon. And so what they're saying is we see you raising these in Now the love of Solomon and he so much reflects his likeness that they call her basically Solomon U. This is Solomon, you know, sort of like uh uh John and Joanne or any of the names that you can put the masculine and feminine forms in. And they're saying you who reflect Solomon Who are the feminine counterpart of him, waiting to king's duty. Because he now comes again to declare his love for us in chapter seven. And at this point Verses 1 through 9, he gives her 10 descriptions of her beauty. Now, how many descriptions did he give her on the wedding? Remember? It was seven. And seven is the number of perfection. So how you can improve one perfection? The only way you can improve one's perfection is add to that completeness. And ten is the number of perfect completeness. It's aware of before he has said you're perfect. No, he says, me the more purpose. The more I get to know you. The more we work through struggles in our life and come back together and reunite, the more I see what a wonderful person you are. And so now there's not simply a seven description of her loveliness, there's ten descriptions of her loveliness. And now he strides from his feet, before he sets them in her head and works his way down. Now he strides from her feet and works his way up. And not only does he work his way up saying she's more beautiful to him than she ever was before, but notice that it's more sensual. It's more sensual. The language here is highly erotic. I don't need to get explicit on that. But there are a number of symbols here that are highly erotic. Much more so than the language. He knows the body God better because they have come together. They have been one flesh. He's discovered the beauty in the angels with their lives. And he says, The more I find to know you, the more beautiful you are to me, and the more exciting you are to me. Climbing a palm tree, for instance, in verse eight is the way you fertilize a palm tree. And so there is a number of things of this joy and this natural spontaneous freedom that they have with one another as their mothers develop. And you notice at the end of verse 9, she doesn't push them away. The end of verse 9 she responds as he About this love and and the fragrance and the wine. And she says, Uh-huh, you joined wine. So the lips and teeth, it's so leisurely, it's so relaxed, it's so beautiful, it's intensification of essentiality of their love together. Now let's go to reflect on this for a couple of minutes. I've already called the pain for the fact that between a man and a woman They're married, survived all of the misunderstandings in first because it's based on commitment rather than on feelings. And when it is, there will come more feelings, not less. People often criticize Christianity as emphasizing the commitment and saying that there's no romance or feeling in what you're talking about. It's all duty. But it's In fact, where there is the commitment, you see, there's no lack of the feeling. That's what Paul Solomon wants us to see. He's based upon that commitment, I my beloved, and he's mine, the feeling of all Don't miss that connection. But then notice. But if ours in patience, with such a love based on a mutual commitment, will grow. Not the image in its romantic delight. You know, we need to be reminded of that. Maybe we're discouraged, maybe we feel taken for granted, maybe we feel like famous fail. in the marriage that you're in. But you need to understand that God's intention for you and therefore his promise But the possibility for your marriage and for my marriage is that it becomes more sensual, more romantic. Instead of left. Now that requires creativity. That requires setting our minds to it. That requires not taking each other for granted. That requires a chapter five Spoke about seeing the work of the other person. That requires the forgiving of one another's sins and the finding of increasing virtues in one another. It takes a determined effort. But that determined effort is never to suspend the feelings of the romance and the sensuality. You see how you can't pick those things one against the other? It's not easier or either commitment and duty or feelings and romance if you can't blend them. Song and Solomon blend these things so beautifully together There is the creativity, there is the determination, but from that place the fruit of the beautiful sensuality and increasing romantic delight that may require getting away. And that's a higher priority When the other thing is full to obligate your scattering, that's when I took a couple of days away last week Uh we can't do it on weekends for obvious reasons, and so we have to carve out some other times and work from the ways around to be able to do that. So that we're able to take that time, which is so important, if we're going to develop any kind of intimacy and not take each other for granted. Because it's not easy to do. The element of surprise is going forth, being creative, little lovely gifts, the prizes, to keep your man grow in the relationship. The greatest thing that God's invitation for He's likely to have that. This is just a story few things as well, well, really blown a bad. You know, I hear I just sort of coasting along and say, well, you know, one don't think about it, it's not so bad. Man, I'm doing it all my attention, I've given such sufficiency. I marry. But we've got the fish to live off of God's promise. Feach the Lord. Determine if you were his best, you were settled for the mediator And then I start to show you how to be creative and development. But notice that not all of the pure men, but not all of the people ever will be men. There is something here for every Christian. Notice the thing that enters for relationships Of the man and the woman with Christ and the church. You cannot separate them in this book. And so you have here also a picture of us as the bride of Christ And in that, we've gone away from him. We've taken him for granted. We haven't valued him as we said. We've become cold in our love for him. But then when someone comes and they say, Where's the Lord? If he alienated from you, he'll try to help you find if he can help you to redevelop your religious experience. You say, Oh, you don't have to do that. I do. Because I am my lover. And he is mine. He's made a covenant. His commitment with me. He's made a covenant with his son, Jesus Christ, and Jesus has made a covenant with me so that you would never leave him with this safe me And that covenant of his love, which was made for me so that he came from heaven, that he lived the perfect life, and then die to take my safe. When he rose again the Thursday as we celebrated last week in particular, but as we celebrate every Sunday, we know and remind him of the fact that his love for me would not say so is good His feelings to me are based on his love, and that love is an eternal love, because he has pledged himself to belong to me and for me to belong to him. The covenant of commitment, which is to secure But you never have to worry about the Lord's love growing cold for you. We'll develop that a little more next week, but I'll leave it at that point. Go notice the other two things specifically in this passage. And that is But you notice that as she came back to him, she became more radiant in her beauty. But there's a picture for us to see in that. But as you and I Come back to the Lord and grow what our master is in. We become more beautiful. Increasingly you come to radiate the beauty of the faith. Chapter 6, verse 13, it says, Oh through my lips Wavings on you because your radius is so beautiful as you reflect Solomon. That's the significance you see of calling her, the feminine form of Solomon. You have his nature He's so reflective that you're the feminine form of race. Just as the church reflects the beauty and the loveliness of Jesus and becomes Jesus To love him, and we come more to absorb him as our attention becomes more fixed on him, looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. As we look and gaze upon him We become more beautiful with people. You remember how it's set up the marriage thing? The president But Jesus is upon us. Paul said it like this in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. We are to God who aren't us Of Christ among those who have leave saved, those who are perish. And the fragrance and beauty of Christ resting upon us increases as a lost of his growth. And then the final thing, simply this. Whatever I love, and our passion for Jesus grows, uh grows along in the Christian life, it should grow deeper and richer Not scaring. One of the saddest things that I think there is to see is to watch a Christian, a person who comes to see their view of Jesus Christ, and they give their life to Jesus Christ. And then if they come to left with him, they give their There's a tremendous enthusiasm and zeal for the first weeks and months and years perhaps. But then they begin to accumulate their doctrinal reservoir. And they begin to find that if they accumulate their knowledge, they'll learning quicker than they can implement. They're learning so much more than they're able to apply that they begin to feel more gift and less grace. And they begin to focus on all the things that they need to do And the Lord becomes more precious as they focus on the duties of the Christian life. And after a while you talk to that person and you find I've been going on with the Lord for five, ten, or fifteen years, and doesn't stand. Let's live. is abortion. A bored of Christian thing. I've heard it all before. There's nothing very new that you can tell me about what the Bible has to say about the Christian life. But I'm not doing it. And I know I'm not doing it. And I'm not really that motivated to do that because every time I try I fail. Before there's an alienation from the Lord. He becomes more distant to me. But our relationship to him becomes cool. We're not Panting to come into his presence so that we might delight, full of passionate adoration of him. You see what the Bible says? The Bible says that's not what God's intended. Yes, in fact you're finding there's a failing a border in your relationship with Jesus Christ before. God says, I've got good for you. That's not my intention. My intention is not that you should simply grow in your knowledge, but not growing your passion. Again, remember the way Becky Pippers put it a number of times in his series. He said, I become hopelessly in love with Jesus. I walked through the gospel and I see there are all that I can love more and more deeply and passionately. And that's God's intention for everyone. For human eyes Be aware. We can get alone with the Lord Jesus. And we say, Oh Lord, it's been a long time since I simply said to you, I love you. It's been a long time since I have recounted to myself the worst wildness of you. means. As I look at your loveliness, as I see your mercy and grace and tendiness. Oh Lord Jesus. I want to put aside all the duties now and I just want to look at you. As you say see how wonderful you are. And I want to grow more deeper, more richly, more passionately in love with you. So that's God's intention for you and for me. To change what the Lord put it in his poem love. True love is a love that shall be new and fresh each hour. But the sunless golden mistress, For the sweet coming of the evening God, a light, and yet most unlike ever death, and seeming ever best and fair. Now. Maybe you need to get along with Jesus sometimes with we and renew your full romance with him. Let's pray. Lord forgive us that we could ever have thought that the Christian life should be uh somehow reconciled. to the staleness and the boredom, the mediocre state of our relationship with you that we often are willing to settle for. Lord, help us to see that you are the God of passion. You, Lord Jesus, are the God who has created the decent and witness and those things and feelings of love and admiration. And that this defense Focus of those feelings are intended for us to center upon you. We're comfortable to see that as we fulfill that intention for you, we are then freed up and capable of Entrance, such attention, such adoration, reflected toward a creature in someone else. Lord, help us Deliverance of the idolizing of other human needs. For the best person The plant so replaces you as the center of our affection. And then as we are chastened by the staleness and the disillusionment of that, becoming disillusioned altogether. Lord, revive our last. Revive all our first deeds. So we might come back and this week, Lord, That we might not settle for the mediocre. We might not hear these words and simply go on and say, that's nice, and someday I'll have to do that. The Lord that our hearts would be so as thirst for that loss. to set aside the fancy needs, to set aside some part of the day, this coming week, that we might sing alone with you, that we might hear the declarations of your love for us as we see you in chapter 7. And now that we're feeling that orders towards us, failure past even these statements, that our hearts might respond in the security that we have of the covenant of commitment that you've made with us. Lord, if there's somebody who is living, this made a really into that covenant. We'd never see the love of Jesus Christ again in his death and resurrection. Bring that person, Lord, to see the hollowness, the emptiness of their life. without you. So they might flee and run to you and find the prodigious things. And find the dream set upon them. Lord delivered. of impossible from the subtle into the medium in our marriages and in our relationship with you. Give us that whole And that first for praise. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.