We are certainly thankful to be alive and thankful too for this church and for the people here who have prayed for us and have sent out laborers to the land of Japan, a very needy land. a land as you well know it's uh less than one percent of a population of one hundred and twenty two million people profess to be Christians and they lump into that every flavor and blend of so called Protestant or or so called Christianity. Anybody would name the name. So very few people in that particular land. We certainly have enjoyed the fellowship of the Iversons there and look forward to get to know Linda Carner better. Uh sh she was coming as we were leaving so we really haven't had a chance to uh get to meet Linda and see her in the Japanese setting as yet, but we look forward to being able to link up with her and see her as when we So we do want to bring greetings too from the church in Japan and uh be assured that uh you are joining together with a church of people who loves the Lord, uh small in number yet very faithful to him. And we do cherish your prayers and continue to as we continue to work together for the the name of Christ in that land that is yet to really uh see him uh honored in every aspect as we would like and and we would like to see of course many more come to the Savior and join hymn, be joined around that throne where we can sing together with the choirs and with the people from ages past of worthy as the Lamb. But we are very privileged to be with you today and privileged too that uh we can uh be the ambassadors of Christ to the land of Japan, and we know that it's because of that that we are able to be Here today, and we just pray that our time together around God's Word will be a blessing to each of us. Shall we turn to God's Word as we turn in Matthew chapter 16? I'm going to take a liberty here to read on to verse thirty rather than to end with or verse twenty-eight uh rather than just ending at verse twenty as it is in the bulletin. Matthew chapter 16, beginning with verse 13. When Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, Who do people say the Son of Man is? They replied, Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. But what about you? He asked. Who do you say I am? Simon Peter answered, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus replied, Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah, for this was not revealed to you by man, but by my Father in heaven And I tell you that you are Peter, on and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Then he warned his disciples not to tell anyone that he was the Christ. From that time on Jesus began to explain to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things at the hands of the elders, chief priests, and teachers of the law, and that he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life. Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him. Never, Lord, he said, This shall never happen to you. Jesus turned and said to Peter, Out of my sight, Satan, you are a stumbling block to me, and you do not have in mind the things of God, but the things of men Then Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone would come after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross and follow me. For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for me will find it What good will it be for a man if he gains the whole world and yet forfeits his soul? Or what can a man give in exchange for his soul? And then he will reward each person according to what he has done. I tell you the truth, some who are who are standing here will not taste death before they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. Thus ends the reading of his word. One of the privileges we have as missionaries is every so often we are able to come back to our homeland and to renew acquaintances and to reassess the work that we do. I know some of you who are in the workaday world don't often have that privilege of taking maybe eight, ten a year off to to do just that. But we have that parti particular privilege. And a part of that is to uh come back and ma address our Presbytery and say, Yes, we confirm and once again again that we adhere to those things that we've said. We haven't changed our our view of scripture. We haven't changed our view of of what we believe and we continue to labor under the same uh belief as you have sent us out once before we have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of w uh before. Now part of that evaluation is to once again read those standards that we have in our particular church. And as I was doing that I came across a very pronounced statement over having read the standards of our church many times before, uh that came across to me as one that I've had to reevaluate and said, well do I really believe that And it comes from the in our church we have we are a creedal church, we have our confessional church, and we have a statement known as the Westminster Confession of Faith. And in this particular confession of faith, which is a a summary of what God's Word teaches, and a summary in form that we then say we adhere to this And we will faithfully proclaim what God's Word says. But in that particular statement of confession, it has a this particular statement. There is a, it says, out the church And speaking of the Church of Christ, it says, outside of which there is no ordinary possibility of salvation. Outside of which there is no ordinary possibility of salvation. Salvation. This morning I'd like to speak with you on the topic of there is no other place. No other place whereby where we are saved. Another particular confession of the uh of the church that we have makes the statement this way. We believe that since the holy congregation is an assembly of those who are saved, and outside of it there is no salvation, that no person of whatsoever state or condition he may be. ought to withdraw from it, content to be by himself, but that all men are in duty bound to join and unite themselves with it. Wow, as I read that What an absolute statement, outside of which there is no ordinary possibility of salvation. Now, this particular absolute statement, to be sure, has come from one of our confessions, and I'm not here this morning to exegete the confession of the Westminster confession. But I want to talk to you from God's word. Does God's word really support such a statement? Does it really say this? Our faith is built upon many absolute statements. Acts 4, verse 12. No other name, there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. No other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. The name Jesus Christ. And so we believe that in the person and work of Jesus Christ we have our salvation. Our sins are forgiven. We are redeemed eternally in his blood. John 14, 6, Jesus said to his disciples shortly before he was to return to heaven, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. And after I Absolute statement. No one comes to the Father but by me. No other way. No other truth. No other life but in Christ But here we have there is no other place we can find salvation except in the Church of Jesus Christ. Does God's word really support such a statement? Do I really believe this? And if so, what does it mean to me? And what should I do about it? In our scripture reading this morning, Jesus came to his disciples and he asked them, Who do people say that I am? And they said, some say that you are John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. Then Jesus said, But who do you say that I am? And Peter makes that very wonderful and yet powerful confession of saying that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus then said, I tell you the truth, that on this rock I will build my church. Jesus Christ, upon that particular confession, He is the Christ, the Son of the living God. Upon that rock, he says, I will build my church. Paul in Ephesians continues to teach us that very same thought as he has just written to the church at Ephesus. about Jesus' resurrection from the dead and then how Jesus is exalted in heaven, where he is to sit on the throne at the Father's right hand. And he gets then says in Ephesians 1, verses 22 and 23, And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him. Who fills everything in every way? Christ and his church. There are three paradigms in God's word that describe this church. The one, the holy priesthood, that royal n that n that royal priesthood, that holy nation of God's people We also have the paradigm of the family, and perhaps there's no other paradigm used more to describe this, the church of Jesus Christ than the family of God. We also have the paradigm of the body of Christ. The church is described as the body of Christ in Ephesians that particular theme is brought out uh very or quite uh deeply, where Jesus is the head and the church is the body. That's somewhat a ridiculous scene to think of a body without a head. If you just stop to ponder that a particular minute. Perhaps some of you have seen A chicken with its head cut off and it runs around for a while and then pretty soon flops down. But to think of a body without a head or a head without a body And that's somewhat the ridiculous of trying to consider Christ without his church, or the church without Christ. An inseparable relationship. And we begin to see that inseparable relationship between Christ and his church. We begin to see how the person A person a person must be a part of the church if one is to be saved. If we are saved only. But the name of Jesus Christ, only in Christ and what he has done, only in his death and his resurrection that our sins are forgiven. That we our robes have been washed in his blood. And by that blood, we now and by our robes being washed in that blood, we are now able to stand as righteous in his sight. If we really believe that, it's only in the name of Jesus Christ that we are saved that our sins are forgiven. And then only in Christ we have the way to the Father that we can be returned to that relationship in which we were once we were created. with the Father and the Son. Only then can we begin to see indeed that the the Christ's body on earth, the church, is essential for our salvation How would we begin to define this church? Again, we look at scripture when we see the church today under many attacks, and we see many people today in the name of the church. doing many things with our Jimmy Bakers, uh bringing a bad name to the church and many and the today uh the church being dragged through the mud mud through our tele evangelists We begin to ask just what is this church? Or when we hear of a seminarian who is just ready to graduate and was saying, Yes, sure, I'm gonna s when I graduate I'm gonna start a church by myself and make sure that all the members give a tenth. of of their earnings to the church. Otherwise they would not be able to make a living. Well this is the concept perhaps that some have of the church. But the church as we see it And God's word is that which is the witness of Christ, where we see that a church is that where God's word is to be preached. The faithful preaching of God's word. And that faithful preaching of God's word is where Christ is the center of that preaching. Even as Peter in his confession, when Christ asked him, Who do you say that I am? His confession is you are the Christ, the anointed of the Lord, the Son of the Living God. At church Is to be found faithful in the means that God has given to us of His grace. In the administering of the sacraments. And in the sacraments themselves, Christ is the center focus. of baptism where we are baptized into Christ. By faith we are cleansed in Christ himself has gone through the his own baptism for us, when he has gone through that death on the cross for us. And through his death we are cleansed. We are united to him. And now by the outward signs of water we too symbolize that cleans. we have in Jesus Christ. And have the Lord's Supper, where Christ once again is the center focus of our fellowship The center focus where Christ's body and his blood we remember for what he has done for us. His body which was broken for us And so we must be faithfully real knowing that that is what we are participating in when we participate. Participate in the Lord's Supper. And as the body, as we, the body, as the church contemplates themselves in Christ, sees themselves in Christ, it's for the church and for that body. uh is to examine itself in the Lord lest they partake unworthily of him. But only as we see ourselves in Christ as we partake of that sacrament. And thus the church is responsible to a proper administration that those who don't believe would not partake because they aren't participating in his body. They aren't participating in his death and in his resurrection. And so we are must be faithful in using the means of grace, of prayer, and of fellowship, of the sacraments and of his word. But further, that true church is also defined in scripture, as Paul often wrote to the churches, that they must keep themselves pure. And so a church, a true church, must also be a self-disciplining body. And we use that word discipline all of a sudden comes to a very clanging sound in our ears, especially to the young children. They think of discipline, we always think of somebody's coming down and either with a stick or with some f r uh uh deprivation. We're not allowed to do this and that. And so it's it's always comes with a negative idea. But disappo Is not simply that negative of rooting out the evil or the sin in our life and being made aware of that, but it's also an instruction And teaching us and assuring us that yes, this faith that you have is in Jesus Christ. We were delighted last night to be at the the home of Barbara and Herman Smith. And Barbara was telling us of how she became didn't realize just what all was happening. But then she talked to another Christian and said, Yes, what has happened is that you have become a Christian, a member of God's church Of the body. We need the church to assure us that that faith which we have in Christ, we are not, we have so we are brought in that discipline of the body assuring us of this faith Of what we need and to teach us and to instruct us. That is the discipline, as well as the discipline as we understand of being need to see a holy life. And to live in obedience to him. And so the body, that body, that church of Jesus Christ, must be faithful in its disciplining of itself But then also the church, as Christ Himself would define it, is that body to which He has given the witness. Of himself. Shortly before Christ was returned to heaven, after his resurrection from the dead, he was meeting with his disciples, and he spoke to them and said, All authority is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go into all the world, make disciples of the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. And then as we read in Acts 1, verse 8, he said, You will receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost is cometh upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria into the uttermost part of the earth. To the church, to the body, he has given to be his witness. Yes, we are earthen vessels, weak as we are, but to us has been given the witness of Christ. To be faithful, to proclaim that good news to the world. And so the body of Christ must be faithful. That church must be faithful and be in the proclaiming word. Of God to the world. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. How shall they believe unless they hear? Unless one be sent And so God and Christ has given to his church to be that witness. And if we are that witness, then we are not his body. We are not his church. We're not faithful to the command and the task that he has given to us. So we Christ is given a command to be a witness, to be his church, to be his body. And this perhaps fourfold definition of the church of that which is the proclaiming word of God, of faithfully using the means of God's grace and the using of the sacraments. of disciplining body and a witnessing body perhaps helps us to evaluate our own church, our own body, as God Himself would establish it in Christ. But we look and we see that there are many so-called churches that maybe provide many services but lack in being faithful in the in the administering of the sacraments or faithful in the proclaiming of God's word And they become, though not anything wrong in and of themselves, simply centers for services for the community. Yet, as Christ Church, as Christ's body, we are found, we are called to be the faithful in proclaiming God's word. to discipline body and the witnessing of himself. For other churches emphasizing just the the worship or the celebration time and fail to be faithful in the true proclaiming of God's word. And so we must be careful we examine the church itself. Is this truly the church of Jesus Christ that we ourselves will become a part of? And so we see that we must ourselves evaluate just what is this body? Is it as God Himself has defined it in Christ? Are we that body as God him Christ Himself has commanded us to be? I have to be sure there is no perfect church here on earth. In fact I heard someone once say If you find the perfect church, don't join it because you'll ruin it. I have not put any denominational levels on this what we have called church. For the visible church, which is also universal under the gospel, consists of all those throughout the world that profess that faith in the living Savior Jesus. Jesus Christ. And it's of their children as well, and it's in the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ we have the family of God. But we must be careful too that we are here to want to answer this question, but why is it necessary Why is it necessary to be a member of the church if one is going to be saved? Outside of which there is no ordinary possibility of salvation. Does the Bible really teach us this? To you young people growing up, some of you having grown up in the church, you don't like this idea of the the institution. It's too confining, it's too restrictive. Why do I have to to join the church? I want my freedom to make my own decision, to be on my own. Or perhaps there are those in the more liberalized ages, just me and the Lord, that's all that's important. I, as long as I read my Bible every day and I help my neighbor, that's all that's important. That's all that counts. Without the obligation to the body, without the obligation to anyone else. I want my freedom. I want myself And to be sure, just being a member of the church does not mean that I am saved. But the question is, what is the necessity here? Now let us look back once again. If we are saved only in the name of Jesus Christ, Christ is Savior. Only in Christ my sins are forgiven. Only in the accomplished work of Jesus Christ am I able to stand before the Lord justified. Made right, holy before him. It's only in Christ that I am saved, and Jesus has been established as the head of the church. And the church is his body, then we need the church as he has established it. If you're sick, where do you go? And need a doctor, where do you go? You go where you're going to find a doctor, do you not? If I am condemned, where am I going to go to be redeemed? But I go to Christ, who is in the midst of his church. Perhaps we could say it's that that necessary privilege. That we must be united to Christ, and as we are united to Christ, we're united to his body, which he has given to us. We need that. It's not something that we can take lightly. I'd like to conclude just by looking very briefly at Hebrews chapter twelve. For what is it that we are coming to? As we see the Old Testament and New Testament being brought together in this passage in Hebrews chapter 12 Beginning with verse 22, but we have come, prior to this, it's not to the mountain of judgment where the law was given, but we have come to Mount Zion. The heavenly Jerusalem, the city of the living God, you have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly, to the church of the firstborn, whose names are written in heaven You have come to God, the judge of all men, to the spirits of righteous men made perfect, to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel See to it that you do not refuse him who speaks. If they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, how much less we if we turn away from him who warns us from heaven. At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. The words once more indicate the removing of what can be shaken. That is created things. so that what cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful and so worship God acceptably with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. If we cannot avoid Jesus Christ, we cannot avoid his church We cannot stand outside and expect to be saved because we cannot stand outside of Jesus Christ and expect to be forgiven of our sin. But God in his marvelous wisdom has given us that body. And in that body we have life. Because it's in Jesus Christ that we have life. Have life. And as he dwells in the midst of his body, it's in that body we see that we become fully redeemed. We're not simply islands, but God redeems us into his body. Whereby we receive that life, that life unto all eternity. And if there's anyone here this morning who is yet outside of Christ, Who feels lonely. And I I know you're lonely. Because outside of Christ there is no hope But you're also outside of that fellowship that we have in Christ. And that also speaks to your loneliness. And so when we come to Christ, we come to Him as the one who can give us life, eternal life. And we come to Christ, we also come to His body In whom we have that eternal fellowship, that eternal relationship. And we become joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Our elder brother, heirs of Christ, heirs of the Father, joint heirs with Jesus Christ. And He gives us that spirit whereby we can cry above the Father, bringing us into that body. But to those of us who are have already made that profession, and those of us who have already been joined into that body, he gives us a tremendous responsibility. Because he's given to us to be his witness. The church is the only organization that perhaps exists for its nine members Outside of the church, there's no salvation. Outside of Christ, there's no salvation. And we, as members of that body Who know that eternal life, who know that forgiveness. We now exist to be his witness, that others too might come to him. And if we do not speak, they do not hear. And if they do not hear, they cannot believe. And oh those of us who know the refuge of being in Christ Do we not see that he has given us to speak those words that others might come in to have that refuge in him And as we are joined fitly together as that body, we minister one to each other to know the fullness of that salvation. That fullness of our salvation that permeates every aspect of our life, as the church permeates every aspect. May we be faithful. Calling the lost. Bringing them in to that body. And may we be a faithful body to Him. Faithful in proclaiming his word, faithful in the use of the means of God's grace in prayer and fellowship and the sacraments in his word. Faithful in encouraging and disciplining each other to that holy life in Jesus Christ. And faithful in proclaiming, being his witness to the ends of the earth. And many more. I come to the Savior. Come and Him have that eternal life. And be joined to that body, which is incomplete until all who know Him, who are His, have come to him. May we be faithful. May we pray to the end. May we labor to the end. May we give to the end that many more might be come to the Savior. Come to their salvation in Jesus. Jesus Christ. Shall I pray? Father God in heaven, we thank you for your church. We thank you for your Son Jesus Christ, who is the head. And may we in him know our salvation. And may we in him know the fullness of our life in him and be faithful and obedient to you, proclaiming that good news to the ends of the earth. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen