Paul Leary is a member of the World Harvest mission staff who has worked with ministry in Uganda. For those of you who were here in the middle hour, you heard some stories about his time in Uganda from nineteen ninety two to Just a couple of things to mention with that. There are two people that had actually gone from CPC to Bundabugio to work with World Harvest on one of the summer trips that Paul mentioned Uh Ron Emmons had gone to work with a water project and Dan Rao had actually gone the year before in 1992 to work with um World Harvest and Dan is sitting in the backpack here and he remembered Paul and So there's there's some connections there, but there's also um a lot of connections that our congregation has with what World Harvest is trying to do. Both is is Paul mentioned in the middle hour, there's there's the church planting end of things, there's missions out of which they gave birth to renewal. And uh we're really doing a lot with that here and looking to go. That's one of the reasons that Ann and I went with uh World Harvest this summer to Dublin where Paul was. Which is part of why Paul's here this morning. But I want to have you welcome Paul. I want to have you give heed to the word as he preaches the Lord's message to us this morning. And he has a table in the back that will be available. He'll be there for a while after the service to be able to answer any questions that you might have. Paul, would you come and bring the Lord's word? Good morning. Are we on here? Yeah. Sounds like it's there. As I pointed out in the first service, I want you to know that when you turn to your bulletin insert, that it is still March 2nd. But this is a this is a redo, uh uh you know, replay of uh February sixteenth because we missed it because of the snow. I was uh graciously allowed by uh Steve and the leadership of the church to stay home in Philadelphia and you had the same heavy snow that we did. So here we are, it's February 16th all over again Uh this is a little bit nicer day. Not not great, but a little bit nicer. At least we're not digging out of uh snow. I can still feel the sore muscles from uh getting out of all those inches of snow I want to speak to you today, not as much from Acts chapter 4, verse 12, as from these other passages that are relating to it. What we see in Acts chapter four with Peter is an event where God moves into the life of a person, really without much involvement of that person. He just asks for money and instead of money he gets to walk And after that, the experience needs to be explained with the gospel. And Peter is is brought before the Panhedron. And in the midst of that, you know, um in in verse nine it says, if we are being called to account today for an act of kindness, shown to a cripple and are asked how he was healed, then know this. So there was a work of God that had to be explained by Peter. And in explaining it, he gives us this very clear missionary message. that there is no other name under heaven by which we must be saved. And so that what I want to do is I want to sort of jump off from that into That work that we had been given to do just as Peter was given to do. And how do we do it? How do we proclaim that name as the only name under heaven by which we must be saved? So let's pray together that God would lead us in this. Lord, I thank you for this morning. I thank you for the worship that we've had, for the chance that we have to be drawn near to you, to be drawn into your eternal counsels. And that this word that you have given to us brings life to our hearts, brings life to us, and brings life to the world as we preach the gospel. Lord, I pray that as I am speaking, that you would be at work in various folks' hearts, making the appeal to them. To go into all the world to proclaim this news. We pray for this church that the impact of the gospel ministry here. Would really reach all over the world, from folks inside of this church being called to go to all different places. From the folks that they support, from the ways that they are able to be involved in the establishment of your kingdom. From here to the ends of the earth. We thank you for your word, and we pray that you'd uh work through it by your Holy Spirit. Amen. Where I want to go from here, from Acts chapter four, is quickly to Philippians three, verse ten. To try to talk about this whole subject of what does it mean to proclaim the name of Jesus? How can we tell people That this thing that they're seeing, just as Peter did, is because of the work of Jesus Christ in the earth. How do we proclaim That. Well, the very first thing we must do in order to proclaim it is to know the one that we're proclaiming. You see, there's no superhuman quality to any missionary. There's just that beginning that begins with knowing Christ. We see it in Peter's life that when Jesus was crucified, he was a wimp like none other. He gets his whole story recounted in Scripture, unfortunately, for him. But it gives us the evidence that were it left up to Peter Nothing good would have happened. But as the Holy Spirit comes and the community is transformed by the coming of the Holy Spirit and the establishment of the gospel in them, they are changed. So much so that he's able to reach out his hand and say, I don't have any gold. But he says to this lame man, this crippled man, just walk. And he and he walks. And then as it's time to defend that action, he boldly says, you folks have rejected this Jesus. But he is the one, he is the only name under salvation under heaven for salvation And how can that change come in your life and in my life? It comes through this process that we see talked about in Philippians chapter 3 verse 10. Paul is writing and he says, I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, and so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead. Now, it's very interesting, isn't it, that this is not exactly what you would tell to someone who is saying, well, what does it mean to be a Christian? You don't begin with the words of Philippians 3, 10 and 11, because it kind of feels like the advanced lesson. It's what you tell to someone who has already begun to hear all of the good news, and then you tell them about the fellowship of sharing and sufferings. But I want you to know that this process is the process for every believer as we experience the gospel of grace, the gospel changing us. Then we experience the call of Jesus to enter into his sufferings If you would think for a minute about you can just keep your your finger in Philippians if you want to turn and just turn briefly with me to Matthew chapter 16, you'll see a lot of parallels between what Jesus said to the disciples in chapter 16 of Matthew and what Paul then says to the Philippians in chapter 3. Peter has just confessed Christ, and then Jesus begins to talk about his crucifixion and his resurrection, and Peter says to him, Lord, that'll never happen. We're that on our watch, you're not going to be delivered up. And Jesus said, get away from me, Satan. It is only Satan Who wants to get in the way of the plan of God for my life? And then after that, Jesus says, verse 24, If anyone would come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for me will find it. Look at the parallels. Philippians 3, knowing Christ. Matthew 16, following me, experiencing the things that I've experienced. There's no parallel exactly to the power of resurrection there, but it certainly is involved in coming after him that you're going to experience not only the crucifixion, but also the resurrection. But then when Paul says fellowship of sharing in sufferings, Jesus says he must deny himself. He must choose the way that is a away from everything that he would want. and just choose for his own pleasure and deny himself. And then becoming like him in his death. Jesus says, he must take up my cross. You must follow me to that cross, being crucified with Christ, as Galatians says. And then attaining to the resurrection, Paul says, so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead. And Jesus says, if anyone wants to save his life, he must lose it for my sake. Because the one who tries to save it will surely lose it. I want to illustrate this idea of this fellowship of sharing in the sufferings because I feel like this is what I have learned in ten years of life in a rural part of Uganda. Is that the call of God is to follow him into the mess of people's lives You see, it's comfortable for us as Christians to enjoy the blessings of God's grace, to enjoy the goodness of eternal life working itself back into our everyday life. The hope that we have in Jesus Christ. But the message of the gospel, the message of the New Testament is that there are people on the outside of that. And we are being sent, you and I. To share in their sufferings that they might know the resurrection of Christ. The first illustration of this comes from an Urbana talk of many years ago, the Urbana Missions Convention. I worked from uh 1981 until 1990 with Intervarsity down in North Carolina and then in Texas And uh I've had the privilege, because I am very involved in missions and mobilization, of being uh at every Urbana since nineteen eighty seven. And uh so uh I I haven't counted. I think it's like seven. Um, but I you know there's many wonderful speakers that come there. But Helen Rosevere spoke in 1976. And I've heard this excuse me, I said 87, no, 79 was my first Urbana. She spoke at 1976 Urbana and talked about her experience as a missionary doctor. in eastern Congo. Eastern Congo is five miles from where I live, where I lived in Bundabugio. And uh She started a missionary hospital that's only about ten minutes flight from where I lived. And in the nineteen sixties there was a rebellion there against the government of Congo called the Simba Rebellion And they specifically targeted missionaries as part of their way of showing their force. And there was intense evil in these rebels. And these rebels came to the missionary hospital where Helen was. She's a she's a missionary doctor from England. And she never married. And they took her hostage. And when they took her hostage, they then raped her. And she told that story in various ways at Urbana. And in telling the story, she talked about what it was like between her and the Lord after, you know, never experiencing the joys of marriage, to then in following the Lord to the mission field. to then have the experience of being raped. How do you understand that? How do you understand following the Lord in that way? And as she experienced that pain, she tells the story that it was as if she heard the word of the Lord coming to her and telling her that these are not your sufferings. These are my sufferings. And you're just sharing your body in the present day, sharing my sufferings. Now, some of you may be very theologically astute and you're saying to yourself, well, how is that really possible? Because we know that on the cross Jesus finished the work. But all you have to do is turn the page from Philippians to Colossians, and you see in chapter 1 of Colossians that Paul says, Now I rejoice in what was suffered for you, and I fill up in my flesh what is still lacking in regard to Christ's afflictions. This is Colossians 1 verse 24. For the sake of his body, which is the church. So somehow it was finished on the cross, but because of the ongoing battle with sin and the devil in this world There is an ongoing need for his body to be displayed in the suffering of believers. I experienced this, I had this very verse read to me by Paul Miller in uh nineteen ninety-five when my good friend Peter Kagawa was driving one of our missionary vehicles and he was just ahead of me on the road. Uh it was a little bit faster than mine, so he got about ten minutes ahead of me and it was dark. And we're driving along the road and all of a sudden I see somebody waving me down. And he's trying to get me to slow down because it's dark and I and there's some problem ahead And as I continue, I begin to see parts of vehicles spread along the road. First I see the fuel tank from this, the the gasoline tank from this uh large truck uh and then I see the truck pulled over to the side of the road, obviously having been in an accident. And then as my eye scans in the darkness following my headlights, uh i I see Peter in my truck. We had been taking it to Kampala to sell it. And he had hit this other truck head on. And there were two elders in the of of our church in Buddha Budja who were in the front seat with him. I couldn't even see them in the truck, but Peter was pinned behind the steering wheel. And he was conscious at the time and he was shouting out to me, Paul, kill me because I'm in such pain. And As I was in that moment, this was my my right hand man. The previous year we'd spent together working building the airfield in Bunabugyo District. He had helped me so much. In fact, he and his daughter Jacinta, who will you will now see in uh our prayer card on the on the back table, she's being cared for by our family now. Um They had flown in the very first flight out of our airstrip as a way of me saying thank you to him for all the work that he had done. And that was just two weeks before. And later that night he died in the hospital from his injuries. And as I was was on that road, I just said, Lord, what's going on? How do I understand? This snuffing out of one of the great young leaders in our church. How have you allowed him to be taken away? And Paul read me that verse over the phone. And he said, you know, I I can't explain to you how this all works out, but somehow the suffering that we're enduring is part of filling up in our flesh The sufferings of Christ. And you see, that's the call that Jesus makes to us as He says, Do you want to know me? If you want to know me, this is the process. Share in my sufferings. Share in the power of the resurrection. You see, because Satan obviously is taking prisoners. He's obviously attacking Christians and causing suffering. But he never has the last word. He never completes the story. So let's move on to point number two in your outlines. And that is simply this That we need, as we go out with the gospel of Jesus Christ, to accept, expect opposition in this world. Now, the opposition that you will face as you seek to live for Christ in America is a little different than the opposition that we meet in Africa. The opposition you meet here is being lulled to sleep. Safety and security The God of this world wants to promise us that we'll never have any difficulties, we'll never have any problems, and as long as we spend our money on this, Or we run to this thing or that thing. There are many idols that we can live on in American life But they sort of come, you know, the the the great deception that we're we're pulled away from Christ on is the search for safety and security. As long as everything's okay with me, that's what I need. That's what life is going to consist of. And he never promises that to us. In fact, he promises us that there's a real life through suffering, through entering in to the pain that the world has to dish out. In Africa, the opposition that we meet comes from other gods who are there Fighting Jesus for supremacy, trying to win over the hearts and the minds of the people, The place Buendebugio where I lived, you've met Robert Carr, some of you, as he's preached here, he and two other men. Went into Bundubujo in the late 80s as the first missionaries from World Harvest Mission to preach the gospel in places that had not really heard the name of Jesus There was a lot of nominal Christianity. People called themselves Christians, but they couldn't even have told you the story of Jesus' life. They didn't know any of it. There's no Bible in their language. And they rely on many other things for life. And death reigns in this place. One of the things I observed as I worked there over the ten years was that the predominant social function in the place is a funeral. Most people don't get married in church. Marriage is just a matter of civil experience. It's very easy to go to our local market. You're a 17-year-old boy, you're beginning to feel your hormones, and you look with your friends and your mates and you say, I need a woman. And you go and you introduce yourself to someone and you go home with her and you sleep with her and you're married. And that's how it begins. There's no thinking about Christian marriage among most of the young men, young people in the in the situation there. So we don't celebrate marriages, but we celebrate death all the time. Now doesn't that strike you as the marks of a place where the kingdom of darkness has been reigning for thousands of years? That you would celebrate death instead of life? And because death is ever present, people are in fear of death. And so anything that can deliver you from death is the thing you need. Some of my neighbors where I lived, the women would produce ten children. But six of those children would be dead before they had reached the age of five. Sickle cell was an ever-present problem for people. And when you do that, you develop certain systems to deal with that death, to deal with the fear that comes with death. And so in our place, you know, we have witch doctors, we have various traditional practices that are designed to protect children. One of the things is that there's an amulet that the witch doctor will give you for your small child. You put it around the wrist and around the waist and around the ankles, and that is to ward off the spirits. that would intend to kill that child. The other thing that's done is that you have to do various kinds of sacrifices to satisfy the ancestors. It's the ancestors who live in that middle realm between physical reality and where God is And they're the ones who can intercede for you with God, protect you against the forces that are willing to try to destroy your family. So as a young mother You're very concerned. How do I keep my children alive? And one of the things it's done is that the witch doctor will very often say, you know, sometimes a family gets traditional problems, maybe maybe sickle cell is the problem, or something else that continues to cause their children to die. Malaria, dysentery, these are things that cause the deaths of young children because they're just not weak, they're not strong enough to survive it. So the witch doctor will say, well, you need to sacrifice a chicken. You've lost two or three children now. You sacrifice a chicken for the ancestors, and they'll make sure that your future children live. It's commonly practiced today where I lived. And we had an elder in our church by the name of Kibidewa who was having the same problem. Before we had arrived in Uganda, his wife and he had produced a child, and the child had grown to about one year old and died. And then when I went, my son Matthew, who's now five foot four, was uh eleven month old. Um Dan remembers him when he was still on our laps, uh, because he was just just over a year old when we first went there. And um these this man, Tibetewa, had a son the same age as Matthew. And when he got to be about two years old he died. And the relatives came to him and they said, Tividewa Topi, his wife, you need to sacrifice a chicken and we're gonna help you, we're willing to help you so that you don't lose children anymore. But if you're not willing to do that, you're sort of in violation of everything that our family stands for. And Tibetarwa came with his wife. They actually came and stayed at the mission for a while because they wanted to be with people who could sort of shepherd them through that. Because they said we're not going to sacrifice. We are saved by Jesus. And Jesus is the one who's going to protect our children. So they made it through that and and they were they didn't produce any children for a while. And then about nineteen ninety-nine, uh, they had another child, another boy. And it was really hard to watch them with this child because there was such an effort to say, is God going to come through? You know, is this one gonna survive? What are we gonna have to do with our family this time around? And he grew and he lived and we had a two year old birthday and it was a huge party. Because Timothy Ewell was trying to show with a party that God had been really good to their family. And Timothy, his two-year-old, then died three months later. And it was really incredible to walk through that with him. Child number three, you fool, don't you know that we have a system in this place for protecting our children? And you're not doing it. And he knew, because he knew Christ and the power of the resurrection, that that death of that son was not the end of his face. And so people, uh the uh the tradition in the place is that people when you your children die, they come to you and they sit in your home, often for nights. The the the appropriate time is to stay with a family for four days. And then the morning ends. And so his home was right next to my house. And at night we would hear them singing hymns and worshiping. And people were coming out of their home after the death of Tim saying, we can't believe the joy. in this household with the death of their sons. The faith of these people was so great that Jesus was more known through the death of their sons than through anything else he had ever said. He loves, he's an evangelist. He loves to preach. But Jesus was known Not for what he did today, because the child was lost. And if people were judging God based on that, he had not done what they wanted. But their faith was not in that. Their faith was in that Jesus had protected their life for all eternity. Jesus had given them a hope that none of the other gods could give them. Jesus is the one who has power in face of those other gods So we know that that proclamation of the gospel is going to bring us into direct conflict with the principalities and the powers in the world. But we're not of those who believe and then pull back. We are of those who believe until the end. And receive what God has for us. And how do we do that? Let's move ahead to 1 Peter. In First Peter one verse three, he says, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ has given to us in Jesus An inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade. We have received the thing which is going to outlast everything we see So for us as Christians, as we know Christ, we are the people who, as we get older, as we get more used to this world, are actually more in touch. With a world that will never pass away. This world is filled with the things that are fleeting. But Jesus is preparing us for the world that will never pass away, the world that is to come. And we, it says that we are shielded by God's power. And I want to just give testimony as somebody who has lived in the midst of rebel activity in Uganda. We had rebels attacking in our area from nineteen ninety seven until two thousand and one. My family had to be evacuated on three different occasions from our area and spend on average about five months living somewhere else until things got safer again. But through all of that experience, I was able to see that I really was shielded by God's power. I was naively unaware. Of the forces that were at work against the gospel. And yet God was preserving me, preserving our message. I was sharing in the first sermon about how of the three families that did the initial evangelization in Bundabujo district, Alan Lee's son has died of muscular dystrophy since then. Dan Heron's wife has died from breast cancer. And Robert Carr has had to return to the US because of leukemia for their son Andrew. They're getting ready to go back to Uganda because he's been proclaimed in remission. But all three have had physical effects. Played out in their lives because they had the audacity to proclaim the name of Jesus in a place which was under the dominion of Satan. And people are being set free. And the missionary team does not get smaller as those people go home with their problems. It has actually grown. We have more missionaries on the team in Bunabugya today than we've ever had. And the work is going ahead. There are many difficulties and many problems But we see that people are coming to Christ. People are being transformed by the gospel. Churches are being planted. So we are shielded by God's power. It doesn't mean that I know even if I'm going to be alive tomorrow that God is going to protect my life for any period of time. But we are shielded by God's power because death is never the end. Of the story for us. You know, that's the traditional thing in missions. What was the birth of the great missionary movement in this country? at the end of the 19th century, all of these missionaries who are saying, hey, listen, we'll go and we'll take our stuff in our coffins. It's not going to be a big deal. We're going to go not knowing how long we'll stay. Because the gospel needs to be proclaimed into the darkness. And what is it that compels people to do that very thing? What compels us to do that is the love of Christ, as it says in 2 Corinthians 5. And that's where I'll close. Second Corinthians five fourteen and fifteen For Christ's love compels us, because we are convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. And he died for all That those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised again. His agenda is now our agenda. We don't live for ourselves, but we live for him who was raised for us. What is our goal as we take this message out to the nations, following this Christ whom we've come to know? Our goal is the end of human history. We believe that what Jesus said in Matthew 24, 14, he says that this gospel of salvation will be preached in my name. In all nations. And then the end will come. That is what is so cool to me about being involved in world missions today. Is that, you know, we are so wrapped up in news today, aren't we? I mean, twenty-four-hour news, radio, channels, on TV, everything. But we as missionaries, as people carrying the gospel to the end of the nation, ends of the earth We are a part of ending history. We don't just report on history. We are actually part of the process of ending it. We know where it's going to end. Because when the gospel has been preached as a testimony to Jesus' name in all nations, then history as we know it is going to end. We're not looking at Iraq or looking at the Middle East or looking at Africa or any place for some answers as to what's going to happen in the future. We know that Because we have this message. The love of Christ that compels us to move outward. We must first know Him Then we must expect opposition as we go with that message. We must expect to see power in his name, that he will be fighting on our behalf. And then finally, we are just going with that simple message that eternal life has come because of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. His love is the thing that compels us outward. And as we go, we know that the end of human history is in our hands. Thanks very much.