The beginning of a series this morning on Christ, we're going to look at the central of Christ, the fact that Christ is in our culture and that there is no other salvation available. And to do that, we're going to look at Acts chapter 4. But that story really doesn't begin in chapter four. It begins in chapter three. So let me briefly recount the events that lead to our text this morning. Not long after the Pentecost, as the Spirit had come down upon the apostles and they had preached the truth of Christ, and 3,000 in one day came to know Jesus Peter and John were on their way to the temple following their tradition of worship. It was about three o'clock in the afternoon, time for the evening prayers. And as As they were coming past a gate that had the name Beautiful, they saw a beggar. And the beggar reached out and asked for almonds. And Peter looked at the beggar and caught his eye and even said, Look at me. And the beggar must have thought that he was going to get a great a great amount of money. Here was a man drawing Attention to what he was about to do. But instead of giving him money, Peter said, I don't have money to give you, but I do have something for you. In the name of Jesus, stand up and walk. Now what followed immediately after that is important for us to understand because I think that we tend to have lost a sense of what is happening. The beggar didn't stand up, look at his feet, and turn around and decide that God had really healed him. His immediate response was to dance. He leapt for joy, he grabbed the apostles, and he followed them into the temple, praising God. So much so that a crowd drew around. And as the crowd drew around, Peter preached his second sermon. And the content of that second sermon was Christ. He didn't say, look at this wondrous thing God has done. He said, This man whom you crucified, whom God crucified God raised from the dead. This Jesus of Nazareth has healed this man. There was such a commotion that at the end of that service In chapter 4, we're told, but many who heard the message believed. And the number of men grew to be about 5,000. That doesn't count to women in the The children who'd come to believe, the families that had come to faith in Christ. Within a span of days, the church had gone from the minuscule number of disciples. some hundreds of disciples to 3,000 on one day. And now days later it's 5,000 men plus women and children who believe in Jesus. This morning, as we look at this passage, I want us to understand a few things that take place. Because that's the context for what we look at. Let me read now Peter's response to the Sanhedrin. For you see, the Sanhedrin saw this commotion, arrested Peter and John, kept them overnight, and the next morning brought them to give an account. for what had happened. And Peter, looking at the Sanhedrin, says this rulers and elders of the people, if we're If you are being called to account today for an act of kindness shown to a crippled and are asked how he was healed, then know this. You and all the people of Israel. It is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucify, but whom God raised from the dead that this man stands before you heal. He, Jesus. is the stone you builders rejected, which has become the capstone. Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to men by which Peter was experiencing a moment where Christ touched culture You see, Peter had brought to the temple his worship and had in that time brought Christ. He he healed A man who had been lame from birth and showed that Christ is not there simply to be worshipped, he's there to act. And the question that comes to you this morning as we reflect on this passage is this. Does God come to be worshipped? Does he come to be worshiped alone? Does God come to act in our culture and is he going to do in our culture the same sorts of things, although not on so grand a scale? We don't see people being healed from from lameness and immediately dancing and jumping. But is God here today to heal? Is he here to meet the needs that each of you have? Is he here to care for you and to redeem you? Not only in a spiritual sense, but is he here to meet your needs today? And not only only you, but those around you, both inside this church and outside. You see, because I think it's essential that we know that Christ came not only to die on the cross but accomplish one action. So that we might, in faith, in that action, in that completed work of Christ, come to a saving relationship with God. Christ came to redeem. And he's redeemed today. Christ cared about that lame man. And he knew before the foundations of the world that that man would be healed. Because he was going to do it. Christ cares about the hurts that you have, whether it's unemployment, whether it's physical, Physical infirmity, whether it's chronic pain. And he intends to heal, one way or another. He will heal. And so you need to recognize this morning as we come to what Peter says that Christ is going to act in our culture. He intends to make changes. He intends to rescue what has been broken. And he intends to use you. Peter and John had experienced Christ breaking in on their culture. a dramatic way. And one of the things that will always happen is that takes policy the questions will be asked. In the temple the questions were, what in the world has happened? How has this man been healed? Has he really been healed? Was he lame from birth? And the people knew him and they knew the answer to that. And the result of the people asking those questions of Peter was a sermon in which Christ was proclaimed and they believed. The Sanhedrin had questions. By what power and in what name have you done this event? Their questions were answered and they did not believe. See, Peter, in his later epistle that he writes, First Peter in chapter three, he speaks to the same sort of an event. I think that he speaks to this from his experience Perhaps even in the early part of Acts. But he says to the church, but in your hearts set apart Christ as Lord. Always be prepared. Prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect, keeping a clear conscience. So that those who speak Maliciously against your good behavior in Christ, you may be ashamed of the slander. Peter realized that as Christ acts in our culture. There will be questions. Peter anticipates that we will be part of Christ acting in our culture. But if we live our lives in faith to Jesus, changes are going to take place. And Peter gives us a role model in this particular passage in Acts 4, verses 8 through 12. of how to respond, how to answer the questions that come. And the first thing that we have to look at here is that he draws attention to the event that's He wants Christ to get all the glory that he can for the work that he does. You see, as the Sanhedrin comes to Peter and has arrested him, kept him over And now brings him forth, expecting most likely that he'll be a humble penitent prisoner. Peter comes to them and says Rulers and elders of the people. If you're calling us account today for what we've done, for the fact that this man stands before you. Hold And you want to know how this is taking place? Let me tell you. The first thing Peter does is he brings the glory to Christ because he says, it is by Christ whom you crucify. He says, the man is here. He is whole. And if you look later on in verse 14, this is just a later statement in the same Following immediately after Peter's statement, it says, but since they could see the man who had been healed standing there with them, there was nothing to say. Two verses later, they say to themselves, after they've excused Peter, everybody living in Jerusalem knows that this miracle has taken place, and we can't Let me ask you this morning. I want you to take time and think. Do you believe that God is going to continue to ask and to intercede? And intervene in our culture? Can we expect miraculous healings, not necessarily physical immediate healings, but can we expect the miraculous of God to change our circumstances. For you see the needs that exist in this passage exist today. I want you to stop. Take a minute. Now. And I want you to think of the needs that you know. You don't even have to go out of your own home necessarily. But don't stop at your own home. I want you to think about your needs, the needs that you can bring to Christ and see Him take care of. But I want you also to take it Just a minute or two now, and think about the needs that go beyond your camera. The needs that Christ has come to care for. So just please take a moment. If you're ambitious, maybe even you can write them down and sermon out. Think specific. Specific needs and specific people. For those of you who work in city it may be the beggars on the street. Many of the time as I go to tour DC or I see the inner harbor that the beggars have become more adventurous and bold. DC is now giving rules and regulations about aggressive begging. People are desperate. It may even be the people you see on the road who hold the signs, I'll work for food. It may be the arguments that you hear in your neighborhood. It may be the fights that you hear between Or it may be the way you hear the parents respond to the kids in the yard. These days it may more likely be the way you hear the kids responding to the parents It may be the people you know sitting next to you this morning, who have hurt for a long time, who have chronic pain. Maybe those who have chronic marital problems. Maybe those who are out of work and who have need. Who needs someone even maybe to come alongside and pray with them or give them encouragement that their jobs available and God promises to care for them will continue to be met. All of us have the more subtle needs for acceptance. We all know that if somebody really knew what I was like, They would walk away. They need to be affirmed. The needs are overwhelming. And that's not even getting into spiritual news. Because if you have non-Christians who live around you, friends, family members, co-workers Their need is life and death. Apart from Christ, there is no hope to them and they will die. And they'll face an eternity of hell. Some of you just morning May even be in that situation yourself. Like unclear of your salvation, unclear of your relationship with God. Those needs exist. And God has promised and has demonstrated his commitment to me. For those of you this morning who have that relationship with him, he says, and looking and my God shall supply all your needs. You believe that. Can you trust Him to care for you? Can you trust Him to meet those needs that you have? Can you trust him to meet the needs of the people around you? You see, Peter had no question. Christ came for that purpose specifically. Peter knew Jesus and knew him well. And so when he saw the beggar, he didn't stop to wonder whether or not God would act. He said to him, Rise up and walk. And in one motion stood him, and his feet were whole. Which needs Which needs will God use you? Which needs will you, like Peter, bring Christ to? Whichever ones they are, be prepared. Because as Christ asks, people will come with questions. They may even come with questions as they see how God works in your own one. But be convinced the questions will come. either dispute what you say or they'll come to faith. We see that in this passage there are many to the point of 5,000 men who come to faith But the more likely reaction would be rejection. As you go and you share yourself or a As you see God work in the lives of people, others will come and will denigrate what you plant. Like the Sanhedrin. They'll say, no. You're upsetting my system. You see, people don't want change. As much as we may say we do. We don't really want God to work. Primarily I'm thinking of non-Christians, but it I can look at times in my own life where I've come to the point of being adjusted. So my weaknesses and failures. And I know the price that has to be paid for healing takes life People don't want to change. We're comfortable. We reject the casting. You look in chapter four Verse 11. People today, much like the Sanhedrin, and much like the people of Israel, will, as the builders, would just be capstone. What I want you to think about as we as we look at that is why do people turn away from homelessness Why do we turn away from healing? From life with God. I think a large part of that is because we simply don't want to be dependent. We don't want to acknowledge that we We haven't found the solution. I think the the greatest American phrase is Eureka. I found it. Reflecting on that, I thought, boy, it was really interesting that Bill Bright years back had a Crusade on I found it. That's a typical American mindset. We want to find it, we want to define it, we want to control it, and we want to put it in a box. You can't do that. We don't find it. We're familiar. That lame man didn't expect to be healed. I'm sure he was probably the most surprised person there in the temple. Because he knew what God had done clearly. And instead of seeking that wholeness, instead of seeking that newness The wonder of life. We create systems. Now the Sadducees had created a system that said there is no resurrection. And if you look in the beginning of chapter four, the reason that the Sadducees became upset. It's found in verse 2. They were greatly disturbed because the apostles were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus resurrection from the dead. It upset their system. It made them say, he's right, or we're right. And people will invariably, when given that choice, We have systems today. We have a system of the new age. I can make real reality what I want it to be. I found it. I can control it. I can shape it. What I think becomes real. And that's a very attractive, very deceptive approach to life that is sapping the strength of America. It's sapping the world. Because it's so So much in line with what we want. We also have humanism. I can make it better. My potential is such though I can correct the problems that I see and I can I can do it. Education, it's only an issue of being taught. You know, if we if we teach the people truth My truth. They'll overcome the problems that they're facing. If we teach them how to work, they'll get a job. If we teach them chastity, they'll behave themselves If we teach them anything, they can handle it. It's not true. You don't have that kind of strength. And it's not an issue of what you do. In Christianity, there's works. I can make it better. My prayers. If I pray hard enough, God will do what I want. If I spend enough time in the Bible, God's certainly got to give me a better life. If I work diligently enough In evangelism, or in preaching, or in any capacity, God will own you. And it's not true. It's not true. Either God is sufficient and he will act, but we've no hope. One of the most insidious forms and systems that exists today is redefining Jesus. And that's why this is the first message in the series on Christ. We want to define who Jesus is. We define him as a new age Jesus Jesus, somebody who has caught the truth and has a paradigm of what we ought to be. We may define him as a Mormon Jesus, the brother of Satan, the son of Satan. Son of God, the one who had a good idea. Or the Jehovah's Witnesses, Jesus, one who is better than us but less than God, and has some things to say but isn't our redeemer. Any redefinition of Jesus is a rejection of the capstone. It is exactly what the Sadducees did. It is exactly what the Jews did. You cannot define Jesus. You cannot find Jesus. If you don't see that Jesus has opened you to know who He is and what He says about Himself you have no part of Jesus. Because anything less than Jesus as he is, as he reveals himself, is a failure. You cannot figure it out. You cannot have a system, and you cannot know Jesus unless he reveals himself. And that's exactly what Peter does. You see, as Peter's come and he's healed this man, and that became the focus of all the attention of the people, Peter says, wait a minute, wait a minute. Time out. Draw back. The issue here isn't the man. The issue here isn't human. As Peter healed the man, the people began to wonder in the temple, what in the world And they looked at Peter and John as if they might be God. To some degree. They've done something remarkable, and maybe they're just messengers of God, but they're certainly Certainly not us. And Peter's response is Men of Israel, why does this surprise you? Why do you stare at us? As if by our own power or godliness we have made this man law. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers. has glorified his servant Jesus. You handed him over to be killed. You disowned him before Pilate, though he had decided to let him go. You disowned the holy and righteous one and asked. That a murderer be released to you. Now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did your leaders, but this is how God fulfilled what he had foretold through all the prophets. Saying that his Christ would suffer. Peter turns him to Jesus. As a Sanhedrin comes and says, By what authority do you dare? to upset our system. Peter's response is this. It is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom you crucified and whom God raised from the dead. We have to come this morning to humbly submit ourselves to Jesus. We have to ask an essential question question. Who is this Jesus that we worship? We each need to ask ourselves this morning, have I perhaps in some way redefined who He is? Have I sort of reshaped his image so that it's a more comfortable image for me? Am I adapting him to my needs? Because I tell you that that is happening to a very great extent in our culture And this morning we need to come to commit ourselves and say, Jesus is Jesus. He alone has the right to say who he is, what he's done, what he expects. We have to come and accept that capture. There is no other person who can say If you're looking for any sort of hope this morning for your needs and for the needs of those around you, it's in Jesus, in Jesus all the way. It's not in your work, although they'll use you. It's not in your knowledge, although you can't love one you don't know. And it's not in your ability to grasp it. Your needs this morning, first and foremost, are to know Jesus. And for those of you who may not know him as Savior, you must For those of you who do, you need to commit yourself again to the task of humbly knowing Him. You may have drawn away from it for a time. You may have become concerned about the issues in your life. You may have become academic in your approach to the strict Like me, you may have become relaxed in in your sense of urgency. But he is the one that you come for. He's why you're here To worship this morning. Not because of culture, not because of church membership. Because of Jesus. And there's a lot about him that we don't know, but we can, because he says he wants to be known. He's given us the scriptures, the gospels, four of them, so that we can study Him. He's given prophecies throughout the Old Testament so that we can know him. But the task this morning isn't knowledge, it's relationship. Is he your Savior? Does he love you? Is he going to use you to reach others? Both in healing and in redemption Do you believe that he can work through you to invade our culture? Will he invade your workplace? Will he invade your neighborhood? He's got very large goals. And he intends to accomplish them. Now, like me, at times you may also feel a bit fearful. You see the focal point of any attack One God is going to be Christ. And if I come and I present an exclusive Christ A Christ who says, no, this is not who I am, but this is. If I go to people and say your view of Jesus is wrong, then I'm a threat. And like all threats, I'll be dealt with. If you do the same, you'll be a threat. And like all threats, you'll be dealt with. This is a call to make It is a call to subservient commitment to Christ and to his mission. He intends and will succeed. In shaking our culture upside down. People will deny who he is, people will redefine who him people will redefine his work. I had a conversation yesterday with a woman from a church down in Laurel. And as soon as I introduced myself and said I was from the president Church, she warmly accepted me. Then I motioned, uh I mentioned that I'm not from the PC USA, but I'm from the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, and the telling changed dramatically. Oh, you're that church that doesn't ordain women. No, we don't. Do you ordain divorced men? Well, it's How can you justify that? Jesus says there is no righteous adultery. And I said, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Let's look at this as a whole. Jesus says Except for immorality. She says, that's not the words of Jesus. He said, aha, I know where we're going now. I said, and Peter builds on Jesus' words and speaks of both adultery and And desertion by non-Christian believers. He says, that's not Jesus' words. Those are Peter's Paul's words. And he's changing Jesus. If Peter, if Paul can change Jesus in his time, why can't we change Jesus in our time? I said, wait a minute, wait a minute. Paul is speaking in authoritative scripture. And we have to understand Jesus and Paul together. And she says, there you go. There's your error. People want to redefine. And they want to redefine Jesus and his work. We have to know Jesus and know him well. Personal, we have to believe that he's going to act. Why do we have to believe this? Because it's true. And there's no point in not knowing truth. If Jesus is going to be We ought to be a part of that. He wants us to be politics to that. So as I was fearful in that conversation yesterday of being seen as rigid and exclusive isn't it? I've been called that many times by many people. The truth still comes through. Will I leave people in death? Because they don't know Jesus. Is it wrong for me to challenge people with truth? Is it wrong for me to up upset their systems because I want to offer them life. Because God is calling me to offer them life. Are the chances I hope you see my questions as rhetorical and the answer is clear. No. Life must be offered That's Christ's work. He's here to redeem. He's here to call. He's here to use us. And he will make himself known to us. Jim Elliott must not have shared my fears and must not have shared my anxieties. For those of you who don't know, Jim Elliott was a missionary who went to South America to the Aka Indians back in the 1950s. And he knew early on what God had called him to do, and while he was yet a college student, he said this. He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep in order to gain what he cannot lose. I'd like to paraphrase that. We are no idiots to call people to change, to come from death to life. Because death is hopeless and terrible and life is wonderful and meaningful. Christ is the need. He satisfies every need. As we continue this sermon series, what I want you to focus on focus on. And the application today, there have been several, but but I'd say that the greatest application I want you to focus on coming from this message is do I need to know Jesus God Do I need to pull back and get back to the basics of really sitting at the feet of Jesus? Mary and Martha are a wonderful example. Martha had so much stress nervous in mind. But she got irate that Mary didn't help. Martha was setting the tables, cooking the food, bringing the people in, and And serving Jesus. And it's easy to fall into that routine. We are a caste-oriented people. And as we sat the table and cooked the food and bring people in we oftentimes forget about why. This morning I want you to know Jesus. I want you to know him as your Savior, as your your lover, as your friend, as the one who will meet your need. And then I want you to know who's the one who's calling you in that relationship to reach out and we can be devoted. To do that, to help you to know him better. We're going to have a series of sermons. Next week I'm preaching on his humanity. A couple of areas That Jesus is most frequently redefined is was he fully man and was he fully God? And those are at the heart of whether or not Jesus could say. So next week we're going to look at a sermon on on the humanity of Christ through the temptation in the wilderness. The week following we'll look at a sermon on the deity of Christ. He is indeed God through the transfiguration. The week following that We're going to look at the work that Christ accomplished. And then we're going to conclude in September with a sermon on so what? Why is it important? What does it mean to me? What are the implications for us as a church and as part of the humanity? I want you to fall in love with Jesus. Purely and simply. I want you to know him well enough to know that you love the right one. Because as you love him, Jesus does himself. He who loves you a little bit. Lord, we know that you do meet me, that you have come to redeem us, that you have come to redeem the people, that you have come and pledged yourself in sacrifice sacrificed yourself that you might meet needs. Lord, refresh us again with that hope, with that confidence that you will use us like you used Peter to meet the needs. The needs that doesn't we have this? That you will change our culture. It's easy to become hopeless as we see the political changes that have taken place, as we see the signing bills using fetal tissue for research, as we see the threat of a national abortion law that will allow untold suffering. As we see the actions taken by those whose system is not Christ. Lord, bring us back to reliance, total reliance upon Christ and Christ alone. To move us forward. that we might be your tools as you shape our culture. Teach us, show us who you are, draw us in love to you. And shape This walk.