If you have a copy of the scripture, I'd invite you to turn to the letter of James near the uh near the back of the New Testament. I want to read from James the last two verses in chapter one and then the first Thirteen verses of chapter two. This is God's Word. If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction. And to keep oneself unstained from the world. My brothers Show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say You sit here in a good place while you say to the poor man, you stand over there, or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers Has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He has promised to those who love Him? But you have dishonored the poor man, and are not the rich the ones who oppress you and the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become accountable for all of it. For he who said do not commit adultery also said do not murder If you do not commit adultery, but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment God's word for us. It seems as if we have an obsession With being in the in-crowd. We'll go to extremes to ensure our in-crowd status, sometimes with tragic results. Many of you are no doubt familiar with the sobering reminder of such tragic results found in the story of the Sneeches by Dr. Seuss. Big yellow birds before big yellow birds were cool, about eight years before Big Bird. The sneeches all looked the same except that some had green stars upon their bellies. And some did not. The sneeches with stars upon bars felt superior to the non-star-bellied sneeches, and they looked down on them Along comes the slick con man, Sylvester McMonkey McBean, who offers the Sneechers without stars an opportunity to be on equal status with the Sneeches with stars. For a price. He's got a machine that'll add a green star to their belly for just three dollars. And the stars the uh Sneeches without stars upon the Rs take him up on that offer. It works. And now they have stars, and of course they feel privileged just because of the star The original star on belly sneeches are having none of that, and McBean, of course, offers them the star-off machine at a price, a higher price. Because McBean was a capitalist con man. He's an opportunist and he makes a fortune of money putting stars on bellies and taking stars off of bellies and in and out. And on and on it goes until neither the plane nor the star bellies knew whether this one was that one or that one was this one or which one was what one or what one was who. See how confusing it is when we go to extremes to be in the end crowd Tragic results. Despite McBean's original claim that you can't teach a snitch, they learned. Because some had two stars and some had no stars and some had stars and all over the place. They realized, you know what? We're all the same. We're sneeches. We live on these beaches. And that neither the plane belly nor the star belly sneeches are superior to the other. And they all live as one big happy Sneech family ever after. Roll credits. You remember that story? The Sneeches Learned. I wonder, can we learn as well? By God's grace We can. By God's grace, we can. So far in James chapter 1, we've heard this: the progression to get us to this point in chapter 2. Through the testing of our faith, God is producing maturity, mature saints, steadfastness, complete, lacking nothing. God is working in us for the long haul. His plan for us, righteousness Righteousness that's pleasing to him, righteousness found in Christ. Blessings are in store for the one who follows God, God's way. God's word of truth is how he points us to our need for a savior. God's word of truth is how he shows us what's pleasing to him. God chooses of his own will and brings us forth by the word of truth. And we should be quick to listen to that word, slow to speak out against the sovereign God, slow to become angry against God and his providence. We put away filthiness and receive the implanted, soul-saving word of truth. We're not hearers only, James says, but rather doers of the word. Doers of the received word of truth, not merely doers only, but acting on the word of truth with actions that spring forth from a changed heart. Genuine face at work Actions that James then goes on to give us three gauges of what he calls pure and undefiled religion. Pure and undefiled religion is this. To control that hard-to-tame tongue of yours, to have compassionate care for those in need around you, people who can't return the favor or the service that you provide to them. And to not be corrupted by the world or to be lovers of the world, but rather to be compelled by the love of Christ. That's pure and undefiled religion. And that's the reflection of God's character at work in God's people who have God's spirit alive in them. The character of God showing up in God's people, can you even dream that big for Columbia Presbyterian Church? I hope so. Because God says He will accomplish all His will and good pleasure He who has begun a good work in you will complete it. He is faithful and will complete it until the day of Christ Jesus. God's character showing up in God's people in little old Us. Columbia Presbyterian Church. Can you even hope to dream? Yesterday at the Uh Discovering CPC seminar. We heard Alan Harris walk us through the the history of Columbia Press. How we got here. From way back when, when Alan was walking on a trail and came across uh as the Lord was leading him in his quiet time, the purpose To know him, to know his our hope in him and to know his power That has carried on through the years, and the the vision and the purpose and the mission and the thing we do here is to know Jesus Christ. and to make him known to others. God's character showing up in us. And so we pick up chapter 2. James says, My brothers. And there's a couple of places in the first chapter and the second chapter where James takes that brothers and he adds beloved. And I'd like to insert beloved for our phrase here. Beloved beloved. Show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. Beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. One translation of the compound word here that's uh translated maybe in your uh scripture it shows up favoritism It's partiality in the ESV that I just read, but it's a it's a compound word that basically means don't receive a face. In other words, don't take a look at the outward appearance after with no investigation whatsoever and hold preference one over the other. I remember when I was a little kid down in Glen Burney at Woodside Elementary School when we should have probably been learning grammar and arithmetic to help get me through junior high. They uh took us into the library and they sat us all down on the uh little four square mats or whatever, and they showed these two slides, pictures of two men. And one man had A pretty scruffy looking beard, uh a little snarl on his lip, you know, not a really a smile, but kinda scary looking individual. unkempt hair. And the other individual had a nice smile, clean shaven, and both these pictures showed the man with a uh one of his hands behind his back. Of course we were supposed to choose. Uh something, I don't know, which one you shouldn't talk to in the playground. I don't know what the specific assignment was that day But then they flipped the pictures around, and the guy with the snarl and the whiskers and all the unkempt hair and everything had a bouquet of flowers And the guy that was clean shaven and had his hair all parted nicely and smiling had a uh about a two and a half uh foot billy club Now, after scaring the living daylights out of us, I did take away at least one lesson, and that is appearances can be deceiving. That's what James is trying to show here. Receive no face Don't give preference to one person over another person because of anything outwardly observed. You know, way back in Woodside, they could have just taken us to the scripture and read from 1 Samuel 16. The Lord sees not as man sees. Man looks on the outward appearance, but the Lord looks on the heart. What's important? What's important is the heart. That's what James is trying to drive home in this passage. The character of God showing up from regenerated hearts. So that the character of God, so that the glory of God, so that the person and work of God will be made manifest in the lives of God's people. And people will be drawn to Jesus Christ because they see transformed lives Maybe they could have taken us to Romans chapter 2. God is no respecter of persons. Verse 11 there, the ESV translates: God shows no partiality. Paul's argument to the church in Rome is that the sinners are going to be judged, and if they f are found wanting, they will be eternally punished, and those who are in Christ Well not. The righteousness of Christ applied to their accounts, for God shows no partiality We don't know too much about these couple of men in James chapter 2. All we know is that one was wearing a gold ring in fine clothes, and one was in shabby clothing. But they both came into the assembly. And James doesn't give us detail. In fact, I think I like the illustration that he keeps simple because it's so up in our face That what's going on here is a quick assessment. Ah, gold ring, nice clothes, shabby clothes, unkempt. I've got a seat for each of you. Now we're too culturally sensitive to do something like that, aren't we? Oh I hope so. Cause this is pathetic. These are God's people. And they just judged from an outward appearance and they said, Hey, gold ring, wearing fine clothes, dressed guy, sit in this seat of honor. Shabby guy. Just stand over in the corner or you can sit at our feet here on the floor. We we wouldn't do that, would we? Of course, there's an obvious application for our church, right? Favoring rich people over poor people is a sin. Got it. But don't pass over that too quickly. I'm not sure it's as easy to comply with as what we think We got a pretty big hole down the street at 10,001 Route 108. It's really deep and it's muddy right now. And it's gonna take a whole lot of money. To put a phase two enhanced facility in that big old bunny hole. So we have got to be on guard against this warning. The plain and simple application is this: don't show favoritism to people that can supply you with your needs. The rich over the poor. Right? We need to be on guard against favoritism. Partiality makes a provision for our flesh to be indulged. Partiality makes a provision for our flesh to be indulged, that which we desire or want. That which impresses us particularly, we'll usually give preference to. That's human nature. And that's what James is speaking directly to for us. Let me borrow from chapter 3, James's words. My beloved, these things ought not to be. And we have to help one another guard against this. That's the call. of this passage. I want to suggest a few other things that we have a tendency to make distinctions where we ought not to, if I could be so bold. We find differences in all areas of our lives. We pick sides like we're playing a fourth grade kickball game on recess. And we'll choose up pretty quickly, and we don't really use a lot of discernment in our choosing. I'll give you an example. Watch this. Ravens. Redskins. Steelers. Alright, see? Something there. Alright, that's a no-brainer, right? No one would root for the Steelers. All right, all you almond joy dark chocolate people. Let's keep it Milk chocolate. Dark chocolate. We've got Republicans, Democrats, Republicrats, Libertarians Howard County Public Schools rank really high in the country. They provide a diverse cultural cross-section of enrollment. The students and some of our CPC families have students attending those learning institutions in our county. Within a 20 to 30 minute drive from this location on Google Maps, you can find some pretty impressive private and Christian schools with high academic standards and Christian Worldview curriculum. And some of our CPC families have students enrolled in them. We have some really nice homes scattered around the county where every day is specialized attention. is given to the children of a particular family by a homeschooling parent. And some of our CPC families are participating in that kind of education. And I want to say this To the Church of Jesus Christ here in Columbia, Presbyterian Church, and to each of the CPC families in those three categories. Who worship and serve and endure the God who created and redeemed them, beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. We have different circumstances, different settings, different occasions that have gotten us to make those choices. So show no partiality among yourselves. We have gray-headed members who don't know what a tweeter is if you showed it to them. in a hardcover book. And we've got young people who can tweet and post on Facebook and Skype and our LinkedIn and or send an email even as I preach Beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. We have members who have dedicated themselves to a regime of diet and exercise, and we have members who, for a myriad of reasons, do not Beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory We have members who went straight from high school to learn a trade and to use that trade to serve the community in which we live while making a healthy living for themselves and their families. And we have very well-educated members who hold professional positions. Here in town and in the cities to our north and south. Beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. We have married people among us who by God's grace are attempting to live life in such a way that their marriage accurately pictures Christ's relationship to his church And we have men and women who are single or single again, who by God's grace are attempting to live life in such a way that their station in life is a dedicated service to the Lord. Beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. We have some among us who have made relatively good choices in life, and by God's grace have avoided some of the folly of sinful patterns. And we have some among us who have made serious errors and judgment along this journey. By God's grace are being redeemed, but still must concern themselves with the consequence of their sin. Beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. Let me encourage you as I demand you to encourage me. We must be on guard against the subtle sin of partiality. James thought it important enough that to drive the point home, he uses a really simple illustration. He didn't complicate it. You got a guy with a gold ring and fine clothes, you got a guy with shabby clothes. And you've shown partiality. That's a sin. He calls it a sin. And we should heed that. I was in a local establishment recently. It may have been a target, I'm not sure. And uh we ran into someone, and I had a couple of my kids with me, and this person, uh as we conversed and talked Uh it was clearly evident that they uh have chosen to homeschool their children, um knowing or at least suspecting that I think you're homeschooling too, right? Isn't that right, Tim? And I say, Yeah, not me, but my wife. I mean I'm just I I go to work and I pray for them while I'm gone for twelve and a half hours. And they accomplish some really wonderful things. This is how subtle the sin of partiality is. In the conversation, one of my dear and precious children, because we usually hit the target in Walmart about ten thirty or eleven at night, was leaning over the shopping cart. With all the appearance of being patient, which I don't know what was going on inside, and I don't think this woman did either But she inferred for me and gave me an opportunity to certainly gloat Isn't that a homeschooling kid? Look how patient. I'm here to tell you, brothers and sisters, and hear me on this. I could care less what kind of educational choice we've had or all these other lists of the differences that are among us. I said to her with as gentle but as firm of uh tone as I could, if you see anything good in me or my kids. It's by the grace of God and all by the grace of God has nothing to do with all these other things that we throw on top of that We have got to stand against the partiality, the subtle ways that we converse, that we plan ministry, that we long-range look to what this is going to be. I'm telling you, I need your help, and I respectfully suggest to you, you need our help collectively, because we're prone to partiality. It provides something for our flesh. And it's not good. Not good. In Romans 3. 22, we're all familiar with 3. 23, but 3. 22b, the second part of that verse, The phrase that I think we should needlepoint and hang over restroom facilities throughout the county, there is no distinction. You hear God's word, it's so plain, it's so clear. We'll come up with differences if you just give us a pitch-black room and nothing to see with. We'll create differences in the sound of our voices. Alright, high-pitch voiced people over there, low pitch voiced people over there. Because we divide. That's what we do. We make differences. But God says there is no distinction. Of course we know it goes on to say, for all have sinned. You see, the purpose of the church is to preach the message of the cross. The ground is level at the foot of the cross. There is no distinction. All have sinned, and all need a savior proclaimed. We proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ, trusting His Holy Spirit to be at work and to bring hearts. To re life, to regeneration. Beloved, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. How do we reveal the character of God? We don't show partiality in his church. James 2, 5. Listen, my beloved, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich? Rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom. You remember five weeks ago, October seventeenth, Dan preached from First Corinthians, Paul's uh theme for that church in trouble in Corinth. They're just running all over the place. Not many of you were noble, not many powerful, not many wise in the world's eyes. God chose the foolish things, the weak things, the ennoble of the world, so that he would be glorified. God chooses us The mission of the church is not to see to set ourselves up with a club of like-minded friends who agree to get along with each other and try to recruit others like us to join. Right? It's not the mission of the church. The mission of the church is to take up the message of the Savior who came to seek and save that which is lost. What's the descriptive term there? That which is lost. Yellow, red, black, white, precious in his sight. The mission of the church is to take up the message of the Savior to proclaim good news to the poor, to proclaim liberty to the captives, to proclaim the recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, and to proclaim the year of our Lord's favor. It's to highlight God and to let God receive glory in all the earth. We don't have the right to pick and choose who we deliver that message to. And James' case study in favoritism points that out to us. Remember the three gauges of pure religion? Pure religion tames the tongue. But James says partiality uses the tongue to tear others down. That's what's descriptive here in chapter 2. The cutting words of that person who's seating people as they come into that assembly. Pure religion compassionately cares for those in need. But partiality runs roughshod over those in need in order to please someone who can give something back, they think. Pure religion is not tainted by the world, but partiality plays right into the world's hands. And even sets the stage for exploitation by those who would criticize Christ and his cause. That's what James wants us to take away from this first part of chapter 2. We tend to draw up all these differences. But when all is said and done And James bears this out later in the letter. There's really only two types of people on the planet. In chapter 4, he talks about those who are enemies of God and those who are friends of God. In chapter four, he talks about those who have proud hearts and those who have humble hearts. There's certainly really two types of people I'm here to tell you something bold. We all had the first set of parents the same. And from Adam and Eve, we inherited this sin nature that needs to be conquered, needs to be dealt with. James says that God opposes the proud, but gives his grace in abundance to the humble So let the circumstance of life, let the Word of God be at work in our hearts, dear Lord God, to humble us and to prepare us to receive God's grace. so that God would be glorified in and through us. Amen. Let's pray together. Lord, please help us. We ask that you would be at work to apply this word to our lives. Lord, even as families gather after worship today to eat a meal, cause us to think and talk about these things as small groups get together this week. Lord, cause us to think and deliberate together how you would have our church to show no partiality. And Lord, I pray that those who are here who feel the weight of their sin, they cannot tame their tongue, they are not compassionate to those in need. They are lovers of the world. I pray that you, Lord Jesus, would show that you have conquered the world. And that you would receive them to yourself, even as your Spirit has free reign in us today. We thank you for hearing our prayer. In Jesus we pray. Amen.