Well, it's December 21st, the darkest day of the year, and I will tell you the first service was dark. It is a lot nicer out there now But it was pretty gloomy and so glad for lights and for warmth here and I've I've got my Christmas tie on, so you kids After the service, get me at the door. If your hands are clean, it plays three Christmas songs and you can play them and see if you can identify them I had some kids with gray hair coming back after the first service and playing my tie, but that was okay. Back in the 1930s, a very distinctive looking movie star by the name of Charlie Chaplin entered a Charlie Chaplin look-alike contest. He came in third. And I sometimes think that Christmas is a lot like that I think that if we were to be transported back to about 5 BC on that sacred night in Bethlehem when Jesus was born there, and we were placed in the scene we'd be saying something like, No, that's not what it looks like. No, no, no, that's all wrong. No, you got you know, we would be disoriented And there is no particular way that that is more true than in Luke chapter 2, verse 7. That simple verse which reads, She gave birth to her firstborn a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no room for them in the inn. When we read that, I think normally most of us because of um various religious art or Christmas cards or whatever We hear no room in the inn and we think something like this picture. You know, there's an innkeeper, there's the inn, there's a no vacancy sign out, you know, and he's saying, sorry, we're all filled up. And Joseph is there pleading to this with his hard-hearted innkeeper, please, my wife is about to have a baby. Can't you find a room? And he says, No, no, you'll have to go out to the stables and, you know, to get the manger. I would like to suggest to you that that is not the way it appeared, and that that simple little phrase that Luke uses, there was no room for them in the inn is a rather profound clue to the gospel in the story of Christmas. I'd like to suggest to you that that little phrase reveals four things worth meditating on this week. as you celebrate Christmas. First of all, that little phrase reveals the human heart in its hardness in general and then specifically in its rejection of Messiah. It reveals that our hearts are hardened against others' needs. That's the way our hearts are. The picture of the in you see I had in that verse in brackets con. It was not a Motel Six holiday inn type of affair, but rather the inns of that time in a place like Bethlehem would have been a large open enclosure. It would have had low walls, sometimes a ceiling, and uh within those walls there were two levels. The lower level was for the animals And then the a few steps up, or could be half a flight of stairs, there was a terrace. And on that terrace around the four sides against the walls was this this raised platform where people would bring their bedding, their pillows, whatever they had, and they would find a spot to settle in. It was kind of like going over to Meriwether Post for a concert on the lawn. You know, you kind of jostle your way in, you try to find an open spot, and you settle in there. Now the picture is that because of the census, the first ones getting the best spots would have been the Roman officials, and they would have used a con because The Jews wouldn't have wanted certainly to show them any hospitality, so they would have gone to the Khan and they would have captured the best spots. After that it was first come, first served So people would have been jostling and they would have been getting in, and of course Barry and Joseph are a little slow. She's just about to have a baby, so she's not racing in there, and Joseph's trying to find a spot You know, excuse me, could you move aside here? You know, we'd like to my wife's gonna have a baby. And there is no room for them in the con. Now you might think that's a little exaggerated. You might say, oh come on, it's not like that. You know, we know stories of Katrina and disasters and everything. When people see a need They have heart and they say, Oh come on, make her room, you know, she's gotta have a baby, move over, get a you know, let me suggest before you conclude that a couple of things to think about First of all, if I had to have a baby meant that she was going to be unclean and anybody in contact with her was going to be unclean, that was going to be a a kind of a nuisance or something you'd have to deal with. Besides that there would be the annoyance but this woman's gonna have a baby You know, she maybe he's already gone into labor and you women can certainly testify and you men can certainly testify. It's usually not a very quiet experience So they think she's gonna be screaming and hollering, I'll be up all night and you know, go somewhere else. You know, it's it's too bad, but not here In addition to that, when you see a need, there's a little computer that goes around that says, does she deserve to get mercy here? I mean, was she really caught off guard with this? Well, you know what? I bet you she knew she was gonna have a baby. I mean this didn't wouldn't really catch her off guard. So what in the world is she doing traveling around away from her home down here in Bethlehem and gonna have a baby in a con. That's not what you do. You're irresponsible. And so there's this blame. I don't have to take care of this because the person was dumb. They were irresponsible. Your heart's hardened against them. Besides that, Joseph and Mary were very poor. And you know, if you see somebody that looks unkempt, perhaps they're missing a couple of teeth Uh they have an accent that's uneducated, and it's very easy to judge and think inferior, to harden your heart against this person And Luke is saying that in this situation, people had hardened their hearts against this couple. Somebody said, go out and have it in the garage, which is really the kind of cultural counterpart to having it in the stable. Apparently this con was nearby the limestone cliffs near Bethlehem And from the earliest days from Justin Martyr, it's been said that it was in a particular cave. So they said, go out and have it in the cave, go have it in the in the stables, have it in the garage, and that's where they were consigned. So it's a picture of the human heart I think of Albert Camus' novel, The Fall, and Jean-Baptiste Clements, who is one of the characters in it, a lawyer, says this at one point I am not hard-hearted, far from it, full of pity, on the contrary, and with a ready tear to boot. Only my emotional impulses always turn toward me. My feelings of pity concern me. It's not true, after all, that I never loved. I conceived at least one great love in my life, of which I was always the object. That's what we're like, isn't it? There's no room for them in the con because everybody was centered on themselves And so there was this rejection and a revelation of our hearts. But not only in general, but a rejection particularly of Jesus' Messiah. You remember in John chapter 1, John says that he was in the world. And though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive them. On another occasion, Jesus said in John chapter 8, I know you are Abraham's descendants. And yet you are ready to kill me because you have no room for my word. No room for his word. We want his blessings, but we don't want his authority over us. There is no room for Jesus. Secondly, this statement, there was no room in the inn Reveals something of the Savior's condescension. Second two blanks, the Savior's condescension. Luke's words, you see, are not simply descriptive, they're prophetic. Jesus, who owned the universe, never owned a room. You remember what we studied in Matthew chapter 8 before he went across the lake. That Jesus, Matthew tells us, when he saw the crowd around him, gave orders to cross to the other side of the lake, and then a teacher. of the law came to him and said, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus replied, Ah, foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. Never owned a home, never owned a condo. In fact, when he came to the Passover before his death He told his disciples to go borrow a room so that they could hold the Passover, probably John Mark's house. In fact, when he died on the cross, all he had to bequeath was a robe. He wanted to take care of his mother and all he could say was to his disciple John, John, provide her a room. Here's your mother. Take her in And to this day, if you go to Ephesus, you can see John's home, it is said, where there's Mary's room. But no room for Jesus. And here at the very beginning of the story of his incarnation, God becoming flesh, you have the picture of he who owned the universe did not have a place to be born. A stable. Nothing that he owned, everything borrowed. The only thing that he had of his own was your sin and my sin. The Father said that was his. And the father treated him as if your sin and my sin were totally his sin. And so he turned his back on his son. And Jesus was cursed and took your sin and my sin in total abnegation Jesus died in your place. That's the story of which this is the dawn But you know, it reveals a third thing. It reveals your heart and my heart specifically. It reveals your heart in some specific ways. You see, I said he took your place. Well, he took your place if You have room in your heart, in your life, for Jesus Christ. And so let me ask you, do you have room in your life for Jesus Christ? There was a magazine some years ago that in each issue had one page. It was a little box of devotional thoughts, and it was called God's Corner. I hated that page. You know, it just rankled me every time I saw that. Here's this magazine, it's got all these things in it, and we we devote this one little page to God, little devotional thoughts. Give him his corner. Hmm, that made my blood run cold. God's corner? God has a corner for your life? At Christmas time? He has a corner in your life when it's convenient? Do you have room in your budget for Jesus? We see the ads, and they tell us all these things that we must have. And so that's our first priority, and we spend on those things, and then we cultivate these. customs and traditions in our families and among our friends of very generous presents. I give you really good presents and that's really generous, but it's very self serving because I expect you to give me a really good present, so it becomes an excuse. For us to simply indulge one another. And we come at the end of that and we say, oh, well, there's not very much here left for Jesus. Oh well, maybe next month will be better. Give them what's left over. This month's Christianity Today reports on evangelical giving. It says that 10% of evangelical Protestants give zero a year. To the Lord's work. Thirty-six percent of evangelical Protestants admit that they give less than two percent of their income to the Lord's work. Only 27% of evangelical Protestants tithe. If I were to look at your checkbook and your auto payments, you would tell me your priorities. Do you have room in your life, in your budget for Jesus? Do you have room in your schedule for Jesus? We cram our schedules full of commitments. We have so much that's going on that there are no margins. We don't even have time to get adequate sleep, let alone rise up early, in order to spend some time in Scripture, to seek his face and to pray. And so we travel to work and we Listen to Christian radio where we play a CD is our quiet time. It's very, very different from being quiet. Before the Lord, because I give him a margin, because there's room in my life for him to be at the center and for other things to fit around him. Probably most of you will in the next couple of weeks have two things you'll be hit with. Number one, you'll have some time off, at least a couple of holidays, some vacation. And yet you'll be saying it's the most hectic time of the year and there's so much going on and I I just won't be able to spend any time in God's Word and getting to know Him. And I say, if you take some of that time And think of, here's a little more discretionary time. Do I have planned to say now, Lord Jesus, I want to cultivate my relationship with you a little more And I'm going to spend some more time in your word in these next two weeks. Maybe there's a Christian book that I have been wanting to read for some time and I haven't gotten to it. And Lord, I'm going to spend the time in these next couple of weeks. To read that book so that I get to know you better. Is there room in your schedule for Jesus? There's no room for him in the inn. Reveals our hearts, doesn't it? Reveals your priorities, my priorities. Maybe it's there's no room in your life because you're afraid of them. You're afraid of what he's going to do if he's let loose in your life and begins to run things according to his own desires. Harry Ironside was a famous popular preacher nearly a hundred years ago, told the story of a woman who was known as Old Betty. She lived in the slums of London in a garret, and old Betty was in debt that she couldn't pay And she had been in debt so long that she thought that the police were gonna come and get her. She hid in her room. The pastor found out about her situation, was able to raise some money, and they paid off all of her debt. And so he went to her building with the receipts in his hand for the good news. Didn't know old Betty didn't know where she lived. Some people pointed out where her room was. He went up the stairs and got to her room and knocked on the door. No answer Knocks again. Oh Betty, you in there? No answer. So sadly he turned around and went back down the steps as he was leaving. Somebody lived down there and said See old Betty? No. She's not home. Oh yeah, she's home. She's afraid you're the police, so she's not gonna answer the door. So we went back up the steps, knocked on the door again, said, Oh Betty, I'm a pastor, and some people have given to your debt, and it's all paid, and I have the receipts here. Well pretty quickly the door was open. There was old Betty, with tears, and she said, I thought you were the police to come and collect the debt. I was afraid to answer the door to the one who paid my debt. And Jesus is seeking entrance into your life. And you're afraid of him You're here because it's Christmas time, but you're really afraid of this Jesus. What's going to happen if he comes in and takes control of your life? And he's saying to you, I have given my life to pay the debt of your sin. You don't think that I want to bless you? You don't think that if you turn your life to as Tim prayed, with wild abandon, give ourselves to you? That I am going to bless you. And you will never regret giving me room at the central place in your life. No room for him in the inn. They wanted to keep him out. But finally, fourthly, this little phrase reveals to us the final destiny of every person. There was one other point I wanted to make under number three, and you may see the scriptures there. So let me go back and make that point. You notice that in Luke 2. 7 it says there was no room for them, not just no room for him. Mary and Joseph were not allowed in the Khan because of Jesus. And it might have occurred to them that, you know, without Jesus, we'd still be back in Nazareth, planning our wedding, our life going on as normal, things pretty comfortable. But Jesus has turned it all topsy turvy. Jesus has come into our lives and now we're refugees. We're down here in shame. Mary's in shame. They're thinking that She's pregnant by a Roman soldier or somebody else, and here we are down away from our home, having a baby in this strange place in a con out in a stable And then at his circumcision somebody says, Mary, a sword is going to pierce your own soul. Some months after that there are going to be refugees heading down to Egypt because Herod's out to kill their son. All because they were associated with Jesus. 15, Jesus says, if you belong to the world, he would love you as its own. As it is, you do not belong to the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, and that's why the world hates you. Because of your association with me. In fact, in Luke chapter 6, verse 26, Luke says, Woe to you, if everybody speaks well of you. Because they don't do that of Jesus' disciples. It's interesting to me that wildly popular Barack Obama is taking some flack. Because he has invited Rick Warren to pray at his inauguration. Rick Warren is too closely associated with Jesus. And if Barack Obama associates himself with Rick Warren and his defendants that we disagree on things, but he's a friend. The world rejects those who are too close to Jesus And some of you are going to be going home for the holidays and you'll be with family and within your family there'll be unbelievers. And those unbelievers are not going to share your joy about the incarnation and about a Savior who's come to die for sinners. And you're going to feel that and it's going to be painful. But Jesus says, be of good cheer, because I've overcome the world. Take that hope with you as you go home. There was no room for them in the end And you'll feel lonely at times because you belong to Jesus. But that's okay. Because the fourth point is that this little phrase reveals the final destiny of every person. You see, if you have no room for Jesus, then when he comes, there is no room for you in his kingdom. You remember back in September, we looked at Matthew chapter 7, and a number of you commented on how God spoke to you through Those three verses, Matthew 7, 21 to 23. Remember where Jesus said to religious people, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, we're going to enter the kingdom of heaven. But only he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name drive out demons and perform many miracles and rather spectacular religious activities? And then I will tell them plainly, I never knew you. Away from me, you evildoers. If God spoke to you at that time, what have you done with that? What have you done with the heart searching that said, do I have a place with him when he comes? Because you see, the good news is if there is room in your life for Jesus Christ. He is preparing a room for you now. John chapter 14, that's exactly what he says to us. You remember those precious verses, John 14, verse 1. Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God. Trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you. I'm going there to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, Then I will come back and I will take you to be with me where I am, so that you may be where I am. I want you with me. I wanted you to have that place. And so you see four things at least that this little promise says to you and to me as we celebrate his first coming and look for his second coming. The first thing is that this little statement shows us that there is a real place that you and I are going to go to. It's not an ethereal place, it's not a fantasy. He says, my father has a house with many rooms, and I'm going there to prepare a real place for you to live. Look forward to it. Because secondly, this place is unlike any place you've ever known. Now, you may be a little disappointed When you read those words, in my father's house are many rooms. I'm going there to prepare a place for you. And you think, I thought I was going to get a hunk of real estate. All I'm gonna have is one room, yeah, I'm gonna live in a hotel for the rest of eternity? That's not the idea The idea is more akin, at least in terms of the impact it ought to have, as if you had a fabulously rich uncle And this guy was so wealthy he owned a whole large island off of Ireland or Nova Scotia somewhere. And he invites you to come live with him And you stay at his place. And as a kid, you don't have to maintain it. You don't have to care for the plumbing and the wiring and all the rest of that. It's his place. All you do is explore the island. And you live and bask in the love of His gracious, cherishing you as that one. Take off, enjoy this place. Carefree. You see, the Greek word there, I go to prepare a place for you, is literally a resting place. It's a carefree place. That's the idea. And the third idea that's involved in this is that it means you're part of a family. You see, because it's one house, one household. And in this household, there's a place that you have at the table every night where every meal is better than the one before. And you've got brothers and sisters that you're partying with and enjoying this person's beautiful estate. And then the fourth idea in this is that this is a place where you belong. It's the image of a house because it communicates better that different plots that we individually own. No, this is a place that's home. I remember that where I was born, m my my mom lived for fifty years and so for uh fifty years after I I was born, I could always go back to that place. And I remember always thinking, you know, Kathy and I'd be traveling, go to different countries, go to things. It was always so nice to go back to 316 Alden where my mom was and I knew she loved me and she would be there with gingerbread or pie or something. And you know, I because I belonged there. I didn't have to prove anything there. I belonged. And this isn't just an uncle who loves you. This is your Savior who gave his life for you. And he says, I have a place for you. It's a place in my father's house. It's a place where you belong, where your heart is at rest, where you never have to wander again looking. For fulfillment or identity. And so just as at Christmas we celebrate the fact That Jesus made good on all the promises of all the prophecies of the Old Testament and came as he said he would. So he is coming back. Christmas is not just remembering the first coming. It's the anticipation of the second coming. Where because you have room in your heart and in your life for Jesus Christ, He is preparing. What does that mean? I don't know, but he is preparing a place for you to be with him forever and ever. Because there was no room for him, there is room for you. And the way that you and I say thanks is to think of those who are in need. Brothers and sisters, others that you know, that the world ignores And make room in your life for them. Let's pray. And so, Lord Jesus, we want to thank you. We want to thank you for giving up all that you owned. To own nothing, and even to be born in a garage, in a stable, laid in a feeding trough. Because you gave it all up for us. That you own nothing but our sins And you took them all away. Who says, I still bear my sin, and I don't have room in my heart for him. I'm afraid of what he's going to do. That you would break down that resistance. You would show them your intention to bless them. And to pay the debt and to cover them with your love. Lord, we confess that too often our lives, our budgets, our schedules, Crowd you out. What a travesty to try to relegate you to a corner of our lives. Forgive us for that. Help us this week to focus on you, to center ourselves on you and the good news that we've heard and read. That our hearts might be full of your love, your grace, and of joy. To live in the hope of that resting place that you're preparing for us, in that home where we will belong, to invest in it. That our hearts might be wrapped around it and that we might live in the light of that hope, even this week, and to make room for others. who have needs as a way of thanking you. We ask that for you to do that in our lives, because we can't do that. And we ask you to do that now. In Jesus' name. Amen.