Good morning. Randy was gracious in saying that I was looking forward to the weather um changing. I think you guys might be wanting the weather to change. Um we'll see how far I get in the sermon before that flips on you guys. If you have your Bibles, please turn to Hebrews chapter 2. We're continuing our sermon series looking at the book of Hebrews. uh or a sermon, if you will, and seeing the radiance of Christ. At this time also children ages four through first grade can be dismissed for children's worship. The verses we'll be looking at this morning are in the middle of an argument. The main argument that the author of Hebrews is making is talking about the supremacy of Christ, his glory, his radiance. And he's starting down a line of comparisons. He encourages, he exhorts. And he's showing the contrast of Jesus compared to other things. And we're finishing up chapter 2 today and next week. where he has been talking about angels and the glory of the sun and all things being in subjection to him. And we are coming to the sense of why is he saying this? We see that Jesus is superior to angels in God's plan for salvation, for the life of the believer in placing their trust in his purposes for their life. Hear now God's word from Hebrews chapter 2, verses 10 through 13. For it was fitting that He, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers Saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him And again, behold, I and the children God has given me. The word of the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, we do pray for the the blessing of your word in our life. That just as the first audience who would be hearing this letter distributed amongst the house churches, that they would be longing to hear a word of encouragement from you. And likewise would be longing to hear from you through your word, and likewise that you would minister to us. Ministering your grace and your mercy as it flows from the very essence of who you are, and your faithfulness and your goodness and your kindness, that all these things are culminating in. Jesus, and here in a few moments where we will also be partaking of a meal that you as a brother As our Savior has invited us to come enjoy fellowship with you. Help us to hear, may it penetrate our hearts what you have for us this morning. And may we grow in the grace and the knowledge of your Son Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen. Tonight's event will be a reminder of a very profound truth. that there are two types of people. There are those who love the Patriots and there are those who hate the Patriots. And and tonight I it's a profound truth. And and and likewise t this year is a unique experience because for Eagles fans you get to hate the Patriots And you get to cheer for your team in the Super Bowl, which that doesn't you get to do one usually every year, but not always the other. It's just a it's a fun day, right? Um and then there's probably some of us who are like, I don't really care about the Super Bowl. Um there was a recent Jeopardy uh episode you may have seen where uh all three contestants they all left the football column alone until the very end of the round. And none of them knew ev any of the uh questions at all. And uh Trebek had some funny snark uh thrown in there We're not here to talk about Super Bowl. But what we are talking about is something that we we at an experiential level, we resonate with things like the Super Bowl. Perhaps more than any other place, there are a few others in our kind of daily lives are our kind of our American culture where we have a sense of representation. Of course our elected officials But we have a level of sports teams that do fall into this category of someone who is doing something for us and we get to share in the glory of their victory or we wallow in the shame of their defeat. And there are these microcosms that we get to see the drama of a gain from start to middle to finish, with all the ups and downs, all the forward progress, all the loss. All the mistakes, all the wonderful successes. These things in a microcosm do show something about who we are as people, certainly as a culture, but something that we are longing for. to have someone who is performing and doing something that we receive benefit from. And the Bible sees clearly what we experience intensely. And for maybe whoever loses tonight, you will resonate with this. The world is not as it should be. We experience affliction, weakness, and struggle, and there is great suffering in our lives and in the world And just as the Bible presents that reality, it also presents the solution, which is we are in desperate need of a Savior who will deliver us from the way it is. and who will usher in the way it will one day be. The message of Christianity is that Jesus is that Savior. And the author of Hebrews, particularly in the verses we're looking at today, but expand your mind and think about what he is saying in the whole chapter of chapter 2. But looking at how God perfectly positions Jesus to be the only one who makes the world as it ought to be. No one else. He is perfectly positioned to do that. And the power of the gospel for salvation is deeply connected with Jesus' relationship to us as our Savior. And so the three verses that we're looking at today, we're going to look at two images that highlight Jesus' relationship to us. First, we're going to look at how Jesus is our champion. And secondly, how Jesus is our brother. So first, look at verse 10, and we see how the verse tells us how God the Father makes Jesus the champion of our salvation. Now, your Bible probably doesn't say that word specifically, but where do I get that from? Well, some translations say the founder. Others might say author, or even the King James even says captain. As you dive into the literature, commentators kind of explain this word in a way of saying how Jesus is the pioneer. He's the trailblazer. The word here is also used later in Hebrews chapter 12. where he talks about Jesus being the founder and perfecter, or maybe you're familiar with the translation, the author and finisher of our faith. Peter uses it in his sermon when he's addressing a crowd where he says God exalted him at his right hand as leader and savior. To give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And likewise, he also uses the same phrase that's translated Jesus being the author of life. That verse being in Acts chapter 3, verse 15, the first reference in Acts chapter 5, verse 31. But when we think of champions, we we think of two ways generally. There I'm sure there's others, but when we think about champions, we can easily view them as a winner, a winner of some something, like a a competition, for instance They are the pinnacle of the masses. They are standing on top of the podium in victory. So, for example, with tonight, someone will be a Super Bowl champion. Not both of them. Only one. Another way that we easily think of the term champion is as an advocate. In this manner, champions promote and defend the interests of a particular group. They represent us leading the masses down a path to a victory, a desired outcome of change. So, for example, we might look to our elected officials or popular celebrities as they are backing an important issue or an important cause. That we desire someone to be the promoter, the defender, the advocate, the champion for that change. And Jesus perfectly embodies both aspects of this term. He stands in victory with all things in subjection to him. We learned about that in the previous verses, especially verse 5 through 9. He's one separate and distinct from everyone. And likewise, in the second sense, he leads the march toward victory as one who advocates for everyone. What else do we learn from verse 10? Well, we learn that God's purpose his purposes in salvation. We see specifically that God sees it as fitting. Fitting to bring many sons to glory. That's a way of saying it's suitable. He saw it to be right. Appropriate, good. This is the way he saw it to be and the outcome that it brought about. And the means by which he sees it fitting. What does he say? This Path is through suffering. It was fitting to God's plans that redemption of all things would come by way of the intentions of the Creator of all things. And that this his means of the timing and the method was all part of God's sovereign control. His good purposes. Well what does it mean when Jesus here is said to be made the founder of their salvation perfect? Through suffering. Was not Jesus already perfect, you might ask? Well, yes, that's true. The Bible does understand Jesus to be one with God the Father. fully partaking in the divine nature. But Christianity also understands a true mystery that Jesus is also fully human. Sharing In what it means to be fully human, yet without sin. So, for example, we see Jesus enjoying family and friends. We see, or we can assume, we can deduce, that before his public ministry, he labored for his livelihood. We know that he probably experienced the ups and downs of what that brings. With economic success and economic lack. Perhaps experiencing hunger. We see how he grieves in the death of a friend. We witness how he heals many as a demonstration of his power and a display of his compassion. Jesus was patient with his disciples, who at some times understood perfectly the implications of the gospel and other times proved themselves bicheaded. Jesus washed the feet of the man who would betray him Truly, Jesus is the man of sorrows acquainted with our griefs As a teenager, Joni Erickson suffered a terrible diving accident. You may be familiar with her story. One moment, her muscles were helping her run and jump. The next moment she would have no ability to run or jump ever again. Over the years, she has spoken honestly about times of bitterness and anger. Depression and doubts. There's a story that's told a few years after the accident, a friend of hers was sitting beside her bed, just being with her. And I don't know the full context of the story of what went back and forth, but at some point her friend simply said Why? He was paralyzed. Joni found great comfort in that. She had never thought before to understand what the experience of Jesus might have been. Upon the cross, to be unable to move Verse 10 highlights God's sovereign purpose. It shows how from the very beginning in creation all the way through redemption, God is. And God does. He is faithful throughout. He is the source of all glory, and with Jesus as our champion, God makes it possible to invite us and and bring us that we might share in that glory with him. This verse simply means that Jesus fulfilled the goal. He didn't per become perfect as if he was lacking. He fulfilled, he accomplished, he brought it to an end, the finality of it. And he elsewhere scripture shows and teaches how that was learned through obedience, that even though he can be fully God and fully man, there is a path that Jesus himself led, fully and trusting. himself to the Lord each and each step of the way. As one author puts it, God made him perfectly qualified to be the captain or leader in our salvation. That is in the working of saving us, even through sufferings. So the point, I guess, for this morning with that, with respect to Jesus as our champion, one is, do you see Jesus as your champion? The author of Hebrews is inviting us to hear the warning. Remember earlier in chapter 2, that we would not neglect this salvation. You see, it's easy under pressure, under a sense of embarrassment or persecution, or the loss of property, or the loss of jobs. It's easy to start looking for something else to resolve the tension in your life, resolve the fears or the anxiety that you're experiencing. And if Christianity, as it was in this context, might have been the thing that socially or politically was putting pressure on the Christians there, it's easy to then start getting distracted and say, well, how do I fit in? How can I have the path of least resistance in this culture in a way that I can be accepted How might I give myself to maybe a uh a mysterious revelation from the Lord, maybe through angels, as maybe he has done in the past? Maybe as the sermon continues throughout the subsequent chapters, how might we go back to something else? A former system of way of interacting with God. Do you see Jesus as your champion? And how do you need him as your champion? That is a question that I cannot think of answers for you. That is something for you to explore yourself. How do you need Jesus to be your champion? What afflictions do you face? What troubles do you have? Where you can see Jesus as your champion? The second image that these verses discuss, it transitions from that sense of champion, someone who is Perhaps not like us because their abilities far exceed us. That's why they're champions, because they have skill or they have power or they have position and they're doing it for us. The author of Hebrews brings it to a much more intimate metaphor. Jesus is our brother. Verse 11, for he who sanctifies, meaning Jesus, and those who are sanctified, those who are Christians, all have one source. That is why he's not ashamed to call them brothers. Now, the the verb sanctify here, what's being discussed, is a sense of consecration, if you will, setting apart. That is an aspect of our salvation that is what it means to be holy as God is holy. It is being prepared for that service, if you will, prepared in that ministry and that process of becoming more and more and more like Jesus. It's the washing of his blood. We are forgiven once and for all, yes, but we constantly need the grace of Jesus Christ to wash us anew. Not because we are somehow separated from God again, but he is working grace in our lives to pull up the weeds, to pull out the rocks. To pull back those things that choke us out from placing our trust in God. This idea of one source. Some commentators take it to mean of one Adam, making the comparison to how Jesus is a second Adam. A phrase that's used in Paul's letter to the Romans. Other commentators think it refers to the one source of God. Regardless of how you take it, the point is bringing solidarity between Jesus and us. Identification or association with Jesus and us. Meaning in that process of being crowned with glory, being made lesser than angels, this is the previous context, if you remember. Jesus takes on flesh. He becomes one of us and enters into our experiences. The focus is upon his association, his solidarity with our shared human nature. The beautiful reality of God's salvation is, of course, incredibly relevant to all aspects of our lives, but especially where we may experience shame. Now, shame isn't necessarily discussed from our vantage point in this text, but it's important to take note of two things. One, it's interesting that it says Jesus is not ashamed of us. And then the author uses three quotations from the Old Testament to further kind of bring about what that means to have association or solidarity with us. He is not ashamed. That means he's not embarrassed It means he's not angry or frustrated or mad. And though he has the rightful place to be our judge, and indeed he is that, It's one that is in relationship, not distant, not separate, but one who is with us One psychologist defines shame as a soul-eating emotion. Brene Brown, who's quite popular these days, does really good work researching shame has wonderful qu uh pithy quotes all out there uh on Pinterest and all over the place. Um and those though those things might be kitschy to me in in how they're presented She is doing great work and getting under the surface of what really shame is and how it impacts our lives. And probably the most important thing that she says that we can understand is the difference between guilt and shame. She says the difference between those two things, shame and guilt, is the difference between I am bad and I did something bad. We we do things wrong all the time. Everything from very minor, insignificant, uh harmless mistakes. Which aren't necessarily sin, though they are part of the sinful world, broken, things are not the way they ought to be, but they also are part of what we are in our sinful selves. We fail to do what God commands. We fail to love as He loves. We fail to live in light of who we are in our identity in Christ. That can be our guilt. And we know what to do with that. We run to Jesus and we tell him. We look to Him for forgiveness. We recognize that He is our atonement. And in hindsight, I wish I uh we had divided the passage up a little bit differently because In some ways, I don't want to steal John's thunder for next week, and I don't uh want to necessarily take away all of the anchor points. that he has for next week from my passage. That these things come together, that who we are in Christ and how we are to live in Christ is by way of how Jesus lived his life. Who he was as the Messiah, but who he was also as the Lamb who takes the sins away from the world. So I can say with full honesty and can stand in full confidence in the grace of Christ to say, yeah, I did something bad. I I sinned in this way. I wronged you in this way. I am wrong. Please forgive me. But shame is a much more potent reality because it twists the reality of what I've done, and we internalize it to say something about who we are. Another way of saying I made a mistake. Speaks to our guilt, but shame tells the lies that says, I am a mistake. I hope you hear the difference. Do you? Shame taps into that part of our inner voice that categorizes something as bad or wrong, which is okay. There's a proper understanding or a proper place of shame in our lives. Because that also is washed and cleansed by the blood of Jesus. But shame involves much more. It's a responsive feeling to something we may have done. Or something we have experienced at the hand of others. And another psychologist and author, Kurt Thompson, defines shame this way: it's more than simply Just a feeling. Sometimes we interchange the words. I feel so guilty. That's what we feel in response to maybe what something is our guilt. But it's more than just a feeling. It's a belief. It's a belief that at the core of who we are says things like this: I am not enough. There is something wrong with me. I am bad. I don't matter This plays out all over the place in our lives, doesn't it? Making a mistake on a spreadsheet at work. Reveals maybe something you oversaw, uh an oversight on your part. Maybe it pricks your sense of uh ability or or sufficiency. Maybe it exposes your desire to say, I'm smart. I'm not that guy in the cubicle next to me that makes mistakes all the time. Or shame speaks lies in those small moments during the day when uh uh a fairly small decision seems to derail the day with your children. Heightening your sense of failure as a father or a mother. So for Jesus to be our brother, he's further connecting his association with us. And we with him. It's moving from champion, which we want, and we want someone to win something for us. But there is a there's a separation there. Yeah, you did that. You did something I can't do. Yay. And I'm glad I get the benefit from that. But that that makes this a little uncomfortable because how do we pay that back? How do we how do we maybe match that? Now that we've been given or granted the benefit, now do we have to like muster up the strength to kind of live in the same ways? Live by that example? How do those things work? Shame is an incredibly powerful force that that sucks the life out of us. The life that Christ intends for us to have in him. The author does next what he will do very often throughout the book, and he uses Old Testament passages to strengthen his his main point. And he uses three. Look at verse 12. He's quoting Psalm 22. Now Psalm 22 is a messianic psalm. We hear a very famous passage from Psalm 22, the very first verse, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Those are the words cried out by Jesus upon the cross. But likewise, here the author of Hebrews is quoting verse 22 from the Psalm. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. Here, Jesus is appropriating a sense of, or the early church rather is appropriating the reality of who Jesus is as Savior, but as one with us. Joining us in the praise of God the Father. For him to say, That he is not ashamed to call us brothers. Verse 13 quotes A couple passages and alludes to others in different places, but the main the main scripture passages that are mentioned are Isaiah 8, verse 17, and then split apart with verse 18. Now when the author of Hebrews does that, he does it a couple other places, but he'll split two verses together, and he's using them together to kind of put two emphasis. On the main point. And so here, with respect to Jesus, with what he's doing in the midst of the congregation, in the midst of the church, the gathered people of God praising God's name. Jesus is with us doing that. And then referencing Isaiah, there is this sense of the context of what Isaiah is doing there in his time. Of seeking a remnant of people who are believing God, recognizing that there are huge portions of Israel's society that is not heeding the message that God gave him to speak. And he longing for a day when people would hear. A day of God's salvation, a day of God's deliverance. And so we see Isaiah in his time saying, I will put my trust in him. And then again, behold, I and the children God has given me. We see this appropriated to Jesus in how Jesus lived in complete trust of God the Father throughout every phase of his life, fully, perfectly. He trusted the Father And again, associating with us, recognizing that He is with us as brothers, as a brother This family relationship is incredibly powerful. Because not only is he that distant champion who brings about salvation on our behalf. But he's with us and he lives life with us. Accepting us for who we are and where we are, but not leaving us to where we are. Bringing us along to experience the fullness of God's grace and mercy, effecting change, fueling growth. Where we see more and more how God's identity is becoming more and more our identity. And we do that through trust, just as Isaiah, just as Jesus, trusting him. This weekend we watched a live stream of Paul Tripp's Marriage Conference, and he had this beautiful statement where he said, trust is the soil healthy marriages grow in. That is true. But I would even go say to go far as to say trust is the soil that all relationships grow in. So when Jesus says he is not ashamed of you, do you believe him? When you are very aware of your sin, or when you are very aware of your weakness, your flaws, your character is not the way you would want it to be. Or people in your life make it very clear they would like you to be something different. How do you respond? Is Jesus really big enough? Is he really big enough to be your substitute? Maybe that's easier for some of us, but it's very hard to believe that he is a brother These are the moments where we need the encouragement of the gospel. Not only to believe for salvation, but to believe to live. Because we can believe that the gospel is the power to save and it's the power to change, and yet we feel like we are never changing. So God must not be present, right? It's not my experience, so therefore it must not be true That's the exact opposite of what the author of Hebrews is pointing out to us. It is by the solidarity of Jesus in his suffering that he is qualified to be both our substitute. But also, he desires to be our brother, a family united together in the household of God. Now, in 1961, Martin Luther King gave a commencement address entitled The American Dream to Lincoln University. Lincoln University is the first degree-granting historical black university. He delivered a version of that same speech again to Drew University on February 5th. 1964. So tomorrow being an anniversary of that speech. He spent several minutes of that speech explaining his philosophy of nonviolence as a an integral method uh to the civil rights movement here in the United States. I want to read this brief section from that speech. Now, I would like to take a few moments to say something about this method or this philosophy of nonviolence, because it has played such a prominent role in our struggle over the last few years, both North and South. First, I should say that I am still convinced that the most potent weapon available to oppressed people in their struggle for freedom and human dignity is nonviolent resistance. I'm convinced that this is a powerful method. It disarms the opponent. It exposes his moral defenses. It weakens his morale, and at the same time, it works on his conscience. And he just doesn't know how to deal with it. If he doesn't beat you, wonderful. If he beats you, you develop the courage of accepting blow. Without retaliating. If he doesn't put you in jail, wonderful. Nobody with any sense loves to go to jail, but if he puts you in jail, you go in that jail and transform it from a dungeon of shame. To a haven of freedom and human dignity. What's powerful about the civil rights movement in our country is he was appropriating the truth of the gospel. Recognizing on one level, yes, atonement can only be made through Jesus Christ. But as we live that out, we have to have an ethic that is a witness to that suffering. A witness to that death that brings about glory, that brings about change. And nonviolence doesn't know what to do with it. In another version of the speech, he talks about specifically how when you respond with violence, people know how to deal with that. They return with violence. They bring in the police, they bring in the militia, they bring in the army, we go to war, and it and the history of the world goes on. But people don't know what to do when they're letting you beat them. He says wonderful things that are just being saturated with the gospel of hope. Through a theology of suffering for the sake of love, love of God and love of others. Because when someone is being beaten by someone It has to take something more powerful to endure that. It is a great love that wants to say, I will undergo this suffering. Because I actually love you. Because though I am in pain by your hand, I love you because you are morally wrong. And I'm not going to leave you. Remaining where you are Now, this has happened time and time throughout Christian history. Christians appropriating the gospel, a theology of suffering. Everything from persecution to to just affliction and suffering in our lives, of what it means to entrust those moments to God who cares, who is present, and who is not ashamed. That's what's so counterintuitive about Christianity. The world knows power, the world knows ability, the world knows sufficiency, the world knows money. The world doesn't know intuitively what love is. And so we have to be shown love. We have to be told what love is, as John the Apostle says, we love because he first loved us. We make people like us to be our champion instead of relying on Jesus, who is not like one of us, but became one of us to be our champion. We long for intimacy and acceptance like that of the love between siblings, the pure acceptance where they know all of your shining moments and your embarrassing flaws. This is the space from the Word of God to the fellowship of the community of fellow Christians to partaking the meal. This is a place where God says, I am with you. Come be with me. Elders, please come who are distributing the elements to the front rows. When we look at this meal In the words of institution that Jesus Himself declares We see how he is our champion because he goes and dies on the cross. John's passage next week will talk about how he is the perfect priest to make that atonement. But a meal is intimate as well. So not only does he have the power to effect salvation, but he has the wherewithal and the desire to say, come share in it with me. And so we come trusting our lives to Him for salvation, eternal salvation, but also as we enjoy and share in the life now. Let's pray. Father, we do pray that you would prepare our hearts to receive bread and juice, fruit of the vine, that these elements are aspects. tangible reminders of what it means to be sealed by your Holy Spirit, to be promised. Eternal salvation to be with you now, even. That your Fellowship with us is now. As we're gathered together corporately to worship you, but also as we live our lives as we leave from this place. You promise to be with us. Lord, we ask that you would feed us by your grace. In Jesus' name, amen.