Good morning. Good to be with you this morning. If you have your Bibles with you or a device that you might want to tap on, please turn to the book of Exodus. We're looking at chapter 20 in this sermon series. Today we'll be looking at uh verses four through six with verses one and two for context. As we began this new sermon series last week, we we started looking at the Ten Commandments as we look at renewal, renewal in the wilderness. And how the story of redemption of God's people with his purposes, his plans, how those things bring forth life. and renewal. And last week Pastor Randy began and introduced the sermon series but looking at how um Uh all my papers out of order, so I'm distracted. But um how um who is it that we are to worship? And this week, we are going to be looking at how we must worship. So follow along as I read from Exodus chapter 20. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third. And the fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Father, would you add to the reading of your word? These are your words. I am but a man. I err, I make mistakes, I am in sin, and I need your gracious redemption. Feed us by your word and renew us by your spirit. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. In uh 2005, just a few years before uh his death The uh famous writer David uh Foster Wallace gave what has become a well-known, famous speech. And at one point in the speech he said these words. In the day-to-day trenches of adult life, there is actually no such thing as atheism. There is no such thing as not worshiping. Everybody worships. The only choice we get is what to worship. Another famous author, Kurt Vonnegut, called himself a Christ-loving atheist. But in a letter to his daughter in 1979 regarding his upcoming wedding in his second marriage, he wrote these words about the wedding. It will be as secular as I can make it. Since I am not a Christian of any kind, but it will take place in a church, because churches are so beautiful and holy. What do you make of that? Here are two authors who who explore the human condition, who write and weave beautiful stories that are both the splendors of humanity and also the depths. Perhaps if you claim to be religious or even spiritual of any kind, you you may agree with some of those words in part. But if you don't see yourself as such, then you may likely disagree that all of life is worship. But, friends, this has been the story of the world for as long as we have evidence, and it is fair to speculate the story goes back longer than that. Now if you're older than I am, I'm got my winter beard and I'm each year I see more gray, but if you're older than I am, you may have remembered if you've been a part of any of the various Protestant denominations. Back in the 80s and 90s, what was sometimes called the worship wars. These worship wars were primarily about music styles, contemporary music versus traditional worship. But as our text today highlights, divisions in worship go back further in time and highlight something more serious than mere musical preferences. You see, being created in the image of God, being formed in his likeness, God himself intends for us to worship him, to worship the one whose image we reflect. So our very essence The way we are built, the way we are made, has a strong magnetic pull to worship. But our human condition likewise has this loose, deviating drift toward counterfeits. And as we look at the Ten Commandments in this series, God Himself is telling us who He is. And in the context of His redemption by delivering them out of Egypt, He's calling this people. His people. And bringing them into a covenant that will shape their understanding of who their God is and who they are themselves. Worship is the means by which God communicates himself, and it's the means by which we experience renewal in him. So if the first commandment teaches that God's people directing their attention of who they are to worship, then this second commandment today teaches us how we must worship. Because we worship Him according to His ways. Not of our own devices. There's no worship but his worship. And the question that we have to be asked from this text is, well, how? How are we to worship? We see that the Lord is instructing his people what is true worship to him and what is false worship to idols. So today we'll look at these verses, looking how our worship must represent God accurately. How our worship must avoid serving God falsely, and how our worship must acknowledge God completely. So let's look at verse 4, where we see how worship must represent God accurately. There in verse 4 it says, You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in the heaven above, that's to be in the sky, the planets, the music of the spheres, or that is in the earth beneath. Or that is in the water under the earth, this totality of the cosmos, from the highest to the lowest, these things are not to be images. This image making is the intentional crafting of an object to represent the Lord Now this was very common throughout the ancient world. The Israelites would have seen it up close in Egypt where pictures and statues. would have had um these these deities represented it in the form of animals, in the form of men and women, sometimes mixed together, half man, half, half um animal. And these these carved idols were made from materials like wood or stone or metals. And in the ancient world, it was often the assumption that making Shaping and forming such an object would become the location by which the deity would dwell. It would become the conduit by which the deity would communicate its powers. The worshiper would interact with the object as if he were interacting with the deity, seeking its favor and blessing. Now, if you're familiar with this part of the history of Israel, it's quite amazing how quickly they forgot and how quickly they failed to keep this commandment. Here they are at the base of Mount Sinai, and the text tells us they were afraid by what they witnessed, and that they wished for Moses to be their mediator, their go-between the Lord and themselves. They witnessed the Lord through Moses speaking the Lord's message to Pharaoh. They experienced the events of their deliverance from Egypt. They saw with their own eyes and they heard with their own ears the Lord's activity on the mountain. But very soon we're told the people grew anxious because Moses delayed to come down from the mountain. And the people asked Moses' brother Aaron to make for them gods that represented them. And after Aaron fashioned From their earrings and their bracelets and their whatever they may have had, their gold, he fashioned a golden calf, and he said these words in Exodus 34. These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. And Aaron declared that they would have a feast to the Lord. It is not that they started worshiping another God. No, they sought to worship the true God in the wrong way. And this happened again and again in the history of God's people. By making for themselves a carved image in the likeness of something created, they misrepresent God. They sought to fashion something they could easily and tangibly see, something they can interact with in their feasting and in their singing and their dancing, all of their rejoicing, all of these. activity of worship needing something tangible. But by doing so, what they do is they reduce God's presence to an idol and so distort the true God. So as we look at the commandment, we have to recognize we are not Israel, of course, but being in the story of God's redemption. We are in the story. Now, we are in the story much, much longer down the road, but being brought into the story through Jesus Christ. We have to take God's word as it stands and to be thoughtful and to be mindful of how we make idols. We must not represent God in any form for our worship of Him. Now, this commandment doesn't prohibit art. It doesn't prohibit craftsmanship. It doesn't prohibit beauty. But it teaches us not to capture God's essence, God's being in our own imaginations, our own devices in order to worship Him. And so for you, Christian, why? Why? Because in our feeble attempts Our feeble attempts at representing God, what we do is we elevate a part or parts of God To a particular form, but but what that does is it it reduces and it distorts his wholeness If we picture something in the sky above, we conflate God with the heavens instead of him being the heaven's sustainer. If we picture God in the form of an animal or a person, we elevate the creator. We elevate the created over the creator. We end up worshiping a God of our own making, and it does not represent God accurately. As we move on to verse 5, we see that the second part of this commandment shows that our worship must avoid serving God falsely. The text says, you shall not bow down to them or serve them. Some biblical scholars take these two actions as saying one thing. Worship, serving, bowing down, these are actions of worship. While other scholars understand them to be saying similar but distinct things. And they get this from looking at the two verbs. The verb of not bowing down is is actively lowering yourself. Prostrating yourself to the ground as an act of humiliation, of humbling yourself before that which is above you, perhaps a ruler, a monarch, for instance. Or a deity. It is an act of worship, showing allegiance and honor The word to serve them is much more passive, as if you are being enticed to serve these idols. So depending on how you look at that, it doesn't change the meaning really, but it is an interesting thing to look at. It certainly has in mind worshiping God with the means of the carved images that are mentioned earlier in verse 4. But taken in this sense, the use of such images becomes false worship And by implication also, we see how God's people must not give their worship, actively worshiping Or being conjoled to serve other idols besides the Lord. That is also false worship. And this is what the Bible calls idolatry. And because we are to pursue right worship of the Lord, of the true and living God, then we must really understand idolatry. So, you know, just briefly, what are some uh some common features of idolatry? In the ancient world, it was a comprehensive system of organizing all of life and society, relationships. It it shaped religious life around the temple, the sacrifices, whatever may be in that system of idol worship. It impacted all of economic life. in the making and the selling of those idols. It impacted the marketplace of food, especially meats. The pleasures of wine and sex and all of these things taken together were in this sense of, again, that location of the deity being found in the idol. You see personal interaction and you see community being shaped by these interactions of beliefs and practices. that really come down to seeing that they are controlling the gods. Controlling the gods for personal favor, for blessings upon their family, successes of the crops and livestock. seeking prosperity and wealth. It was quite normal in the ancient world for people to organize their life in these ways, but even more complex. seen in categories of three types of idols. The personal God, the family God, and the national God. In the life of Israel, we learn of how easily it was to juggle these layers in their practices and their beliefs. So for example, In the book of Judges, we see a downward spiral of the corruption of what's happening in Israel. And you might see a person personally calling upon Dagon as a personal God. Maybe Baal as a family god, and yet maintaining their worship of Yahweh the Lord presented to Moses and them at Sinai as Israel's national god. No ancient Israel Israelite would ever say that they do not believe in the Lord God, the true God who has revealed himself to Moses. For he was their national God that brought them out of Egypt. He was their national God that would be brought out with the Ark of the Covenant, who would win the battle and win the day against their enemies. But day-to-day loyalties might be directed to those personal gods or those family gods We see how this is further working out through the centuries. In 2 Kings chapter 17, we read how after the northern kingdom is conquered by the Assyrians, The ruler of Assyria is resettling the cities in Samaria with people from the surrounding Assyrian Empire. And we see in in this part of the what was formerly the northern kingdom of Israel, the text tells us how they practice idolatry, saying, They do not fear the Lord, and they do not follow the statutes or the rules or the law of the commandment that the Lord commanded the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel. And then in verse 41, it brings this very stark summary conclusion. So these nations feared the Lord. and also served their carved images. Their children did likewise, and their children's children, as their fathers did, so they do to this day. If you take a scan of your life, if you look in your calendar, perhaps you don't make carved images Maybe you don't fit it in your rotation to bow down the four stone statues and ask for their blessings. Let's look at idolatry from another perspective. And in this perspective, I draw heavily from Tim Keller's book that's called Counterfeit Gods. Highly recommend it. It is jam-packed and very helpful on this subject. He writes this, that an idol is anything more important to you than God. Anything that absorbs your heart and imagination more than God, anything you seek to give you only what God can give. This suggests that we can serve God falsely with idols that we've made internally in our hearts. without ever being done externally and literally. And the Bible speaks of this as well. The Bible speaks of idolatry as worshiping actual idols, of course. Things of wood, stone, and metal that we've been discussing. But the Bible also speaks of idolatry as ways such as adultery in the book of Hosea. As self-salvation in 1 Samuel 15, as spiritual treason in Samuel chapter 8. But the Bible also recognizes the weaving of our hearts at a much deeper level and how our idolatry is our enslaved desires. Looking at Galatians chapter 5, verse 16 through 21, Colossians chapter 3, verse 5, and 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 3. In the same speech that I referenced from David Foster Wallace, he went on to say this about we choose who we worship. There's there's nothing not that we worship, but we what we choose. And he says this, and and the compelling reason for maybe choosing some sort of God or or spiritual type of thing to worship Is that pretty much anything else you worship will eat you alive? If you worship money and things, if they are where you tap real meaning in life, then you will never have enough. You will never feel that you have enough. It's the truth. Worship your body and beauty and sexual allure and you will always feel ugly. And when time and age start showing you will die a million deaths before they finally grieve you. I think what he says in this speech, he taps into something very profound. These idols are of our own making, and they mirror the deepest motivations of our heart. They shape what we desire, what we think, how we feel. They are the making of something that reflects the derived good. I was mentioned last week as well. It reflects the derived good of God's intentions. And what it does is it makes them the ultimate, the ultimate thing as the source of what is good. And when we give ourselves to something or someone in a way that confuses or replaces True worship of the true God, we seek a derived good separately from the one who is the source himself, and it becomes our false worship. And in the end, we find ourselves unsatisfied. We either feel shame for being so foolish. Or we're we're angry and embittered that we placed our trust in something that failed us. But God is the source of all good, and he is the one that remains faithful. So again, I've referenced idolatry. The story of Israel is throughout all the pages. There's probably not a page that you can flip through where you're seeing these dynamics in play. They're the dynamics that are in my heart. And I would suggest that there's dynamics that are in your heart. But there is something beautiful about here of what God is saying when He says, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. Having true worship in the one who has saved you, who has delivered you, is where you find that true satisfaction. As we see another beautiful story of the outcome of what I mentioned in 2 Kings chapter 17. The story of a conquered people, a story of the humiliation of being moved about and resettled, and the mixing and and the anger and the resentment that is even found within the the the the nation of Israel and we find a woman in Samaria Chapter, uh John chapter four, we see a picture of a conversation about worship. What is right worship? Where is it to be held? Is it to be held in the mountains of our forefathers in the hills of Samaria? Or is it as your people have said that it should be in Jerusalem? And in this interaction, Jesus comes to her. He speaks to her. He interacts with her And it the text says this, John chapter 4, starting at verse 7, a woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? For Jews had no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it was that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. The water I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. And they carry on their conversation, and as it moves to worship, Jesus says this, but the hour is coming and is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. And Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. And just then his disciples came back, and they marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, What do you seek? or why are you talking to her? So the woman left her water jar and went away into the town and said to the people, Come, see. A man who told me all that I ever did, can this be the Christ? And in that interaction, there is a visitation. There is a visitation of the Lord. As we see, moving into the last section of today, we see our worship must recognize God completely. I'll come back to what we just read in John in a second. But as we go back to Exodus chapter 20, looking at verse 5 and 6, we must rightly understand what God is saying and what he is not saying. He says, For I, the Lord your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me. But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commands. Is this text saying that the Lord judges you for the sins of your fathers? Or does the Lord punish your sins upon your child or grandchild? The answer is what this verse says, and it draws us to the very character of God. In this moment, God, in his wisdom, declares something about him being jealous. And likewise it teaches us that indeed the Lord holds the guilty accountable. But this verse can easily be distorted. We see kind of its uh ripples in John chapter 9, verse 2, where Jesus is asked the question about common uh about a very common assumption. regarding a man who was blind. And Jesus was asked if this man's blindness was due to his sin or his parents' sin. And so what Jesus responds is particular to that situation, but he rightfully is understanding what's happening truthfully here in Exodus, but we also see in God's word from Ezekiel chapter 18 verse 20. how this really works in its tension that we might be feeling from verse 5. Ezekiel the prophet says, The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, nor the father suffer for the iniquity of the Son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself. In highlighting this commandment, to not make carved images, to not worship anything other than the Lord Himself and the ways and the means that he discloses. He's highlighting his character. We know from the preamble in verses one and two, it's in the context of his redemption. We see here his character of his jealousy, and we see two things held together that in his perfect righteousness. That in the expanding corrosion of idolatry, the sins of the fathers will teach, they will inform, and they will entice their children. and their children's children, to embrace their sins, to embrace their idolatries. And upon their guilt the Lord visits. It's not because of the father's sin. It is because they share in their guilt. But God. But God, being rich in mercy, he ever extends his grace not to the third and to the fourth generation, but by thousands. And in this contrast, we don't see a capricious God who's saying, Worship me. I'm jealous. You can't worship anybody else. No, he is in the context of his loving and gracious redemption. As far as we know, there is no evidence of any ancient culture that recognizes their deity redeeming their whole people. We see this in the story of the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob bringing the sons of Joshua And the other sons of Jacob out of Egypt and making them a people. Recognizing this Lord, this one true and living God as their God. So I leave you with this very important question to reflect on as we come to an end soon. As you discern your motivations. of your heart before the Lord, what or who do you seek as um uh as as that ultimate thing, that derived good that you put in place of an ultimate thing, which you then draw from as your source. Of what you most long for. And in reflecting upon that, an important follow-up question is: what would make you the most anxious? What would make you the most fearful? What would make you the most angry if that thing were taken away? When the things we love most are lost or taken away, it threatens our sense of self, it threatens our sense of meaning and purpose. And what the second commandment gives us hope and good news for is we are called by name to love and to serve the Lord God who redeems, who shows mercy, who shows steadfast love. His visit upon those who hate him does not last forever. But those he loves, he continues to pour out his love. So this this commandment is is relevant for worship, it's relevant for your personal worship, you know, everything from visual depictions of God. to how you might compartmentalize your worship of the one true God by what you add to that. The beliefs, the practices, any sort of sentiments or values that you put on those things, but you separate. Separate from the worship of God to what you really hold as first importance It also could imply that you're elevating good ideas, elevating good desires to the standard of the ultimate that become your governing ideas. and the things that that shape your desires. The first part of this commandment makes clear that the people of God are not to divert their worship to anyone other than the Lord God. This this covenant relationship between the Lord and his people, it marks out the boundaries of covenant loyalty. But this this is initiated. And it is sustained by the Lord's steadfast love. Perhaps you have um heard people discussing uh the show The Crown. It is a story that depicts the life of Queen Elizabeth. In the second season, there is an episode called A Company of Men. And Queen Elizabeth. uh writes a letter, uh writes a little note to her husband, Prince Philip. He's about to go on a five-month tour. Their relationship is pretty tense. in that in those moments. Don't know how accurate it is, but it makes for good drama, good TV. But there's this beautiful note that she writes to him, and it says, always Always remember you have a family. Now, if you read that And you are experiencing tension in your marriage, if you're uncertain of your relationship, then such a note can be chilly. It can be calculating, it can be manipulative, it could push your spouse in a way to you better act right. Remember. Always remember you have a family. Uh-huh. Remember? Okay? But that would be true. That would be right. To a certain degree, a spouse's jealousy can be right because both spouses made promises to each other. But it is also a law that looks like a carrot but bruises like a stick. When you read through the lens, though, of a of a thriving love, Such words are warm remembrances of a relationship that's secure In that context, the promises made in the relationship are beautiful, and they're compelling reminders to remain faithful out of joy for one another. Approaching the commandment here in Exodus chapter 20, without knowing the security of God's deliverance, it can be a cold, rigid performance of worship. But in the love of God and within his freedom, then all of life is worship. All of life that is worship comes with joy. Though there might be circumstances of sorrow, it comes with trust to the one who is worthy to be praised. It is the difference between performing the law to prove that you are worthy. And following the law, because the one who is worthy has shown his great love. One may move you for a season, but the other breathes life in you eternally The response of faith that we can get from even this verse today, for our whole worship of God, is to worship God in the means that He has provided for Himself. We seek to represent him accurately. We long to serve him truthfully and we we need to recognize him completely, not the pieces that we prefer over others. but to stand in awe of his glory, because no worship exists but to him alone. Let us pray. Father God, we do thank you for your word this morning. We do ask that you encourage us and strengthen our faith, renew us to find satisfaction in you. Breathe life into us with your warmth, with your kindness, with your steadfast love. That these things are culminated in your deliverance and your salvation, that we see the perfect embodiment of who you are in your Son Jesus Christ. As Paul writes the very image of the invisible God, help us to rightfully worship you. Help us to worship you in all of our lives. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.