She was a beautiful Scandinavian girl. Long blonde hair fell over her shoulders. Gracefully she sat down in the armchair offered to her and looked at us with deep and vivid blue eyes. Her long arms allowed her to fold her hands over her knees. We noticed her fine, slender fingers, revealing a very tender, precious personality. As we discussed her problems, we came back again and again to one basic issue which seemed to be the root of all the other. It was the problem which we at least expected when she entered the room. She could not love herself. In fact, she hated herself to such a degree that she was only one step away from putting an end to her life She refused to acknowledge anything good about herself. And as this Christian, the evangelical counseling this girl and deals with this person who's come. For help, he reflects on her problem as a psychologist, a Christian psychologist, and says this The psychologist has to underline the fact that there is in man no inborn self-love. Self-love is either acquired or it is non-existent. The one who does not acquire it or who acquires it insufficiently either is not able to love others at all, or to love them only insufficiently. The same would be true for such a person also in his relationship to God. The act of self-acceptance Is the root of all things. He goes on to deal with this girl who turns out to be a rather hostile person, full of criticism, unable to get along with anyone. And he says, in doing some team counseling here, when we asked her for an explanation, she blamed it all on herself. She said that she loved herself too much, thought only of herself, and called herself an egoist. For this reason, she could not accept others and really loved them. We had to contradict her. We claimed that just the opposite was true. It was difficult for her to love others because she did not love herself enough. It is impossible for us to accept the other one as he is, if we have not accepted ourselves as we are. He then refers to Luke 1027. Passage that we began to consider last week. We'll consider this morning and then next week. And he refers to Jesus' statement there, Jesus' affirmation of the law expert's statement, that you shall love your neighbor as yourself. He refers to where this appears a number of times in the scriptures, this command to love our neighbor as ourself. And observes concerning that command, usually it is assumed that everyone loves himself. He Everyone is an egoist. And he are taught that this is wrong. Instead of loving ourselves, we should love our neighbor. However, this is not what the verse states. The verse does not say, love your neighbor instead of yourself. But rather love your neighbor as yourself. Self-love is thus the prerequisite and criterion for our conduct toward our neighbor. It is the measuring stick for loving others, which Jesus gives us. We find then that the Bible confirms what modern psychology has recently discovered. Namely, without self love, there can be no love for others To identify with that kind of problem, if you don't at all You'd be the first person I ever met who didn't. Every person I've ever counseled or ever gotten into any in-depth conversation with At one point or another, they will admit that they struggle with the issue of self-acceptance. This is a concern for every one of us Not only those who are evidently crippled in their dealings with other people, who have obvious difficulties accepting themselves. But also those who seem very secure, those who seem very confident. Every one of us deals and struggles with the problem of self-acceptance. Now as I mentioned last week, I dealt with my year's verse, Luke 10, 27 and 29, because I struggle with selfishness. But I also struggle with my self image. I struggle with an understanding of my self worth. And that's what I want to consider with you this morning. You see, many writers today will say that this whole question of self image, self esteem, self worth is dealt with most significantly in the Scripture in this very verse, the great commandment that Jesus has given here. Luke 10, 27, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. It is stated then that there are here three commandments, really. The first one, you shall love God. The second commandment that you shall love yourself, and then the third commandment that you shall love your neighbor as you love yourself. The ability to love others, then, is at root a question of self-esteem. Let's take a look at that whole parable, at that section of scripture, with that kind of question. And problem in mind. Let's take a look then at God's word in Luke ten, beginning with verse twenty-five and going to verse thirty-seven, the parable of the Good Samaritan On one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus. Teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life? What's written in the law? he replied. How do you read it? He answered, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and love your neighbor as yourself. You have answered correctly, Jesus replied. Do this, and you shall live. But he wanted to justify himself, and so he asked Jesus, and who is my neighbor? In reply, Jesus said, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he fell into the hands of robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him, and went away, leaving him half dead. A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. So to a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, pass by on the other side. But a Samaritan As he traveled, came where the man was, and when he saw him, he took pity on him. He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. And then he put the man on his own donkey, took him to an inn, and took care of him. The next day he took out two silver coins and gave them to the innkeeper. Look after him, he said And when I return I will reimburse you for any extra expenses that you may have. Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of robbers? The expert in the law replied, the one who had mercy on him. Jesus told him, Go and do likewise. I want to deal with this in three questions. You see them in the bulletin outline as you follow along there. The first question is simply is Luke 1027 two commands or three commands? The second question: what is Jesus teaching us about love? And then thirdly, what is the biblical basis for self-esteem? First of all, then the question, is Luke 1027 really two commands, or is it in fact three commands? And I'm talking about the commands: you shall love God and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Now let's be very clear on the question here. It's important for us to understand this. What I'm really asking you see is is there a command here in this verse for us to love ourselves? Or should we interpret that command, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, as a statement in which self love is Is taken for granted and is given as a measurement for the force of our love to our neighbor. Which is it But now if we look at the current evangelical literature to answer this question, we find an almost unanimous answer. And the answer to that question In which this command, which is very, very frequently referred to, if you've read read uh a lot of Christian psychology, this commandment is very frequently appealed to, and it's almost always seen in terms of three commands. First of all, we're to love God. Secondly, then we're to love ourselves. And thirdly, we're to love our neighbor. I'll give you a couple examples of this in a Bible study guide on specifically learning to love ourselves. There's a question on this that says, what does this second commandment the second commandment tells us to love whom? And there is an A and a B. So there are two people that you're supposed to put down, obviously ourselves and then our neighbor. Then the next question is, from this second commandment, what gauge tells us if we are actually loving others as we ought? And the obvious answer, particularly as it's expounded later on in the book, is the gauge that tells us if we're loving others as we ought is whether we're loving ourselves. That's really the gauge. Well, he gave another book on how to raise kids for Christian parents. The author in this book says: Scripture says that we should love our neighbor as ourself. If one has self-hatred and loan, Self-esteem, if one hates himself, then his neighbor's in real trouble. We then must try to help young people to see that by loving themselves they begin in the proper sense to have the capacity. to love others. I could go on and on and on in many, many writings that say that in order for us to love others, the first thing of course we must do is to learn to love ourselves. I believe there's two reasons why we The first reason is because there is a reaction to the teaching of the last generation. Much popular teaching in the last generation taught that we are to hate self. We're to abnegate self. We're to put self down. We're to die to self. The self is the enemy of the victorious life. And therefore we are to put self to death. We're to squash it. As a worm were to crush it, so that we see ourselves as simply lying low before God. And it's usually stated in terms of hating or putting to death the self. There's a reaction on the part of Christians who are saying that this is too much of a stress on our sin and on worthlessness, communicated in such hymns that say uh that uh God Jesus died for me, um my sin and my worthlessness. He died for such a worm as I and many others So there's a reaction to this. That's really not giving sufficient uh understanding sufficient acknowledgement to the dignity of man. So there's a reaction. The second reason, I believe, is because of humanistic psychology. You see, there's a parallel development that's been going on in our culture among the humanistic psychologists to the Christians. While Christians have been reacting to the death to self theology of the last generation, humanistic psychologists, under the leadership of such men as Abraham Maslow, Have been reacting to psychology's obsession with the sick. Maslow, for instance, says that he reacts very strongly to men like Freud and many others who built their whole understanding of human nature and man based on studies. of neurotic and psychotic people. Yeah, he says you just you started on the wrong foot. But we need to study healthy people, the people who have achieved in life and build our psychology and understanding of men based on how we understand them. It's really a very sick kind of psychology that develops a weak and pathetic view of man who's simply struggling through the minefield of life seeking to cope with his neuroses. Mr. Maslow, a very, very influential writer of the 50s, the 60s, and the 70s, began to lay one of the significant foundation stones for the self-help psychology that we're into so heavily in our day. He said meaning to look at man in all his positive goodness, reacting against the negativistic psychology. of the last generation, positing man's goodness and possibilities. Now it's important for our understanding of this whole question to understand Maslow's hierarchy of needs. Bear with me and follow this for a minute. I think it's important enough that I actually put this little diagram that he uses in the bulletin outline. And you'll see why in a minute. Maslow posits, now this is a man who has uh no concern for the scriptures teaching on who man is or who man is as created by God. He's a humanistic psychologist, and he has posited that man, in fact, is a very positive, well meaning creature who seeks simply to ascend in his level of meeting his needs. And this triangle seeks to demonstrate that in order for each need to be met you have to meet the lower one first. It's an ascending hierarchy of needs. Each lower need must be met before the next need really comes into consciousness. And so you see at the bottom level the most basic needs are the physiological needs. You've got to have your belly full, you've got to have food and drink before you can even worry about safety. And so that's the most basic need, physiological needs, body needs And then after you've had some food and some drink, then he says you begin to sit around and wonder in your cave whether the tiger is going to come in and eat you alive. And so then you begin to think about your safety and you have a a need for some security. And so that comes into play. You concern yourself with that If it turns out that not only are you fat and well fed, but you're also rather safe, then you begin to think about the need of belongingness. You begin to want to feel like you're part of a group that accepts you, in which you belong and and are I uh uh uh an integral part of that society. Once you've done that, he says, then comes the need for self-esteem. That's the fourth need. This need for self-esteem, accepting myself as I am, is absolutely basic for what he calls then in the next level, which I just put self-a-the self-actualized person. Now you don't hear an awful lot about that for Probably most of you are not familiar with that phrase, the self actualized person. But if you're at all familiar with the writing of Carl Rogers and his uh training groups and a lot of the uh group therapy that's been going on in the last ten years, a lot of it set up the right. Around precisely this concept. Carl Rogers took this idea with Maslow and others to develop those of us who are self-actualized, who fulfill ourselves. And this is the kind of reading you get in whether it's Women's Day or uh Ladies Home James. Journal or anything else today. It's all popularized understanding of this basic concept in Maslow and Rogers. We need to esteem ourselves in order to self-actualize ourselves. And if we self-actualize ourselves, then We are loving people. Then we are beginning to meet the needs of other people. Then we begin to care for our neighbor, Maslow says. Then we begin to let all this good stuff that was latently in us come out. Toward the other people. He then has two other needs at the top of that, cognitive needs, the thirst for knowledge, and then the top one is the you can't even see it there, it's a little A, the aesthetic need, the need for beauty. But we concern ourselves with the development here between self-esteem and self-actualization. You see what Maslow has said Is that we must learn to esteem ourselves before we'll ever accept and esteem other people. He said that not on the basis of what Scripture has said, but on the basis of his humanistic presuppositions. Now notice Secondly, there that is based in his presupposition on the innate goodness of man. The whole point of Maslow's thinking is that man is positively good. He is not evil. It's only society's Screwing him up, that thwarts all these good things coming out. And so if we just can help him to get rid of these hang ups of society, then he'll esteem himself, and once he esteems himself, he'll esteem other people and begin to love them. Well, What I'm suggesting is that we as Christians have read a lot of this kind of stuff, and Christians have looked at this, and in reaction to the negativistic, as it's understood, teaching about human nature, Of the last generation. I'm not judging what was said. I'm simply saying it's been understood as overly negative. And also by reading humanistic psychologists, Christians have come and they've said, now does the Bible speak to that? And then they come to Luke 1027 and they say, Well, how about that? The Bible's saying the same thing, you see. Same thing as Maslow's saying. Jesus is saying, you must love yourself. And then you can love your neighbor. And so in this fellow that I talked about who's counseling the Scandinavian girl, he said, your real problem is not that you're concentrating too much on yourself. The problem is you don't love yourself enough. Once you love yourself enough, then you can love your friends and your family and begin to work out your relationships. You see, the problem is that what Christians are saying and what Maslow is saying is not the same thing at all. What Jesus is saying here is not at all. What Maslow is saying. What Maslow and Rogers and others are saying is absolutely, totally self-centered. It is saying, once I focus on me sufficiently, then I'll have some room to focus on you. Is that really what Jesus is saying? And yet, I know that I myself held this view, I've taught this. I myself was caught up in this, in the kind of psychology that I read. My background was psychology. And I've read a lot of these things, and I fell into this same trap. I remember one time Being in a Christian bookstore, looking over some literature, and in walk to Jay Adams, the writer of a number of Christian psychology books. Who's challenged a lot of this thinking, and we got into a discussion on self acceptance. And uh in the discussion of that, uh Adams made the observation to me that nowhere does the Bible ever command us to love ourselves. Well naturally I wouldn't. out Luke 1027 and I said, No, could the Bible says right here, Jesus says, you shall love your neighbors yourself. And he says, but take a look at how many commands Jesus says are there. How many commands are in Luke 10, 27? You don't look to Luke to find it out. But if you look in Matthew 22, where he says the same thing, the same great commandment, he tells us. In Matthew 22, beginning with verse 34, we read that hearing that Jesus had signed The Sadducees, the Pharisees got together. Oh, they're gonna get their team together now. And one of them, an expert in the law, tested Jesus with this question Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law? And Jesus replied, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the first and the greatest commandment. And the second is like to it, love your neighbor as yourself All the law and the prophets hang on these two commandments. And Jesus is not saying these three commandments, love God, love yourself, and love your neighbor, but rather he is saying that the law is summed up in two commandments. Love God and love your neighbor as yourself. What then is Jesus teaching us about love? That's the second question I want to ask you. What is Jesus teaching us about love? I want to affirm then that Jesus is not teaching us, as modern psychology and Christians who have psychologized Scripture that love is first a question of self-esteem before we To understand that more completely, let's adopt for just a minute the argument of those who say that we really have three commandments here. That Jesus is saying you must love yourself and accept yourself before you can love other people. Let's adopt that for just a minute and see how in fact the parable reads. Well, to that understanding, have a law expert. He comes to Jesus and he says, My Lord, what do I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus says, What do you read in the law? He says, Well, you love the Lord your God with all your hearts. Jesus says you're absolutely correct. And the law expert says, Now who's my neighbor? Under this reading, you see Jesus is saying, Well, now there's a fellow who got beaten up. He's laying on the side of the road. Long comes a priest. Obviously This fellow didn't esteem himself sufficiently. This fellow did not have enough ego strength to stop and help this fellow along the road. And so he passed by on the other side. And now comes a Levite. And as Levite wasn't really sufficiently loved and accepted either. Now you see this Levite had some problems with his self-image and so he went on too. But now here comes a Samaritan. And of course you know Samaritans are very secure people. They're people who are accepted, particularly in Jerusalem. And so so this Samaritan comes along and here he is with a good self image and he sees this fellow laying along the side of the road and he stops and he says, Well you know, I've just been esteeming myself and accepting myself and here's this poor slob laying here. I must esteem my brother. And so he stops and he gives him a hand. Now, what's Jesus saying then is the point to the law expert? You then go and do likewise. In other words, make sure that your physiological needs are all met before you meet those of your neighbor. Make sure you have enough oil and wine so that then you can give some to your neighbor if he has. Some need. Make sure that you esteem yourself sufficiently so that you can esteem somebody who may have a need that you run into. Make sure you feel good about yourself, so that then you can feel good about that fellow who's got And problems. Is that what Jesus is saying? There's no question of self-esteem really dealt with in this parable. It's just not touched on. In fact, the only feelings that are mentioned are in verse 33, where you see in the NIV it says the Samaritan as he traveled came to the man where he was, and when he saw him, he took pity on him. Literally, it means he felt compassion for him. He was stirred within himself in compassion. That's the feeling, and it's a feeling that's directed toward the other man It's that compassion and it moves him to do what he did, namely to love him. And that That action of love is what Jesus is focusing on. So then, love is not a question of self-esteem, but rather of doing. Love, then, is a question of doing for others as I do for myself. Not simply a regard for others that I have for myself. But what Jesus is dealing with here is doing. Love is doing. It's doing for others as I do for myself. As John Bettler, in his excellent series dealing with the problem of self-image, touching on this passage is said, the law experts problem did not appear to He seems to have a rather high view of himself, in fact. He comes to Jesus and seeks to justify himself. And Jesus is saying then your problem is not that you your problem is that you don't love yourself enough. No, rather what Jesus is saying Is that your problem is that you're not doing in your love? Jesus, you see, is teaching the law expert here. Rather, he's saying to him, Law expert, Take that zeal, take that ingenuity that you have for yourself, for justifying yourself. For seeking eternal life for yourself, for finding the best seat in the synagogue for yourself. For taking all that honor to yourself and apply that to seeking the good of your neighbor. Apply that same zeal and ingenuity toward his good. You fill your belly for yourself Then fill that belly of your neighbor, and be concerned that his belly is full too. Are you concerned to provide safety for yourself? Be also concerned then to know how to provide safety for your neighbor. Are you concerned for your own comfort? Be concerned then for the comfort of your neighbor. You see, what Jesus is really doing here is he's really Restating the golden rule. He's restating that rule that he gave in Matthew 5, where he said, Whatever you would have that men do unto you, do the same to them as well. It's a question of action, of doing. The point, you see, is that Jesus is seeking to cut the very nerve of our selfishness. That self-absorption, that preoccupation with myself, that daydreaming about my desires and enjoyments But that creativity that I apply only to my own desires and enjoyments. And Jesus is saying, apply that same zeal, that same creativity, that same daydreaming. To the good of other people with needs. Jesus is telling us here then that if you find yourself daydreaming on how to improve your own lot Daydream a little bit about the about the needs of other people. And when you begin to do this, when you see someone in obvious need, it won't be a question to you of how little can I do so I won't feel guilty for the rest of my trip. But rather, how much can I do that this person really needs? That's what Jesus is dealing with. He's not saying here you don't love yourself enough to love someone else. But rather, what he's saying is that's not the issue. The issue is to see the other person and their need and to meet it. Let's face it, we as Christians are living in such a totally self-centered culture. A culture that puts beyond any other priority the priority to fulfill ourselves, the priority to be absorbed with our own self-fulfillment and our own desires. That it's very difficult to understand the heart of what Jesus is really getting at here in this parable. That the question is not to be absorbed with my own self-acceptance, but rather to be obedient to the Lord and Lord. Now if in fact that's what Jesus is teaching, if he's saying that if we're saying that he's not teaching that self-esteem is the basis for love of my neighborhood, then what is? And so I need to touch on here the question of the biblical motivation for love, because I don't want to be misunderstood as saying that this whole question of our view of ourselves and the rest of that is unimportant. It's a very important question. I'm simply objecting to the way it's often dealt with. You see, if it's not a question of self-image, self-esteem, as Maslow, Rogers, and many others say humanistic self-centered psychology. On the other hand, what is it? I would say it's two things. The biblical motivation of love, poor love, is first of all the law of God, and secondly, the grace of God. First of all, then it's the law of God. How do you see I know what love is? I can't know what love is by how I respond and my gut feeling in a situation. I can't go by my feelings to tell you what love is My feelings are very unreliable and they tend to be very self-centered. Right, what I've got to do is I've got to look at scripture Because there, God tells me what love is. I look at the life of Jesus in various circumstances, and I see there the demonstration of love I look at the rest of Scripture and I see God's commands, and I see in those what God's explaining to me what love means. He's telling me how to love people. His law, his commandments reflect his character, which is love. Therefore, by studying that I understand what love is. I understand then by looking at any of God's commands how Jesus would have reacted in this situation. In a conflict in my family, someone who hurts me? Someone who has a need and a problem and I don't want to meet it, a question of priorities concerning meeting my own desires and someone else. How do I decide? What is the loving thing? How can I decide how Jesus would have responded in that? I look at the scripture. And the scripture tells me as I study it, here's what Jesus would have done. Here's what reflects God's nature in that situation. But now it not only tells me how to do it, it's not as if God speaks to me and says, Now, in case you'd wonder what the loving thing were to do. Here's what it is. But he tells me how to do it and then he commands me to do it. And so the first motivation you see is that I realize That I am commanded to reflect God's nature in the situation. I don't have an option. The whole question here, you see, is how do I get eternal life? Jesus, after describing what love is, there says in verse 37, Jesus told them, go and do likewise. It's not simply an interesting parable for theoretical discussion. But it's incumbent upon you and me to realize this is what God's nature is like, and we're to reflect that. Go and do likewise. But you see, at the same time I realize that. I realize that the law is not sufficient motivation for me to love. I realize as I look at the law, I But I'm a miserable failure. That's exactly what Jesus intended to be one of the main purposes of this parable But the law expert would see his desperate need for grace, because by the law there'd be no hope. And so when you and I look at what the Bible says about how to love our neighbor, and we get depressed or discouraged and saying, But I don't do that. I am so self-centered. I am concerned for my own comforts and my own needs, and I put myself first so often. And then the Lord Jesus comes and he says, that's precisely the point. On the basis of law, you would never love your neighbor as yourself. Now, the motivation that would move you and me to behave as the Good Samaritan is only grace. Only grace can do that. Only when you and I look and realize that as Romans chapter eight says in verse three and four. What the law was powerless to do was that it was weakened by the sinful nature. God did By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful man to be a sin offering. And so he condemned sin in sinful man. In order that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully met in us, who do not live according to the sinful nature. But according to the Spirit. What's Paul saying there? He's saying you and me could you and I could never love as God has intended on the basis of the law, because of our sinful nature. But God condemned that sinful nature when he condemned Jesus. Jesus, his son. And so the righteous requirements of the law are met in us because we are in Jesus, and we've been given his righteousness. And therefore, when you and I consider how unloving we are. How undeserving we are of God's mercy. We look and we realize that Jesus died for me. He loved me and gave himself for me, so that he would lay down his life, become a sin offering, cursed by his father. so that the Father could love me and forgive me. Me, who am so undeserving, not because I'm such hot stuff, so deserving to God, that he couldn't do without me. That God somehow said, Heaven just won't be the same if you're not there, because I'm so worthwhile. But rather, only because of his love, his desire for me, beyond anything that I could understand, God said, There is that place that's for you. When I look at that and I look at what Jesus did to procure that place. How can I then turn my heart in coldness toward the most ungrateful, the most unresponsive, the most unlovely person you need? But rather because of grace, I seek to love my neighbor as myself. That's God centered Not self-centered. What then, finally, is the biblical basis for self-esteem? I want to say just a couple words about this. We could go on and do a whole series on this. Maybe someday I will. If you have desire for that, give me some feedback and we'll see where that fits in the priorities of series. But we could spend a number of messages profitably on this area. It is, I affirm again, I am not demeaning the question. I am not saying this is unimportant. It's a very important question. But it's important that we deal with it from the way the Scripture does, not from the way that we borrowed from humanistic psychology. What then in just a couple words to sum it up, because I know if I didn't do this, a number of people come afterwards and they say, But what do you say is the biblical basis? For self-esteem. All right, I'm going to give it to you just a couple minutes. Here's how I would sum up what the biblical basis is. I would say basically it's based on two points: creation and redemption. First of all, creation. I go through this kind of a thought process. Who made me? God made me. Does God make jokes? No, he doesn't. Therefore, I'm not joke. You see, God wasn't in a bad mood the day he put me together. The chisel didn't slip somehow on the day that he formed me. I can't look back and say, somehow I'm a celestial mistake, but rather I'm exactly in my creation the way God intended me to be. My height, my features, my intellectual capacity, all these kinds of givens that are part of us. Are those things that God has created for us to be exactly as He intended. When we begin to dwell on the particulars of that creation, And despise the Creator because he didn't do, according to our standards, a sufficient job, we're missing the bigger picture of God's purpose for us And he wants to use us distinctly and uniquely exactly as he has created us, not necessarily the way that some current magazine says we ought to look That's the first thing. The second thing is redemption. In redemption, you see I've written there in the bulletin That I am not guilty, but forgiven and adopted by my Father God to be his forever. When I look at those parts of my character, all that for which I feel guilt in myself, I realize that it's taken away. Because of what Jesus did, I stand before God with a clear conscience, and I'm being transformed. So it's both that once and for all forgiveness that I've received based on the work of Jesus Christ in his death and resurrection, and also that ongoing work of transformation that he's guaranteed for me and is now working. in me that I see myself as a new creature. And I must realize as I think about myself and who I am that I am a new creature, forgiven and being transformed. Being restored, as it were, into the image of Jesus. Ephesians 4. 24 and Colossians 3. 10, take a look at them later. So therefore, I am secure in the fact that one day I will be. Just like Jesus. One day I will love my neighbor as myself. One day I will behave in every situation just as Jesus does. But even right now, In all my self-centeredness, in all of that egoism, in all of that sinful selfishness that's mine, I know that I am absolutely accepted by my Father as Much as I ever will be, because of Jesus, because He has loved me and given Himself for me. There's nothing that you can do to earn any more acceptance. This is why you see I believe justification is so important. Do we understand both that doctrine and its implications? Because I'm convinced that the church today is suffering so greatly in its understanding of self-image because it has missed the implications of the doctrine of justification and adoption. And that's another whole series. Those of you who have been in that teaching where we've talked about that before understand what I mean. Finally, then let's apply this in our own lives. The first point of application is to see. That the guilt is real. We don't ignore or diminish or seek to cope with the guilt in any other basis than to realize I am in fact guilty when I feel lousy about myself because of selfishness. But I ought to feel lousy for that selfishness because the guilt's real. And so I come to Jesus Christ for forgiveness and for a new nature. If you've never done that, you will never be able to deal with the whole question of self-image and self-acceptance on any other basis. Everything else is simply seeking to patch up a leaking ship and a sinking ship. You've got to come to Jesus in order for him to in fact transform you and forgive you. And then you have the basis for dealing with a positive self image. But we need to come to Christ for his forgiveness. The second thing then is that I would suggest very practically that what you do if you're struggling in a real way, in an important way with this problem in your own life. is that you do this. First of all, you make a list of everything you don't like about yourself. Write everything down. Just keep going. Keep going. And usually if you're like most people, if you were to make a list of all the things you like about yourself and the things you don't like about yourself would be stereo. ten to twenty to one on the things you don't like about yourself. We can come up much more easily with those kinds of things. Make that whole list. Then after you've made the list, divide a piece of paper into two columns like I have here. The column on the left side side says created that way. Column on the right side side says my sin. Now I want you to take each of those items and decide which column you need to put it in. Is it something that has to do with the way God made you? Or does it have to do with, in fact, something that you have done in disobedience to what God has said? For example, as you're going through that list, if you have a problem of being overweight. Which column do you put that in? Is that the way God made you? Unless it's some medical hormonal problem. Then it's either a coping mechanism, a mark of self-discipline, or self-indulgence. Put it down and begin to deal with it in the way that God intends for you to see it. If it's something that's the way you create it, your height or something else, your intellectual capacity, then rejoice in the creation and read to yourself Psalm 139, verse 13 to 16. Remind yourself that you are fearfully and wonderfully made. You've got to begin to deal with the fact that God has made you to what he intended in a way that you can trust before you'll ever be able to trust him for anything else. Then if it's a matter of guilt, something that's disobedience, realise that, but then read to yourself Hebrews ten to twenty two, in which you see the clear conscience that's been provided for you in Jesus Christ. The guilt that's been removed once and for all, never to return. But you are in the state of a forgiven sinner, able to enter into his very presence. And nothing that you have done keeps you from being able to enter into the world. into his presence. Thank God for that forgiveness. And then put those things down in priorities. Prioritize all those things on the right hand column. Number one, this is the thing that I believe the Holy Spirit is dealing with me most about right now. Begin to work on it List down some steps of correction and begin to get to work at that, and in doing that you will find that the obedience of that will begin to lift up your spirits and begin to give you a more positive understanding of who you are. We usually have it backwards. What I would find is we tend to look at the things on the right side of the column, my sins, and accept them. Well, that's just the way I am. I used to know if I had a rotten temper. His temper got him into trouble again and again and again. You'd sort of think that even just on the basis of his own self-interest he'd deal with it They have such a rotten temper, they ain't time I told who in the ballar eats say, Well, you know, that's just the way I am. I got a rotten temper. Sort of a given, like he was created that way. But then when it was a problem of he was tight, he was a short person, couldn't accept that, couldn't deal with that, you see. And so we tend to look at the things that are the sins and accept them and say, that's the way I am. And then look at the things the way God created us, the way we are, and say, I can't accept that. That's what Satan must do to keep us from growing. The step forward real growth is to reverse it. Begin to look at how God meant us to be in creation, except the way God has intended for us to be in character, the We've distorted and begin to change it. Finally, the third thing I would say, I'd stick in a third point of application here before this one that's number three, and that is that if you have particular interest in your own life in dealing with this further, I would hire. recommend to you a series of tapes that we have in our library by John Bettler on self-image. Four tapes. They're excellent tapes. And they deal with this in a very, very helpful way. Go much further than I can go this morning. So let me recommend to you Bettler's tapes, they're in our library, on self-image. Finally, the fourth thing, which is listed as number three here, is to not wait until you feel good about yourself to begin to think about loving others. But begin to love them right now where you are in the practical needs that you see by God's grace, and then a funny thing will happen. As you begin to love You'll begin to feel good. As you begin to seek to be obedient to God, you won't fall into the psychological trap of thinking simply about yourself and your own self-image, but then you'll begin to enjoy the satisfaction of seeing God use you. you and caring for others. And that will lift your spirits and God is in fact transforming you. I remember a girl that I Was dealing with in one campus a very attractive girl, but she had a particular problem that she had very poor vision. Because of this poor vision, she had to wear very thick glasses. These thick glasses were very noticeable. When you saw her, the thing that struck you was how large her eyes looked. It magnified her eyes. Now, but it didn't strike you um like it it was the first thing, I shouldn't say it was the first thing you noticed about her, it was just something that you would notice. But it was the only thing she noticed about her.