The parable of the Good Samaritan teaches us that love is an active verb. Two weeks ago we saw that love does not seek to justify itself, to make excuses in order to be able to do what's comfortable, but rather love seeks to put itself out for the one in need. Love doesn't ask, what must I do to help my neighbor, but what can I do to help him Not who is a neighbor to me, but who can I be a neighbor to? Last week we saw that love is not a question primarily of self esteem. Love does not is not called to pump up its self image. to accept itself before it can concern itself with the needs of other people. Love doesn't excuse an inability to love others with the statement that I have not been loved enough. It does not say I can't love my neighbor because I don't love myself sufficiently. It doesn't say I can't love because I don't feel love. Rather, love realizes that God commands me to love. Now God spells out what love is. And more than that, God has poured out his love for me in the action of sending his son, Jesus, when I was in a helpless need, as a sinner estranged from him. And because of Jesus Christ and his love dying for my sin, God constrains me by that love To realize as I understand what it means to be justified, what love means, and therefore how I can love my neighbor. This week we deal in the third and the last part of this consideration of the parable of the Good Samaritan with the point that love is doing by realizing that love is then, thirdly, not a question of precision. of orthodoxy. I want for us to broaden our perceptions of this passage and see it in its context. First of all, we need to notice who was it that addressed the question to Jesus in verse twenty-five? Notice there in verse twenty-five we read, On one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus. Now, this person called here an expert in the law or a law expert is the same person who is called a scribe in other scriptures. The words can be used interchangeably. Now, who are the scribes? The scribes of that day were those who were the authorities in the teaching and the transmission of the law of God. They were something like Bible school teachers or like preachers, except that they had much greater authority than any Bible school teacher or preacher that I know about today. It was written that a scribe had such authority that if he were to tell you That black was white and white was black, you believe him because of his authority in stating that. These men placed grave value upon knowledge. And upon particularly their knowledge. They had immense pride in their understanding of the scriptures. and their knowledge in applying it. The scribes live in one place, for instance, as of God himself. arrayed in a white robe, studied the Bible by day, and the six tractates of the Mishnah which they had written by night. Now I've heard of academic excellence, but uh that's pride beyond any bounds that I've ever seen today. These men had immense pride in their knowledge and in their understanding of the doctrines of Scripture. And to appreciate Luke's point in chapter ten here, we must see this exchange between describe and Jesus in the context of three incidents following from verse twenty one to forty two that we read earlier. Three contrasts are expressed in these three incidents. And these three contrasts express for us, as you see there in your bulletin outline, three requirements for intimate knowledge of God and his ways. That's what I want to deal with. The three requirements for the intimate knowledge of God and his ways. You call yourself a Christian. And yet you say that there are times when God seems so remote to you that He seems totally unreal. That God and His presence seem to be more theoretical than something which is real and something uh that is enduring. You say that uh his reality is something that you wish that you could more vitally experience in your life And that you long to know God. You long to know Him with an intimacy that surpasses that which you've heard about in others' testimonies. Uh that which that at least uh begin to equal some of the testimonies uh that you've heard about. Of those who claim to walk very closely with the Lord. And he thirst for that. He said, Oh, that I knew God more intimately, and all that I could understand his truth and his ways more personally. Now Luke here in these three incidents lays out for There are three steps, but a very practical way to show us how we can have that experience ourselves. Now you see that in each of these sections there's a contrast between those that God reveals Himself to To those who know him, who love him, who have no spiritual infight, and those that he far off from And we need to understand the development of this in order to have that experience ourselves. Because he gives us a neutralities a problem which keeps us from that knowledge of himself and that knowledge of experiencing himself in his death. And it's highlighted for our health and our uh own practice today. Medicine then as we go through. The first one, the first requirement laid down here is the requirement of humility. In verses twenty-one to twenty-four. Humility. Why humility? Well, it's quite clear, humility is necessary because God Himself must reveal Himself to us. And we'd never discover him on our own. We're such a self sufficient people today, that all the things that we have, and particularly our cultural emphasis and self sufficiency, that that we find ourselves rather mildly offended, don't we, to think that God must be the one to take the initiative to reveal himself to us, and that we're absolutely dependent upon him in revealing himself to us only never know him. How's that pointed out here? Never that Jesus had earlier in the chapter sent out seventy two disciples to minister in his name. That was touched on in the Sunday school class this morning. The power that they experience and wield it in the name of Jesus, in being a co plunderer with him of Satan's house and robbing Satan of his prey. Well these seventy two come back elated with what God has done through them. And you see in verse seventeen that the seventy two return with joy and said, Lord, even a demon submit to us. And then Jesus responds, verse eighteen, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. I have given you authority to trample on snakes and scorpions and to overcome all the power of the enemy. Nothing will harm you. Do not rejoice that the Spirit submits you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. And then Jesus reflects on a general principle. He then says at that time Jesus full of joy through the Holy Spirit, reflecting on this. Praise to God. And here's what he says: He says, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and the learned. And he revealed them to little children. Yes, Father said, This is your good pleasure. All things have been committed to me by my father. No one knows who the Son is except the Father, and no one knows who the father is except the Son. Whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Now there's a general statement, a general principle. You notice the contrast that Jesus is making there He's contrasting the fact that God and his ways are hidden from the wise and the learned and revealed to those who are childlike. as babies. Now is Jesus here uh an anti intellectual? Is he making an anti intellectual statement despising learning? Well of course not, because we see him just a few verses further on, in verse twenty eight, Jesus says you're absolutely correct We should love God with our mind. Because this is not an anti-intellectual statement. Rather what Jesus is getting at is the pride of man's wisdom. Now this is a major theme in Scripture that the very essence of sin is pride and self-sufficiency. We need to realize that the only way that you and I can ever know God is as creatures who are absolutely dependent upon Him. And beyond that, since Adam has sinners, with no right to know him. We only can come to know our God upon our knees, as we realize that it's only by his mercy that he's revealed himself to us. us at all. We have no right to know him. We've been cut off from him. And if we're ever to know him, it's only because of his mercy extended to us. But that's the problem. The problem you see is Jesus says there Is that we are trusting in our wisdom and our learning. By my wisdom and by my learning, I will never know God. We saw this just a few weeks back. You remember in 1 Corinthians, where Paul, in describing his ministry, had said in 1 Corinthians, Chapter 1, verse 15, for the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to those of us who are doing so, it's the power of God. For it's written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. The intelligence of the intelligent I will frustrate. So he says in verse twenty nine, twenty eight and twenty nine that he's chosen the lonely things of the world to confound the wise. Why? So that he says there so that no one may boast in their own wisdom before. So he goes on in chapter two and verse nine to say, No eye has ever seen, no ear has ever heard, no mind Has ever conceived what God has prepared for those who love Him. But God has revealed it. To us by his spirit. Who do we be able to? Those who are lonely in heart. For those who come on their knees to receive him. Because Jesus comes and says to the disciples in verse 23, Lust be your eyes. To see what you see. By telling any prophets continues one of the see what you see, but they didn't see it. And to hear what you hear, but they didn't hear And he says to us, and we who sit here this morning stand in the rich heritage of the Reformation and of Reformed theology But if we realize and thank God for the rich deposit of the insight of the truth that we have received, we have to be careful. that we don't develop a pride in our theology and in our inheritage. We need to remember that the OPC stands for the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, not the only perfect church, as it's sometimes been called. We need to realise that God Revelation is never to the proud, but it belongs to the humble. And therefore, if we're proud, then what we're cherishing He's not from God. We see this in Luke's progression of thought. We notice that after Jesus' praise it, it's right on the deals of that that Luke leads right in to an example of what he's been talking. And what I think we need to realize is that the whole interchange between the scribe and Jesus and the parable of the Good Samaritan is an example of what he's just been told to the Father Who do you have this law expert? A man he's proud of his learning. He comes to Jesus and he comes and asks him a question. Because then this man is perceived by the religion of his day as a man who knows God more than any of the rest of us, because he knows the scriptures through and see His orthodoxy is without question. He's got a precision of God and a honing of his doctrine beyond anything that any of us are capable of. So certainly, therefore, he's closer to God. He's more acceptable to God. He knows God. And God is trying to put this in perspective to us. He comes and he comes with the correct answers. Don't miss that. He asked Jesus, what do we do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus says, Now, what is your understanding of this? And he sums up the law in a couple of statements. And in verse 28, Jesus commends him. He acted correctly. There wasn't anything wrong with his doctrine. He was perfectly orthodox. No problem in his understanding of what Scripture said and taught. Don't miss that. He did not have a worse understanding of what the law taught. Here it wants. But what's the problem? The problem of course is it does not receive this revelation in humility and therefore it hasn't produced obedience That's the second requirement. And the second requirement, therefore, is to receive the revelation in obedience. You see, the whole point is that the law expert is something that he can attain based on his understanding of the law. And God reveals himself rather to be obedient And inspar from the danger. It's not enough for you and for me to have God's word. It's not enough for you and fully to know God's Word. But rather, you must also do God's word. Love is doing. To describe precision of orthodoxy was what counts But the Lord here gives us a contrast. The law expert comes and he says, What do I do to inherit inherit eternal life? Jesus says, What do you read? He tells us, Love the Lord your God, love the news with yourself. Jesus says, You're absolutely right. Now, do this And he listened. You see, the law expert then in wanting to justify himself back off from that. I think he got the point just a little bit when Jesus said, do this. And so accustomed to the fine tune debating instinct within him, he backs off and he says, Hold on, wait a minute here, just a minute. I think we need to execute this word number a little more closely. I think we need to establish a committee to do requisition paper on what the grammatical historical understanding of the word number is. I mean before we rush into this blindly, Lord, we've got to understand exactly what is being required of us here. Now, be very careful and follow me closely. I'm not for a moment criticizing learned and careful study of the scripture. I myself see it as one of my highest priorities in my job as a teaching elder of this church to spend many hours a week doing carefully refined exegesis interpretation of the scriptures. Much of my life is devoted to the study of the scriptures. A very high priority for me in the preparation of hours of preparation that goes into the messages each week is that I do a careful study so that I am correct. as much as I can understand in my blindness, in my limitations, to present to you what God is saying in His Word. The bone of the Church of Jesus Christ is sloppy doctrine The bone of the Church of Jesus Christ are those who do not carefully study the Scriptures and go off in a way that does not seek carefully and diligently And responsibly to discover what God is saying on a particular question. But there comes a time When we pass from what we know sufficiently to a need to act, there comes that time when having done sufficient study, I know enough of what God is telling me, that the only question left is one of obedience and not further study. A Bible scholar was once asked, Aren't you disturbed? About the passages of scripture that you don't understand, his immediate response was not nearly so much as the ones that I do. You see, it's not what we don't understand that God is speaking to us about, that is the real problem for us. But it's what we do understand. Because there it's the question of obedience. The law expert that The priest and the Levite all had one thing in common. They were more concerned to be right than to do right. But are more concerned to understand the Bible correctly than to obey. to do, to live the Bible correctly. In contrast to that, you have this phenology. A man who is not nearly so correct in his doctrine, in his orthodoxy. A man who didn't even worship in the right place. A man who had rather major deficiencies in his understanding of God. But Jesus is saying when it came to loving his neighbor, he is closer to God's priorities than the law expert. The priest and the Levite. They did love as God divine love. A bit of Abraham A man who had very little understanding of God or his ways. We read of Abraham in Genesis chapter 12, a man who had a background of idolatry A very poor understanding of who God wants. In Genesis chapter 12, God comes to this man back in the era of the Chaldees And he says to him, Leave your country, your people, and your father's household, and go to a land that I will show you. He then gives him a promise. You don't read that Abraham said, Now Lord, what do you mean by leave? When do you want me to leave? How should I leave? Where are you taking me before I irresponsibly pull up my roots? We read in verse 3, verse 4, so Abraham left. It was a question of obedience. Abraham left as the Lord had told him. And Abraham, at seventy-five years of age, sets out from Haran, takes all that he has with him, and follows God. With obedience. The question before him was obedience. We come perhaps twenty-five or thirty years later in Abraham's life. And God has led him all around through the land of Cainan up and down it, in and out. He doesn't own a square inch of it. But God has fulfilled the promise of giving him a son. And his son Isaac is the most precious thing in all the world to him. Abraham treasures that little boy. And one day God comes to Abraham. In Genesis chapter 22, we read that God tested Abraham and he said to him, Abraham! And Abraham says, Here I am. And God said to him, Take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love, and go to the region of Moriah. Sacrifice him there as a burnt offering. On one of the mountains that I will tell you about. What could have gone through Abraham's mind and heart at that point? What kinds of questions and conflicts and agonies must have passed through if he considered God the one thing that I've waited so long for you to give? And now you're asking Fanny to give it up. What's instructive to me is that in all of this we don't read of a single response from Abraham. You don't read of a debate, of a dialogue, of questionings. But the next verse, Genesis twenty-two to three, says Early the next morning, Abraham got up, saddled his donkey, and took with him two of his servants and his son Isaac. The question was not further study. The question gives not further precision to his orthodoxy. It was a question of obedience. You contrast that hard attitude with that of the Corinthians, a church that uh was hassling among them among themselves constantly and diverging the doctrinal quarrels, the pride, the disobedience. And what is Paul write to the Church at Corinth? We read in First Corinthians chapter three, that Paul says, Brothers, I couldn't address you as spiritual, but it's worldly. You're infants in Christ. I gave you not solid food, for you're not even ready for it. Indeed, you're still not ready. You're still worldly. For since there's jealousy and quarreling among you, are you not worldly? Are you not acting like mere men? What's Paul saying? He's saying to the Corinthians that when you hinder the Spirit and His work of sanctification in your life, you're no longer open to his illumination of knowing him and his ways. And when you and I do not respond to God in obedience to what He's already shown us, we're not in a position to receive anything more. It's not a question at that point of further study. But it's a question of obedience. What was the problem that the law expert had And the problem, you see, was that the law expert was more interested in testing others and justifying himself. Notice in verse 25, when I declare him an expert in the law, stood up to test Jesus. Not that Jesus tells him what to do in these in verse 29, but he wanted to justify himself. Notice the contrast. The humble spirit, you see, is willing to learn. The humble spirit comes and says, Lord, there's no way that I can justify myself. Whether the one who knows God must test himself and be justified. justified on the basis of the finished work of Jesus Christ. For this mentality that seeks to go around and test others is a works mentality. In fact, if we are correct enough by standing before God is assured. But God is saying, no rather, I want you to realize that the only way you'll ever stand before me is on the justification, the declared an imputed righteousness of Jesus. And he and I can only receive that humbly because of what he has done, never because of what we do. Because a person who comes to God on the basis of grace is the person who comes to the cross. A person that realizes that Jesus in his work is the means by which I'm justified. I cannot justify myself. By my intellect, by my argument, by my debate, by my precision. In fact The law experts missed God's whole point. He missed the whole point of the Lord Jesus. You're giving him that instruction. And I'm not saying that we shouldn't have convictions. I'm not saying that we shouldn't trust orthodoxy and doctrine. They're instructed by the scripture to do that, to preserve the purity of the church. What I'm talking about, you see, is a question attitude. Am I open to examine myself? If God is far funny this morning, if he's been far coming for the past days for weeks. Is it just possible that the nose still speaks to you about something that he wants to get through to you about? And it's not a question of knowledge and study. But it's a question of obedience at this point in your life. It's a question of asking yourself, Am I willing to do whatever I see and are calling to do? If not, desire to feel you're coming to him. Desire to draw back from his project because you are so decided to bring that subject up again to him. You said there's a law that lies it between you and the Father. And the result of that is you begin to test others. And seek to justify yourself. But there's one last thing that needs to be said about this before we finish with this panel. And that is what follows after it. But here the Lord Jesus seeks to balance for us and gives us a run Yes, we misunderstand the purpose of that parable. And we see that it's the third requirement for imminent knowledge of God and his wings. The requirement of worship in verses thirty eight to forty two. You see, we think first of all that God must reveal Himself to you and you must receive that revelation humbly. The second thing is that we receive that revelation not Not just intellectually, for our understanding, but willing to change our lives, to be changed by that revelation in obedience to what God is telling us to do Obedient in loving our neighbor. But we have to be careful of a trap at this point. The trap is a business. That the word there in the outline should be business, not business. With a why, deep better than I, a busyness in loving people without time, start at the feet of Jesus Notice what he said. If Jesus and his disciples were on their way came to a village where a woman called Lady Martha opened her home scene as a servant. She had a sister called Mary who sat at Jesus' feet listening to what he said. And Malcolm was distracted by the preparations that had to be made and she thought, don't you care that my sister has left me to do all the work by myself? Come over me Mahasha Masa, the Lord answered. Be worried and upset about many things. But only one thing is easy No, it told me what is better. And it won't be put in summer. There's a contrast here, the third contrast, we clean Martha Amen. Marcia is still so busy doing, so busy loving her neighbour, that she was regularly to his worshiping. He is not a glory city and simply a glory Jesus. A Jesus is just not many. But Martha, in a tender way, because Larry had chosen the good parent. But wait a minute, you said. Uh I don't understand that. Didn't Jesus just say in the previous parable that you shouldn't sit around speculating about truth You shouldn't just sit around further about God, but you can get out and love your neighbours. And now he's martyr doing just sitting at sex. And he's merely sitting and he can make Mary that is a martyr. How do you put that together? Well, it's quite simple. You see what Mary Bill is not simply and speculating in some idle abstract thing. She's adoring the living God. She's coming to the feet of Jesus. And whatever a person truly does that, the result are always a change of life But you must put things in the proper order. The first command was to love the Lord your God with all your heart, first day, and mind. And the second is like to love your neighbor as yourself. If you begin to try to love your neighbor as we thought, without the gate of worship, we couldn't let the feet of Jesus in adoration The love for the labor inevitably leads to a thorough liberalism. How many Christians have I known and do them? To show you in their practical helpfulness to other people, in their concern to love their neighbor as they can. But somehow they are still in their lives missing the ingredient of a peace, not the things of God, but the peace of God. The presence of the person of Jesus Christ in your life. And that worship their peaceful attitude becomes Because they thought I never can find time to have a quiet time. I never can find time to simply worship God. And so we run around till our busy loving our neighbours with ourselves, we somehow our lives become sterile. Our adoration of the Lord dries up. A phrase of him becomes very shallow and hollow and ritualistic. Reading the scripture no longer holds a joy to The worship is not that which draws us to God, but rather out of a dirty sense of obedience he drives us to put in a profoundly a bit of time. And what's the problem? The problem is you have escaped home at the feet of Jesus, listen. All we have to be careful about this, each one of us. Because God's balances are so fine, they're so finely seen that only the Holy Spirit can enable us to carry them out. And if the parable of the good scenario is an inner Illustration of the Second Commandment Nay is an illustration of the First Commandment. And we must call the key in a balance. The thou the false and the slavest person, but the person who is so busy in their own faith. If they're not living, read race for sons and daughters to the father. The home of fathers to our life. I will simply leave you with four questions to ask yourself the combat foregognist this time. First of all, in the first part, Is it possible to apply if people need to use a clinic? I had a person called to me recently, and this word is just a I said I I have warned people and I feel lousy about it. I look at my life and I see how guilty I am and I don't even have anything on it. I'm still feeling dear to me, whether it's good to all the things that I've done wrong. I can already make it right. Also, you know a lot of people would tell you that you shouldn't feel that way. But I'm not concerned with that And what I'm going to tell you that this thing is simply the tip of the old state about what you're really doing is, and primarily it's not against those other people that do wrong, but it's against God who's lazy. And if you define relationships, if you root for you, this will never be able to really build any other relationship. And the response basically uh You know, I'm not that bad. I mean they've got laying all this this regular on me telling me that there's nothing that I can do. And looking at the way we are, we'd rather live with a port amount of guilt than to acknowledge that there's nothing that we can do to relieve that borderline our eyes. And God's building, with the first work of Jesus Christ, ready to apply it to our lives. But it must be received with empty hands. Not coming on our own things, I'm this sad guilty, but there are certain things that I For years you know. But rather realizing that I am so guilty and helpless, I'm like that man lying half dead on the room, with the smallity how to come to you and to rescue. And there's only one the law to do and has to receive the finished work of Jesus from Adahaya. Is it five Keeping you from your freedom of out of class. The second question, you suppose to ask, are we possibly more control of being correct than being a leader? I think of a girl who posed a question to a school that I was ministering to university. She came with a girl, a kind of a whisper of a girl that you could blow away with a seas, the kind of girl that would get lost in a crowd of three. Uh she came and uh she talked to me about how she was going to hang on I try to encourage you and I try to show the brother with polymerity. Simply go by those stuff for the leaders. She put out a good place. She certainly wasn't dynamic in her personality. But the next time I came to that corpus, there was a email to the girl of the girl and I said, Oh hi, how here he is She said I'm the other girl's email. She said the other Jesus and she says, If you can help me to go so And I'm tired of talking with her about it but she just sent me here to talk to you. Our first time together was not the most cordial, I tell you, it's not the best way to meet a person. I don't recommend that as an evangelist of technology. But within two months back to one of these And then there was a th a second world and the left philosophy who she had brought to the land. And a third world, and a first thing. And that thoughts be told to me by the Christ exaggerators are living testimony of the fact that God blesses humble obedience. And God blesses the person who without any appeal parents. Yet a heart of obedience to him to be used by him in a way to control a person with greater talents that must have a heart to God. And we must be fair to be corrupt and simply be used by God in a straight Are you not prepared to test the earth about the weather? Then the big selective set. This is all I suggest that this is the limited special to you, the perspective in your life Which is sleeping from God. But he wants to believe it. The one unmistakable sign of the fact that we're not making ourselves open and vulnerable to God in correcting us is that we begin to correct others over. And who's it supposed to be? They talk about the fact that we're supposed to do out of our own eye. In order to see clearly to take the speck out of our garbage. And if you're going around all this second-secking, then look for our indication of perhaps that it doesn't mean that the Lord likes to be in. Are we vulnerable to each other? But this is the ministry of our only separate groups. That we can come together, not as those who establish our corruption. But if those who are vulnerable are finished before Jesus Christ be changed. And finally the fourth thing. How much do you simply worship Jesus? Mary sad at the feet of Jesus and simply listen. Or do you say, well Lord, I I like to do that, but I I never can find the time. I never can find that time to daily feed myself from scripture and worship and prayer. The demands are too great. Let me assure you that there is absolutely nothing in this life that's more important than sitting at the feet of Jesus. To spend time in his word in worship, not just intercession, but worship and adoring Him. It's that which sets the tone and the tenor for everything else that we do. God has made it for Himself. And the love for our neighbor will never be the real biblical kind of love, spirit-filled love that God intends. If it not bathed in times of worship at the feet of Jesus, work it out with your husband, with your wife, with your kids, with your housemates. Work out that plan of that schedule in that place. Make it a top priority. For the one who would know God, there's no shortcut. We must simply receive his revelation humbly. We must obey it voluntarily. And then we must worship adoringly. May God give us grace to experience this. Let's pray. I'd like to pray for us to pray this silently for a minute. These are just consider what God's speaking to you about. And then after just a minute of prayer, then I'm going to give an opportunity for any of you who would like to share anything with us in terms of a word of application, a word of scripture, a word of encouragement. Good thing that we're going to do. So