Soft management. People discuss my time. Worry about whether or not I have enough money, my money, to buy my place. Warring about bargaining my My love. So that I may be taken advantage of my happiness, my enjoyment, my life. You identify with that kind of struggle. I profess it because I'd that kind of struggle in my life, that in nineteen seventy nine I decided to adopt with my universe, Luke Captain Penn. Verse 27 means the last chapter verse 27 and verse 29. I adopted this because I was aware that I lack being sensitive to and being willing to help others who have particular needs. Whether it's simply neighboring help with sacrificial compassion. The so this is the verse that I used, these verses in their context of the parable of the Good Samaritan, meditate on last year in particular. And I will like to before we return to the series on the church is to spend the next three weeks looking closely at this parable. To take a look at the parable of the good Samaritan in the light of these verses. And to share with you some of the famous that the Lord taught you in that year's study and meditation and seeking to acquire. These three messages will all relate to the thesis that love is doing. Love is doing in concept for three things. This week we deal with the fact that love is doing not self justification. Next week I want to deal with a question Love is doing not a matter of self-esteem. And then finally the third week that love is doing not a question of precision of orthodoxy. Today then, the first of these three, love is doing, not self justification. I want to deal with that in three points that you see in the bulletin outline that you have. First of all, That God's purpose for us is to love him and one another. Secondly, what love is not, and then thirdly, what love is. Before we look at those points. Let's look at God's word directly. Let's hear now from God's infallible word what was the occasion and the telling of this parable, the parable of the Good Samaritan. From Luke chapter ten. Verse 25 to 37. Let's hear the word of God. On one occasion an expert of the law stood up to test Jesus. Teachers, yes. What must I do to inherit eternal life? What is written in the law? Jesus replied. How do you read it? He answered, Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. soul and with all your strength and with all your mind and love your neighbor as yourself. You've answered correctly, Jesus replied, Do live, and you will live. But he wanted to justify himself. And so he asked Jesus, and who is thy neighbor? In reply, Jesus said, I'm not just going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he fell into the hands of robbers. They stripped him. Some of his clothes, beat him, and went away, leaving him half dead. A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, pass by on the other side. So too, a Levi. When he came to the place he said. saw him pass by when the other saw. But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was, and when he saw him, he took pity on him. He went to him and banned His wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he put the man on his own donkey, took him to an inn, and took care of him. The next day he took out two silver coins and gave them to the innkeeper. Look after him. him he said, when I return I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have. So which of these three do you think was a neighbor for the man who fell into the hands of Robert? The expert in all replied Who had mercy on us. Jesus told us, Go and do likewise. So far, God's words, now let's seek to understand it and to apply it to us. Lies. The first thing I want to point out from verses twenty five to twenty eight is that God's purpose for us is to love him and one another. You see there that the expert in the law asks Jesus What must I do to inherit eternal life? A very basic question. And Jesus says, Now what's written in the law? How do you read it? And so he sums up God's law. He answers, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength. with all your mind and love your neighbor as yourself. And Jesus said you've answered correctly. Do this and you'll live. Now of course we read in the very introduction that this expert is trying to test Jesus to see what he's trying to do is trap him into revealing that he is in fact coming with a new teaching that's not in harmony with the law. Well of course Jesus can't falter that because it's simply not true. And of course the man's correct What he's really doing in telling Jesus the answer that he gives is combining two very basic texts. Deuteronomy chapter six, verse five, which beginning in verse four reads, Hero Israel. Lord our God, the Lord is one. Luck the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. He combines that with Leviticus chapter nineteen, in verse eighteen, where we read Do not seek revenge or bear a grudge against one of your people, but love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. So Jesus himself has called this the great commandment. In Matthew chapter twenty two, verse thirty eight and Mark twelve, thirty-nine. Mark twelve, twenty-nine. Jesus himself has said this is the summary of all of God's law, which is the reflection of God's own character. And so of course the man's answer correctly. But notice the verb that's involved in that great commandment. It's not the verb to know the Lord God, it's not the verb to obey him, but the verb is to love him. You shall love the Lord your God and your neighbour as yourself. The greatest possible thing then is to love God. To love God and to love my neighbour. In fact the scripture teaches us that this is the goal of the Christian life. Paul, in writing to Timothy, in First Timothy chapter one, warns Timothy against those who get involved in false doctrine and would lead the church as stray and when he warns him against that, he contrasts his own teaching in verse five, and we read in First Timothy one five that the goal of this command or our instruction to you, the goal is love. Love which comes from a pure heart and a good conscience and sincere faith. In Romans chapter 13, Paul has said in verse 8, and let no debt may outstanding except the continuing death to love one another. For he who loves his fellow man has fulfilled the law. The commandments do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not covet, whatever other commandment there may be are summed up in this one rule. Love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no harm to its neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law. The goal, the Fulfillment. Paul has said in Galatians chapter 5, verse 14: the entire law is summed up in a single command: love your neighbor as yourself. And so what Jesus is saying. here to this law expert, you see, is consistent with the teaching of the rest of the New Testament. This is not something in an old dispensation. It's not something that's before his death and resurrection. It's consistent with the entire teaching of Scripture. The whole law of God is summed up in love the Lord your God and love your neighbor as yourself. Well the question then of course is well what is love? What is the love that he's talking about? What is meant by that? And Jesus teaches that by showing it in the contrast to the three things that we're going to be talking about. First of all, notice then today what love is not, basically love is not here justifying yourself. Love is not justifying yourself. You see, so far the law experts' answers were right on. What do I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus says, What is he what do you read in scriptures? Thumbs up the law of God perfectly and Jesus says you're not. You're absolutely correct. Say see at this point he should have seen, therefore, that what the law requires is absolutely impossible for him to fulfill. He can't meet God's standards. And so what he should have done at this point is when Jesus says, you've answered correctly, do this and you will live, he should have stood back and then simply said, But Lord, I can't do this. Therefore, what hope is there for a poor, helpless sinner like me, who finds this kind of absolute standard absolutely impossible to keep. But oh no. Well expert doesn't take that, but he's like so many of us, you know, he wants to justify himself. And so we read in verse 29. He was wanted to justify himself. So he asked Jesus, well no, uh, who is my name greenway? I think this idea of his justifying himself can be understood on two levels. I think there's a very basic meaning of that. Uh just put yourself in this situation. Here's everybody gathered around now as a crowd in Jesus' teaching. This man comes up and he uh asks Jesus, What do I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus says, What do you do? reading the law, he sums up the whole law, a very simple, complete answer, and then Jesus says, Fine, now go do that and you'll live. Can you imagine what what has been going on there? You can probably look around and say, that's a pretty dumb question. Would you ask that for? I mean Jesus says, Oh, there it is. It's as simple as that. It's sort of an awkward moment of silence. Uh but this fellow's a little quick on his feet, you know, he's been in these kind of debates before, so he's not about to stand there and look dumb and embarrassed. He wants to testify himself. And so he says, well well yeah, now of course I'm I'm dealing with this on a deeper level. Now the real question is who's my neighbor because it was sort of a knowing smile, you know. Now you understand, guys, but I'm not as dumb as I sounded as you see. not so simple, is it? And so he sort of stands back to let Jesus deal with that. And it's really an attempt to rescue his fallen crime. The answer was so simple that he couldn't just let it lay there. He said, attempts to recover himself. To what extent will so often go to rescue our fallen cause rather than to s receive a simple answer? But there's a deeper level that this is uh intended to convey to us. He wanted to justify himself, meaning that he wanted to equip himself as righteous before the searching eye of God's law. He wanted for himself to be declared righteous at God's own bar. So wanting to have himself be declared righteous, as in every case our sinful human. Inclination is to take the law of God and first of all to reduce its demands. We want to scale it down and reduce its demands to what we're already doing. And then we Say, well you see now I'm already doing what God's Word says. Because according to my standards, this is what it means. It's sort of like when we discussed how to celebrate the Lord's Day. And it's amazing how how my understanding of how to celebrate the Lord's Day and follow the fourth commandment fits my lifestyle of how I like to spend Sunday. See and what the the law experts doing here is precisely that. He's saying, oh let's take a look. Who is My neighbor, let's take a look at what this really means so that I can scale down its demands and justify myself. How does he do that? Well it's always, you see, in scaling down those demands by externalizing He wants to externalize it to certain actions, certain things that he can say, I have done this. I've passed the test. It's not a question of my heart. Not a question of my motive. but a question of my actions and how often we as Christians, down through the ages, have sought to scale down God's requirements of us in terms of external actions. The mark of a Christian is one that doesn't smoke. It doesn't go to bars, doesn't go to discos, doesn't do this, this, go here, do that. And that's the mark of one who has made it spiritually. The cosmos is much more searching than And yet when we seek to reduce its demands by externalizing its actions, we always seek to do that for the end of justifying ourselves, to establish my own righteousness, so that I don't remake my life to mold it according to the law, but rather I conform the law to conform to my life, what I'm already doing, impressed up. I find that I'm righteous. Because by definition, I'm doing what I understand the law say to do. This is what God's standard is and I'm doing it. Now how do we do that? Well secondly it's by finding limits to law. That's our tendency. That's my tendency. But I struggle with so much, to find limits to love. What does he say in verse 29? That he wanted to justify himself, and so he asked Jesus, And who is my neighbor? You see what he's doing? The important thing there is that little word, my. The question is, who am I required to love so that I can say that I have fulfilled the law? What's the minute? them in this past fail exam that I have to do in order to say that I've passed. But Jesus, of course, responds to that attitude by stripping away all of his defenses. He gives them a parallel He tells them about a priest and a Levite who've come down from Jerusalem And then a Samaritan. And he talks in contrast of the priest and the Levites' attitude toward meeting the needs of this man, how they ignored it. And how the Samaritan, who was his enemy, met the needs. And then says in verse thirty six Now which of these three do you think now notice the turn was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of the robbers. He, the law expert, asked the question, Who is a neighbor to me? Who is my neighbor? Jesus says, no, no, no. You got the question wrong. You'll never get a biblical answer if You don't ask a biblical question, you see. It's like asking the question, how long is dream? And then wanting to get an answer to that. Jesus says, You gotta ask the right question. The question is, Who am I a neighbor to? That's the intention. Of God's law. Jesus is saying, the real question is, how great is the extent of your compassion as required by God's sin? You must extend. He says, as far as the Samaritan did. As far as the Samaritan's compassion extended toward his enemy who was in need. It's like a southern black finding of Ku Kra. Clan member beaten up on a highway. And then looking at that person who he knows would have kicked him and spat upon him and done everything to destroy him despise him, were he in good health, and looking at that man and saying, I will have compassion on you. When you're down, I will seek to minister to you, knowing that you'd be totally ungrateful for this in all likelihood. No absolutely no reason or anything in me that draws me to want to help you. But rather Is simply the compassion of God as reflected in me as one who bears his image to seek to extend that love to you. Jesus is simply saying here that love must have no limits. That's pretty hard. to take. It's uh I don't want to place limits on my life. I want to say, well now Lord, uh how much do you really require of me? Uh this much? Well boy, that's pretty tough to take, Lord, but I you know guess I'll have to deal with that and seek to conform to that. And as soon as I do that, then the Lord says, Well wait a minute, uh you begun the learning. Uh but now I want to take you this far. You begin to go that far. I say, Well the Lord, now surely that's the end. I mean you couldn't expect anything more of me. Then gradually and gently and patiently, he wants just wants to teach me you're just beginning to learn. Love has no limits. You can't come to any point and say, but that's all that anyone could expect. But that's not what the Samaritan did. Thirdly, you see, love then is to not make excuses. When I find that I'm pressed in the situation, that's what I want to do. I want to make excuses. Excuses. Love doesn't make excuses in how many excuses you and I are prone to make to justify our selfishness and lack of compassion. I look at my own life and I'm deeply convicted of this. How many excuses I make so that I can justify my own lack of involvement and compassion on various levels. Of seeking to meet other people's needs. In verse 31, Jesus talks about a priest. The priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. This man had been beaten. up by robbers. He'd been left half dead, and the priest coming back from Jerusalem spots him on the road. Now it's important that one little phrase that you could easily miss there. The priest happened to be going down the same road. You see, Jerusalem is significantly higher than Jericho in its altitude. And so the fact that he's talking about this man who was going from Jerusalem to Jericho being beaten up laying by the side of the road. And this this priest is going from Jerusalem to Jericho. The same direction is significant. Why? Because you see the priest was coming back from serving in the temple Muslim. He had just come back from worship. God, from performing the sacrifices, from representing God's people before God and God before the people. You see, here's a guy who's just coming back From a great service of worship and religious performance. He's just come from the very presence of God in the temple. And he sees somebody in need, and what's he do? He's so wrapped up in himself. Perhaps his religious thought, his spiritual exercises, that he totally misses the need. The Levite is a person who is a servant to the priest. He helps to serve in God's sacrifices to prepare the things needed. And so when Jesus says a Levite, when he came to the place, saw him and passed by on the other side, it's the same thing. The priest and the Levite, you see, were to be the very epitome of servanthood. In God's people. Now the priest and the Levite didn't even own land, so that it would be clear that God was their inheritance That their place was to serve the people and to serve the Lord. Now this has become so twisted around by our spiritual and religious gymnastics that the fact that I'm involved in God's service causes me to miss. The needs of a person, of a human being, of somebody that I can easily ignore and justify because of my own religious and spiritual preoccupations. How I have to be careful that my study of scripture, my quiet times, my religious exercises don't blind me to what is truly God's goal for my life to love him and to love one another, to love another person made in his image. Well then this Samaritan comes along. This guy comes along and uh surely if there had been any hope before this guy is all washed up now. I mean this Samaritan's gonna take a stone and build his tomb right on top of him there. I mean here's his big eye. Opportunity. This guy's down, he's half dead. Why not finish him off? He would despise him if he were in good health. Perhaps beat him up. Perhaps at least scorn him, perhaps spit on him. But the Samaritan comes and he sees the This man, and we read in verse 34 and verse 33 that he took pity on him. Literally, he felt compassion, he felt stirred with compassion for this man. Now put yourself in that samaritan. exposition. Understand what's going on here. Get the picture of the scene. You're going down from Jerusalem over to Jericho. Here's this fellow laying along the side of the road. He's probably rather repulsive looking. He's been beaten up, he's been bloodied, he's half dead. Did you ever see anybody who's been beaten up and bloodied and laying there half dead? I remember just uh a few months ago When my family and I were going up to Philadelphia one Sunday evening, on Route 1 we came upon the scene of an accident, perhaps just two minutes after it occurred. A van coming down Route 1 had hit an Oldsmobile so hard that the Oldsmobile had blown up. The van had skidded turned over on its side and the Oldsmobile was a flaming inferno. It was it was just a uh one mass of flames. There was nobody could have possibly survived in the car as we pulled off just among the first to hit the scene of the accident. Three bodies. were laying on the grass beside the car. The ther first thing that struck me as I went over there, the first thing of course was to try and help in seeing the accident, but upon seeing the people was a repulsion. They didn't seem like they were the same human race as me. A bloody, perhaps dying. At first I didn't know if perhaps one of them was already dead. But the first thing that strikes you in a situation like that is to feel almost alienated from that person who's so blinded. Who's so distorted. And so you're not drawn naturally to simply want to come up and put your arms around the person. And the Samaritan sees that person and there he is, laying there, repulsive. Toward being drawn to him. And he could have offered many excuses why not to get involved. He could have said, This person's my enemy. There's no reason for me to want to help him. Until luck my neighbor, not my enemy, one like him. He would call me a dog if he could. Perhaps he could have said, I don't have any bandages with me. Of course I can't ruin my Clothes, that would be poor stewardship. I don't want to ruin the suit that I just bought. Uh the Lord certainly wouldn't want me to waste those things. Uh perhaps Perhaps I could help with with his wounds, but uh well the only thing I have is some oil and some wine here. That's really not uh It's not iodine, it's not ST37, it's not really gonna help. Uh the oil and the wine wasn't meant for that. I was gonna drink this wine And uh after all, you know, it's it's my wine and it's really not meant for that. Why should I use it on this fellow's wounds? Might not even help that much. I would be wasting this oil in this wine. Why should I bother? Besides, I don't have any time. I got a schedule to keep. I'm due down in Jericho by this evening. And if I'm going to make it, I can't stop here. Somebody's expecting me. I certainly wouldn't want to disappoint them. And so much as I'd like to, I need to keep going. Maybe you could have said How do you know it's not a trap? Maybe the robbers are all just waiting there for me to stop and as soon as I pull over to try and help this guy and I have my back turn and embed over them. They're gonna get me too. Yeah, you gotta watch out in these kind of situations, you know. I mean after all, it's it's good to be loving, but we have to have common sense I mean you can't just pick up any old hitchhiker off the road. We have to be careful in these kinds of situations. It could be dangerous. Besides, what am I going to do after I help him? I mean suppose I even do take my new suit and get blood on it and get it dirty and rip up part of it to make bandages for this fellow and use my precious oil and my wine for this fellow. What am I gonna do? Just leave him here? I mean I've only got a one passenger donkey. And there's just no room. I'd really like to help him but you know there's just room for me on that donkey. Well what am I gonna do with him? Besides it's probably his own fault anyway. Everybody knows it's pretty dumb to go from Jerusalem to Jericho alone and unarmed And really this fellow was behaving rather irresponsibly when I come to think of it. Here he is alone here, just out there a sitting duck. Now, if I help this fella, aren't I really condoning his irresponsibility? I mean, really, aren't I I I'm I'm helping him to not learn the lesson that he needs to learn. So he can behave more responsibly in society. So surely my helping him like this isn't in the long range really going to be good for him. I should let him learn the lesson. And besides, it's somebody else's responsibility. What about his friends? Probably had friends along and they left him. Who knows what happened? Saw a cartoon recently. A repicturing of the Good Samaritan. The man standing over this fella beaten and bloodied by the highway. He's looking with him with great compassion and concern, and he asks him the question. Do you have Blue Cross? Probably somebody else's responsibility to take care of him. Let the state do it. Let his insurance take care of him. There's all kinds of agencies to take care of these kinds of situations, you know? Maybe somebody will happen along who's an official, whose responsibility it will be to help him. None of these excuses Met with any acceptance to the Samaritan. Every one of them, worked into our own situation, could be made extremely plausible. I've done it myself. But what does he do? He realizes that love is simply compassionate doing. We see that illustrated in the parable And the behavior of the Samaritan sets all these things aside. He takes his clothes and rips them and makes bandages. He takes his own precious oil and wine and he pours it in those wounds. He gives up his seat on the donkey and he puts the man across it. He takes the man to the innkeeper, takes him there, and leaves him, and trusts the innkeeper. Trust the innkeeper in what to us would seem a very, very foolish thing to do. I mean, if there's anybody you can't trust, it's an innkeeper, isn't it? How ludicrous to leave this fellow here and to get this rip-off artist who's probably gonna throw the guy out the window as soon as you disappear over the horizon and say, Now I'm gonna give you two days wages. That's what he gave me. Two days wages. I don't know what two days wages is for you, but translate that into your own pay. That's what he gave him. Two days wages. And then he says, anything else that you say spend on and when I come back I'll reimburse you. He said that guy was naive. That guy was absolutely foolish. How can he trust that that innkeeper is going to be honest with that money? That's certainly Certainly a foolish thing to do. The point of the whole story with Jesus is yes, in men's eyes it is foolish, but it's compassionate doing. It's acting in an immediate need, in an immediate need. situation out of the one primary question, what is the need, not what are the rationalizations. So he acts. Notice the emphasis on the word do in the story. In verse 25, the original question was What do I do to inherit eternal life? The answer is given in the summation of the law concerning love. Jesus says in verse 28 Okay? Do it. And you'll live. I think the lawyer got the point. He's asking a sort of abstract question: What do I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus picks him up on that word do, and he says, That's exactly right. Right, this is what you must do, not simply debate, talk about. This is what you must do. Then he tells them the parable and Jesus wraps it all up when the ex expert in the law says, Well it's the fellow who had mercy on him who's the real neighbor Jesus. Jesus then immediately responds back and he says, Go and do likewise. Love then, when it's boiled down, is doing, it's action. Mercy is pity in action. Love is active. We see this supremely fulfilled in the person of Jesus. God saw our need. He saw you and me, bruised and bloodied by the fall. He saw us who were taking in our own fault, our own irresponsibility. Laid waste by Satan and sin. He saw it absolutely helpless To save ourselves. Absolutely nothing that you and I could do or offer as an excuse as why we're in the situation that we're in. Now what did Jesus do? Did he discuss it with the Father? And sit in the eons of eternity and discuss What a pathetic situation we human beings had gotten ourselves into. Did he then say, I would really like to help them? But you know I can't because we are three persons of the Godhead. We're God and we're not men. And only a man could help the human race. And so that rules us out. Rather, Jesus exercised the ultimate in creativity. Love, you see, is always creative in meeting needs. One of the things I need to learn so very much in my own life is to not look at the surface issue and simply say, there is the need, but I can't meet it. But to rather say, how can I be creative? To find a way to meet it. For Jesus took the greatest creative course and became man. Why? Simply to meet. Darn Eve. And notice there, in contrast to this situation, what Jesus did. He didn't simply soil himself with dirt and blood when he saw us as repulsive half dead creatures. infinitely more abhorrent to him who is of absolutely morally pure and perfect character. Who never Touched or tainted with sin. How much more abhorrent to him to be so soiled and stained with sin than for you and for me to get our clothes bloodied and dirty in a situation we find ourselves in. Jesus didn't simply risk his life for you and for me. He knowingly laid it down. I remember reading the story of a father whose son was drowning out in a deep lake. And it was a very difficult situation. The father risked his life, swam out and rescued the son. And in the attempt he saved his son, but the father drowned. Now that's love At an extreme. But yet, how many of us would knowingly say that if I will save this person, there's no risk involved. I will die. Jesus didn't risk his life for you and for me. He walked into the situation of human history. As one who had taken on both our humanity and then our sinfulness, and he laid down his life With premeditated forethought, I will give my life to save you. That's the extent of his love. And finally we see that Jesus didn't just give to us sacrificially. He didn't just share with us something of what he had. But the Bible tells us that Jesus shared with us everything that he had. Jesus has given his us everything His entire inheritance to such an extent that the Bible says that we are co-heirs with him. Whatever he inherits, we inherit with him. And that's the way he wants it. He shares with us lavishly and willingly all of his inheritance, everything that he has. He couldn't give us any more than he has given us. and still have us be creatures. Jesus has given us everything. And that Is the motivation for love. That is why when you and I see needs around us And God says, this is the standard, but Jesus is the motivation. When we look at what he has done in loving us, laying down his life. How can we close our heart? How can we close our bowels of compassion to those about us who are in need? In applying this now then, let's notice that the very first purpose of the parable was that Jesus was showing the impossibility of the law expert ever gaining life. By meeting God's standard. You and I have not loved the Lord our God and our neighbors as ourselves. If I think when I see this parable that I don't even do that much for my friends How much less would I be like the Samaritan and do this for my enemy? Jesus says that's exactly the point. You wouldn't. In your heart, you would never do that. I would never do that. And Jesus is saying here, don't you see? You can never justify yourself. You can never justify yourself. And because of that, therefore, you don't have eternal life in yourself. The only way you can have eternal life is to be justified. And by the works of the law, as this parable so beautifully shows us, so compellingly shows us, we could never have that, because we could never do that. Therefore, the only way to have life is to come to Jesus Christ, who has done that, who has not only fulfilled this standard of love, But has laid down his life and taken upon himself the curse that was due for you and for me, because we had not fulfilled it ourselves Not only did he then love his father and his neighbor as himself, even to the end, but Jesus redeemed us. out of the situation where we were not even grateful for what he did for us. Jesus has bought us. What about you? Is your hope that God's somehow going to grade on a curve? Is your hope that somehow that when you go to stand before Him The compassion that you had and your good deeds will somehow outweigh the bad. Jesus is saying here, there's no hope in that. No hope. The only hope, because of God's absolute justice, is in his mercy That mercy displayed in the person of Jesus Christ, who took upon himself the penalty that is due to everyone who trusts in him and cast themselves upon him. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus to find life in him. And don't seek to justify yourself It's a futile effort. We see secondly in this, we're made aware of the rationalizations in our own lives. How convicting it is to me. And so the question for each one of us of There on the back of the bulletin, back of the outline, number two, is what rationalizations do you tend to use to avoid seeing needs that God may want you to be involved in meeting? The biggest thing for me to face, you see, is my reasons for not wanting to love in the way God wants me to. They may make a great deal of sense. They're very compelling to me by the world standard of common sense. The world's standard of stewardship and everything else. But that's exactly the point. You and I are not called to live according to the world's standard of common sense. Let's face it If you and I are to live in the standard of Kingdom Compassion by the world's standards We're going to be naive. By the world's standards, we're going to be foolish. We're going to be wasteful. That's one of the most difficult things for a person who is so inclined to efficiency like myself to face Compassion can't always have efficiency as its highest standard. I will have to do things that may seem naive and foolish because the concern is the need and not simply the practical issues of how I can rationalize not meeting that need. That's difficult. It's difficult when I'm faced with a need, picking up a hitchhiker, risking some trap. risking a person who may take advantage of me, a person who may use me, dealing with my priorities ruthlessly, to know what in fact God wants me to do in the use of my time. To take two days' wages and give it to somebody who I have no reason to think I can trust. These things are naive by the world standards But the question before you and for me is what cle what pleases the Father? What pleases our Lord What pleases him is compassion, active love. What rationalizations do you personally tend to use to avoid seeing needs that God may want you to be involved in meeting. Write them down. Jot them down this afternoon. Pray about those things. Become more aware of them And let God begin to deal with them. Thirdly, then, as you begin to do that, then ask yourself, who is it that you know who is in need? How might you help that person? What is the first step to take? Will you take it? Write these things down. Begin to pray about them. to begin a lifestyle of sensitizing yourself, as I need to do, toward needs that are about us. These that will often challenge me. And I must say, before I finish this, that as a congregation you have often challenged me. I'm very encouraged in the number of People that I see in our congregation who have a lifestyle of caring compassion, giving of themselves to help other people. And so I'm very encouraged as I see the ministry that God has given to many of you, far beyond me, in helping, in loving, in very practical ways. But let's help one another in growing in that. I'm challenged by you. And I'm thankful to God for that. I need to continue to be challenged by you And I need to encourage you as you continue in that. And we need to challenge and encourage one another so that we grow positively motivated by the grace of God and the work of Jesus Christ for us. In living a lifestyle of love. And then finally, the last thing is that as we begin to do this, God will enable us to expand our vision, to open up our hearts to world need, to be aware of it. Come tonight Be willing to be exposed to the latest report on what is going on in our world. What is going on in Cambodia, Vietnam, as it's reflected in the refugee camps in Thailand? Come whether you're in an under-shepherd group or not. And then the question that we need to ask very practically and specifically as a congregation Is that after the transfamily are settled, should we sponsor another family? Or have we fulfilled our obligations now? How far do we go Once asking that question, the other question that goes along with it is if we were to do this, how many of us will be involved? Would a broader section of the congregation be involved this time around That was involved the first time around. How far should you and I go? Love looks not at excuses, at limits Or a self-justification, but a compassionate doing. Because this is what God is like And we're made in his image. Because this is what Jesus has done for us. And we've received grace upon grace We stand before the searching eye of your law. And we realize, Lord, how foolish was that law expert to think that he could justify himself. In seeking to define limits upon who his neighbor was, in seeking to circumscribe his relationship Responsibilities, so that he could externalize your law and go no further than was comfortable to his lifestyle. Lord, these kinds of things would weigh us down and drive us to depression and to despair, for we realise that none of us have the kind of compassion illustrated in this example of the Samaritan. And yet, Father, even as we see this, our hearts are lifted up. They're lifted up, Father, because we realize that while we