Acts chapter one, verses one to eleven. In my former book, Theopolis, I read about all that Jesus began to do and to teach. Until the buried that he was taken up to heaven after giving instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles that he had chosen. After his suffering, he showed himself to these men and gave any convincing proofs that he was alive. He appeared to them over a period of time. Of four days and spoke about the kingdom of God. For one occasion, while I was eating with them, he gave the gifts command: Do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift my father promised, which you have heard me speak about. For John baptized with water, but in a few So when they met together, they asked him, Well, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom of Israel? And he said to them, It's not for you to know the times, the dates the Father has set by his own authority. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. After he said this, he Taken up before their very eyes, and a cloud hidden from their sight. They were looking intently up into the sky as he was going, and suddenly two men dressed in white stood beside him. Then of Galilee they said, Why do you stand here looking into the sky? Son, this same Jesus who has been taken from you into heaven will come back in the same way that you have seen him go into heaven. So far, God's word let's give our attention now to understand. Last week on Pentecost Sunday, we saw in verses four and five that the baptism with the Holy Spirit was a promise without conditions. To all Christians, because Jesus Christ fulfilled the conditions by receiving the baptism in the Holy Spirit. When he was exalted, the last condition was fulfilled. And when that happened, then the Spirit came. So this morning if you belong to Jesus Christ, then you have been baptized with the Holy Spirit. Because there's nothing else for you to add. Jesus has done it all. This morning we want to wrap up this two-week series by looking at verses six to eight in order to see the primary effects of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. Jesus states the effect in verses six to eight. The effect Now some time has passed between verses 4 and 5 and verses 6 to 8. We don't know how much time. But now it is 40 days since Jesus has risen from the dead. And they're uh having a meeting in which they particularly sense something significant is going to happen. Partly it might be because they knew that the number 40 was a significant number and got off and did things in forties. They may because of something that Jesus said at that moment, that they realized something very significant was going to happen. And so you read in verse 6, when they met together, they asked him. Now they did it, Peter asked him. He was often One that spoke to the group? It may be Peter who typed up and asked the question, but whoever it was, the disciples in common had this question. And the question they have is, Now, Lord, are you going to restore to Kingdom to Israel. At this term, is the kingdom of David, that Lord dynasty that had been set aside from the exile and had been uh ceased, but with the permit to be One day be restored. Is that kingdom of David once again in its glory going to be given to Israel? Lord, is it going to be now if you're going to overthrow the woman again? They were going to put off their bondage, and once again Israel will be an independent nation. And it's going to be even better than it was under the Maccabees, that corrupt and decadent household, who which their independence also subjugated Israel to a slavery war. Is it going to be a better time of independence? An independence in which the Messiah, that righteous rule, is going to be at the head. Is now the time? The Messiah is going to rule the kingdom of David again. Is now the time when all of the glories that were prophesied by the prophets Isaiah, Jeremiah, and the Radha. Is now the time when all those glories are once again going to be restored to Israel. That's the question. And what's Jesus answered? We know this guy answered that in verse 7. He said to them It's not for ye to know the times for the dates. The Father is set by his own authority. That answer the question. He sets aside the question. Basically, he says it's the wrong question. The question is not now, not when But the question is how? Rather, he says in verse 8, we should be asking, how are we going to live until the end of this age? How is it that you want us to live until the Father chooses to wrap up all of those prophecies? Power. God, verse 80 says, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. Lows the day in Samaria to the ends of the earth. That they set us to preoccupied. And we have the same problem today, don't we? There are a lot of Christians that are concerned for the question, when? When is he going to come back? What are the signs of his coming? And they want to look with the newspaper with one hand and a Time magazine with a Bible in the other hand and want to try everything out. It's going to be by 1984, it's going to be by 1987. What are all the politics in the Middle East saying about when Jesus is coming again? And Jesus says your preoccupation should not be to the wend, you should stand on tiptoe looking, but not preoccupied with what the wait is, but rather how you should live until the Father wraps everything up. Concern yourself with what I have told you to do. This is what he's told us to do. And in order to understand that, I would suggest the university you see three connections. Now I want us to notice those three connections in order to understand the effect, the purpose of the baptism with the Holy Spirit. Three connections. First of all, you're seeing the bulletin outline there, the connection between The witnesses and Christ, secondly, the connection between power and the Holy Spirit, and thirdly a connection between the power of the Spirit and witnessing. First of all, then notice the connection between witnesses and Christ. He says in verse 8, you shall be my witnesses. My witnesses First of all, then that means that we belong to him. We are his witnesses. Our primary identity is that I am a witness to Jesus Christ What do you think of if somebody asks who you are? How do you see yourself? What is your primary notion of identity? The first thing I think of is that I'm a mother. The first thing that I think of is that I'm a wife. The first thing I think of is that I'm a husband. Or that I'm an engineer. Or that I' student, why this or mind that you think in terms of some role Some function that is very significant to you. But Jesus says, you are my witnesses. And I suggest to you that that is a primary identity that we have as Christians. So we should think of ourselves as His witness. I belong to Jesus Christ. That's who I am. I'm one of His. I'm a Christian. A Christian, remember, by its primary derivation, means one of Christ. Jesus is saying here, when the Holy Spirit comes on you, you'll be my witnesses. You belong to me. Make sure that you think of yourself in your primary identity as one of Christ before you think of your roles or identity in any other way. Secondly, he means here that you are being you will be a witness to me. You are my witnesses, you belong to me, but you're also my witnesses in the sense that you witness to me. A witness, you know, we're one who tells what he has seen or experienced. He tells about something outside of himself. And a witness in the New Testament, particularly, focuses on Jesus Christ. He doesn't say you are a witness to your spiritual experience. He doesn't say that you are a witness to your spiritual autobiography. He says you are mind witnesses. You witness to me. And a test of a biblical witness is that when you hear it, you ask yourself, have I learned more about the person? Or about Jesus. If you've known more about the persons, I know all about that person, and all the sins that they committed, and all the things they did rotten, and all their hang-ups, and all the great things that happened since they became a Christian. I don't know an awful lot about Jesus. That's not a biblical witness. Jesus said, You will be my witness. You witness to me. And in the New Testament, in Acts and in the New Testament, you find that the word witness is used as one who witnesses to the fact that I have a purpose experience of what God said is true. what he said. He says, I can witness first hand that he does save sinners. I can witness to you firsthand that he keeps his promises. And that's what Jesus is saying here. You, by the power of the Spirit, are going to have a first-hand experience of the fact that what I say is true. You will witness back the Spirit, not to yourself, but to me. You're my witnesses. Notice where there to be witnesses, too. You're to be my witnesses, he says, not only here in Jerusalem, but in all The dead in Samaria and to the very ends of the earth. You're to be a witness wherever you are to be witness to Jesus Christ. Let's not make the mistake of thinking that missionaries have a separate calling, bear witnesses. But that you and I have a particular calling in our job or in our function in the neighborhood or in the house, and that you know in some secondary or tertiary or way down the roadway, we're also witnesses There is no such distinction in the New Testament. Jesus is saying whether you're here in Jerusalem, in Judea, Samaria, the other most parts of the earth, the call of it the same. You are moral witnesses. The Nicolai doesn't have a separate calling. He's just in a different place. But both of us are called to be witnesses. No distinction. in the identity and the function that I call. Notice the second connection between the power and the spirit. There's a connection here between power and In the Holy Spirit. Notice what it is. Jesus says, You'll receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on. To receive power when the Holy Spirit comes in. In I believe there's two things you should notice there, too. First of all, is that he's saying that there's no power without the Spirit. The baptism of the Spirit is necessary. You see, he's not saying here that do what you are witnesses when you receive power And also seminary, and also evangelism training, a speck of gifts, and a number of other things. He speaks only of what they need as powered by the Spirit. The Spirit's power. He says that alone will qualify you. If you're baptized to the Holy Spirit, You have all that is needed. You have uh excuse me, you will not be able to have the power necessary, bear with this, until the Holy Spirit comes. It's necessary But secondly, there is no power needing of the spirit's power. It is absolutely sufficient His power is the one that doesn't. Other things, seminary, training, various evangelism training, experiences of evangelism, all those things are greatly helpful. I wouldn't learn as many things for the moment. Law for them as a church. And for some people they could be a great help. But don't ever say that I have an excuse to not be a witness because I haven't had such and such kind of training. Jesus says you receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. That qualifies you. The Holy Spirit is sufficient. He's all that is necessary in order to be qualified to be Jesus' witness. Notice the third connection, the connection between the power of the Spirit and witnessing. The connection between the power of the Spirit and witnessing. Witnessing is the direct result of His power. Notice that, verse 8. You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be implied as a result? My wickedness. When the Holy Spirit comes upon you with his power, what's What's the result? What's the effect? The effect is you'll be my witnesses. Well we know from reading the New Testament that there are many effects of the Spirit in the New Age. These divided to us is a down payment of righteousness and blessings and the blessings of the kingdom and many things. The fruit of the Spirit come from him. All these things think that the Lord gives us. But when he's speaking here in the very first reference, the very beginning of the book of Acts, about the direct effect of the baptism of the Spirit, what does Jesus say? What does he say is the most immediate and direct effect? You will be my witnesses. You will be my witnesses. That is the effect of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, therefore, comes. Constitutes his church to be a witnessing church. Understand that what the Lord is saying. The Holy Spirit is saying will constitute you. He will make you. Empower you to be a witness of people, a people who are my witnesses, a witness to Jesus Christ. And he gives us in third thing, the outline of enough the book of Acts. You'll start here in the first time. Jerusalem and then out to Judea, one to Samaria, the uttermost parts of the earth. But anywhere, wherever it is God's promise, two things were clear from this promise. Number one, that there will be no effective witness without the spirit of God. You cannot be an effective witness without the spirit's power. It is a supnatural activity to witness for Jesus Christ. If you don't believe that, you haven't tried it. To talk to a person about their sin. about the promises of the Bible, of what God can do to transform a life through the death of a Roman of a Jew, uh Galilean Jew, crucified by the Romans two thousand years ago? And that that death can transform your life now. To think that a message like that can transform a drug addict, an alcoholic, can transform a marriage, can transform people whose lives are broken and shattered is absolutely foolishness. It's a supernatural activity. Someone once said But one of the saddest things about evangelism today is that you can account for so many of the adults without any reference to the Holy Spirit. Psychological persuasion, manipulation, manifest of advertising, whatever it is. Jesus is saying that to be mind witness is a supernatural activity. And the only way that you can do it is by the power of the Spirit. Wait, he said, here until you receive that power. Because it's absolutely necessary. Something you do not have now. But they can leave in order to do this. There is no effect of goodness without the Spirit's power. May affect people, may lose them, may have them cry, may have to do all kinds of things. But their lives will not be changed for Jesus Christ. Without the power of the Spirit. The second thing here for us to notice, though, is that everyone controlled by the Spirit, it seems to me from this verse that Jesus is saying, everyone who is controlled by the Spirit. will be a witness. Everyone, controlled by the Spirit, will be a witness. And not just a weak witness, but a witness in power and boldness. Now don't misunderstand me when I say power and boldness. I don't be like a raging lion. I don't be a certain personality type. I don't be the kind of person whose testimony is on the 700 club necessarily, or any of those kind of things. I said a spiritual power. And a boldness. Have you ever seen somebody who was meek, and mild, is quiet, you'd hardly even notice women and women doing it? But there was a power and a boldness about their witness for Jesus Christ. That's the evidence of the spirit. That's the kind of It's a supernatural boldness. And God with the whole of a life. It's not a matter of personality. It's not a matter of just some particular kind of person and their background and their experiences. But it's This is something that's supernatural. Because everyone here who is baptized by the Holy Spirit is called to be a witness. Again, notice there are no conditions to this verse. Remember we looked at that last week, verse 5? He said in verses four and five, Do not eat Jerusalem, but wait for the gift thy Father had promised, which you've heard me speak about. Become baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. wills. You will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. No conditions whatsoever. You will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Verse verse eight. You will receive power when the Spirit comes. Again. No conditions. You will receive that power when the Spirit comes. And then goes to the third will. And you will be my witnesses. No conditions. Then say, say you'll receive the power, but then if you do this and this and this, then you'll be my witnesses. If you take this course or if you do this activity or if you get that experience, then you'll be my witnesses. I think so oftentimes, many of us as Christians, particularly who grew up in Christian homes, I didn't have that privilege. But for some of us that grew up in Christian homes, We may say, Paul, I don't have a testimony that's powerful. I don't have anything that I can say that will really move people with my witness. And that's not what Jesus is saying. It's not your experience. It's the spirit in you. It constitutes you a powerful and a bold witness. It constitutes you like whatever God has done in you. Whatever it's been, it's been something that's a testimony to the power. of Jesus Christ. And he will use that as a witness to himself. Now let's trip over on that, outline this, apply this to our lives. I want us to see the forces. I want you to see the force of what Jesus is saying here for each of us here this morning. You will be my witnesses by the power of the Spirit that you have received me. As last week, there is both the public. give a call and a challenge, all those three things. Comfort, call, and a challenge to us. As we look at these words this morning. First of all, there's the comfort the comfort to us that boldness and power and witness depend not on your personality or on your testimony, but on the Holy Spirit whom you have. That supernatural power to change lives is yours. Suppose that when Pen Plants worked at APL, that the fellow who worked with him in the office, or suppose that Eric Johnston had said, well, you know I'm not gifted in evangelism. God hasn't called me to be involved in evangelism. Eric was sharing with this yesterday, and he mentioned how he used to be able to give excuses. But he realized that God has Had called him to evangelize. God had commanded him to evangelize. God constituted him a witness. God's a reminder what he was. He's my witness, all right? And so then God brought ten plants into his life. Because Eric was simply responding in the control of the Spirit in that situation. God used him. And he brought ten, he brought Dot to Jesus Christ. Serve the Lord with us here. But what if he had said, well, I'm not really Paul? I'm not really one of those who are gifted in that area. Where would Ken be? Who would you be if the person that God used in your life had said, I'm not really called to that kind of thing. I'll just let my little light shine, you know. Let people see my good works and that'll be enough. I'll let somebody else give them the message. You have within you the power of the Spirit. And that can bring people to Jesus Christ in the circle of influence that God has placed you. It may not be, you know, somebody every time you meet someone and every time a name You're going to have success. But God has constituted you to be his witness by his power. And no matter how much you may belittle yourself and say, I can't do that. kind of thing. I am not bold. God can use you if you're available. He can use you in simple ways to open up opportunities. Because the spirit is in you. It's not something you've got to grasp for. Do you understand? Be comfortable. The Spirit is in you. One of my favorite sayings from Hudson Taylor was when he said, God has never called us to bacon a loaf of bread But that He hasn't provided the bread there to give. Whenever God commands you to do something, that means He's provided the resources to do it. And so when Jesus says that you will be my witnesses, that means that he has constituted you able to witness. And he tells us hell by the power of the Spirit. So when Jesus has called you to be his witness That he has guaranteed you, not I've guaranteed you, I'm not going to talk you into it. Jesus has promised you that this week he can use you as his witness in the places that you'll be in. Back in a house that I grew up. Up in the neighborhood where I lived. There was a fellow lived next door to us. And he was a bachelor, never married, had a good job, the general electric. And over the years he bought a good deal of stock, and over the years he gathered up a coin collection. And over the years as he gathered the coin collection, increasingly he got into collecting gold. Not this cheap ten, fourteen, and twenty one carat stuff. the solid 99% pure gold stuff. And over the years he gathered quite a collection of that stuff. In fact, he had drawers for it. He opened up his desk drawers, you know, there's a few gold billions laying in there. You know, there's a few coins laying in this drawer, a few spots. And bad door. But he had this this accumulation of goods to such an extent that when he died a couple of years ago, there was a veritable fortune that was smashed up in there. Now how did this guy live? Well he lived with us. Almost all the time that I grew up. And all that through that time I knew they had two cars. When he moved there, he had a 1947 Chevy. And then he spurred and he got a 1965 Piment. And that was the car that he had to bring. day that he died. He had about three or four changes of clothes, I think. He never went out. He never did anything. But sit in the house, go to work, and count his gold and his money. He had all those resources, but they were never used. He never did anything with it. And that's the way I believe it is for some of us with the Holy Spirit. The Lord Jesus says, You're my witnesses. I can use you to see a person's life changed by my power. And you have my spirit in you. To in a simple, halting kind of way, perhaps, simply stammer out what I can do for a person. And he says, Are you going to use that resource? You gotta use what I've given to you? Are you going to be my witness in a faithful way? We're going to be my witness in a relatively ineffective way, not because we don't have the resource of the Holy Spirit. But because you don't think that I can do it through you. Do you believe this morning that God could use you this week to bring a person to Jesus Christ? Do you believe that? So I I can't conceive of it floating. believe it. Do you believe that God could do that? Do you believe that God could have someone prepared out there? Did you get into a conversation in on Wednesday? And people say, Ah, but I don't feel like talking about the Lord now. I feel sort of down spiritually. a quiet time, things are you know, have kind of a fight with my wife and my husband and things are just sort of going yucky, you know, but here's this person and they talked about some need and I stated my conviction as a Christian and they want to pursue it, should I talk or shouldn't I? And as I do I find that there's media openness. And I find that the person's most hungry. And as I find that they're hungry, I find that they are going on. And you know, I want to get back to work and they want to go on about this. And they want to talk about it afterwards. And we get together and I talk and I find the person increasingly open and I'm looking for all the problems that they're supposed to have. And they don't have any problems. But what they want to do is they want to find out how they come to Jesus Christ and how they accept him. And I tell them about it. And the next thing I do, we'll bring them together. And here's this person asking Jesus Christ into their life. Do you believe that could happen? And you say, I'll believe you. It's impossible. You've just ruled out the power of the Holy Spirit if you believe that that is impossible for you. I've seen God work in ways just amazed how He'll set up situations. And all he's looking for is an available witness. Let me say to you, there's also a call here And that call is that if you find in your heart as I say these things, that you have absolutely no desire to witness for Jesus Christ, or whatever it simply makes you sort of wonder what it's all about. And that may be a good indication that you have never been baptized with the Holy Spirit. And that's the indication that you've never come to Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord in the first place. So let me put it quite simply. Either you're a witness and you need to receive Jesus Christ as your Savior and Lord. No in between. Say, Well, I have received Jesus' Savior Lord, but I'm no witness. No, I'm the Lord that one. Either you are a witness and you have some concern to share Jesus Christ with others. Or you need Jesus Christ yourself in your life. And if you both do in that matter category, let me invite you in the name of Jesus Christ to give your life to Him today. That He can change you. And change his power. But finally, the last thing I want to do is I want to challenge you, those last areas there, under point number three, to commit yourself to one step of faith, a step of faith to experience the good spiritual. power and witness. I want to be practical and talk to you. I find there's two things that in any group of Christians that you can talk about, three things actually, three things that are absolutely sure that people slip down in their seats and start Feeling guilty and maybe break out in a sweat. Even two of them, fair and sex. Because all of us feel great inadequacies in those areas. Nor did we feel successful. And I want to encourage you this morning to not simply look and to say, well, oh yeah, you know, I've really got a long way to go on this. I want to help you. I believe that the Lord Jesus, you were in the flesh speaking to you, he would give you a step in order to help you to follow. And that's what I want to do. I want you to take some small step that will help you to experience the power of the Spirit in your life as His witness this week. Perhaps for you it would be the first step to lead in congregational prayer. I said, what the heck does that have to do with witness? What has that got to do with share of our faith with Jesus Christ with a lot of Christians? Simply this. If you find that you're not able to fail out, then it may be that there's a block there that's not. God wants to start with so that you can begin to verbalize Jesus Christ. You can witness by your praise to him before the congregation of the saints. So let me encourage you that if you hear that we have some kind of prayer in the morning or in the evening, And I say now if anyone would like to leave in a simple sentence of praise to God, and you immediately find your mind says, Well that's for the others, it's not for me. I don't even consider whether the Holy Spirit wants me to leave in a word of praise. I'm not an option in that. And I suggest to you that maybe what God wants you to do is to be more open to Him in that area. To give you a little freedom there. So you can begin to be able to verbalize Jesus Christ and speak of Him as well. And those I'm not saying we all all be rushing as soon as we go to prayer and everybody ought to be clamoring and trying to beat everybody else to praise. There's prayers for quiet. There's prayer when we should pray in times when we shouldn't. But I don't think it's the spirit Well that it's always just the same few people being prayed aloud. But that we are open to the Spirit as a whole body for Him to use us. Secondly, along those lines, perhaps it would be a matter for you of giving witness to God's work in your life again. At our service, Lord's Supper service, will we have opportunity for this more often? Occasionally in the morning service? Will you be able to simply say, Yes, I will share what the Lord has done with me in the Bible? But if they told me, had not cared than him. He kept it to himself and said that's just between we ain't God. We would have not benefited this morning and using that is something to praise God for. In the body, but others would be blessed. Is there some way that the Lord blessing you and that you think of prayers that have been answered? But you don't want to share them with us because you feel kind of funny about talking to us. Well, if you feel that funny about talking about before God's people, then how are they going to talk about other people that don't know the Lord? And so one other help would be to pray, if you see God working your in your life the next time, and we're coming to the Lord suffer to say, how are we to honor the Lord? Lord, by witnessing to him and taking just a couple of minutes to tell us business before the saints tonight. And in doing that, I will trust God to give me that boldness, that much boldness, to be a great truth for some of us to take that much of the step of faith. Or thirdly, to speak openly at work about your Christian conviction. Perhaps God will be leading you to check that. Say, yes, that's what I need to do. That's what I'm going to trust the Lord to enable me to do. But this week, when they tell the dirty jokes, this week when they uh my boss gives me an unethical proposal, and it's just a borderline kind of compromise situation, when people share their values that are so anti-biblical. So against what the Bible says and what I believe, I'm not going to hide in the closet. I'm not going to say, oh well, I'm not going to touch that one with a 10-foot pole. You know what we'd get into if I focus what I really believe on that. Particular bolt? And you'll say, Lord, help me to say something that will honor you. Help me to speak truth in this situation. And simply take the step and in faith that you'll say some simple word, something that will explain where you stand as a Christian. And see what God does for them. And just recently, John Hunter in his job uh was given uh the people there had a uh retreat and they were all sharing about things in their work and what they were doing and they were supposed to give some sort of little mean that uh sort of told what was happening in their lives to sort of tie it together. And and John didn't back off and say, well, you know, this is a situation they wouldn't understand and I mean all these people are non-Christians, I'm not gonna blow my cover here, you know, I'm still kind of new at the job. that I want to make sure that they respect me before I say anything. The comes of Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean on to your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he'll direct your paths. Before there isn't work to use that as a scheme. He says it's opened up a number of opportunities, conversations to talk about the Lord. Are you willing to take a simple stand like that, where God's called you to be? And maybe for you, it's a matter of inviting somebody to the flying Scotsman film, Goton G12. Is there somebody that you know? Perhaps they've seen chariots of fire, they'd be interested in the story of Eric Ladell. Somebody that you could invite. You could say, Lord, entrust the power of your spirit to be your witness. I am going to determine to invite these three. Three people are going to determine that the one the first one who says will come, that's the person who's going to pray. I'm going to pray specifically for just one person. And I'm going to invite that person And they're afraid if you'll put in that heart a positive response in our brain to see that film. And then we'll get into a discussion afterwards about what it meant. And including to say if you will invite someone to that film. You know what that film? We should have with us as many people who are totally outside the church, who don't know Jesus Christ, as we have Christians back there. Well, at least if all we have is Christians yet. So great for us, as I have made by us. So let's pray for God and Jesus in that one. Or finally, would you be willing, could there be some of you who would say, I'd be willing to mention Jesus Christ to one non-Christian in the next two weeks? So why did I do it that way? Well, because I find if I said we could be willing to get this, we'd be willing to do this, and I'd like to say, well, you know, I said something spiritual, thought something about God. Uh you know, somebody sneezed and I said, God bless you, and so, you know. So we got all kinds of ways So I'm saying mention Jesus Christ. I find that if I mention Jesus Christ in a positive context That I have gotten to something that's going to be significant in that person. Just do that. Let's say the whole gospel, let's say that global half-hour presentation, and say, make it Jesus Christ to one non-Christian. Would you be willing? to commit yourself to do that not in just the next week, then to two weeks. There's a fellow by the name of Norman who was in a meeting in which he had the he was a Christian worker and he had rationalized all kinds of Jesus, why he was not called to evangelize, why he wasn't gifted in it, why he wasn't skilled in it, and why he never saw any non-Christians, so he couldn't talk to them anyway. And all reasons why God had not called him to bear witness to Jesus Christ. And at a meeting somebody said, Would you be willing to do this? to ask the question of a non-Christian in the next two weeks. Well, you know, that's that's uh one way of phrasing it. But he said, yeah, I'll be willing to do that. Two weeks went by, still have you found anybody that he could ask that question. Have you gotten the bold south? Three weeks went by. He didn't feel kind of guilty about this whole thing. He found out some people were going to go out to the church and they're going to witness. And so he said, I'm going to go because I'm just going to stop feeling guilty about this thing. So I went out. And we learned about this question, you know, where you ask a person if you were to die tonight and stand before God and they said uh God would just say to you, What should I do? Uh God would save you sin, and why should I let you into my heaven? What would you say? So he said, I was assigned to this uh woman's house, this woman had come to the church. Her husband was an atheist. And so the two of us went to that house and I asked him this question, trembling in fear, thinking, Lord, I'm doing this because I want to be a witness that you try to show you how faithful because I'm really scared. Knock on the door. Ask the person the question, what would you do? What would you say if God were to say, why should I let you into my heaven? The person said, I'd say, Well, why should he let me in? So that meant that there are two possible answers to that question. One was that you would say that Jesus Christ had died for your sins. And the other was that you'd say something about your works that would show that you weren't trusted. But he said, Nobody ever trained me to say, What do you do? And the person says, Why shouldn't you let me in? So now I stand over my mouth open, feeling like another fool, not knowing how to talk to the first person that I had prayed that God would lead me to and trying to step out of time. But he knew that the Holy Spirit was in. And he said, just the name quickly I pray. God, give me some answers to this call. So he said I responded back to him and I said, Well, if I were to come to your door and you didn't let me in. You didn't want to let me in. And I said to you, Then I shouldn't be able to let me into your house. What would you say to me? And the fellow said, I'd tell you where to go. He said, That's just what God's going to do. And he said immediately we were back on the track. I said, but I don't even believe in God. And he said, Now now let me see. That's interesting. You don't believe in God. Are you sure that there is no God? He said, Well, I'm not sure. He said, Well then you're not an atheist, you're a diagnostic. He said, Yeah, I guess I'm an agnostic. I don't believe I don't believe that you can know. He said, but not familiar, are you a hard agnostic or a soft agnostic? He said, what's that? He said, well a hard agnostic says it's impossible to know whether there's a God. And a soft agnostic says, I don't know whether there's a God. Which are you? Saul Maharkin. He said, in other words, you believe it's impossible to know anything? He said, I didn't say that. He said, but you believe that you can know anything. He said, Well, yeah, you can believe that. You can know. Sure, there's things you can know. He said, Well then you're a soft diagnostic. What are you saying is you don't know? He said, Yeah, I guess you're right. I'm the south man. I don't know. He said, Well, why don't you know that there's a guy? He said, Well it's impossible to know. He said, We just don't ask me that. He said, You're right. He said, I guess the only reason I don't know is because I haven't seen any evidence. The fellow at that point had a new booklet of law about a fellow who had been a diagnostic, came to faith in Jesus Christ. He gave you a book, but he said, I'd like you to read that. And I'll come back tomorrow night, maybe we can talk some more. He took the book with him, read it, then came back the next night. And during fifteen years he was able to share with him the gospel, and every period of the evening, the fellow at the end of that time, bowed and asked Jesus Christ into his life. And today he's a deacon of the church and his whole family is walking with the Lord. Why? Because notice that I believe the Spirit's in, you've called me to give you a witness. It's not a special call, it's a command to your disciples. And I'm going to trust you in that. Are you willing to trust the Lord this morning? He has given you his witness by the power of the Spirit. And he can use you this week. Think about these here. Lord, we come to you this morning. We recognize our weakness and our failings. And being your witnesses, you think of times we've been embarrassed, embarrassed to be identified with you, embarrassed to keep to speak gospel truth, and or if we're ashamed of ourselves in. times. Will we take comfort this morning that your spirit hasn't left us because of that? Your spirit is still in us and he still calls us and he still empowers us. People ready to step out of faith and to trust him. Lord, we seek your spirit and we seek his power. Lord, show us. But simple way we can trust you, we can use us as your witnesses. Lord, transform us as a church to be people who would be old for Jesus Christ because we love Him. And because we trust you. And we believe you're able to use even us to be your witnesses. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's sing to God's praise this morning, hymn number seventy nine. The Spirit King is promised to him which we celebrate the Pentecostal coming of the Lord Jesus. The Spirit came as promised in God's appointed hour And now to each believer he comes in love and power. Let's face that in 78.