There is an urgent and a desperate need for revival in the United States today. I was told that uh on a recent television program concerning Concerning teenage sexuality, all of the news was grim, and at the end there was no hope the commentator had to offer. We're made aware of ever new corruption in Congress. There's a crisis in leadership. There's a fearful loss of human rights and devaluation of human dignity. according to those who are both making and carrying out the laws of our country, as evidenced in practices such as abortion, infanticide, euthanasia Our society becomes increasingly selfish and hedonistic. A recent student survey done of college freshmen of this year indicated that they are the most materialistic group of students ever surveyed. Solzan Esken has said that we've lost our will to survive. We're moving toward an increasingly authoritarian, manipulative government. and even toward totalitarianism. More and more we hear of the threat of communism, of world takeovers, and of even World War Three. It's a pretty grim picture. And I believe that as Christians we realize that the only hope for survival is a radical revival in this country. But do we really hope for that? Do we really believe that that is an absolute possibility? As we see that this is an option as Christians and believe that it is That God, even in the midst of this situation, I believe I could argue both theologically and historically The when the situation seems the grimmest is really the greatest opportunity for the Church of Jesus Christ. Do we see that this opportunity will come as God both works within the church and in the church working toward the world? We can't deal with God working within the church now. We're going to be dealing with that in weeks ahead. But concerning the church's witness to the world, I believe that revival will come with a two-pronged approach First of all, with a prophetic declaration toward the nation in which we call this country back to righteousness In which we as Christians stand up and say there is a right and there is a wrong. And when the country follows the wrong, we must stand up and we must call it sin. And having done that, we must then be a people who can judge society by a higher standard and call for repentance. Whatever happened to the human race series is a step in this direction. The other part of what is needed for revival is with that a bold, spirit-filled declaration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is absolutely vital to call our nation to turn from trusting and serving self To trusting and serving Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior personally. Practically, we need to be doing this in Colombia. To be dreaming and praying. For God to help us to penetrate Colombia with the gospel. That Colombia will be observably different five and ten years from now Because of people turning to Jesus Christ. You say, yes, I'm with you. That's what we need. What we really need are gifted people. Who can declare the gospel with the boldness? People who are able to articulate it, who are able to present it and reach and speak to the issues Bernard Graham has said what we need for the eighties more than anything else is a new Jonathan Edwards. We need people who can declare fearlessly and articulately what the gospel is about, can address the questions No, that's not what we need. We could use it, but the bottom line is that that's not absolutely vital. What God needs is you, men and women who are committed personally to sharing Jesus Christ. You are the tool that God wants to use for revival in this country. You are the tool God wants to use in reaching Columbia for Jesus Christ. Now, how are we going to do this? We've had in the Sunday school hour two semesters of training in evangelism. And the how-to's. This morning I want to wrap up all that we've done in those two semesters by putting that in a perspective, the biblical perspective, by examining Paul's perspectives and practices in evangelism. He reflects on this in first. Corinthians chapter 2, verses 1 to 5. Let's take a look at that scripture now and place it in its context, and so we'll begin reading at chapter 1, verse 18, through chapter 2, verse 5. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, the intelligence of the intelligent I will frustrate Where is the wise man? Where is the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not know him, God was pleased through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who believe. Jews demand miraculous signs. The Greeks look for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to the Jews and a foolishness to the Greeks, to the Gentiles. But to those whom God has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men's wisdom, and the weakness of God is stronger than man's wisdom. Strength. Brothers, think of what you were when you were called. Not many of you were wise by human standards. Not many were influential. Not many were of noble birth. But God chose the foolish. Things of the world to shame the wise. God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong. He chose the lonely things of this world and the despised things, and the things that are not to nullify the the things that are, so that no one may boast before him. It is because of him that you are in Christ Jesus, who has become for us wisdom from God, that is our righteousness, our holiness and redemption. Therefore, as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. When I came to you, brothers, I did not come with eloquence. Or superior wisdom as I proclaim to you the testimony about God. For I resolved to know nothing when I was with you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified I came to you in weakness and fear, and with much trembling. My message and my preaching were not with wise and persuasive words For the demonstration of the Spirit's power, so that your faith might not rest on men's wisdom, but on God's power. I want to examine this morning Paul's evangelism by asking three basic questions. Who, how, who, and what. How did he come? Who was prominent? And what were the results? First of all, how did Paul come in his evangelism? First of all, within that we notice how he did not He did not come with three things, you notice in those verses. First of all, he did not come with eloquence. Following along in your bulletin outline now. He did not come with eloquence, you see in verse one. When I came to your brothers, I did not come With eloquence. Literally, the word there means superiority of speech. Refers to polished Articulate expression, cleverness. You say God can't use me in evangelism because I don't have a way with words. I'm not articulate. Who says that that's the criterion? For being used. Not God. Look at Paul. He says, here I did not come with eloquence. And yet who would question God's use of Paul? The Latin American church has been growing at the rate of doubling itself every ten years And very many of the Christians that God is using are illiterate. God does not use the eloquent to build his church, but the faithful. And God can use a person who is illiterate if he's faithful in declaring Jesus. Paul says here, I not only didn't come with eloquence, he says in verse 1, I didn't come with superior wisdom. I did not come with eloquence or superior wisdom as I proclaimed to you the testimony about God. You say, well, I can't evangelize because I haven't taken a course in apologetics. I haven't taken a course in how to answer the questions that non-Christians ask. I can't deal with all of the issues that they might raise. And I feel afraid of tackling them, who says that superior wisdom is a criteria for being used of God in presenting Jesus Christ. God doesn't say that. He says here quite the contrary, that his use of Paul was not with superior wisdom Look what he says in chapter 1 and verse 17. For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with words of human wisdom Lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power. The gospel, in its basic simplicity, is so simple a child can understand it And so profound we can never plummet steps. But lest we think that we need to plummet steps to some extent before we can speak it, God says here, It's not the superior wisdom that I call people to represent me. In fact, look what he says thirdly. He says it wasn't even with wise and persuasive words. Look what he says in verse 4. My message and my preaching were not with wise and persuasive words. Not with eloquence, not with superior wisdom, not with wise and persuasive words. Literally that means persuasive words of wisdom. I remember when I first became acquainted with the writings of Francis Schaefer, it was in the midst of the. I was on a campus in which I had been very intimidated in my understanding for Jesus Christ and knew very little of how to defend my trust in Jesus. I took courses that decimated my faith. And when I came across the writings and the person of Shaper, actually was Shaper himself first. He hadn't written anything that was published in those days. It was like a whole breath of fresh air He was a person that opened up to me the fact that Christianity was not only defensible, it was the only thing that was defensible. And then I began to incorporate this in my evangelism. I began to make apologetics the mainstream thrust of my approach. And I could argue people into a corner. I remember one fellow in the dorm one night in which I had argued after about three hours of discussion to one AM. I don't know whether he was just physically fatigued or whether I'd won the argument, but there he was, meddly crouching down by his desk. And saying, yes, I realize that my position leads me to absolute despair, inconsistency, that the only thing I can do is seek to live inconsistent with it, to survive at all. And being appalled at the fact that he then didn't want to become a Christian. The fact was, you see, I thought I could snow him into the kingdom. And God was saying it's not with persuasive words of wisdom that the person will be brought to his knees to see Christ. But it's only by the Spirit using The truth, for a person to recognize their spiritual need for Jesus Christ, that they'll come. It's not my cleverness that we do it. Look what he says there in verses 18 and 19. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing but to us who are being saved. It's the power of God. Which written that will destroy the wisdom of the wise. The intelligence of the intelligent I will frustrate. Verse twenty six Think what you were when you were called. Not many were wise by human standards, but God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. Godshaw chose those things that are despised, so that no man could boast and glory in himself But let him who boasts boast in the Lord. James Denny once said, No man can at one and the same time Give the impression that he is clever and Christ is mighty to save. And if you and I seek to give in our evangelism the impression that we're clever with the gospel, We'll never give the impression that Jesus is mighty to save. The attention comes upon ourselves. And it's deflected from the Saviour. I'm not here saying that a Christian shouldn't study and do his homework. Don't misunderstand me. And I'm not saying that apologetics is useless, quite the contrary. I think that as Christians it's vital for us to pursue all that we can in understanding the reasoning, the inconsistency of the human. humanist, of the person without Jesus Christ, and seek gently and compassionately to point that out to that person, and to seek to bring them to Christ. What I'm saying is that God's criteria for being used to share Jesus Christ is not how much we score on a test. of how much we know about the gospel or about philosophy. But rather it is our attempt to be faithful in declaring the truth about Jesus. As God's Spirit uses my growing understanding of current issues, my growing ability to apply the gospel at every point at which people live, He will, in His good Grace make me more effective. But that effectiveness will be undercut if I seek to trust in my eloquence. The superiority of my wisdom or my persuasive words of wisdom in presenting Jesus Christ. Remember the story I heard of a Christian who had just come to know Jesus Now, this was a man who came to know Christ last century. I don't even know his name. He came to know Jesus Christ out of a background of no Bible teaching. And somehow in his conversion he had picked up one verse from Luke 13:Ecept ye repent, you shall all likewise perish. These other verse that stuck with him, but he had trusted Christ. He was in discussion with one of the intellectuals. Of that day, a fellow who had come to him with Darwinian philosophy and presented to him the mock mocked to him, presented to him the foolishness of his newfound faith in Christ. And this new Christian said, Fellow, I I can't argue with all the things that you say, but all I know is that God says, Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. And this fellow got a little indignant. It was a rather stupid argument. He said, You must see that this can't hold any water. Here's three or four reasons why we realize as rational men now that the Bible is not reliable. And went on and on and the fellow said, I can't answer that. I just don't know how to deal with that. All I can say is that God says, Except you repent you shall all likewise perish. Well this fellow became so infuriated after a while and he just stormed off. This guy was absolutely un Reasonable, couldn't even talk to him. He went home that night, he was telling himself, That fool, how can a person still in this enlightened age believe those things? Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. He went to bed that night and he couldn't sleep. Yep, thinking how stupid that was, except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. Could he get it out of his mind the next day? Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. And sometime during the next day, he fell down on his knees and he said, God, my arguments are useless. What he says is true, unless I repent. I'm gonna perish. And he came to Jesus Christ. That's been an instructive example to me in my own evangelism, to humble me, to realize that while I must do my homework And seek in an effective way as possible to speak the gospel of Jesus Christ to the issues and to the questions of my age. To know that it's faithfulness that God honors, not the degree of my wisdom. How then did Paul come? Well, he tells us how he came. Look what he says there. He says, I came in verse to He says, first of all, in verse 1, I did not come with eloquence, superior wisdom as I proclaimed the gospel. He says in verse 3, I came to you in weakness. In fear and in much trembling. Paul says, My knees weren't only knocking, they were bypassing each other when I came to you with the gospel. Well and I read that and we say, I don't Sound like Paul the Apostle. That sounds like me writing about. That's the way I do evangelism. Weakness. Fear. Much trembling. And Paul says that's the way he came. Now is he telling the truth or isn't he? Is that your image of the Apostle Paul coming to the Corinthians? He's opening his heart up to us. He says, whatever I came across like. That's what was going on within me. I came in weakness. I came in fear. I came in much trembling. I've seen a pattern of evangelism over my years in training students and others that I've taken out in doing evangelism. First time you take somebody out to do evangelism, they come in weakness and in fear and in murder. Much trembling. Now there's nothing so refreshing as some of the prayer meetings that I was in with students who were doing their first evangelistic project, long prayer meetings, crying out to God, prostrate on the floor, calling out. to God to help us to present Jesus Christ. Then we go out. Let's see a pattern. We go out and we present Jesus Christ and God would bless. People would be here be here and they'd be interested. Occasionally someone would come to know and to trust Jesus Christ right there. And the students would come back and refreshed, they'd come back exhilarated, they'd say, that wasn't half bad as we thought it was. Boy, that was terrific. The next time they go out, there wouldn't be half as much prayer. Uh not nearly so many prostrate bodies on the floor. Uh we go out saying, Boy, you know, evangelism isn't really as bad as I thought it was. And what's happened? Gotten a little confidence. Got a real sense that, yeah, well sure we prayed about it and sure that was an answer to prayer, but uh tell you the truth, it really just wasn't as bad as I thought. I think I'm better at this than maybe I thought it was. It was surprising to me how many times the second examples, the second times brought discouragement, brought times where there was not the spiritual results. And God was teaching us, it's not by might nor by power, but by my spirit. It's not by superiority of wisdom, but it's in weakness and in fear and in much trembling that we're driven to God. So that we go in his power, so that we present Jesus Christ not in our own strength, but in his. How many times have I been impressed by the fact it's those times when I feel the very weakest myself, washed out, no resource Left in me, and one more person wants to come and talk. I find at those times I have nowhere else to go but to turn to the Lord. And his strength is shown. In a way I hadn't seen, when I was feeling good, when I was feeling up to it, when I was ready to go. Paul came in weakness. And in fear. And in much trembling. And if you identify with that, if you say, Boy, that's me You're in good company. It's when you begin to get confident that you begin to find that the characters of Scripture drop away in their fellowship with you. And But when you're in weakness and in fear and in much trembling, then you can go to the Scripture and find many who will identify with you. And speak to your situation. Words of encouragement. Well, it's that state of mind, you see, that's necessary for us To really be able to make the right person prominent. So who was prominent in Paul's evangelism? Well, it's the triune God. Who is prominent in Paul's evangelism? Each person receiving their proper focus. Notice, first of all, that it's God the Father who's prominent in his testimony. Verse 1. When I came to you, brothers, I did not come with eloquence or superior wisdom as I proclaimed to you the testimony about God. Now literally the Greek there is declare to you the testimony of God. The word testimony or witness there, from which we get our words testimony and witness. could mean, as the NIV translates it, testimony about God. That would speak of my objective witness thing we've talked about in the Sunday school class, where the content of my witness is not my own life, but the direction of it, the focus of it, is on God. It's my witness about him, not simply my spiritual autobiography. But rather, even though that would substantiate points I've made in Sunday school class and would be nice to adopt, I don't think that that really is what Paul primarily has has a mind. I think rather what he's talking about here is God's testimony. Notice he does not say my testimony about God. It is simply proclaim to you the testimony of God. I think that's a subjective. It is God's own testimony that he's speaking about here. That is God's authoritative legal declaration about his son Jesus. There's a lot of precedent for this and how this kind of phraseology is used in the Old Testament. God's testimony, God's witness, concerning his covenant and concerning his salvation. What's that saying then about our evangelism? Simply this. When you and I come to present Jesus, we're not presenting our opinion. We're not presenting what my church believes or teaches. But we come with thus says the Lord. What am I declaring to you in weakness, in fear, and in much trembling? The only thing that drives me to declare anything to you is that I know I'm declaring to you God's testimony. I know I'm declaring to you what he says. Often when I'm talking to a person about Christ, I will say somewhere in the conversation if we begin to debate and get into s various points of view, you know, I'm not really not interested in persuading you concerning something I believe. All I want to do is represent to you what the Bible says. And if I'm misunderstanding it, correct me. But what I want you to do is see what God is saying about this, not what I believe or my church teaches. And we need to make that distinction so that people see that we're talking about the testimony of God. when we present Jesus Christ. Evangelism then is not self-centered or method centered, but it's message centered. And what is the message about? Well, secondly, you see there, the message is about Christ, his son. And the focus is his cross Verse 2, for I resolved to know nothing while I was with you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. That's the very heart of the gospel. Jesus. crucified. Chapter 1, verse 22. He had said, Jews demand miraculous signs. Creeks look for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified. We're not talking about miraculous signs. We're not talking about world's wisdom. And something to awe you with the intricacy of the thought. I'm simply presenting to you a historical fact. I'm announcing to you good news There came one who was Jesus, and he was God's Son. One who fulfilled God's law like you and I never did or ever could do. He was absolutely pleasing to the Father. He loved the Lord his God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and his neighbor as himself And this Jesus was crucified. Not because of anything he did wrong, but because of what you and I had done wrong. And God laid upon him the punishment that we deserved. We present to you Jesus. Jesus crucified, stumbling block to the Jew, and foolishness to the Gentiles. But to those whom God has called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God And Christ the wisdom of God. There's a danger here for each of us in our evangelism. And it's a danger which reminds me of an incident in my own life about ten years ago. My wife and I had a bit of a tradition where each Memorial Day we would go to Elkneck State Park and have a picnic. I don't know if you've ever been to Elkneck, but it's a beautiful place where the Elk River and the Susquehanna come together to form the beginning of the Chesapeake Bay. Beautiful state park dear. cliffs that overlook the water and a lot of happy memories there. So we're gonna go back Memorial Day to have a picnic at Elkneck again. Everything packed up and took off. We arrived at Elkneck, got out of the car and I looked at her and I said, Well get the stuff out and let's have our picnic. And she said, Well, you put the stuff in. Where is it? I said, Well no, you bought the stuff for the picnic. I didn't bring the stuff for the picnic. Wasn't in the back seat, wasn't in the trunk, wasn't strapped to the fenders, wasn't hanging on the bumpers. You say we had our first picnic without a picnic. The thing that we forgot, you see, was what we came for. Now how can we have a picnic with no picnic food. And yet many of us are seeking to present a gospel with no cross. We're talking about the very heart of the gospel, Jesus crucified, and we've missed the food. We talk about Needing Jesus. We talk about what Jesus has done in my life and what He can do for you. We talk about how God has demonstrated to us His love by sending Jesus. And we skirt all around everything else to miss the cross. We got a picnic without the food. And how many of us, I'm not talking about liberals, I'm talking about us as evangelical Christians who know Jesus Christ personally. How many times do we skirt around on everything else? When we walk away and we say, How much did I really focus on the cross? To help the person to understand what it was about. Paul says, I didn't know anything among you. Nothing. But Jesus crucified. I don't believe that that means he didn't talk about anything else except Christ's crucifixion. I think what he's saying there is that everything I talked about was clearly related. to the crucifixion. That was the point of integration. That was the central thrust that kept coming again and again and again and everything else kept coming back to it. We need God's provision. It's all wrapped up in the cross. Now, why is it that that's not true for us? I believe that one of Satan's most effective strategies and the one clearest of clearest uh determination in his arsenal is to always lead us just a slight bit astray from focusing on the cross. If we can focus on anything else, no matter how good and right it is, except the cross Satan has won the day. I'm absolutely convinced that this series that we're presenting on whatever happened to the human race is something that we must do in our faithfulness to God We must consider the situation in Cambodia and take a look with compassion at what's going on in the update report next week. But in the midst of all of these right and just concerns We must make sure that the cross stays at the central focus of our adoration, of our motivation. of our worship. It must be the mainspring of everything that we do. The reason I'm convinced why the cross has slipped out of the central place in evangelism is because it slipped out of the central place of our lives. The cross needs to be central in our understanding in order to be central in our evangelism. We need to realize that the cross is not simply a demonstration of God's love, but we need to know what happened at the cross. We need to realize, as you see there, that It was at the cross that the wrath of God was satisfied. We need to realize that it was the cross. Now I stood as one who deserved richly to have God's wrath upon me. That God in fact made Jesus a substitutionary sacrifice. The Lamb who was slain, the Lamb driven off into the wilderness. That it was there that Jesus bore that wrath fully, so that there's nothing left for me but grace. We need to realize that it was that the cross that we were purchased. As slaves in a foreign kingdom. Slaves of sin, serving under King Satan. It was at the cross that Jesus made the payment of his blood. As a ransom so that you and I would go free. We need to realize that it was at the cross That we as enemies of God were reconciled. That we who were his enemies were not only made friends because Jesus bore the enmity But we were adopted as sons and daughters into his own family. Because of the cross. We need to realize it's because of the cross that we're justified, receiving Christ's own righteousness because he took our curse. We need to realize that the cross is the point of integration for every need that you and I have. And if there's a need that you see in your life, and somehow it doesn't seem to related be related to the cross, maybe you need to redefine that need so that you see the connection. All of our depression. All of our guilt, our worthlessness, our alienation, our broken relationships all have been dealt with at the cross. The solution is there, because it's at the cross that we're forgiven, adopted, made new creatures Have our relationships healed. It's at the cross that you and I need to go for worship. It's at the cross that you and I need to go to find out what grace is, to find out what the character of our God is like. It's at the cross that you and I need to go, so that in majoring on the cross, not having it as simply one point among many that we believe, but as the major integration point, we're able each day in our quiet. How's that related to Jesus and Him crucified? By making that connection, we'll grow in a richness of our understanding of God's ways. Our motivation will be strengthened in loving Him and serving Him. Our evangelism will then change. Our evangelism will become cross-centered and Christ-centered. It won't be a vague sharing of experience with credit given to Jesus. Jesus like a humble acknowledgement that all that I owe belongs to mom, but rather it's the realization that Jesus Christ really did change me. And it really is what he did at the cross that accounts for everything that's different about me. It won't be just a vague accept Jesus so that he can change your life. But it will be a realization that you need to have the work of the cross applied to you in God's forgiveness, in his life-changing power because of what Jesus did at the cross. I resolved to know nothing while I was you. With you, except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. By doing that, we then focus necessarily on the third person of the Trinity. And that's the demonstration. Of the Holy Spirit in his power. Notice how Paul connects that. In verse 4, he says, My message and my preaching were not then with wise and persuasive words But with the demonstration of the Spirit's power. You see, the only way you can explain changed lives when you begin to preach the cross is by the power of the Spirit. Psychologically it's not persuasive. It's not manipulative. It will produce the kind of enticements that all kinds of psychological evangelism will. Presenting the cross simply presents what God has done. But the Spirit owns that. And the Spirit of God begins to change lives The Spirit of God, in the foolishness of preaching, why could I ever think that when a person comes to me, they say to me, My life is shattered? But I can think that that is going to change because of words. Can't give him anything. May not be able to change the situation. All of God is words. A listening ear and words. But Paul says those words are owned by the Spirit. It's not the words. But it's the Spirit taking those words and it's the person believes those words because they're truth. They objectively change that person. And then God's Spirit then lifts up Jesus. Because the greatest glory of Jesus is at the cross, the Holy Spirit will lift up the cross. Not with my eloquence, not with my wisdom, but because of Jesus. And then it's apparent to you and to me that when we talk and we see people come to Christ, that was the Spirit's work. Because They looked at Jesus. And God used that. And he brought them to himself. And so what were the results that Paul had? Well, you see there. He said listen for us in verse five. When I did not come with eloquence, with superior wisdom, with wise and persuasive words, but rather I declared to you God in his testimony, Christ in his cross, and the power of the Spirit, the author. In verse 5 was, so that your faith might not rest on men's wisdom, but God's power. In university we used to have what we called social conversions. That's where a person accepts the group as their Lord and Savior. You see, people are so needy today that if they find a group that's loving and concerned, they'll say, Well boy, this is a terrific group. How do I get into it? Will you accept Jesus and become a good thing? Fine, where is it? Where do I sign? And Jesus becomes a means to the blessings. Paul says here I wanted Jesus to be the blessing. That's clear. That's the number one. That's the central thing. Everything else is fringe benefits. And he said, when I presented that, then it was clear that your faith would stand in God's power. Not by my wisdom or my enticements. When we present Jesus and Him crucified, God lifts him up, and people stand. You notice he says there that your faith might not rest or stand on men's wisdom, but on God's power. Back in the eighteen twenties and thirties, there was a significant and marked change in evangelism. America. The beginning of what was called revivalism. Means for producing revivals. Charles Finney was one of the first advocates of this. And in his evangelism across upstate New York, Finney would produce the effects of revival. Finney was also a man of prayer and of much love to God. I'm not taking that away from him. But there were certain techniques that began to become into use at that time. And when Charles Finney looked back over over the many, many decisions that have been made for Jesus Christ thirty years later in that area. But to this very day, it's been called the burned over district. Because so very few had what had gone on with Jesus Christ. And they were hardened against the gospel because they had had a taste. But their faith had not stood on God's power But on revival techniques. You and I need to be very clear. What we need in Colombia, in our church and in our country, are not revival techniques. We need a demonstration Of the Spirit's power that is brought on only by our prostrating ourselves before our God and saying, Deliver us, God, from our human techniques. Help us to lift up Jesus and make him central to others because he's central to us. So the people will stand. In God's power. They'll stand because it's your work. How do we apply this then? Well, the first thing is that for you and for me, we need to major on the cross of Christ ourselves. I need to make On the cross in my own life. Whatever has been the things you've been into in Christian literature, whatever have been those lines of thought that you've been tracing recently, ask yourself: have you been majoring on and integrating? Your thought into the central focus of the cross of Christ. If not, then we need to do some housekeeping cleaning. We need to do some uh reflection on our priorities and get things back. And focus. So many Christians' lives are problem-centered, are issue-centered, and they run into depression, a spiritual depression, because the problems simply make us aware of more problems. And the issues make us aware of more issues. For a Christian's life to be worship centered as God intends means that it has to be cross-centered. You and I will run out of things to worship God for. If we dwell on the tangents. But if you begin to plumb the depths of the cross, you'll never run out of things to worship God for. Because the cross touches every aspect of grace and every aspect of our need. So, practically speaking, I'm saying in your quiet time, ask yourself as you study a passage, how is this related to the cross? As you're concerned for a problem, ask yourself specifically how is this dealt with? with and how does it relate to the cross? Because you're dealing with issues. How is this issue integrated into the cross? And then, secondly, having done that in our own lives, it will affect our evangelism. And how central the cross is to that. Do you really believe that the cross of Jesus Christ is the power of God to salvation? Or do you believe that other things are more effective? Perhaps for immediate responsibility? Results, there will be other things that are more effective, but for people to stand in the power of God, there is nothing like Christ crucified. As we present the Schaefer Coop films, as we talk to our neighbors, all those things do not be. What we do, let's consciously orient and integrate our witness to the cross of Jesus Christ. That will produce a new dependence on the Holy Spirit, which is the second point you see there on the back. on the Holy Spirit that comes necessarily from relying on Him and not our own cleverness to change lives. So that we're be we'll be able to overcome insecurity. You see, you say I'm not wise, I'm not articulate. I don't have a way with words. I'm scared, and I say terrifically, just like Paul. But God doesn't take you in that position and place you in a place that He would have placed Paul as a mature Christian leader. My daughter Julie loves to help me when I go out to wash the car. I say, we're going to go give the car a bath, and she says, Great dad, let me help. Now the first time she asked me to do that, did I hand her a sponge and say, There it is. kid go to it. Should have probably dropped it in the uh gravel and then uh taken the whole thing right across the doors and the hood and I would have had stripes for a paint job. But what did I do? I said great, call it out. Here's your sponge, here's daddy's sponge. Daddy, see that wheel cover? Think he can tackle that? And she went after the wheel cover, and about 30 seconds later she said, see that's all done. And she began to learn how to do a wheel cover. After she graduated from one-wheel covers, she began to go on to four-wheel covers. From four-wheel covers, she graduated to bumpers She still hasn't gotten to the paint yet. It's still working on the chrome. But you can see my point. God takes us where we are right now in evangelism, and he says, if you're a one-wheel cover person, then I'll use You on that level in presenting Jesus. One neighbor, one person to pray for. God wants to use you right where you are If you're willing to be used by Him. Don't be insecure. The Holy Spirit can use each one here who knows Jesus Christ to lead another person to Jesus Christ. It'll take you where you are. Not where I am, where somebody else is. And I'll use you right there if you want to be. And then, secondly, this kind of dependence that overcomes our pride. I find I tend to oscillate, you see, between pride. Pride and despair. I tend to oscillate between saying that I can do it and a sense of subtle self confidence in presenting Christ that God has to bring down, to then saying I can't do it at all. God's not using me. Why am I even a pastor? But God wants us to overcome the pride by realizing that the focus is not my cleverness, but it's the Spirit using me. So that He can take a hold of my life. And so that by not my eloquence, my wisdom, my cleverness, but by my faithfulness, I seek to lift up Jesus. But you can never do That until you know Jesus. And so if there's any person here that has never come to know and to trust Jesus, and his work at the cross, that's the first step. And I would be unfaithful if I were to not claim. Close in saying that for every one of us the issue is do we know Christ crucified? For as a church, that's our stand. We seek to declare nothing to you that's not integrated to Unrelated to Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Let's pray. When we see Jesus on the cross, we find that our minds recoil from such a demonstration of grace. And there we see our God, what we deserved. And there we see not simply the Son of Man glorious reigning on the throne, but as Jesus Himself said, His greatest glory. Displayed on the cross.