This idea of spiritual warfare. More and more we're seeing books published on spiritual warfare. more and more articles on it. Uh a number of us are familiar with Frank Peretti's uh two best selling books of this present dark this present darkness and piercing the darkness. How many of us have read one of those books? A number of us have. Uh those books have certainly made a number of us aware of the issues of spiritual warfare like we'd never had been before. And uh there are a number of other things we're seeing. Bill Gothard uh has as one of his uh most popular videos now a series by an Argentina pastor uh Ed Silvoso and uh one video that's particularly popular is his um talk on spiritual warfare. There's also seminars on this. Steve Green went just a couple of weeks ago to a seminar that was sponsored by the Consortium of Christian Counselors and Pastors within the Baltimore area And it was on counseling and deliverance, how to discern between mental illness, emotional difficulties, and demon possession And how to practice as a counselor or as a pastor exorcisms and demon deliverance in situations right here in sophisticated Baltimore and DC. And yet the amazing thing is that with all this is going on, as we see the Spirit of God bringing renewal in various ways, and we see increasing hostility to the gospel. There's still many of us who in our day-to-day living are relatively unaware that there is a spiritual warfare even going on, aren't they? I mean, how aware are we of this? How much do we take seriously our enemy? It reminds me of the Christians in DC, back at the beginning of the Civil War. In what later became known as the First Battle of Manassas, uh the people knew that the Yankee, that the uh rebels were coming up against the Yankees, United States Army. And so uh there was a place that they thought that they would meet around Manassas, Virginia, and in anticipation of this The people from DC decided to go out and see this battle. They were so sure that the United States Army was going to utterly rout the rebels that people took out picnic lunches. In order to be able to have a good view from the hillsides of this battle. Imagine their horror as they began to see blood flow As they saw the United States Army utterly routed, and as they saw these unsophisticated Southern rebels defeat the United States Army In case there's anybody here from the South, I don't want cheers at this point, but that was a terrible blow to those who saw what happened. What was the problem? We underestimated the enemy. And it's the same way for us spiritually. We tend to underestimate who we're up against as Christians, don't we? Next Sunday's Pentecost, the time when the Church of Jesus Christ celebrates the fact that the Holy Spirit has come to fill us in power the very Power of Jesus, the resurrected Jesus. And so I'd like to spend this week and next week taking a look at this question of spiritual warfare from Ephesians chapter 6. As we understand the power of the Spirit in us and what we're up against, that we might be more discerning concerning this battle that we're in. So if you haven't already, please turn in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 6. Let me read chapter 6, verses 10 to 13 for this week. And then next week we'll pick up chapter 10, verse 13, and go on to verse 20. Hear God's holy word. Pay attention to what he says. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in His mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities. Against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil In the heavenly realms. Therefore, put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground. And after you have done everything, to stand. I want for us to notice this morning two things that I believe that we as Christians Need to see in order for us to avoid depression and defeat in the spiritual warfare that we're engaged in. The first thing that I believe that we need to see from this passage is the opposition against us. The opposition against us. And the first thing that we need to see about that opposition Is the fact of the opposition. The fact of the opposition. Notice again what he says there in verse 12. Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, against the spiritual forces of evil. In the heavenly realms. What Paul is reminding us of here is the simple fact that while you and I tend to think that our enemies are people These really people that give us hassles and trouble and discouragement, make our lives uncomfortable or miserable. Paul says your real enemy does not wear skin. Your real enemy and plural, your enemies are spiritual in nature. They're demonic. It reminds me somewhat of the example of radio signals. Know that as we sit here this morning, we're surrounded by radio signals. You're engulfed in radio signals. There's radio signals of all kinds of frequencies going on, AM, FM around you. There's TV signals going on right zipping past your head. Uh there are C B signals, telephone signals, and shortwave signals, and all kinds of radio signals. In fact, there are some people who have an obsession believing that they're drowning in radio signals, you know. And you begin to think about it. Have you ever thought about how many signals there are around you? And you know, all these signals all over and you're oblivious to them. But you begin to think about them and it's you know, it can you feel a little spooky about all you know the air seems clear, but it's really not. Well why is it? Why are we unaware of it? Well because you don't have a receiver And so that which we know exists all about us, we're oblivious to because we have no means for receiving it. But put a receiver in your hand, a boom box, or some way of receiving that signal. And all of a sudden you can transmit what was a moment ago totally unknown to you into a hundred decibels of sound if you have the right equipment Now, an interesting thing about radio signals is that they vary, of course, in their intensity And if you have a weak signal, then you need a powerful receiver to pick it up. In some cultures, Demonic activity is rather subtle. Satan's strategy is to entice us to believe that he doesn't exist. To ignore him and to dismiss him. And in our culture, mostly that's been his strategy. For us to believe that he really isn't a threat. He doesn't exist But all this spiritual stuff about hell and a real Satan is really just the talk of the right-wing fringe. In other cultures The signal's very strong. When I was a kid, we lived in a home and behind our yard there was a ham operator And this fella had 50 feet from my bedroom window a broadcasting tower that was 60 feet tall. Thing ever fell over would go right through our roof. And this guy used to broadcast all over the world. I used to tape with a tape recorder music off the radio And when that guy would send out a signal, I'd pick up his broadcasting XQRZ from Zing to Zambia or somewhere else, you know. I picked that up through my tape recorder, louder than anything in the radio. It was an overwhelming signal. Some people have said they pick up signals in their fillings in their teeth if the signal's strong enough. And so a very strong signal does not need a very sensitive receiver to be aware of it. There are nearly 100 million animists in the world today. You ask an animist if the spiritual world is real, and there is no question in that person's mind. They live in constant terror of the spirits. Their whole life is oriented around controlling the spirits and superstitious and occultic practices. And I believe that in our own culture, in the years ahead, as the spiritual warfare intensifies, the fact of our opposition Is going to need much less sensitivity to pick up the reality of it. I believe that whereas right now there still needs to be An intensification of our awareness in the future, what we're going to need, is more of an assurance of the Lord's power. But what Jesus is trying to do to you and to me right now here through Paul's words in Ephesians 6 is he's giving to us a receiver. And he's saying, Tune in your receiver to understand the fact of the spiritual opposition that's right here in this room. Seeking to get you to dismiss this, to disbelieve the gospel, to dismiss Jesus and his claims on your life and all the rest of that. Now, having stated the fact of the opposition, we need to notice also, secondly, the nature of the opposition. Notice the nature of this opposition. We're told three things about the opposition that's here right in this room. First of all, the demonic opposition in this warfare is powerful. That's the first thing. Number one there. Powerful. Look again at the words used to describe these powers in verse 12. Paul says, our struggle is not against flesh and blood. It does not wear skin. But it's against the rulers, against the authorities. Against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Rulers, authorities, powers, powers of this dark world. That could also be translated powers of this present darkness That's the phrase from which Frank Pareti got the title for his first book, This Present Darkness. It's Ephesians 6:12. Literally, the Greek there is world rulers. A number of Bible scholars have said that there's indication by the different terms that are used in this verse and other verses in Scripture. That various spirits have administrative responsibility for various territories and an echelon, a hierarchy of authority in power. There are those who perhaps have a rather small dominion of power to do evil, and there are those to whom they report an Higher and higher powers, so that when you get to what Paul describes here as the world rulers, we're talking about a power that you and I cannot begin to comprehend. Jesus said in John 12, 14 and 16 that Satan is the prince of this world. He controls it. 1 John chapter 5 says that the whole world lies under the control of the evil one. Look back at chapter 2 of Ephesians. Where Paul had described in verse 1 and 2, he says, You were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world. and of the ruler and of the kingdom of the air, the Spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. Paul's saying that before you follow Jesus Christ, you aren't simply following the lusts of your own flesh and your own desires, but those desires were being exploited by the kingdom of this heir. in in the air. The spiritual forces at work in your disobedience and my disobedience. Powerful forces Powerful to do evil. The second thing that we're told about, these forces, is that they are evil. They're evil. Again, notice what he says in verse 12. Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities. Against the powers of this dark world, this present darkness. Philip's translation translates this: the agents from the very headquarters of evil. And then he says, the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. These forces are beings of unbelievable maliciousness and unscrupulousness. Who have one desire to bring down the kingdom of Jesus Christ and to destroy you as one who belongs to him. To destroy your life, to deflect you from Jesus, to make you ineffective for him, to destroy your family, your home, your children, your relationships, to do everything possible. That he might make you miserable, discouraged, defeated, and to deflect you from God's agenda into your life Linda Carner, our missionary in Japan, lives in a home of Japanese people, and there were the little uh altars to the gods there and she became increasingly sensitive to the evil in that home. And so one day she decided that she would pray against that evil and she would ask God to cast out the demonic stronghold that was gripping that home. And she sensed just a resistance every time she would talk about the things of Christ. And she prayed. And after she prayed, she said for the next days and weeks she was afflicted with some mysterious sickness the doctors couldn't diagnose it But she was weak, she was discouraged, she was depressed, and she realized she had taken on something more evil and more malicious and more powerful than she had realized. She finally recovered and understood why Christians speak about confronting these things in teams, in the power of Jesus Christ. Gary Ahrens, one of our elders, just shortly before he was ordained as an elder in this congregation, he shared with some of you about how one night he was dreaming about evil. And he woke up to a very real sense of a presence of evil right there in the bedroom. An overpowering sense of a tangible evil. And he prayed that the Lord Jesus would get that out of there and protect his family. And he said he had a very clear sense of the evil departing and being removed, gaining peace and then being able to go back to sleep. He shared that with Kathy the next morning at breakfast. And Kathy, his wife's eyes, got real big, and she said, last night? He said, Yeah boy, that's what happened. She said, last night I too had a dream, totally independent, that there was an evil that was coming into our home to destroy our family. And I awoke and I prayed that God would protect us. Now what are the chances of two people having a very real sense of such an evil presence at the same time when they've never had that before? Just before he was about to take spiritual leadership within our congress. Now that doesn't scare off anybody from considering becoming an elder in this congregation. I don't know. You know, we're we separate the men from the boys, you know, when you come around here and But we need to understand that you and I are up against an evil force. It's not only powerful, it's not only evil, but thirdly, it's cunning. That's the third thing. It's cunning. Look at verse 11. He says, put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. The word schemes is a word that refers to stratagems involving tactical shrewdness and ingenious deception. Anything to keep you and me off our guard. Satan doesn't care what it is. His schemes, his stratagems are manifold Whether it's to use some little what we call personality conflict to divide believers from within the body. I've been amazed at Christians that I've been talking to in the last weeks, of how many of them have been particularly finding their greatest opposition, the greatest source of their discouragement was from other believers. Satan doesn't care what he uses. A wolf in sheep's clothing. Paul warns of that. False doctrine. Deflected priorities. Living according to this world and forgetting that we're in a battle and that there is a world to come that's infinitely more important. Whatever it is, cunning. Paul says. Be careful to stand against the devil's schemes. Sometimes he's very subtle. Other times he reveals his hand and plays a little bit too far. Recently I read a story from a Presbyterian church in America pastor, Josiah Bancroft, ministering in the South, and he said That one night he was called by a man in his church. And as he was called, the man said, uh, there's some trouble over at the Roper household. They've asked me to come on over. Could you come on with me, preacher? And so he said, I guess I must have said yes, because a half hour later I was standing out in the cold waiting for his old pickup to come get me. As they went over, they talked about what they might need. And J-O, the fellow who was driving the pickup, said, I don't know what's going on over there, but it's beyond me. Diana, his wife's really crying. And Josiah the pastor said, well, maybe they had a fight. He said, Ah no, she don't cry about that. They got to the mobile home and as you parked the pickup, they said as they went in, Before they even got to the door, he could hear screaming and moaning and wailing. It made his blood run cold. He wanted to run back into the pickup and go back home. They opened the door and there was Diana in a heat, shuddering, quivering, crying in the corner. There was her husband over in the other corner, and he was sitting in this chair. He'd squeeze his eyes real tight and then he would cry out and scream and moan. And then Josiah said he shouted out something that made his hair stand on end. He said, They've got me. But all of a sudden he realized that all through his life as a Christian, he had theoretically believed in demons But he never really believed he'd ever have to confront one. He realized at that moment he was face to face with a very personal evil. And he said he went over and prayed, sounding a lot braver than he felt inside. Lord Jesus, you can take this. I command you in the name of Jesus Christ, come out. In a few seconds, Larry, the fellow who had been screaming, became calm. His eyes opened clear and he said, What was that? Josiah talked to him about evil spirits and the Holy Spirit and the saving work of Jesus Christ These people had not come to his church. They weren't believers. But I'll tell you, they were in church that next Sunday. And they gave their lives to Jesus Christ the week after that. And he finished by saying, how many Larry's like that are there in our cities? People who are being oppressed and possessed under fertile ground for the gospel. This seminar I told you that Steve Green went to devoted time to this whole matter of demonic activity right here in Baltimore and DC. And I believe that if Columbia Presbyterian seeks to become more active, particularly in standing against the unchurched and the evils of this county and for people, we're going to see more democracy. Demonic activity, more demonic opposition. One for us to consider just for a moment now, in the quiet of our hearts, the foe that we're up against, the reality of the Battle that you and I are engaged in. Let's pray and consider on our own hearts just for a moment what we're talking about. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rule Against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil. In the heavenly realms. Show us, Lord, now the power of Jesus. We might cleave to him. Awake us to reality. Amen Having looked at this now, the intention is not to scare you, unless it's to scare you to Jesus. But let's look at what we have available to us. The second thing to consider then is not only the opposition, but then the power to resist this opposition. We need to assure ourselves, first of all, A, that Jesus power over the powers is sufficient. Paul began this epistle by talking about that power. You remember in a couple of verses from which we've taken one of the purposes of our church Our purpose as Columbia Presbyterian Church, to know Him, to know our hope, and to know His what? His power. Amen. And so in Ephesians chapter 1, verse 19, Paul speaks of that. Do you remember he said that he prayed that our eyes would be opened, that we might know his incomparably great power for us who believed. And he then goes on to describe what is that power like? What is the measure of that power? He said, That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. It's resurrection power. It's the power that raises the dead. It's also ascension power. And he goes on to describe that. It's like his power. That he exerted when he seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Satan and the demons can do nothing to harm you, but that they first must get the permission of Jesus. 1 John chapter 5, verses 18 and 19, tremendous encouragement to us John says there, we know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who was born of God keeps him safe. And the evil one cannot harm him. We know that we're the children of God and that the whole world is under the control of the evil one. So the whole world's under his control, but you see that? God keeps you and me safe. He cannot harm us. And so you see, the second thing is that that power is available to us. See again what he says in chapter 1, verse 19? He wants us to see that incomparably great power which is for us. Who believed. In chapter 3, verse 7, he talks about that power. He says, I became a servant of the gospel by the gift of God's grace given to me through the working of his power. Verse 10. He talks about that God's intent was that now through the church the manifold wisdom of God would be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. He's saying through weak people like you and me, his power. Is being demonstrated to those rulers and authorities. Verse 16. He says, I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being. Verse 20. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than we ask or think, imagine, or imagine according to his power that's at work within us. Now you remember we've talked about the book of Ephesians is based on what we call gospel grammar. The imperatives are based on the indicatives, or the commands are based on the statement of fact. You remember how we've talked in the past of the fact that Ephesians 1 to 3 tell you who you are and what you have in Christ. Those are the indicatives. That's that blank there up next to those commands, of the statements of fact. Now after telling us who you are and what you have, you see then in chapters four to six he tells you what to do with it, how to live it out, how to experience it. So now take a look at chapter 6, verse 10. With that understanding of all this description of power, after saying all that, Paul says, now finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. And so you see what he's saying to you in this morning is in your weakness, whatever it is that you feel you're up against, Satan cannot defeat you. If you stand strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Amen? You believe that? You need to. I need to. We cannot stand on our own strength. That's the imperative. It's based on what we have. And so the final thing is that you and I need to see that power is only for those who realize their weakness. You and I need to realize our weakness that we would know his power. You see again what verse 10 says: Be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. You don't have it. A friend of mine, Paul Miller, was the head of a World Harvest mission that Dan Rowell's going out under. And a couple of years ago, he came intensely aware of the spiritual force of the spiritual power. And he began to pray. And he said at that time he committed himself to Jesus in a way like he had never done before. Lord, I am fully yours to use within this spiritual battle. He said what happened in the following weeks and months rather surprised him. Everything went to pieces. Three of the missionaries with World Harvest were kicked out of Uganda. Ten missionaries left the field out of discouragement and various other reasons. They experienced the severest deficit they had in the history of the mission. We're talking about a deficit for Columbia Presbyterian that has us humble. They were seventy five thousand dollars in the hole. Small mission. His own business as a as he had a tent making business on the side. That got into financial trouble. His daughter, one of his children, his daughter is deaf. He was told she was told by the school she could not return to the school next. One day he was overwhelmed with what was happening. He went home and he told his wife that he felt like Jonah, but he wasn't sure what he was running from. And she said, Well, why do the rest of us have to suffer? Somebody will grab his feet, I'll get his hands, and we'll can throw this guy out. He said, I felt like I was Jonah with Job's wife in the boat But he said through those weeks after that I began to see as I thought of Robert Mumford's little booklet, My Heart Christ Home, that I wanted to rearrange my home, my my life, that Jesus would be Lord of it, and he was bringing a bulldozer through. In order to level the whole thing, because he wanted to lay a larger foundation for faith that would be sufficient for his glory. When you and I get serious about this spiritual warfare, God's going to be doing some things that may rearrange our lives. But it's because our lives are insufficient for the capacity of faith in his glory. So I want us right now to come before the Lord. And to express our willingness to be involved in that. Lord our God, take us in our fears. Lord, wake us up to see reality. That we might be involved in the battle. And that you would rearrange us to show us our utter inadequacy and to show us the power of Jesus That we individually and as a church might know your power in new ways against the foe that we hate. Lord, reveal yourself to us, we pray. Make us willing and available in Jesus' name. Amen. God is our refuge Our strength, in ever-present help and trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth give way, and the mountains fall. Into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, and the mountains quake with their surging. There is a river Whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy place where the Most High dwells. God is within her. She will God will help her at break of day.