Again, well good morning everybody. I'm Edward Ruiz, the pastoral intern here. For those of you who are maybe visiting us and not familiar with who I am. And uh Pastor Bob, uh the main pastor, the lead pastor, will be back, Lord willing, next weekend uh to carry on in our sermon. We're in a 10-part summer series on Christ's Church, and today is part five. And you might have noticed in your bulletin, we're referencing what's called the Office of the General Believer. And so this week and the next two weeks are kind of a mini-series. of the general offices of the church. We have the office of the general believer, elder, and deacon, which Bob will cover those other two offices later on. But today is the office of the general believer. And I should have actually welcomed you as Saints of Christ, because that's really going to be a theme that we begin with this morning. Good morning, Saints of Christ. I pray your spirit as well. We're going to look at Philippians chapter 1. So if you have your Bible, feel free to open up Philippians chapter 1. We'll look at two verses there. It'll also be displayed on the screen. I'm going to pray for us, or read the text, pray for us, and then we'll dive into our sermon. So saints of Christ, hear the word of God. Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi with the overseers and deacons, grace and peace to you. From God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. This ends the reading of God's Word. Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your word that is living and active and true. And as an extension of our worship this morning, we confess that your word has authority over our lives, and so we submit to it right now and ask that by your spirit you would feed us, you would teach us. You would correct us and spur us on toward love and good deeds and help us to understand this for our good and your glory. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. The main point for the sermon today can be summarized in this sentence, that in Christ, every believer holds this high office of saint Where our primary vocation is to one another, the body of Christ, to grace and peace. We hold the high office of saint, where our vocation is to one another, the body of Christ, through grace and peace. And Paul introduces us to this concept. By way of letter. You know, he's a he writes letters. And what is in a letter, you might ask. What is in a letter? When I was in Iraq, circa 20 years ago or so, I used to receive handwritten letters and envelopes like this. And back and forth with friends. Just telling, you know, catching up one another about each other's life and our faith and our families and whatnot. But no matter how nice and sweet and good my friendships were, I never actually began a letter in the way that Paul begins this letter. By saying something like Edward Ruiz, servant of Jesus Christ, and then I carry on. Or I never received anything like that from my friends either But this is Paul's style. And if if there's anything that I say, though, it's usually at the end of the letter You know, I'll sign it, say cordially Edward, or sincerely Edward, and if it's a professional letter, I'll put a couple um letters after my name to kind of denote my status in some way. So it's at least morally neutral or neutral in some ways, but it's it doesn't really, I don't do anything that denotes something seemingly negative, like a servant. And that word servant that Paul is using is, I think, purposely contrasted, but servant in that Greek means slave, really. So he's a slave of Christ, and that's a good thing, but he's thinking of himself as a slave, and then he's writing to saints. So there's this kind of gap that he's kind of contrasting who he is compared to who they are. And again, this isn't unusual for Paul to be writing entire congregations. We have several epistles that where he's written to congregations. But apart from the church in Rome, and apart from uh individual letters of Titus and Philemon, there's no other Epistle that he has written to a congregation where he he starts off like this. He says, Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, to the saints and Philippi, together with the elders and deacons. That triad, that that phrase, that opening line is explicitly unique to the church in Philippi. And that's important for us when we think about this whole idea of the office of the general believer. This is kind of where this is derived from, where we have, you might say, these three distinct offices, the elder, the deacon. and the individual believer in one opening line. So the question becomes, does this impact how we think about what he says in Philippi? Does it impact our theology of the different offices? I think it does. Think about it like this. When servants serve the saints, a church thrives. Okay? And part of how we get a little bit of a clue as to Philippi being a thriving congregation, I would say if we use modern vernacular, it's a ideal and thriving church plant. And the clue that we have to that is this opening line. We have saints, we have elders and deacons, a church that Paul planted, and they are together. They are living and breathing together, having their being, and so I think we have a thriving congregation And so we have saints. This is where we're going to pick up a little bit in point two this morning. Defining idea this idea of the saint. You, if you are in Christ, you are a saint. And so I wonder what comes to mind for you when you hear the word saint? Incidentally, on my Substack feed, I was just, maybe my phone's listening to me because I saw an article from a Roman Catholic priest who was actually addressing why we should pray to saints. So funny enough, I get to use this uh uh this metaphor here or this analogy in this case. But maybe you think of those stained glass windows or those individuals within those other traditions. Where they canonize an individual and they kind of vote through some ecclesiastical means and assign someone this status of being a saint. And so much so that they pray to them, even. Okay? That's not our idea of sainthood at all. Paul demolishes that idea altogether. There's no two-tier system, upper-level Christians here and other Christians there. If you are in Christ, you are a saint. And it was very appropriate that we sang this song about God being holy forever. That's the idea of sainthood as well. You are a holy one set apart for Christ and set apart in God. So sainthood Your holiness in Christ that has been given to you. It is not spiritual attainment. You don't accrue spiritual points and get this. This is really what we would say in a kind of in Reformation language, it's a covenantal address to you in Christ. And by that meaning that It's your default term as a Christian and how you would think about yourself. It's your default identity as a Christian And identity, that word is a big buzzword now, a days, but being a saint in Christ, being set apart in Christ, it is who you are. So our status does not wax and wane based on our devotional status to Christ. Your identity and your life as a holy, set-apart saint in Christ is permanently secure through the imputation of Christ's righteousness. And so while these things are true, we don't work to achieve this identity. This identity does define our work going forward. and how we live as Christians and how we, as a general believer, live out this, you might say, our vocation here as a general, as a, as a general believer. So what are the works of a general believer? Having established this point that we are saints, you might wonder, since sainthood, we are secure in Christ's righteousness. We are now free to live out our identity, to fulfill our vocation through this blood brought bought uh uh exchange that got that has happened to us in Christ. But what is that? What does that look like? In point three, I'm gonna unpack What I would like to think of as I guess three strands of one another ministry, or three strands of one another imperatives. And you'll see in your bulletin, I'm kind of seguing a little bit from last week, we talked about discipleship starting at home and cultivated in the church, and then you you move out into the world, your neighborhood, your community, wherever it is that God is calling you. And so your job, your your vocation as a saint starts at home, is cultivated at church, and breathes out, lives out in your community elsewhere. And so I'm gonna try to uh Use one another passages. You're familiar with one another passages, perhaps, where Paul says in some way, build up one another, encourage one another, love one another, these very saints. I'm going to give three commands that we are to imply uh uh employ these imperatives, one command, I'll just pick because there's too many of them to pick from, but one command per domain of our life I'm going to try to tease out what what like this this impossible scenario of how to apply this command. There's going to be a context and a scenario that I'll describe that maybe you identify with. I'll talk about how sin really makes it so difficult to live this way, but talk about the fact that you are a saint because you are already redeemed, that you can obey this command in this domain. So hopefully that that comes together smoothly here for us. But so our first domain that we're thinking about is in the home. And the passage that I want to draw your attention to, the first one another imperative, you can find in Ephesians 5, 17, and 21. That whole section of verses is a lot of different little commands, but he he starts off by saying here in verse 17, therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will is. Then he gives a few different commands, but he ties it up here in verse 21, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. So here's a mu here's a uh an impossible scenario, a seemingly impossible scenario here where you wonder to yourself, could you really do this? Okay. Imagine you're a Christian couple, you're married, and you're facing financial ruin, hardship, distress. A husband owns his own business and for whatever reason he's just making poor decision, bad decision, unwise decisions, despite the good counsel of his dear wife, who's warned him. She's just gotta more or less sit and watch life savings dwindle, retirement savings dwindle, some sense of security kind of just disappear. And so over time the husband gets defensive, the wife gets offensive, she becomes critical, he becomes ashamed. This idea of mutual submission in that context, it seems quite impossible, doesn't it? Sin, that's the culprit here It works in our hearts in such a way it provokes the way that it provokes pride, for instance, to submit might make it seem like we're just weak. Or sin provokes us to just self-protection. I can't put myself in a situation where maybe my shame will be exposed or my or my uh weaknesses were exposed or my lack of wisdom was exposed. Sin whispers to us that submission, submission itself means weakness. That self-preservation trumps sacrificial love. That's what sin whispers to us. And so ultimately, functionally speaking, sin says something like this, that marriage is ultimately about getting your needs met than rather of reflecting Christ. And so we need to hear these things. We need to be reminded when those we're facing those situations. And I face difficulty too, and I'm sure you have. But we are in Christ. And so this is good for us to remember our calling and our vocation in our homes. Because we are united with Christ, you can't submit to one another, not purely from a position of weakness. But from a position of full security in Christ, because you are his beloved son and daughter. The husband in that scenario, he can submit to his wife Because his identity is not found in his performance. The wife can submit to her husband because she trusts not in her husband's wisdom per se. But she trusts in God's gracious and perfect sovereign care over her life. And so they both can die to one another because they are both already alive in Christ. And so mutual submission here in this context. really again becomes an extension of our worship of our Lord and Savior. That's the home environment. Let's talk about the church environment. How does a one another one another imperative play out in our church environment? Again, there's many passages I could have chosen, but here's one, 1 Thessalonians 5. 11, if you want to write that down. It says this, therefore encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. So here's your impossible scenario number two. You have been attending church faithfully for years, 20 years. You're a part of the church plant. You're faithful. And in time, you've come to find out that someone that you've been serving alongside with for however long, years Has been actually surreptitiously spreading lies about you, undermining your work and your labor, falsely accusing you of things, tarnishing your name, gossiping And so it not only damages the relationship, but it actually creates some significant personal pain. The command to build up this person who's doing this to this, doing this to that to us. It might actually feel like we're kind of enabling or rewarding the evil in some way. And so sin is the culprit there as well. Sin is the culprit that gets you to not do your work in this case as well. It corrupts our response through through wounded pride, which plays out like this. We demand vindication before we extend grace. We withhold good in order to prevent more hurt. Our heart becomes what I would call a justice-obsessed heart, where we want that person to pay. We want a pound of flesh, so to speak. And so to build up this person who's done this to us, it might sin, this is what sin whispers to us. If I do this, I'm just becoming a doormat. That's what sin says. But again, because of your identity in Christ, you're hidden with Christ. And so your reputation, whatever it is that you're doing in your congregation, it does not rest on this person's opinion of you. It rests entirely in what God's view of you is and what He has called you to do and enabled you to do. Your security does not come from being loved by this person, but really being perfectly loved by your Heavenly Father. And so you can, as strange as it may seem, you can build up this person according to their needs, those who seek to tear us down. Because Christ Because he built us up while we were enemies. Your identity as a forgiven sinner You've received immeasurable grace. And so by his spirit, you can extend to that same grace. And again, in this context, building up somebody who's done this and doing that mindfully, actively becomes an extension of worship. It becomes an act of worship for us. Now our third domain, kind of the world, our neighborhood, wherever it is that we're at our work. The one and other passage that I selected for this section would be 1 Peter 4. 9, if you want to write that down. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. And so here's your impossible scenario. Again, can you really do this in a case like this? That you're a Christian family. And you notice that the next door neighbor, they have very strong political views Such that they put out signs on their yard and they have bumper stickers on their car. And maybe you follow one another on social media and you get to see all the The various things that they believe and the positions that they hold that you think and you you can quote chapter and verse are fundamentally destructive to the society that we live. There's kind of two spectrums, if you will. On one hand, we just this person calls everybody else fascists Or on one end of the other everything, they they call the other person Christian nationalist or something like that. They just want to use religion to control. Can you imagine showing hospitality to a person who wants to order a society in such a way that you believe is dangerous to society? Can you really welcome them into your home and give them a meal? Sin, when we let sin have its way, it says, heck no Political idolatry is kind of what I would call it. We make political identity, we let that trump over our spiritual identity, our sainthood identity. We give way to tribal loyalty, believing that political alignment is a prerequisite to receiving Christian love. So sin also it just kind of makes us self-righteous. We convince ourselves that our views are purely biblical. Again, we can chap quote chapter and verse, and their views are purely evil. Sin makes us forget that the gospel of Jesus Christ transcends every earthly kingdom, and it certainly transcends every political view that we hold. However wrong or right one might think them to be. The worst view, whatever that is, imagine whatever that is. That does not disqualify somebody at the base level From receiving the love of Christ through you. I think we do well to recall something else that Paul said. I'll read for us a lengthy piece here out of Ephesians. If you want to write it down, Ephesians 2, 1 through 5. I'm going to read this text for us nice nice nice and loud here. It says, And you were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked. Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air and the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived. And the passions of our flesh carrying out the desires of the body and in the mind. And we're by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved, even when we were dead in trespasses, he made you alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And so because your citizenship is in heaven, it's first in heaven. Because you have literally been brought from the grave, you could love your neighbor whose earthly political loyalties might be set up in such a way that actually keeps sending people to the grave. Think about this. You can show hospitality to someone because Christ Welcome tax collectors, he welcome sinners, he welcome zealots, he welcome Pharisees, he welcome prostitutes, and most of all, he welcomed you and me. Now, how do we keep doing this? Maybe you agree with me. I'm not saying anything personally new, perhaps. You get this vision, and today you'll work it out, but tomorrow I need the same grid. How do I keep doing it tomorrow? And the next day? You might think think of this as the fuel for this one-another life. What's the fuel for the one-an-other lifestyle going forward? This is point four. I think Paul Teases this out a little bit when he says, the grace and peace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Excuse me, he doesn't say that Or does he say that? I forgot my notes here, excuse me. I'm kind of losing my mind in a moment, so excuse me. Verse 2. But the grace and peace is the part that I'm trying to tease out. What is grace and peace exactly? How is this fuel? Well the grace, this is a shorthand way, I'm going to argue is a shorthand way of saying this is what the gospel is. The grace that has been given to you in Christ is what I just read in Ephesians. You have been bought with the blood of Christ, you've been redeemed from death and brought over to life. It's a gift. It's a grace. And now, as a result of that redemption and that salvation, you have peace with God. And so grace and peace is a shorthand way of saying the gospel of Jesus Christ. So the fuel for going forward and living out these one-an-other imperatives in your office as a saint in Christ. Your office as a general believer is the gospel. That's your fuel, the gospel of Jesus Christ. You might ask How does the gospel actually impact or make it possible for me to carry on day-to-day and endure these possible seemingly impossible scenarios? You might wonder, you might say to yourself, How do I know and can I know that I'm actually doing what God has called me to do? Is that possible? The short answer is yes. Part of how we know that the Spirit is at work in us, when the automatic questions in our hearts when these scenarios come up isn't Do I need to obey here? But rather, how do I obey here? That becomes the automatic question for us. That's how the gospel transforms and begins to shape how we live in the home, how we live at church, and how we live in the community. Would someone When the husband or the wife, but the gospel gives you the grace, spouses, to submit. Because Christ, the King of kings, he took on the form of a servant. He submitted himself to even death. And at church, when someone betrays you, even when someone sharply disagrees with you, the gospel makes it possible For this place to become, CPC, for it to become not a place where building up one another is just merely possible, but it's inevitable because of the gospel. And in our communities, because the gospel enables us to extend hospitality across political views. The gospel reminds us that our greatest problem is not political differences and division. But that there's a real spiritual matter of life and death on the line. You might think to yourself, and if we're having a conversation over coffee, you might say, Well, Edward, look, you don't know what this person did to me. And you're right, I don't know. I don't know half of it. But you know what? I do know what was done to Christ. If you're tempted to look for an off-ramp on your vocational calling If you say, how far are we to really work out these imperatives? Are there any boundaries whatsoever? Well, let's see what Paul later says in chapter 2 of Philippians. I'm going to read a couple verses here for us. He says, have this mind among yourself. Which is yours in Christ, who though he was in the form of God did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. So your office as a saint, Christian, It does come with what we would call nowadays as with a warning sign. There is a possibility of what we would call workplace violence. That is to say, you obey Christ long enough, faithfully enough, it might cost you your life. Christians, the gospel is not a mere theological proposition. It is the good news that makes worshiping this eternal and holy God that we just sang about possible forever. The gospel is what makes congregations thrive. So I want to end our time this morning in a little bit of the same way that I started. We're talking about what is in a letter. Have you ever wrote a letter or wrote an email That you later regretted? Ever said things with ink and pen that you wish you could just go back five minutes and just completely delete everything I have. I've I've said things that I I really do and truly regret. But I want to invite you to think about something that's kind of bring this home a little bit. Do you know that your life is a letter? Your life is a letter. Paul insinuates this to the Corinthians. He says, in 2 Corinthians 3. 3, he says, And you show that you are a letter from Christ, delivered by us, written not with ink. But with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of human hearts. So your life is a letter So how are you living your life letter? What is the letter of your life saying about you? What is the letter that's being written in your home and in your church and in your neighborhood, in your community where you live? Does the letter that's being written tell a story of a blood-bought saint? If it doesn't, then why not? I'll leave that between you and the Lord. And so maybe here's a fun challenge. I have this little envelope. Go home and find an envelope and a 3x5 letter or card and write the name of an individual on that card and put it in the thing. Don't don't mail it to anybody, but just put it here as a sort of visual and ask God to do a supernatural work in you, to write a new letter in your heart and in your life with respect to this person. Your life uh in Christ, your identity as a saint. It's not something that you need to be ashamed of. It's not something we need to be embarrassed by. It's something that we need to rise to. It's good that we would rise to it. And so I uh call upon you. Saints of CPC, to rise to your office and may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ flow into every square inch of your home of this congregation, this church, and your workspace, or wherever it is that you go and have your being. Let us pray. Gracious Father Thank you that you have in fact brought us from death to life. You have called us to yourself and made us sons and daughters, and you have given us this lofty, high office of being saints, holy ones, set apart for your service. So would you give us grace to fulfill our calling, to fulfill our vocation as a general believer, as a saint of Christ, wherever we may be, in our homes, in our churches, and in our communities, help us to do this faithfully. For your glory we ask, in Christ's name we pray. Amen.