Begin or early, I'm here in the same way that I commenced our furlough almost, well, ten months ago, our home ministry assignment, opening God's word to you That's how I commenced it and as Alan said we're leaving on Wednesday to return to Madrid. And so it's a delight to be able to close in the same way opening God's word to you. And thank you for this privilege. And thank you, Alan, and the session for this opportunity. Please turn in your Bible to Psalm hundred and thirty-nine. Psalm a hundred and thirty-nine. And I'll be reading verses 1 through 6, although Sandy has already read that portion and part of that, and a lot of other verses that are very pertinent. Before I read, let me ask you a question. Have you ever heard someone ask or say, rather, perhaps yourself, if only I had known this or that, I wouldn't have done that or I I would have done this. Perhaps you said something similarly. And I think of our last four and a half, five years in Spain And and as you know, they've been, well, glorious times and very difficult times for us as well. Nothing nothing really happened that I expected to happen And I wonder, five years ago, if I had known the things that would have transpired in Madrid, would I have gone? You know, knowledge is so crucial. From one perspective, we could say knowledge is power. Perhaps you said that as well. If only I had known this about you, maybe, maybe things would be different. I would have taken a different course of action. You ever wonder, does God say such a thing? Because God said, Well, if only I had known that about you, maybe I wouldn't have done this other thing. I think not. I think not. But sometimes our experience perhaps leads us in that direction. You see, what do the scriptures declare? And as we've heard this morning already in the scripture passages is that God knows everything. And that's a nice term that theologians use is God's omniscience to describe that character, that aspect of God. That attribute of God that He's all-knowing, and it's linked to the fact that He's omnipresent, that He's ever-present, all-present everywhere. And we see that in this Psalm 139. So the scriptures declare very clearly that God God's eyes run everywhere, that He keeps watch on the good and the wicked. He searches all hearts, knows every everything about everybody all the time. And if we let that thought sink into our hearts and see how it's applied, perhaps, just this past week. It's a double-edged sword. And what I want to suggest to you who love the Lord Jesus Christ Who are trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ is that the knowledge of God is this God who is all-knowing. For you who allow the Lord Jesus Christ, this is good news. This is glorious. This is a matter for rejoicing and for celebrating what God has done. But for you who don't know the Lord Jesus Christ, for you who are on the outside looking in And wondering about this Christ and wondering about his body, this knowledge of God is not good news for you, but rather it's devastating news. It's dreadful to you who are outside of Christ. So that's what I would like us to see this morning and I pray that God would enable us to see that. So let's give attention to God's word in Psalm 139 verses 1 through 6 Oh Lord, you have searched me. And you know me. You know when I sit and when I rise. You perceive my thoughts from afar. You discern my going out and my lying down. You are familiar with all my ways. Before a word is on my tongue, you know it completely, O Lord. You hemm me in behind and before. You have laid your hand upon me And such knowledge is too wonderful for me, too lofty for me to attain. Let's pray. Well Father, we come knowing that even as we pray, you know our hearts. You know our prayer. You know everything about us as we sit here now. You know the type of week that we've had. You know our thoughts. You know our actions You know our attitudes, our motives, you know it all. Our hearts are laid bare before you. And because of that, we would ask, oh God, that you would have mercy upon us That you would instruct us, that you would cause your word to penetrate deeply into our hearts and to speak to us. Oh God, perhaps there be one here today. Who does not love you? We ask that you would be merciful to such a person and that you would bring them the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And Lord, for those who do know you, who've been blessed by you, who have the privilege of calling you Father, we pray that you would use your word to instruct us To edify us, to correct us, to rebuke us, to train us in righteousness. Minister to us, O God, in Jesus' name. Amen. What I'd like to do, first of all, is to consider several aspects or facets of God's knowledge, his omniscience, and looking at these first five verses particularly. Rumagav four. And then after that, what I'd like to do is is speak of some implications of this knowledge. And the first aspect or facet of God's omniscience and God's knowledge is that his knowledge is personal. It's so easy, is it not, when we talk about, well, yeah, God knows all things. We can say that and just kind of move on in life But I think the way David begins here, David was faced with accusations by his enemies And he goes before God with these accusations, these charges that are laid against him. And he presents his case to God. He says, God, you search me. And see what David is helping us to see as this all-knowing God. And this knowledge is very personal. It's not something that's simply abstract, a theological abstraction, but it has Personal ramifications. Look at verse 1. Oh Lord, you have searched me. Basir, search me. Search you and me. Now you might think, well the scripture's talking about God searching. Well that must be he he has some some something that he doesn't know, and that's why he searches But we must not think that somehow something is hidden from God, as if you know, hidden at least until he finds it, some kind of heavenly hide-and-seek. And what what the word searching here does not imply there's prior ignorance. But we know that the Lord knows all things without having to expend any effort on his part. And I think what the psalmist wants to convey to us is that God knows us so completely and uses language that helps us understand This language of searching, as if God had examined every cell in our being, and pried into every nook and cranny of your thought life, of your being. And uncovered all those things that we've swept under the rug, under the rug of forgetfulness. And he brings it all to the surface. See, we can understand searching because things are hidden from us and we search and we find. But not so with God. He doesn't search with that same attitude, with that same perspective. He searches our lives, so to speak, as a Coast Guard personnel, police search for contraband, ripping apart a car, ripping apart a boat, making sure that everything is exposed. So his knowledge is personal because as the rest of the Psalm says, He created us and He knit us in our mother's womb. What we find as well not only is his knowledge personal, but his knowledge is thorough Consider this, that there was never and there will never be a moment in history in which you are unknown to God. There will never be a moment in which you shall be beyond God's eye. There will never be a moment in which you will be beyond his observation, beyond his knowledge. His knowledge is thorough. See, now you might say, Well, yeah, I can understand that because We live in a day and age where we have computers and it's filled with all kinds of data. And so you might be tempted to think that somehow God just accesses information and just gathers data and keeps on gathering data. No, it's it's not that idea at all. He knows the future no less than the past and the present or possible events that never happened, no less than the actual events that do. He's forever aware of all things about you and about me, about every event. He doesn't have to access information. And nor are we to think that somehow he's applied his his his superior celestial intellect to a study of the creation and its contents to come to this knowledge. No, he knows it all. Even before it comes to pass and before we come to understand it. See, what we find in in verses, the first part of verse two and the first part of verse three is that His knowledge is thorough, we see it evidenced in that his knowledge covers every aspect of our lives. In verse two it says, first part, you know when I sit and when I rise Verse 3, first part, you discern my going out and my lying down. When I'm sitting down quietly, resting, sleeping, God knows that. When I'm about my business, moving around, running around, God knows. In my leisure, in my work, in the common and the mundane tasks of my life, God is there watching, observing, knows all things. In the great things of our lives, God is there. We're encircled within the bounds of God's knowledge. When we sleep and we forget. God never sleeps, He never forgets. His knowledge covers those things that are visible, the actions, the externalities, but that knowledge also encompasses that which is invisible, the internal. We see in the second part of verse 2 that he knows our subconscious. In verse 2 it says, You perceive my thoughts from afar He knows our unformed words, he knows our desires, and he knows our motives. Now think about this. If any of us had this kind of knowledge What would be like with other people? He knows our thoughts from afar. Before that thought enters into your mind, into your consciousness, and you say, Yeah, that's my thought. This is how I'm thinking. God already knows the whole th whole of it. It's foreknown to him, completely comprehended by him. Though the content is invisible to you and to me, God is cognizant of it all. He knows its shape. He knows where that thought came from and he knows where that thought is going. And then first four says, Before a word is on my tongue, you know it completely, O Lord. Before those words are formed in our minds, before those thoughts crystallize into words, into verbal patterns, before we speak them, the Lord knows the whole of it. He knows every word spoken and unspoken. And that's something to deal with as we live our lives. And the truth is, it doesn't seem to affect us very much. I asked myself as I was preparing for this message, how often do I keep this truth in mind? When I have to make a decision and when I take an action. And I wonder, Lord, would it how different would it be? How different would my my life be, my actions and my attitudes be if I that truth were deeply planted in my mind. And I thought, Lord, you know it all. Would it make any difference? And would it make any difference the way I speak to other people? And the words that I use with other folk Oh, I know how easy it is to conceal matters from one another. You know it. We do it all the time. We can't do that with the Lord. His knowledge is personal, his knowledge is thorough, but we find also in verse 3 that his knowledge discriminates, it judges. In verse 3 it says, you discern other translations, you scrutinize my going out and my lying down. You are familiar with all my ways. Then hear the idea of separating that judging that which is good and bad. So God we find his knowledge is not simply information, not simply data, but there's a there's a judgment that goes on. This is good, this is bad, this is right, this is wrong, this is pure, this is impure, this is holy, this is Unholy. And he knows the good, the bad, the ugly about you and about me And nothing, and this is what's amazing, nothing is misunderstood by our Lord. He knows all this infallibly. He never misjudges because there's nothing concealed from him. He knows your motives, he knows my motives, he knows our desires, our reasons, our excuses for every thought, every action, every movement in our lives. He knows if the things that you've done this past week were done in humility or in pride. To glorify God or to elevate yourself. He knows it all. It's astounding to consider. This is what he knows. Well this knowledge is all and just personal and thorough and scrutinizing, but we find in verse five that his knowledge surrounds us. You hem me in, says David, behind and before. You have laid your hand upon me. And here we have really an image of a practical effect of this knowledge of God. Picture his knowledge in this way: like walls that surround us. You can't go outside of those walls and be outside of the knowledge of God. You can't be free. You can't be external to that knowledge of God. It's in front of you, it's behind you, it's all around you. You cannot breathe, you cannot move without God knowing it. But beyond that, God ordaining it. We're always under the microscope, if you will, of God's eye. Constantly, his knowledge is recording, if you will, everything about our lives. Take these truths, these aspects of the knowledge of God together, that it's personal, that it's thorough That it judges and that it surrounds us. And my friends, if you allow this to sink into your lives and your thoughts right now, it ought to make you a bit uneasy. Perhaps some more than others. No, we don't like to be stared at You know, in Spain, personal space is very different. Being here in America, you know, there's the respectable distance between people, but it But in Spain there's there's none of this well give me six inches away. People are right in your face. You know, they're touching constantly. And you I don't know, maybe you might feel very uncomfortable doing that. In our culture, you don't like, it's not proper to stare at somebody. It makes you feel uncomfortable after a while. You know, some of you know that before the Lord called us to serve as as missionaries in Spain, that I worked as a social worker in Baltimore City. And one of the exercises I usually do with folk in helping them to understand communication is I would set one person in the middle of a group, let's say about 15 people. And just for a minute, I'd ask for volunteers, for one minute, just stand in the group. You don't have to do anything. The group is just going to look at you. And so the one person would stand in the middle. And sure enough, you know what happens. Fifteen eyes looking at you, or thirty eyes And people would say after 20, 20 seconds, all right, a minute's up. I said, no. A minute has not transpired. It has only been 20 seconds, 30 seconds And you can see how they actually, and we do it all the time, we begin to change our posture. Because we feel uncomfortable when people look at us for an extended period of time. Now, consider that. If you are not in Christ and to have the gaze of God upon you and to know that it's a holy gaze, that it's a thorough gaze. It ought to make you uncomfortable. See, for the one who lives life ignoring God, God's knowledge. Is dreadful. Let me talk about the implications for the non-believer and the implications for the believer. See, for you who are here and who are not trusted in Christ alone for salvation, if you have not come and said, yes, I want Jesus And I believe that Jesus died for my sins on that cross as m as a substitute. And I believe that his righteousness, his obedience is mine. He gave that to me If that's not what you believe and not trusting in, then you are rejecting the gospel. And your sins are set before God. And like Adam and Eve You who are an unbeliever want to hide from God as if they were possible. But there's no corner on the earth, there's no place in the universe to which you can go to escape God's gaze. And for you who are an unbeliever who are not trusting Christ alone, the knowledge of God is like a prison. Is a prison. And when you come face to face with this truth of the omniscience of God, His all-knowing, then all of a sudden it seems like you're caught in an ambush. You're besieged by an army that surrounds you. Behind you is a holy God saying, I know everything about you. I know all your sins. In front of you is the same holy God, proclaiming his truth day after day after day. And you suppress that That righteousness of God and that glory of God in your own unrighteousness. But you can't escape Him He's behind you, he's before you, you can't outrun him. And perhaps you say, well, that's not the kind of God I believe in The God that that I know well, he doesn't have this kind of knowledge that's gonna condemn me. It's not like a prison. I don't believe in hell And so in essentially what you do is create your own theological beliefs and philosophies as if there were some sort of tunnel to help you escape from the reality of these prison walls. To somehow think that you can be freed of this knowledge of God. But what you find and what we find in this Psalm as As David says, you hem in behind and before you have laid your hand upon me. It's almost as if we can use this imagery of a heavenly guard quietly coming from behind and grab you. I remind you, you're not going anywhere. You are never free from this holy knowledge And you who are an unbeliever are gripped by the hand of Almighty God from whom you cannot escape. You see, Cain was not aware of anyone who witnessed his murder of his brother Abel, but God saw When the Lord told Abraham and Sarah that she would conceive, Scripture says that Sarah laughed to herself, and although she was alone in the tent. God hurt. We think of David, the extent who tried to conceal his adulteries, murders, and yet God knew and confronted him to the prophet Nathan. Think of Ananias and Sapphira. God knew they lied. And you who reject Christ You're rejecting Christ, you're rejecting God who is holy, who has given his holy law, and you rejected and you transgress that law And you will be judged for that. And see, God is not mocked You have to deal with this knowledge of God, this holy knowledge of God, and coming wrath and coming condemnation and coming judgment. See, Christ for the believer is the Lamb who was slain for their sin. But for the unbeliever, this Lamb will judge. And so I plead with you: if you don't know that you belong to Christ, come. Come to the Lord who freely offers you new life. There's nothing more important that I could say but that you come And so that these walls of the knowledge of God become not prison walls, but rather walls that offer security And rest, protection. And so it is for the believer, for you who are in Christ. The fact that God knows everything about you. He knows your motives. He knows my motives. He knows everything all the time. Nothing can be hidden. And that he loves you. That's astounding. That's astounding. That's a matter of people of God for jumping out of our seats and say, Glory! Because you know how hard we try with one another to conceal things so that they would love us more? That they would think more highly of us, and yet we're confronted with this truth that God knows us completely, knows us better than we know ourselves, and yet loves us more than we love ourselves. That's an astounding truth. That is an astounding reflection of the grace of God. And so this knowledge of God. Ought to humble us. So if you look at some of the implications, it ought to humble us and move us to love God more deeply, knowing that his love for you and for me is not blind. God has not turned a blind eye to our faults and to our sins. No, he knows every fault that we have. He knows every sin that you've committed, every deceit, every malicious deed, every prideful action He knows everything about us, and he loves us. We're accepted by God because we are in Christ, hidden in Christ. You see, Adam and Eve learn this. In Genesis three It was very clear in Genesis 2 and 3 that God had told Adam and Eve not to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. They disobey. And what happens as they fall into sin? What's their first reaction? They go and try to hide. And the scripture says that in in chapter 3 that God comes walking in the garden. It says, Where are you? Do you think God didn't know? And And what God does, he confronts Adam in his spiritual nakedness, in their moral guilt. See, they were naked before. But after sinning, they realized there was a moral, a spiritual nakedness. And God confronts them with their sin. And later on in that chapter, in verse 21. Earlier on, Adam and Eve had made coverings for themselves of fig leaves. But later on, it's an astounding thing that happens: that God comes. And he covers them with garments of skin. Where do those garments of skin come from? Some animal had to be sacrificed. Who sacrificed those animals? Not Adam, not Eve. Suggests to you that what we see here is a foreshadowing of the gospel. That it was God Himself who sacrificed an animal And with that skin covered Adam and Eve. And it's precisely here that we see grace begin to unfold. And we see the gospel. although in a very seed elementary form. But it's precisely here that we don't need to be terrified by God who sees all and knows all. Because in Christ we can be known just as we are with all our sins, with all our faults, at the same time be clothed. Because the skins that covered Adam and Eve were really Pointing to a greater covering that we would have in Jesus Christ when He, Jesus, the Lamb of God, was slain by God Himself. God's holy wrath poured out on Christ at the cross. Our sins. At the cross, so that we might be covered with the garments of salvation, and as Isaiah says, robed with that robe of the righteousness of Christ. Do you see that? Herein is the gospel, and that's how we can rejoice in the fact that God knows everything about us. And yet loved us. Because all our sins have been dealt with in Christ Jesus. Every sin past, every sin present, every sin future. All done. There's a story that's told about an elderly gentleman, grandfather type, was living with his son and daughter-in-law and the his grandchildren. He's a wealthy man. As time went on, his hearing deteriorated a bit. And got worse and worse and worse. But you know, he didn't do anything about it. He could have bought a hearing aid, but he never did But he would sit in the living room and the children, the grandchildren would talk and they would go on with life, assuming that granddad could not hear anymore, or hear very little. So one day this elderly gentleman decides he's gonna go buy hearing aid and he goes to the store and he buys you hearing aid and and for two weeks he tries it out and it's wonderful. He can hear conversations in the next room and he does great And he goes back to the salesman and you kinda know where this is going, right? He goes back to the salesman and the salesman asked, Well what do you think? He says, This is wonderful. I can hear clearly, this is this is great. And the salesman says, Well you must be ecstatic, and your relatives as well. I said, Oh no, they don't know anything about it. But it's interesting because I think about this, but isn't it true that sometimes we feel in our experience That somehow God will change his mind about us. Honestly, ask yourself. You sin and you go, oh no, God doesn't love me anymore. And somehow you live life as just, well, if as long as I don't commit these series of sins, I'm okay and God will accept me. And then when something devastating happens in your life and you go, God must reject me. So you've not understood salvation if you feel that way. You've not understood grace. See, there's nothing that's going to happen. There's no skeleton that's going to come out of your closet so that God says, Wow, if only I'd known that about you, I wouldn't have let you into my kingdom It's never going to happen, people of God, if you are trusting in Christ and resting in Christ from beginning to end. And so this knowledge of God ought to cause us to love God more deeply, to humbly, to humble us, but also to increase our holiness if we live with that in mind. That he knows all things, that he sees everything. Keep that in mind, people of God, as you live life, as you make decisions. Know as well that he not only knows the worst about us, but he also knows the best about us. You do things and you do wonderful things. You work hard in your workplace, in the home, in the church, and oftentimes it goes unnoticed. Nobody comes and pats you on the back And you get discouraged, I want to tell you God notices. So simple, but God knows. This knowledge ought to encourage us as well because he knows your he knows our future. He knows what lies in the rest of this year 1998. He knows what lies in the next term of service for me in Madrid. I don't know. I don't really want to find out. I'll find out when I get there But you know one thing? I don't need to fear, I don't need to be anxious because God is already there. He already knows the whole of it, and He sends me out knowing this. And he sends you out knowing what's going to happen, and he's going to enable you to live life to the glory of God. One other thing, he knows what he's making of you and me. And we look at our Christian lives, one step forward and two hundred backwards. And it seems that we're never ever going to mature in our faith. We keep on struggling with the same sins and we go, oh Lord, how am I am I ever going to grow up? Paul says in Romans 8:28 and 29 that we are going to be conformed to the image of Jesus. God knows what he's making of you and me. He knows what we're going to be like. He knows that we're finally going to be free from sin when we're with him face to face. He knows there will be no more fault, no more crying, more with tears. He knows that we will be just like his son. You believe that Do you live in light of that? That's what he's making of you and me. He knows it. He knows all things. And in verses 23 and 24, search me, O God, and know my heart. Test me and know my anxious thoughts. See if there's any offensive way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. See how you can pray this now? There you go to a God who knows everything about you and loves you completely and accepted you freely in Christ Can you go to him, run to him, please to him, and say, search me, O God? Because there's no fear of rejection, but I want to live in holiness before you All people of God, run. Don't try to run from Him. You never can escape Him. But run to Him To that Father who is full of grace and full of love to you, his children. Let's pray. May we be mindful of God as we leave here to live in the light Of the gracious and glorious and freeing truth that you know us all, that you know us intimately and thoroughly. And yet it's not a frightening proposition. But it's so freeing. So enable us, O God, to glory in that gracious knowledge That you have toward us, so that we might know you more fully. In Jesus' name. Amen.