Think pleasure this morning to introduce to you uh this morning's preacher, uh Pastor Yotas Kantarsis. And he is Pastor Yotis, please come forward as you as you do. I want to introduce him. He is the uh, I was going to say the senior minister, but he's actually the only minister of the uh one of the largest churches, uh evangelical churches in Athens, uh the first uh Greek evangelical church in central Athens. I had the distinct honor of being able to preach in this pulpit when uh Anthony Swan, Robbie Pennington, and I uh were traveling uh in Athens to meet with different church planters that are part of the network and movement of churches uh that Pastor Joseph has been leading. And it is our joy to welcome you here. And I first knew of Pastor Joseph when I was a church planter in New Jersey. Uh we were all part of uh worldly's worldwide speaking of the uh work of Redeemer Presbyterian Church in New York City. We had never had the opportunity to meet and then uh three years ago now, I believe it was at the MTFW World Mission Conference where I heard you preach for the first time. And then last year, as we were beginning the series on acts, crazy. Um Pastor Yotis shows up and he was in my office. I took a selfie with him and I'm like, this is crazy. We're starting in the book of Acts in the section about Athens and here he is. And so it is God's wonderful uh story of being able to weave what God is doing in your life and our story and I'm very grateful for that. Pastor Yotis is English is excellent. However, after reading the text this morning, I now realize why he asked me to read it in English. It's a little bit different trick when you're doing this. So I'm going to read this morning's passage and then turn it right over to you. Okay? So Acts chapter sixteen, uh verses uh six through ten. Hear now God's word. And they went through the region of Phrygeia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia. And when they had come up to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia by the Spirit of Jesus, did not allow them So passing by Mysia, they went down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. A man of Macedonia was standing there, urging him, and saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And when Paul had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go on into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel. Pastor Yosis, preach the gospel to us. Of course, uh, this is a scary passage with all these names you realize. And uh for one more reason for the Presbyterian because it contains a nice vision, uh, you know, from the Holy Spirit, but uh we'll uh deal with that Um and uh there is another reason why this uh passage is um you know an interesting passage. But before I do that before I go into the text, let me say how thrilled I am and how blessed I am and honored to be here with you. Actually, uh it's the first time that I get uh to preach in a church where the senior pastor has preached first in my church. So this is you, Randy. And also it's a blessing for me to be here with my son George. who is uh finishing uh the Bible college and entering into ministry. But also I would like to acknowledge three families that are one or one way or another related to us. in Athens who are living the area now and they came to worship with us. Elena and Leonidas, Vasilis and Maria, and John and Sarah who over there. Um so it's a blessing and I really appreciate you coming guys. So um this is a passage that uh in one sense is not a real significant passage, a really significant passage. Because we don't have uh, let's say, a sermon that Paul preached, we don't have uh like a persecution that Paul had to preach flee from we don't have some something spectacular. It's one of these transitional passages as we call them in the exegesis. But uh many times and that is perhaps the first lesson that we may learn here is that many times in those insignificant moments that these moments that sometimes we just pass through without really observing see them without seeing them as Randy said before. In those insignificant moments sometimes it's God working and doing spectacular things like in this case. Because these passage actually what happens and what is narrated that it happens in this passage is the reason why we are here right now worshiping the Lord is the time that the gospel leaves the confines of the Jewish world and moves into the West. Is the passage where Paul receives the call to go to Macedonia to enter European soil, so to say. So in some ways, this is a very significant passage when we think about missions. We see how Paul eventually moved out of something to enter into a new territory. So that will be um The topic will try to see what does it mean to be on a mission. And being a good Presbyterian, I'll set three points. First one The first thing that we I would like us to notice is that in order to be on a mission, we need to follow God as He leads us out of our comfort zone. In order to be on a mission, we need to be ready to follow God as God is pushing us out of our comfort zone. Stick with me, verses 6 and 7. What we see there in both verses is that Paul is trying to do something and God is saying no to him. I don't know if you've noticed that Okay, verse 6, I'm not gonna say the names. He was going through all these nice places, but he was hindered by the Holy Spirit. He wanted to go to some place and he was blocked, hindered. Um But the Holy Spirit the same thing in verse 7 He came through this other nice place in order to go to the other place And the spirit of Jesus didn't allow them. So twice we read in these two verses that Paul tried to do something and God blocked him, forbidden him. Now, there is this interesting thing that you need to know Greek in order to appreciate it. Uh the the the verb that we have in verse six uh where it says that uh Paul was hindered by the Holy Spirit, that verb hindered, it's a verb that is is called colio. Okay. You're not supposed to know that. But it's a very interesting word. Because when you go to the very end of the book of Acts, the very end of the book of Acts, and you know if you would like come with me in uh chapter twenty. 8 of the book of Acts. It's a long book. We find the word. I don't know if you know what is the last word of the book of Acts I don't know if Randy when you go went through the book of Acts, uh you know you point that out. What is the very last word of the book of Acts? It's an adverb actually And it's the exact same word that is being used in verse 6 that we read. And it's without a hindrance. It says, the verse says, that Paul was able to preach the gospel of the kingdom without a hindrance. The very last word of the book of Acts. It is as if the whole book of Acts can be summarized as such. Nothing can stop Paul from preaching the gospel. I mean imagine the situation. Paul is in a Roman prison and he preaches the gospel of God without a hindrance. Paul has a Roman guard, no problem. Paul can preach the gospel of God without a hindrance. Right before he was in a shipwreck, nothing can stop Paul. I mean that can be a way to summarize the book of Acts. Nothing can hinder, nothing can stop. Paul from preaching the gospel. The only exception is verse 6. The only time that Paul is being hindered to do something is here. And the interesting thing is that the one who hinders Paul is not the Roman guard, is not the religious authorities, it is God. Have you ever thought of that Interesting, isn't it? I mean the only time that Paul wants to do something and he cannot, because something someone blocks the way is not, I'm saying again, the Romans, they try he's able to go through. He's in a in a Roman prison with a Roman guard and he still preaches nothing can stop Paul. The only time that Paul cannot do what he wants to do is hearing the one the person who Hinders Paul is God. And the question is why? The answer is this. Because God loves Paul. And he has plans for him. And he wants to protect Paul from himself. Why am I saying that? Uh many times I say to my congregation that the best exegetical skill in order to understand the Bible is to know how to count. one, two, three, four, and to know that five comes after four and these kinds of things. Sometimes you know you don't need much to really understand the scriptures So if we we are in verse six, right? If we read verses four and five, come back with me uh to chapter sixteen, verses four and five. We read this and actually uh again again mass. Chapter sixteen comes right after chapter fifteen. In chapter fifteen we have this cancel, this sea note, remember that th there are all these new believers coming from the Gentiles and the question is what do we do with them? Do they have to become Jews first and get circumcised and there is this council and they end up with the uh decision and it's interesting that Paul for the first time Paul was always marginalized. And for the first time he goes mainstream. People respect him And gives him authority. And Paul now with this new authority, he goes around. And as we read in verse 4 And five, he preaches in all these towns in Asia. And as we read in verse five, that the churches were edified in the faith and the worse there was growth. And let me tell you, if you are successful, you know why you want y you should want to leave? It's the first time for Paul that eventually people take him seriously and there is success, there is fruit, the the churches love him everywhere everywhere he goes, there is growth And you know there is always the temptation to say, Let's stay here and enjoy the blessings. But God loves Paul and He says, No, Paul, you're not gonna stay here. Why? Because you you need to be on a mission. And in order to be on a mission, you need to leave your comfort zone. Paul was very well where he was, very successful, everything made sense. In order to set him on a mission, he says, enough with that. You need to move on. Let me tell you a little bit about our story. We are a Presbyterian church. It seems as if someone picked a Presbyterian church from the South. of United States and dropped it in the middle of Athens. I was saying the other day about this old lady who came from Alabama visiting us And after the morning service he came up to me and says, Pastor, that was amazing. I was so blessed. I really felt at home. And I said, that's terrible. And she said she said, what? I said, you come all the way from Alabama in downtown Athens in the village home You know, there must be something but this is how you know who we are. We have the pipe organ, uh wear the collar, we're that type of pres good Presbyterians. Okay. Um So the church has been there like for the la for 160 years. And uh being a minority as we are in Greece A very small, tiny minority, zero point and insignificant number, I don't even know it, percent of the population are evangelical believers. So this is our situation. Being a minority is very easy Easy to feel comfortable and protected behind the four walls of the church. And to say, okay, here is an environment that It's my comfort zone. I know what to do. I'm happy here. Outside is the world. Let's stay here. And many times you can be fruitful, you can be happy doing all these things, but God in His mercy. says at times as she said in the case of Paul enough. No. He blocks the way. He's not allowing us to live more in that comfort zone. And in our situation, this is what happened. uh we started uh feeling the burden to do something in our town, our church is really, as I said, at the heart of the city. I was saying uh earlier on at the Sunday school class that if there is ever a competition about the best view out of a pastor's office window I would win. I see the parson on I see the Temple of Zeus, the Hendrian's art and all these nice places. The church is really in a very central location of the town, but for many, many years Uh where who were ignoring that. You know, the situation is that when our forefathers moved to that location, it was actually their decision to move outside the city because back then, one hundred and sixty years ago there was a lot of persecution, misunderstanding, difficulties. So the idea is let's get out of the city, let's be in an isolated place and uh let's not bother them so that they don't bother us, right? And that will become your mission statement It became certainly our mission statement. Don't bother them so that they don't bother us. So we live our little happy life within the four walls, but then the Lord started working in us showing us the city, showing us the outside, showing us but you know how us Presbyterians uh it takes forever to discuss, analyze things. So we're talking ab you know, we're talking about that to the board of the elders, okay perhaps we need to plant the chairs. And actually we're thinking about planning a church in an area called Exarchia. Exarchia is uh the anarchist capital of Greece, of Europe, perhaps of the world. Many anarchists live there and I don't know If you remember during the uh 2008 when all the rayos and sure that they were on the news, people demonstrating, looting, burning, a crazy situation in Athens. And so we felt compelled to go and plant the church, the first church plant, to go and plant the church there in Exarchia. And of course, I mean that was a scary thing And we were singing about that, praying about that, discussing about that, committees, you know how it is, you know, and and on goes. And two thousand and eight something happened It was a year that we had a terrible riot in Greece. A policeman started and killed a fifteen-year-old teenager in Nextarchia. And then the There was violence, the violence erupted, and the whole city was in a big mess and we're really in the midst of it all. And uh I remember I was in my car driving And somebody calls me and says, You know, we are on the news because they were following what was going on and there they are all the anarchists in front of our church and the police on the other side and they're fighting And uh so I drive and I run to the church was not a wise thing to do, but I just left and I entered the sanctuary. Just keep in mind that our church is like that, but we have windows from this side and the other side, you know, and this is the street, the road and windows. I entered in and all the windows of the church were broken. And uh there was smoke from the tear gas. At first I felt like I was in Isaiah in the temple with all the smoke and stuff, but uh stones and marbles and you know it was It was a mess. And uh uh it's funny, at that time uh the one of the elders calls me up, the treasurer, he says, What happened? And I said, They broke all the windows and he says, Oh they start he started calculating the cost. But I I felt that was a God moment in my life. I felt that for many, many, many years We thought that we can be safe and we can safely ignore what is on the other side. We can talk about that You know, have committees, analyze it, pray even about, you know, these people. But I felt that the Lord said, no, enough And actually he sent these anarchies that were supposed to go, he sent them to our doorstep And they say I I have a piece of marble because marble in Greece is cheap and uh our church is covered by marble and they were breaking the marble, throwing uh so to you know, and that that's what it was full of marble inside the church and I kept the peace of it because for me that was like an invitation. And it was not an invitation by the anarchists. It was an invitation by God to leave our comfort. So the first thing that we see here is that God loves Paul so much not to allow him to be complacent. in what he knows, where he's successful, where he feels confident. So let's move to the second point. Okay, there is a clock but I'll just ignore it. Uh okay. The second point is that uh we need as we now follow God outside our comfort zone, we need to trust God. as we walk step by step. We need to trust God. I mean, okay, now we move out. We need to trust God step by step. Now uh let's say let's see why we say that. I mean it's interesting that Paul eventually gets a vision by God, a vision that says to him, do that. Wouldn't it have been better for Paul if he had had that kind of a vision at the beginning of the trip? I mean all these things that Randy read, he went there and then the other I mean there were no cars, no airplanes back then. That cost time, money, it was not an easy thing. And many times we wonder why God didn't say to Paul right from the beginning, Paul, here is the plan You know, we love plants. I mean you love plants, us Greeks. We don't I always say that when Americans set foot on on on Greece, the first thing they ask is, okay, what is the schedule And um and I say to them, listen, the only thing that I can tell you for sure about the schedule is that it is going to change So uh but but here it i it's interesting that God is not giving Paul a plan, but uh he guides him step by step. He tries to go there, God says no, he tries to go there, God says no, and then at the very end God shows up in a vision and why is that why is God playing with that is is God trying to make our life miserable and difficult? No There is this interesting observation if we read these uh verbs, i this these verses. Uh in verse six We read that Paul tried to do that something and notice with me, the Holy Spirit said no. In verse 7 Paul tries to do something, and I don't know if you notice that. The Spirit of Jesus says no. And eventually, in verse 10, God the Father. Sends this vision where he shows Paul where he's supposed to go. What happens is this God wants us To appreciate him and get to know him in his fullness. And many times we need to go through this step by step, tracking him in order to understand who God is. At the end of this enterprise, Paul didn't have a project or a plan, but he was trusting and following a person, and he has gotten to really know in depth. This person God. That Paul may not have a plan at the end. It's interesting that when she goes to Philippi The next verses we see that Paul eventually goes to Philippi and there it's very interesting if if you read in verse 13 Uh Paul by the way had a plan. If we read the first verses, Paul thinks that now for the next years or so, for the next period of time, he will stay in Asia and work with the diaspora Jews. So he also says uh Timothy get circumcised in order to to do that. That w that was his plan. And then God destroyed everything, you know, tear apart all the plants. And in the meantime Paul got to know God in a deeper way and then he learns his lesson. He goes to Philippi and we read in verse 13 Paul saying, I mean Luke saying about Paul that on a Sabbath we went outside the city and there is a very interesting Greek word there, enomidamen, which which means I mean we were guessing, not sure, hoping, believing, thinking, all of a sudden Paul, who says everything under control, he realizes That is not about your your planning, it's about God's sovereignty and God's providence. So but God has a plan. It's interesting. That when she goes to throw us, Paul, there is a slight change. I don't know if you've noticed that. Notice it with me. In verse 10 Chapter 16, verse 10, we read when he saw the vision, third person, singular, he saw the vision. Immediately we sought to go out. First person plural. I don't know if you've noticed that. There is this little change. Up to this point, all the narrative is he did, he did, he did, from that point on, it's we did, we did. What does that mean? Paul needs look into us And Luke joins Paul. And the interpretation of Acts we call it the we passage. The we pastors. From that point all is not he did it, but we did it. I mean God had a plan. And we need to trust God In the details of our lives, especially when God, you know, says nowhere, when God sends us to this place, and many times we don't do that. There is the best definition I've ever read, it uh it it comes from a book, it's called Total Church. There are many good things in that book and many difficult things in that book. But there is this nice definition. Being a missional means ordinary people doing ordinary things. With gospel intentionality. And I should add ordinary people doing ordinary things under God. intentionality. So wherever you are, whatever you do, whoever you are, is not an accident, it's God's plan. And there is A purpose for that. Let's move to the third point. The third thing that we need to keep in mind as we read this uh passage is that in order to be on a mission, we need to follow God outside our comfort zone. We need to trust God. Every step of the way, the third point is that we need to honor God as we are willing to enter, even though we are scared to death. to enter into new territories, moving into the unknown. Here is the situation. Imagine that you're gonna be a missionary and uh you know you're not sure where And you may have some ideas and you pray and you pray you close your eyes and you pray you pray you pray and you say Lord reveal to me where you know where you want me to go and I I'll follow you, I'll do whatever you say. And you pray, you pray, and you open your eyes and you find yourself miraculously in an airport and you are holding something, you look at it, it is in a ticket for Athens, Greece. I mean, what would you think? I say, okay, this is I have a hand as to where God is leading me. So the same thing happens with Paul. Sometimes we don't realize that. When eventually Paul after God leading him ends up in Troas. Paul is as if he is in an airport holding a ticket for Athens, Greece. Because Troas is the famous place, is a port, is the main port that you exit Asia to enter into Europe The main point. That the reason you go to Troas is because you're gonna travel from Asia to in the in the ancient times. I mean, okay, from I mean we have stories about Xerxes, you know the king of Persia, when he wanted to conquer uh Greece and he went to Troas and he had three night visions see the similarities. Three nice visions uh to build a bridge and go over and then uh when Alexander the Great our Alexander the Great He wanted to go the other direction, you know, to go from Greece to Asia again. Guess where he entered Asia from Troas? Troas is the place is that little place on the map that tells you From here you go to Europe. So Paul knows. I mean when he is in Troyes, he got the message. God brought him there. Paul, you're supposed to enter into Europe, into the West. And Paul is scared. He needs a vision. Many times we think that, oh, if I said a vision, I mean that is not a flattering thing for Paul. Paul, I mean it was so obvious, but Paul, it's not that he didn't get it, it's not that he didn't know what he was supposed to do, but he was scared to do that. Many times we don't think of Paul like that, but that's what it is He was scared. And he got here to send the vision and send the Macedonian man said, you know, what else do you expect? Okay, come over, come over. Why? Because it was a step into the unknown. Before, he knew. He knew how to handle. He spoke the same language. He understood the customs. You know, it was it was a familiar territory, but now It's the unknown. And the only way that you honor God is when you are ready to step into the unknown. And sometimes it's scary and it is. And you don't really know, you don't have all the answers. But you go. Why? Because this is the best way and the only way to honor God I mentioned a little bit earlier about the refugee crisis. At the summer of twenty fifteen, the Greece changed. Every day thousands of people were passing by. And I'll tell you, I felt at the beginning of that summer very tired. With all the church planning and being a pastor in a large church and all that. And many times people were asking me, what is the next step? And I said, you know, step back. And uh I remember we're on a vacation and we got the news about the refugees in Christ and refugees coming and going and I was praying Lord Take that away. You know, I hope it's it's not gonna last. I hope it's just a few days. You know, we cannot deal with that. And I I I remember uh the first time that we went into this square at the beginning of the crisis, all the refugees they would end up in one of the islands, they would leave Turkey, go to the islands, stay for a while and then come to Athens, stay in a big square, it's called Victoria. square thousands of people just living outside there uh on the square before they would get like a way to go up and then leave the country. So thousands of people I still remember entering that square for the first time. time and seeing all these people you know I wanted to ignore them if there was a way to to to to say you know Ah, take that away. But it's it's you know what? Many times you don't need to close your eyes to see a vision. You simply need to keep them open Many times you don't need to close your eyes to see the Macedonian men to give you them. Just keep them open and you will see many people and many opportunities calling to you Perhaps you may see them as you will exit this door, or perhaps the Lord may but you know what you we are scared because we don't know. what that is and how you do it and what will entail and you are scared that the only way that you honor God is to be on a mission. The last question. Three points, but always there is a last one. And that is why should I do that? This is crazy, isn't it? To leave your comfort zone, to enter into the unknown, in a territory that you are not familiar, you are scared to enter uh and with God not explaining the whole uh plan and you just entering why would you do such a thing? The answer is Because God has done the exact same thing for you in Jesus Christ. God never asks us to do something that He Himself has not done before already for us. Jesus Christ left his comfort zone. Left his comfort zone And he came to us obeying the plan of the Father with the only difference. He was not entering into an unknown territory, in a hostile territory, yes, but not into he knew exactly where he was going. He knew that he was going to the cross. To glorify God and to bring blessing to us. So Jesus Christ has done that for us. And the only reason why we should consider being on a mission is is because when we look at the cross we see a God who was on a mission for our sake. So I pray That you will be uh the I I pray that you wouldn't have to go through what we have gone through. She having actually they broke the windows of our church three times Three times. And the third time, I said to the board of the elders, let's not fix it. So we said a Sunday service. With all the windows broken and we had the tape now to you know be it next. And I said during the service, okay, look at that. How many more times? How many more times Do we have to go through that in order to get it? To get it. So I pray that the Lord will give you a passion For this sickdom, wherever you are, it may lead you to really unknown territories, it may lead you to places that you've never envisioned that you will be. Just leave your comfort zone wherever that is. For his sake, he has done that for you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ. We are humbled as we see his suffering and his determination and his love for us and his willingness. To come, to be on the cross for our sake and for your glory And Lord, we pray that you may make us people who follow the Lamb wherever it goes. Make us people who will be willing to leave our own comfort zone and trust in you, entering into whatever you are calling us, even though we are scared. Lord, make us people who glorify you by the way we live, act and behave. In Jesus' name we pray, as I pray for blessing on these chairs, on Randy, all the leaders of all the people. Use us for the sake of your kingdom. Amen. Please stand and we're gonna sing by faith.