Kings chapter eighteen, we're going to focus this morning on a story found in chapter eighteen and nineteen. As we get started, I want to acknowledge that this is indeed pro-life Sunday. Twenty-five years ago, on the 22nd of January, a decision was made by the Supreme Court of the United States to allow abortions in every state of the country. And for 25 years we have been battling that decision. Typically, you'll find as you come to church here on the Sunday preceding that day that we speak about the value of life. But today I want to focus us on something a bit more foundational than simply the truth that God places an incredible value on life. He does that. And I hope that this week as as you have opportunity you would participate in speaking prophetically, either in conversations you have at work in the neighborhood, or perhaps even going to the March for Life on Thursday. But to take the opportunity to speak prophetically to the truth that God does value life, for he is the source of that life. But as we look at this, I think we've come to conclude rightly that that's a given. And so this morning I want to take us back to a more foundational point to equip us as we look at this whole issue not only of the pro-life movement, but of our life in God itself. And so, while I do not want to slight Pro-Life Sunday at all, I want us to focus on the story that takes place in chapter 18 and 19 of 2 Kings. And as we go to that, let's open in prayer. Father, we thank you for this opportunity that you've given us this morning to gather and worship, because it means that you have called us not only to yourself, but to this place. And we are grateful for the relationship that you have given us with yourself and with one another. But Lord, we long to know you more We long to be able to be closer to you. And so we ask that you would reveal yourself more fully to us this morning as we study this passage. As we recognize our own plight to many steps of what's going on here, and we recognize your power and your character. Lord, teach us more of yourself this morning, we pray, in Jesus' name. As we look at this passage, I want to begin in verse 17 of chapter 18, as the messengers of Sennacherib, who is the king of Assyria, are sent to Jerusalem. Hezekiah has recently restored proper worship. He's devoted the country back to the Lord. He's taken great steps to bring them back into a deeper fellowship and intimacy with God. And all of a sudden, this takes place. The king of Assyria sent his supreme commander, his chief officer, and his field commander with a large army from Lachish. to King Hezekiah at Jerusalem. They came up to Jerusalem and stopped at the aqueduct of the upper pool, on the road to the washerman's field. They called for the king. And Eliakim, son of Hilkiah, the palace administrator, Shebna the secretary, and Joah, son of Athaph the recorder, went out to him. The field commander said to them, Tell Hezekiah, this is what the great king, the king of Assyria, says. On what are you basing this confidence of yours? You say you have strategy and military strength, but you speak only empty words. On whom are you depending? That you rebel against me Look now, you are depending upon Egypt, that splintered reed of a sap which pierces a man's hand and wounds him if he leans on it. Such is Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to all who depend on him. And if you say to me, We are depending on the Lord our God, isn't he the one whose high places and altars Hezekiah removed? Saying to Judah and Jerusalem, you must worship before this altar in Jerusalem. Come now, make a bargain with my master, the king of Assyria I will give you two thousand horses if you can put riders on them. How can you repulse one officer of the least of my master's officials, even though you are depending on Egypt for chariots and horsemen? Furthermore, have I come to attack and destroy this place without a word from the Lord? The Lord Himself told me to march against this country and to destroy it. This is an event that took place in history. We know that it took place in 701 BC, 21 years after the same country, Assyria, had carried away the northern kingdom of Israel. They had been destroyed, devastated, half the population taken away. Half the population in Samaria was now new, people who had been brought in to repopulate the land We know that the Assyrians were making threats that they were fully capable of following through upon. The Southern Kingdom is being threatened with most terrifying threats. And let me just take a minute to help you to see what those threats were. As we begin, I want you to think about the city of Jerusalem. Jerusalem is a city that at this time, at the time of Hezekiah, is somewhere between 500 or so yards across at its widest, and probably somewhere between 1200 and 1,500 yards long at its tallest. Now my calculations are very rough, but but in in looking at downtown DC, I think that that probably fits within the area of the mall between the Capitol and the Washington Monument if you take in the buildings on both sides. If you look outside on the wall in the lobby, you'll see a picture, an aerial picture taken of the promise keeper stand in the gap. And there's somewhere between 750,000 and 900,000 men in that picture. in that same space. And so what I want you to think about is being in a city That is roughly that size, with a third of the people in that picture surrounding you, with swords, spears, bows, horses, and a desire to kill you. They had come with the intent to destroy Jerusalem, to take the Jews from Jerusalem back to Assyria. To take the cities apart stone by stone and to destroy the temple. The Assyrians at this point are rulers of the entire area. Hezekiah had previously been paying tribute. The reason that he's called, that Sennacherib is called the great king in the introduction to his letter by his servant, the field commander, is because he was the king to whom Hezekiah had given obedience. He had already paid tribute. And if you notice in the letter it talks about, why are you rebelling against me? Now you could war against somebody you've never been defeated by, but to rebel you must have submitted. Hezekiah had already been a vassal state of the Assyrians. Now they were at war. The Assyrians had decided to come down and consolidate their territory, and they had begun by taking the southern cities that led up through the mountain passes to Jerusalem. There were a series of fortified cities, including Lachish and Libna, two of which are mentioned, Lachish and Libna, in this account. Because Sennacherib has already taken them. The cities that were designed to protect Jerusalem from any attack from the south were already in the hands of the Assyrians. And the Assyrians come. And in other places in this story, they say, What city has ever stood against us? Listen to all these places that we've defeated. There's never been one city that has withstood our attack. There has never been one God that has been able to defeat us. You don't even have an army. As a matter of fact, the odds are so poorly stacked against you that I'll even give you 2,000 horses. We'll even up the odds. Jerusalem is in trouble. Now, if you're like me, you read this and you think, boy, this is a desperate situation. And my mind naturally tends to go to empathize with those desperate situations, and I start thinking, yeah, well I can really identify with this God has convicted me recently over the last few months that no, I can't identify with this. There's never been a time in my life where somebody wanted to take my head from my shoulders. At least not that they've seriously attempted. There's never been a time where somebody was going to starve me to death. I've never been in a city the size of Jerusalem, surrounded by 185,000 Assyrians who intended to kill me. I've never faced the prospect of starvation, of drinking my urine and eating my feces in order to try and find calories to stay alive. That is the plight of the Jews in Jerusalem. That is the depth of their fear. Because they have never seen a god, an army, or a city withstand the assault of the Assyrians They have every right to be terrified, and they are. And in spite of this The Assyrian king writes a letter, which his field commander reads, and he asks this, On what are you basing this confidence of yours? On what are you basing this confidence of yours? Because he recognizes in the very fact that they don't surrender that they have hope. This includes a term that's really the center of this passage. If you look at this passage you see in verse 19, the confidence. But if you look and you follow down the rest of that letter, it talks about depend, depending, dependence. And those are the same terms. It's the Hebrew term betah. And that is a characteristic word throughout this passage. It's also a characteristic word throughout the entire book of Isaiah. A couple of places in Isaiah where that word is used in a way that communicates clearly to us, one of which is in chapter 26, where it says in verse 3. You will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast, because he trusts in you. Now I don't know how many of you guys have ever memorized that verse before. It's one of the verses that people tend to memorize. But this prophet who wrote this verse is sitting in the city of Jerusalem, surrounded by 185,000 Assyrians who want to take his head. And he says, You will keep in perfect peace, him whose mind is steadfast Because he betah in you. He trusts. He is confident. He depends upon you. In chapter thirty, verse fifteen We see a verse that really applies as well to the situation. This is what the sovereign Lord, the Holy One of Israel, says. In repentance and rest is your salvation. In quietness and trust is your strength. But you would have none of it. What he's saying is, you can't trust in your army, you can't trust in your city, you can't trust in political alliances with Egypt. You can't trust in any human hope, but you can trust in me. You can trust in me. Looks like take a couple minutes and look at that threat from the Assyrians. We sort of started with that, but but I want you to understand that even in this letter, what's taking place is a war of the minds. The leaders of the Assyrian army have surrounded the city, and so they've they've taken step one. They've surrounded the city and shown their power. Now they read a letter from the great king who hasn't even decided to come with his complete army because he's busy taking other cities. This city doesn't warrant his entire attention. That's another fairly strong statement for Sennacherib to make. But he goes on and he says, you have no military hope in verse 20. You say you have strategy and military strength, but you speak on the empty words. On whom are you depending that you rebel against me? There's not even a political alliance that he can trust. Because Egypt, the second strongest nation at the time, is a nothing compared to Assyria. The king writes that he's nothing more than a bent reed, that if you try and rest your strength, you rest your weight upon this reed, it will pierce you. It won't help you, it will hurt you. He talks about God and says, No God has stood against us, and as a matter of fact, your God may have even sent us. What are you hoping in? And he calls for the people to come out. Now, one of the things to recognize as well, we see in verse 26 and following that The Assyrians aren't even speaking to the leaders. They're speaking to everybody. Because they surrounded the city and they're standing, they're speaking in Hebrew. The language of countries between one another at this time was Aramaic, and it wouldn't have been understood by the Jews standing on the walls. And so Eliakim and his cohort standing on the walls asked the Assyrians, please don't speak to us in Hebrew. We understand Aramaic. Speak to us in Aramaic And the field commander responds by saying this, was it only to your master in verse 27? Was it only to your master and to you that my master sent me to say these things? And not to the men sitting on the wall who like you will have to eat their own feces and drink their own urine And he goes on, and the commander rose and called out in Hebrew, Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria. This is what the king says. Do not let Hezekiah deceive you He cannot deliver you from my hand. Do not let Hezekiah persuade you to trust in the Lord when he says the Lord will surely deliver us. This city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. Do not listen to Hezekiah. This is what the king of Assyria says. Make peace with me and come out to me, then every one of you will eat from his own vine and fig tree, and drink water from his own cistern. And I will come and take you to a land like your own, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive trees and honey. Choose life and not death. There is a war that's taking place before the battle ever begins, and that war is can I intimidate you into surrender? It's confidence versus intimidation. They don't believe that the Israelites, the Jews in Jerusalem, have any reason for confidence. And humanly speaking, they don't. They believe that they can intimidate the city into surrender with their lies and their false promises As a result, the people have been commanded not to speak. And they don't. They remain silent and they wait upon Hezekiah to tell them what to do. There's a play going on here as well that I want to help you to see the nature of the battle that's shaping up. And one of the things that you have to understand about that is when it describes the army that the Assyrians sent, back in verse 17. It says that he sent these officers with a large army from Lakish. In English that doesn't look all that impressive. And we find later that it's 185,000 men. And that seems a little bit impressive as you think about the the size of the area and the size of the army. But the Hebrew term used to designate a large army is the term kabbod. It's a term that has a lot of different applications and sometimes it means large, sometimes it means glory, sometimes it means weight. The underlying sense of that word is weighty. And so when you speak of an army that is talking about it is a massive, weighty, slow-to-turn army. But other uses of this term are to describe God. And that is the word that is used to describe the glory of God. So what you have here is a statement in the Hebrew that's setting up a battle between a weighty, a heavy army, and a weighty or a heavy God. It is the glory of the army compared to the glory of God that's going to be that's going to be at stake here. And so it's not that that the Assyrians are battling the Jerusalemites. There's no question who'd win that war. There's no question. If they wait for an experiential or a rational hope, they're dead. They know that they're gonna die. They've seen their countrymen die. The question that focuses us on this is what is the basis of your confidence? And today as we look at our own situations, but you're clearly not facing the same kind of a threat Nobody here is at risk of dying or starving. There are too many support grids for you. Life can be tough, and I don't mean to undercut the fact that you may be facing difficult settings. And it may be in your job, it may be in your finances, it may be in your relationships. There are a lot of things that could really be hitting you. And I don't want to minimize that. But I don't want you to minimize the threat to the Jews in Jerusalem from the Assyrians. We can't empathize with what they faced. We have not faced it. Now, clearly, our brothers and sisters around the world may be in different settings. There are those under persecution who can identify completely with this because they face torture. They face starvation. They face death daily. But we here are safe. Our struggles are different, and no less important, but different. If God can save Jerusalem, What can he do for you? We have a battle taking place here that sets the army of the Assyrian king, Sennacherib, against God himself. The glory of Assyria against the glory of God. And if the Jews had looked at what they could do in their own power to defend themselves or to protect themselves or to deal with the army, they would have died. No question. If we look at what we can do in our own power, in our own strength, in our own ways to respond to the threats that face us. We will lose. Your hope is not in your own strength. It is not in your own power. It is not in your own solutions. You may not be in a situation where the thing is the situation is so grave that you have no experiential or rational hope. You may think you can you can fix this. You may think that it's in your power to make things better, but it's not. And you ought not be looking to your own power for solutions. We ought not be looking to marches for life to change our culture. We ought not be looking at our political process as a solution to enforce change and save lives. At best, we can make things a little more difficult for those who are determined to take lives. That's the wrong approach. It's certainly a step we need to take, but within the confines of what is possible and capable of doing. We need to speak prophetically. We need to be compassionate. We need to act. But that's only capable, it's only to be done within the bounds of trusting God to change hearts. Trusting God to change minds, and trusting God to protect those in crisis. What does Isaiah do? I mean, what does Hezekiah do in response to the threat? If you look in chapter 19, verse 1, the first thing he does is to recognize the reality of the threat. 19 verse 1. When Hezekiah heard this, he tore his clothes and put sackloth, put on sackcloth, and went to the temple of the Lord. Tearing his clothes was an act of mourning. It was an act of repentance. It was an act of dread. He knew that his situation was without hope. He knew that the Assyrians, humanly speaking, would overrun Jerusalem. And so he turned to the Lord. Further, he sends Eliakim and Shebnah and the leading priest swearing sacław to the prophet Isaiah in order to find out from Isaiah what God intends to do. And so he consults the Lord. He then goes to the temple in verse fourteen Hezekiah received the letter. This is the second message from Sennacherib coming as a result of his pulling back from um the cities that he'd taken in order to battle an Egyptian prince who was coming in order to to try and relieve Jerusalem. Sennacherib sends a letter saying, Don't don't think that this is going to prevent your fate. I'm going to take you. You will die. You will be my prisoner, and I will win. And so Hezekiah receives this letter from Sennacherib, and it says in verse 14 That he read it. Then he went up to the temple of the Lord and spread it out before the Lord. And Hezekiah prayed to the Lord, O Lord God of Israel, enthroned between the cherubim, You alone are God over all the kingdoms of the earth. You have made heaven and earth. Give ear, O Lord, and hear. Open your eyes, O Lord, and see. Listen to the words Sennacheriv has sent to insult the living God. Isaiah turns to the Lord. I mean Hezekiah turns to the Lord. Now there's some interesting statements that are made between the Assyrians and Hezekiah. If you look at chapter 19, verse 10, as Sennacherib sends this letter to Hezekiah, he instructs his messengers with this statement Say to Hezekiah, king of Judah Do not let the God you depend on deceive you when he says Jerusalem will not be handed over to the king of Assyria. Surely you have heard what the king of Assyria has done to all the countries, destroying them completely. Will you be delivered? Did the gods of the nations that were destroyed by my forefathers deliver them, the gods of Gozan, Haran, Rezep, and the people of Eden who were in Telesar? Where is the king of Hamath and the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, or of Henna or Iva? Sennacherib sends a letter saying, Well, you may think that you've gotten a reprieve. You may think that I may not be able to come and get you because Egyptian armies are going to come and protect you. Don't think so. It is not going to happen. And so Hezekiah goes into the temple and he says, Lord, Lord, you've heard this man insult you. Hezekiah pointing out that it's clearly a battle between the Assyrians and God says this in verse 19. Now, O Lord our God Deliver us from his hand, so that all the kingdoms on earth may know that you alone, O Lord, are God. Hezekiah has grasped the battle. The battle is between Assyria and God God said earlier on when the Assyrians took Samaria that he would in turn judge Assyria. This may be the beginning of that process. God is going to show his power over the army of the Assyrians. Isaiah in his response Bring the message from the Lord to Hezekiah. That message is found in verses um six and seven of chapter nineteen. This is what the Lord says. Do not be afraid of what you have heard. Those words with which the underlings of the king of Assyria had blasphemed me. Listen, I'm going to put such a spirit on him that when he hears a certain report, he will return to his own country, and there I will have him cut down with the sword. He goes on in verses 20 through 34 and speaks of the relationship between Assyria and Israel or Judah. And he concludes that prophecy with verses 32 through 34, where he makes a promise. To Hezekiah. Listen to this promise. Think of yourself in the city of Jerusalem, surrounded by the Assyrian army, and hear this promise. He will not enter this city or shoot an arrow here. He will not come before it with shield or build a siege ramp against it. By the way that he came, he will return. He will not enter the city, declares the Lord. I will defend this city and save it. For my sake and for the sake of David, my servant. Again, the battle is clearly between God and the Assyrians. And God has set himself up to win. Now Assyria looks at it and says, nobody's ever even come close. What in the world are you thinking, Hezekiah? But God has spoken to Hezekiah and given him a promise. And I want you to read in verse thirty five and following what the result of that promise is. Because it says that the night that night the angel of the Lord went out and put to death a hundred and eighty-five thousand men in the Assyrian camp. When the people got up the next morning, there were all the dead bodies. So Senakarib, the king of Assyria, broke camp and withdrew. He returned to Nineveh and stayed there. One day when he was worshipping in the temple of his god Misrach, his sons of Dramelech and Sharesar cut him down with the sword. And they escaped to the land of Ararat, and Ezrahad and his son succeeded him as king. What did God say? I will give him a report, I will send him back to his country, and I will strike him down with a sword. They won't fire an arrow into the city. They won't build a siege ramp. You're not at risk. And he fulfilled his promises. How should you respond? In culture wars, in relationship difficulties, in employment, in any of the issues that face you, how should you respond? On what basis are you confident? I want to give you a couple of case studies that prove how to respond to this and how not to. Because on the strength of this defense of the city of Jerusalem, later on when the Babylonians come, 120 to 140 years later. The Jews respond differently. Babylon already takes off one group of exiles, and yet there are still false prophets in Jerusalem saying, listen, God will not allow his city to fall. He's placed his name here. This is his temple. If he's defeated and the city is destroyed and we're taken off, then he has been proven to be weak. Less than the gods of Babylon. We're safe. And you can read in Jeremiah chapter 7, verses 9 through 11, how the Jews, even in that time We're committing adultery, idolatry, and all sorts of immorality and saying, it's okay. We are safe God delivered Jerusalem into the hands of the Babylonians. The city and the temple were destroyed. Do not trust the trappings of religion. On the other hand, in Daniel chapter three Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego are brought before Nebuchadnezzar, who is the the ruler of Babylon that has taken the Jews into exile. And they are instructed to worship an idol of gold 90 feet high, or be thrown into a fiery furnace. And in verses 16 through 18 of chapter 3, they respond to Nebuchadnezzar and they say We don't have to make a defense to you, O king. We're not going to worship your idol. Our God is God, and we will worship Him. And if He decides to save us, He has the power to do that. We believe that He will, but if He doesn't, He's still God And we will worship him alone. You know the story. They were cast into the furnace, and God delivered them. God demonstrated his power again over the gods of Babylon. Here, God demonstrates his power over the Assyrians, their gods and their armies. God demonstrates his power over the gods of Babylon and Nebuchadnezzar as he frees Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego from the flames. But the point of the message this morning is that you can have confidence. Don't place it in the wrong place. Do not place your confidence in the trappings of religion. Don't trust them because God won't allow the Ark of the Covenant to fall into Philistine hands that if you take the Ark with you you will win. Guess what? God let the Ark of the Covenant fall into Philistine hands and he demonstrated his power alone without the armies of Israel. He demonstrated his power in Babylon, alone, without armies. Your hope and confidence this morning is to be in God alone. If you are his child by the redemption that Jesus has provided for you, then these promises are yours. You have claim to the fact that God will take care of you and bring you to himself. Whether he frees you of suffering in this in this life or not. Those are the bedrock foundational promises. God loves his children and he will take care of them. Philippians, and my God shall supply all your needs. Promise over and over again that we can trust him. But we can only trust him. We can't trust our circumstances. We can't trust the trappings of religion. We can't trust that God will always prosper America because it's a Christian country. We can't trust that God will always work through our political leaders to do what is righteous because they are sinners. Many times isolated from God. Your hope this morning, both for the large general issues of our culture, but also for the issues in your own life, is to cling to Jesus. To cling to the one who has redeemed you. And to him alone. Anything else will fail you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we depend upon you. We depend upon your love and your grace. Apart from you, we are hopeless. Lord, we pray that you would work powerfully to accomplish your redemption and your work in us and through us in Jesus' name. Amen.