Well happy new year. Thank you. We don't very often get to uh begin the new year with worship to uh reflect on how our God has been faithful in the last year to think how quickly our lives go. Life moves so swiftly. Once a year you get to stop and think, wow, one more year gone. You know, we are so into multitasking that uh probably some of you when you found out that we got an extra second last night, you know, this was uh elite second year. We're beginning to plan. What am I going to do with that extra second? Nothing else I can get done, you know. Time goes so swiftly. Now those of you who are under 20 here do not remember life without home computers. It was only in the last ten years that the internet became popularly used and um email even less than that. And and now email is so common that I saw this week that a little girl who was learning the Lord's Prayer thought that it said, and deliver us from email So life moves so swiftly the changes accelerate And at the beginning of a year like this, we think of how brief life is, how transient it is. Those that were here a year ago who are not here now, Pope John Paul, we think of Rosa Park. Who exactly 50 years ago and one month refused to surrender her seat to a white man. And that seems like a whole different age. Or Peter Jennings or Johnny Carson or the thousands that died in the tsunami just a year ago, a little over a year ago. The many hundreds that died in Katrina, this year seeing, this past year seeing in some ways the worst disaster in our history as a nation. We're so transient. And so the word of God comes in Isaiah 40 majestically, doesn't it, to us, when it says All people, all men, all people are like grass. Their glory is like the flowers of the field. The grass withers, the flowers fall, because the breath of the Lord blows on them. Surely the people are grass, the grass withers, the flowers fall, but the word of our God stands forever. Those words are from a chapter where Isaiah prophetically comforts the people who will be placed in exile. The exile that we've been looking at in the book of Jeremiah. And uh the first eight verses of chapter 40 are three stanzas. And you see on the overhead just quickly the first one is talking about comfort. God is going to restore his people out of the exile, bring them back to the land. So the message now is not judgment, but it's comfort And then in the second stanza, verse 3, there's a voice that calls, a voice to prepare for the coming of the glory of the Lord. We think of John the Baptist and Matthew 3 that we've looked at this past fall. That voice comes to prepare the way of the Lord, and what does it say? And that's where you come to The third stanza verses six to eight, the voice cries that all people are like grass Their glory is like the flowers of the field. The grass withers, the flowers fall, because the breath of the Lord blows on them. Surely the people are grass. In contrast, the grass withers, flowers fall, but the word of our God Stands forever. It was just less than a month ago that this stage was covered with Brilliant, beautiful poinsettias, all in their bloom and and you know, and now you know just three, four weeks later, there it is. And The grass withers, the flowers fall, the petals fall, and pretty soon there won't be anything except you just pick it up and use it for compost. That's what your life is like, and my life. So transient. It's like a poinsettia. That's what Isaiah is saying. It's interesting that When you look at that, you think of those that have died in 2005, and you and I can't help but ask ourselves the question, well, will I be here in 2007? I mean you may not like to think of the question, but what if you were to die in 2006? Do you know where you'd go? Do you know what would happen to you? Where's Peter Jennings now? Where's Johnny Carson now? Where's the Pope now? Somewhere. Now you may say, we don't know for sure, we can't know where, but you know what? You do know there's somewhere. Just this week had an interesting conversation with a woman, a neighbor of ours who uh believes almost nothing about the Bible. But as we were talking, she said, but one thing I'm convinced of That we continue to live after our bodies die. I'm convinced of that. There is that in you and me that knows that when we die, we'll be somewhere. Isaiah says, we're like grass, we're like flowers, that flowers, petals fall, and we're gone. But the word of our God stands forever. And that word is what outlasts our lives, our cultures, history itself. It's permanent and it gives the one abiding message. The one I want to look at this morning, because I found this interesting as I was meditating on this, is to notice that Peter picks up these three verses over 700 years later. to make a particular point that I think is very helpful on this first day of a new year. If you turn over to 1 Peter chapter 1 He quotes those verses, and it's to make the point that the Word of God is not only imperishable, that's the first blank, the A. Which is what Isaiah's point is, not only that this word is imperishable, but also that it is powerful. Now you look at them up there and you see, verse 23, for you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable. You've been born again by this word. In this case, the Bible is saying, not by the Spirit, by the Spirit connected to the Word, but the emphasis here is you were born again by the Word. The Word has power to bring life. And the word, you can't see, but those imperishable, living, and enduring are actually blue. But you see, that shows that this word is both imperishable and powerful. Now Peter deals with them in reverse order, so let me do that. So the next line that you see there is put on it the word powerful. The Word of God is powerful. It gives you a new power to live in a way that's pleasing to God. Back in chapter, or in chapter 1 of 1 Peter, the focus of this chapter is about the new life that we have in Christ. He says that you and I have been called to live a holy life. Verses 15 and 16. Just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do, for it's written, Be holy, because I am holy. Some of you have Christmas dishes. And you women have those. They may be heirlooms. They may be something you got at Hex on a clearance, who knows. But you have these dishes. And those dishes are holy because the word holy means set apart for special use. You don't use those dishes in July. You don't use them any other time. Some of you I went yesterday into our cabinet. They're already cleared out. That's the sign that the holidays are coming to an end, you see. Because they're only used at a certain time. They're holy. And what Peter is saying is that you and I are holy. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you've been set apart for special use, for his use. Your life is for him. To bring glory and honor to him. And you do that by obeying him. And so in verses Verse 14 and 22, he brings that out. He says, as obedient children do not conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance. There's things you desired and thought, and self-centeredness seemed very natural. Saw an article this year, a woman reflecting on her childhood Christmases, and she said this was a night A sentence that I really identified with. I enjoyed being selfish. Yeah, I mean I gotta be honest, when I look back at my childhood Christmases as an only child, I enjoyed being selfish. Peter says, you woke up. To the fact that that was really not the way to live. God has worked in you out of that ignorance That there's a better life. That being not being selfish and having your life wrapped around Christ rather than yourself actually is a better life. So he says in verse twenty-two, now you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth. Not in ignorance now, but you're obeying the truth. And as you do that, you realize that before Christ, you used people and you loved things. Since Christ, now you love people and use things. But not altogether. Certainly not true with me, altogether. But there is a shift. And so notice how verse 22 reads, you purified yourselves by obeying the truth so that you have sincere love for your brothers. That's the third thing. See, it's holiness, obedience, and then love. Love is the fulfillment, the completion of the law. So he says, this obedience issues forth in sincere love for your brothers. But notice The first part is what's happening so that you have sincere love for your brothers, then a command, love one another deeply from the heart. In other words, you've begun to learn how to love. But continue on. Love more deeply. Learn what love from the heart means. Now, is this asking you and me to do something that we think, you know, I look back at 2005, look back in other years. I've tried that. It seems like I'm stuck. It just can't go on. You know, I'm just always trying to be better, love more, be less selfish, less controlling. But how do I know I can do any better in 2006? And that's where Peter brings in the idea of Isaiah. You see, he says there, verse 23, for you have been born again. You see, there is this idea that We saw back in Jeremiah, God has written his word on your heart. Next year, we're going to look at Ezekiel. And just a quick preview. In Ezekiel 36, Ezekiel states it a little differently, and it's even more boldly. He says in verse 26, you see up there, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you. I will remove from you your heart of stone, and I will give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and to be careful to keep my laws. This word has produced in you a new nature. Paul says that word is powerful. Our problem is we look and we say, well, that might have been true back then, might have been true in the Bible times, but somehow when I read about God's power and his word in the Bible times, and I look at my life and I look at our world and the age of the internet and email and all the rest of that. Scripture seems implausible. It just seems improbable. It's not that I can disprove it, but just seems like it's about a different age. And I wonder, can it really continue to work in me and change me and change the people I see around me? I look at my own life. I tend to be impatient and irritable when things don't go my way, and then I complain and I blame. And I would like to think That uh I don't do that as much as ten or twenty years ago. But you know what? You and I all have the same That is, for each of us, we have our unique root sins that don't change The hope of the gospel is not that you will say, I no longer have that root sin. I'm no longer irritable, no longer complain, no longer blame shift. But I sin more deeply. That is, as I repent and the Word of God comes and it has that changing effect in me, I now am sinning on a deeper level. I am aware of my motives more quickly. I can identify them. And I can repent of them. And God's word is working in me so that as I interact with people, I'm loving more deeply. I am aware in my heart. Of the vast work that continues to need to be done. Wives and husbands help to make us aware of those things, right? But the fact is that this word is changing you. So in 2006, you can be different. You can this next year see change in your life. Because, and here's where Peter's second point is such good news. His second point is that this word which is powerful is also imperishable. It is the same word that came through Isaiah to the exiles. through Peter in the first century that comes to us in the 21st century. It lives and abides forever. So the words power was not just for the exile to tell the people that you will be restored and come back into the land. That word promised in Jeremiah chapter 50 that Babylon would never be built again. You know, all you have to do to disprove the Bible is go build the city of Babylon. That's all you gotta do. We can go build the city of Babylon. You can say, see, I now have proved that the Bible's not true. Because in Jeremiah, um I didn't write it down here, but Jeremiah chapter fifty and fifty-one, I think, uh, there are three verses that say Babylon will all will forever be a desolate waste and will never be rebuilt. And to this day, that's absolutely true. Babylon, to this day, has never been rebuilt, a desolate waste in Iraq. But it wasn't just true back in Isaiah's day. It wasn't just true in Peter's day in the first century. When Christians were living in tough times, and Peter was giving them the word that when you are maligned and when you were treated as slaves with disdain and blamed for things that are not your fault, you can live above that. You can live in holiness in a corrupt society, in obedience when everybody around you is justifying their disobedience, and you can learn to love. When all your friends seem to just use people. It's not just for that century. It's also for 2006. For that word that's powerful is also imperishable. And this world is a different world. You maybe see various summaries of it, but I thought one that was particularly interesting was from Tom Terrence. Who is the director of the C. S. Lewis Institute in Virginia? Here are his six observations about our world and the threshold of 2006. Secularism has overtaken England and the continent, and noted scholars now predict within 15 years Islam will dominate Europe. Marxism collapsed with the implosion of the Soviet Union and communism is virtually dead. China has moved toward capitalism and is well on its way to becoming a superpower. Radical Islam is spreading around the world. It passionately hates America. It is set on our destruction and intends to conquer the world for Allah at any cost. You can even see that on their website. America, like England fifty years ago, has much religion, but is also sliding into the same secularism that has overtaken England and Europe Finally, the American Church is increasingly being shaped by the culture, and large numbers of believers are seemingly at ease in Zion, oblivious to what is happening and the perils that lie ahead. That's enough to make you want to go back to 2005, doesn't it? That's the world that you and I live in. Is this word this message that we believe up to it? You know What this word says is that the problem is the same problem as it was in Isaiah's day. And the solution is the same solution as on Isaiah's day and Peter's day. The same need Our bondage to sin and our act of rebellion against our Creator worked out in all of our using of other people and wanting to control our worlds for ourselves and live independently. And the one solution that there is to that. The Savior that Peter talks about in verses 18 to 21. The same Jesus Christ in his blood sacrifice to redeem us, that is, to purchase us out of this bondage, verse 18. For you know that it was not with perishable things, such as silver or gold, that you were redeemed from the empty way of life handed down to you from your forefathers. But with the precious blood of Christ, a lamb without blemish or defect. And then the incarnation. He was chosen before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these last times. He came flesh. We saw him for your sake. And then his death and resurrection, and your faith and hope based on that. Through him, you believe in God who raised him from the dead. And glorified him so that your faith and hope are in God. Your faith in the fact that he is in fact raised, and your hope that he is glorified, and therefore God will come back and glorify this. Old broken earth and make a new heavens and a new earth than it could be in 2006. It's the same word. It's the same message. The same message that comes to a culture where we think that the way to fix each other is through education, counseling, and medication. And Scripture says that only a strong Savior, Jesus, who can by his word that seed bring new life. Into your heart and my heart, and bring the hope that his word is imperishable, and therefore not one promise Will fail. And that word is still true. And therefore, because if you have placed your trust in Jesus Christ, you Are born again, and that word, powerful and permanent, is at work in you to complete the work he began. So if this morning you look back on 2005 with a lot of regrets and shame. A sense of failure. And you're afraid to hope for new things and a change in old sin patterns in 2006. Let this word come to you with promise and hope. You can change. You are not in bondage to sin. In Jesus Christ, that word is doing a supernatural work to change your heart and my heart. so that I'm less irritable, less impatient, less complaining More loving, and you can be, in whatever the root sins that dominate your life, see his power at work. And so we begin this year by celebrating the Lord's Supper. And when you take the elements of that supper, hold them and remember, this is God's pledge to you. That this word is imperishable and powerful. That just as he says here Through him you believe in God who raised him from the dead and glorified him, so your faith and your hope are in God. You've been purchased with the precious blood of Christ. And that blood of Christ Preached with the word, verse 25, but the word of the Lord stands forever, and this is the word that was preached. To you. That will become to you very personal. I hold this bread, this juice, I gaze on it I touch it. And I will taste it. And I will eat it. And I will swallow it. And it will become part of me. And just like the word and the seed of the word comes to produce growth in life, so this word preached to you comes to change you. To change your heart and turn you from yourself to Christ. To see, as we sang before, the glories of Calvary. And that will give you a hope. 2006 can be different. It doesn't have to be like 2005. I can believe the promises of the gospel, and I can believe that the Spirit is at work in me by this word to make me more holy, more obedient, more loving. Do you believe that this morning? Now, in our traditional first Sunday of the month, the Lord's Suppers The one we have in January, we generally have sharing for people to talk about things you learned last year, maybe some hopes for the next year And because we're in the morning service and we're more restricted, we're not going to have that in general. But I did ask one couple to share. To share what God has done in the last year in what seemed to be a hopeless situation, exactly one year ago And what God has done by His grace and mercy and power in order for you to see God can work in you, and he can work in me, and he's not finished with them as he's not finished in you and me. But you know what? You could see him do things this next year, which if you heard it now, you wouldn't believe. So let me invite up Thomas and Miji Chang. There you are. Come on up. And uh I'd like to let you guys share what God has done in your lives in this last year. Come on up Good morning. Happy New Year. Uh for the past, I guess, um thirty-seven years of my life I've gotten away with um thirty of which I've been a Christian, I've gotten away with not having to share my testimony. So This is gonna be the big one. Um I'm not gonna go on about uh my whole life. Um I just wanna focus on I guess the past three years. and uh more specifically my marriage. And somehow, some way, God has chosen my marriage and in this area only. to well in other areas too, but mainly in this area to uh show me and to reveal to me uh his grace and his love Love and um while I was pregnant with my twins, um Um I found out that my husband had betrayed me and had betrayed me in the only way that I husband can to a wife and it was um a death it was literally a death and it was very difficult because even though it was a death I had life inside of me. Two. So um I had all these crazy thoughts of leaving my husband. Of terminating the pregnancy, of just all these wild and crazy insane thoughts. And It was in this stupor and in this pain, in this wretched pain that I called Pastor Allen. And I cried out to him and I said, you know, I don't know what to do. My life is over. And If I weren't pregnant, I'd kill myself because I don't know what to do. And it was a very it was a very sad time. We weren't sure if one of our twins was going to be okay. And it was just an upheaval. And up until this point I thought that God had been really gracious to me because I had never really had much hardship. So I thought, well, I I'm getting it all at once now. Um we got into some counseling with Pastor Allen and as much as peace could be restored at such a difficult time It was. And my pre the rest of my pregnancy um was good. And Thomas and I had somehow come to some type of peace or understanding. And then the babies came. And uh we found out that one of our twins was very ill and That she had a genetic disorder. And from then on, our lives started unraveling again. and just unraveling and unraveling and the and the stress of um the betrayal really not being dealt with and the multiple birth and then now our child having an issue. Um that year, the first year of of my girls' lives, were literally hell on earth. And um I uh a year ago, till this uh about the first week of January, I actually called Pastor Allen and I said said, I'm done. I'm literally at the end of my rope, and I have no more. I can't hold on anymore. So I'm not asking you to counsel me anymore, and I'm not asking you to talk to me. I don't want you to talk to me. I actually just want you to tell me And if I have grounds to leave my husband, because that's all I want to know. And if I do, then I'm done. So then he diplomatically I could hear him on the phone just R getting ready to say something. And I thought I knew what he was gonna say, but I didn't want him to say it. And he said, Well, you don't have grounds. I'm like, why not? Well, because you haven't, I don't think you've done the last thing that you have to do, or the only thing you have to do, which is devastate your husband with grace. And this grace is not going to come from you because you're incapable of it. This grace has to come from Jesus because He's the only way that you can find it in your heart. To finally for forgive your husband and then to continue to live with this man after what he's done to you. And If if once you've done that, um you're you're gonna reach a level of of peace and understanding that is gonna um be supernatural And I thought, well ne well no, I I can't do that. Um first of all, I don't want to do it. And secondly um Um he probably doesn't have a stinking center like I do. He doesn't have to live with all that all the time. And um Um he said, well, just just pray on it and meditate on it for a while. And so um I did. And one of my root sins is rebellion. And And the least favorite thing that I want to do is to submit to anything or anyone. So Then I thought, okay, well if I do this, then God's finally gonna give me a great marriage. He's gonna give me just adorable kids and just my life. is going to go on really well and and nicely now. And it didn't. Um this past year has been difficult. But I have definitely seen his grace at work. And even though we don't have this perfect storybook Book marriage. Um I love my husband again. And when I look at him, I just don't see his sin. Um I see the father's My children. I see the man that God has chosen for me, and I'm overcome By that. And I always thought that the strong thing would be to live And that that that was the right thing to do is to leave. Um and I thought that coward stayed. I thought That weak people stayed in marriages like this. But it's not. You have to have a strength that can only come. From the Lord. And I know that alone that I'm not capable of that. And so 2005 has been Um an amazing year in that I have learned so much and I have been restored, and my marriage has been restored, and I just uh Pray and I continue to cling to the hope and the faith that uh He's gonna be with me for many more years to come. So thank you. Wow, if you're really small. Um I have much to say, just that I I don't know what or why we came to this particular church uh six years ago, but I think I do know now why. Uh just praise and and thank the Lord for revealing to me the depth of my the depth of my um my heart and my Which is truly sinful. And um I thank him for for saving me. Um I know that He is he's our only hope. Um I thank God for this church and I and in particular the the leadership of this church, the the cells, the support groups. Um I don't know where it would be without that. So God is definitely working in this church. Um just Let me just take this opportunity to thank everybody, our friends here, uh, for supporting us uh through some of our hard time. Um One thing that stands in my mind with Thomas Amigi was seeing Thomas come to a genuine relationship with Christ out of a religious background. through this and then the one thing I remember with Niji, I still remember vividly on that film when she said, um, I can't do it. And I said, then you're going to need to discover an intimacy with Christ that you never thought was possible. And months later her coming and saying, I've discovered something of that intimacy. And then hearing from other women who are in desert places, whose hearts have been broken in their marriages. Miji Chang ministered the gospel to me in a way I couldn't believe. A conduit of the grace of God. What is it in your life? What's the brokenness? What's the sin? What's the thing that you think, if only I could see God, if only I could believe? That he could work in this next year. Bring it to him now. And then think: what are one or two or three people that are in my life? And I've really kind of believed this is for me, but I'm not really sure it's for them. Can you believe that this word of God is. Imperishable and could change them? And be willing to pray for one or two specific people in your life to see in 2006. God bring new life. I'm asking you now to pray, but then later today to go home And to ask yourself the question, if this area of my life were to change in 2006, what would it look like? What would I start doing that I'm not doing? What would I stop doing that I'm now doing? How would I trust God in ways that I'm not? And how would I see His Word work in me? In new ways that I haven't seen, and dare to believe him. Let's pray So, our God, we bring our lives to you Now we thank you, Lord, for your grace and what you've done in saving what seemed to be a dead marriage in Beiji and Thomas. In working by your grace and by your power, forgiveness, restoration, new love Where there was screaming, laughter, where there was bitterness, softness And only you, Lord God, can do that. Only you can bring about that kind of heart transformation. And there's some of us here, Lord, that are desperately longing for you to change our hearts. We've come at the end of this year, and for some it's been a difficult year, it's been a bitter year, it's been a disappointing year. We need to have our faith revived. We need to see, as Peter says, we believe that you have raised him from the dead, and our faith and our hope are in God. How we need hope. So in this moment, Lord, we pray, take our lives. We offer them to you for this year. In the quietness of this moment, Lord, I pray, help us to believe the gospel and to commit, to submit, to lay ourselves on the altar as living sacrifices. For two thousand six months, For you have been born again. not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God. For all men are like grass, and all their glory is like the flowers of the field. The grass withers, the flowers fall. But the word of the Lord stands forever. And this is the word that was preached to you. Give us, Lord, faith to believe it. Even in the deepest, darkest parts of our own lives. That we could stand at the end of 2006 and declare your glory and your faithfulness to those who take you at your word. We give you praise that that word is sure. Amen