And I'd like to spend three weeks talking about a basic principle that we see in the Bible, and that is, it is only to the extent that you You and I see our need that we appreciate the grace of God. And so we're going to look at two ways that we have needs. And we're going to look at the grace of God to meet those needs. The first is to see that we are unworthy. And therefore we see the infinite worthiness of Jesus Christ, provided by grace, the grace of God on our behalf. And then that's going to be two weeks, and then we'll spend one week looking at the fact that we are inadequate. And we will look at the adequacy of the Holy Spirit to meet all of our needs and make us adequate. So we're going to look this morning at this matter of unworthiness. And Gary Bridges In his book on transforming grace, he talks about this at some length, and he gives a uh refers to a parable in scripture, the one that's Ken read to you, uh, the parable uh that if you look in the NIV says the parable of the workers in the vineyard. Bridges says he would rather call it the parable of the gracious landowner And he gives in that, in his uh recounting of that, an insight which I think we generally miss when we look at this parable to try to understand it that I have found in Catholic Matthew is found as we've looked at this very precious to us. So you recall the setting of that parable. If you haven't turned to it yet, please turn to Matthew chapter 20. And you remember the setting of that parable that if you look in your Bibles you see just before it talks about the rich young man. And you remember the whole thing came about because of this rich fellow who came to Jesus And he said, Well, now what do I do to get eternal life? And Jesus said, Well, you know, keep the law. And he says, okay, well, you know, I've done all that. Now, you know, what is it that I'm missing? And Jesus then took Paul attention To his idolatry. He says, Go sell everything you have and come and follow me. And the Bible tells us that he went away sad because he had a lot of things and he didn't want to get rid of them. And then you remember it's right after that that Peter pops up and he says, well now, we have left everything. What are we going to get? Now before you're too hard on Peter, isn't that really kind of what we would be thinking? left everything to follow Jesus. What are we going to get out of this? And you notice that Jesus gives Peter a double answer which is very significant. So significant we're going to look at it in some second some length uh next year sometime. Hang on for that. But uh you know we'll get to that uh later on. Anyway, just briefly the double answer he gives To him is first of all, he says, Peter, you don't have any idea what you're going to get. It's beyond your imagination what you're going to get. because of anything that you've left in. In fact, Peter, you're going to get a ten thousand percent return on your investment. That's exactly what he says in verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine. You're going to get a ten thousand percent return. I tell you the truth at the renewal of all things when the Son of Man sits in his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel and everyone who has left Houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or fields for my sake, anything you've sacrificed will receive a hundred times as much and will inherit eternal life. much as ten thousand percent. We figure it out later. But then he gives them a second answer in verse 30. And the second answer is that he says, but wait a minute, Peter D, where the actual Attitude that says that God owes you something for what you've done. Beware that attitude, Peter. Beware that spirit. It says, God owes me because I Sacrifice for us, when in fact God owes you nothing. And then he states a principle, which you see there in verse 30. And the principle is many who are first will be last. Many who are last are going to be first. That is many of you who think I've left all this for the Lord. I'm going to be first. I'm going to be up there. He says if you if you have that attitude, you're probably not gonna get a whole lot. You're probably gonna be pretty disappointed. And this is in terms of judgment or acceptance. And so what he's basically saying is the day of judgment is going to be full of surprises. Isn't that amazing? I mean can you imagine what a day that's going to be when we see the books open and we We see the reality of life. There are going to be a lot of surprises on the Day of Judgment because we don't really understand the principles of Scripture like we think we do. God's character is And then after Jesus states that principle, many people who think they're going to be first, because they've sacrificed a lot and God owes them, are going to be entitled to And many who are last think that they hear they haven't given up anything because they they understand their sin and they see it, they think, God doesn't owe me anything. They in fact Are going to be surprised by what they receive. Then he gives a story to illustrate that point. And after he gives the story in verse 16, he states the same principle In reverse. So look at 20 verse 16. So the last will be first, and the first will be last. Now, what's the story? The story is the parable. that uh Ken just uh read to you, but because that's so important that you understand the principles of it, the details of it, let's look at that parable again and follow along in your Bibles as I read this to see the story that illustrates this principle of grace. The kingdom of heaven is light. That's very important. Notice he's saying this isn't just a story and you sort of draw certain principles from it. He's saying this is a principle of what God is like and the way he works in his kingdom. The kingdom of heaven is like a landowner Who went out early in the morning to hire men to work in his vineyard? He agreed to pay them a denarius for the day and sent them into his vineyard. Now notice there are five Five groups of people that work. Here's the first one. Goes at the beginning of the day. Then the second group, about the third hour, he went out and saw others standing in the marketplace doing nothing. He told them, You also go work in my vineyard, and I'll pay you whatever's right. So they went. Then there's a third group went out about the sixth hour, that's noon, and the ninth hour. Three o'clock in the afternoon, and he did the same thing, third and fourth route. Then about the eleventh hour, five PM, just an hour before quitting time, he went out to find still other standing around and he asked them, Why have you been standing here all day long doing nothing? Because no one's hired us, they answered. So he said to them, You also go and work in my vineyard. So when the evening came, that's six o'clock, so these guys worked one hour. The owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, Call the workers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last ones hired, going on to the first. literally hear the last or first and then the first or the are last. And so the workers who were hired about the eleventh hour, 5 p. m. came and each one of them received a denaro So when those who came were hired first, they started rubbing their palms, you know, because they said, Oh, he's escalated the pay scale. I mean, if these guys were One hour and they got a denarius. Imagine what we're gonna get, right? Makes sense. I mean we worked in the heat of the day. We worked all day long with all the burden. Maybe we'll get up to twelve denarii. You know, I mean maybe he's given a denarius an hour. Who knows? But this is great. So then when Those came who were hired first, verse ten, they expected to receive more, but each of them also received a denarius. That's exactly what they expected to get up until a few minutes ago. But now, instead of being happy to receive it, verse 11, when they received it, they began to grumble against the land of them. I would have been happy just a few minutes ago. The only thing has changed is that somebody else got a denarius for one hour's work. So they Grumbled. And these men, notice this is the essence of their complaint, verse twelve. These men who were hired first worked only one hour, they said. And you've made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the work and the heat of the event. Today. It's not fair, just like Ken was saying. Not fair. They only work one hour, and you're giving them the same as you gave to us. And at that point The landowner rebukes them on three counts. Notice what he says, verse 13. He answered them, friend, first of all, he says. Rebuke is you are complaining about what we agreed on. You have no basis for complaint. You're simply getting what we agreed on. Read says there in verse 13. I'm not being unfair to you. Didn't you agree to work for a denarius? Take your pay and go. That's it. There's nothing to complain about. I've given you exactly what we complain contracted for. The second thing he rebukes them about is complaining against his sovereign right to do with his money what he wants. He says Verse 14. I want to give the man who was hired last the same as I gave you. Verse 15. Don't I have the right to do what I want with my own money? My money. I haven't cheated you. I haven't been unfair to you. I haven't gone back on my word. It's my money. I did what I want. Why are you complaining? And then the third thing that he does is He rebukes their envy for being generous to someone else. He says, Are you envious? Because I am generous or gracious. See, he's saying to them basically, you guys are behaving irrational. Because you know what? Notice, boil everything down to what they're saying, and it comes comes down to this. We deserve grace because we worked hard. Right? So wait a minute. How do you deserve Grace. But isn't that what they're saying? Look, these guys got grace. We deserve grace because we worked harder. And when you work harder, you ought to get more grace. That's the way it works, right? That's the way it works. You guys don't understand something here. There's something about grace that you've missed. You don't earn it. And you certainly don't deserve it. But the problem The problem is when you and I look at this, don't we really believe that guy was unfair? I mean, really, in your gut feeling, be honest. Wasn't the great Gracious landowner, unfair. What if you had been working there all day? You know, when I was writing this up and meditating on it, I was looking out my window of the office there at all the construction. Just at that moment, it's one of those blazing hot hundred degree days. And here's guys who are laying grass seed and they're s putting straw in where they just dug this trench, and they're out there sweating the sweats, pouring off And I'm thinking, yeah, imagine those guys doing that, expecting their pay, and then some guys come in, they work for an hour, and NSC pays them the same wage. Really. You gotta put yourself in a situation. Isn't it unfair? You feel that, don't you? Guy's unfair. Why should he I mean hey he's great if he wants to be gracious to them, but at least be gracious in the same way to these other guys. That's the only fair thing to do, right? I mean grace's got to be distributed in some equitable fashion, right? It's not fair to not give grace to everybody if you're going to give it to somebody. And this is what Jesus wants us to wrestle with. Because he really wants to show us what grace is. And you see what he's doing is that Jesus in his brilliance is putting you and me in a situation where we identify with those twelve-hour workers. I mean, look. Let's face it, when you look at the story, who is it you identify with? The 12-hour workers or the one-hour workers? Now, you know, I can have a show of hands here, but I'm not gonna be Don't be embarrassed. But isn't it true? I mean, be honest. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I really identify those 12-hour words. I don't like it when people loaf around and they goof off and then something happens happens and they make out anyway. A guy wins a $110 million lottery. Hey, man that bugs me. You know. Why couldn't I have won that thing, you know? I'm more deserving of that. Or let's put yourself in a situation in your employment. Let's suppose your employer says, I'm going to give a five thousand dollar bonus to everybody and an extra two weeks of vacation this summer. Said, well, that's pretty good, you know. I'm pretty happy about that. Now, I probably deserve it more than some of these other guys that are getting it, or these other women that are getting that, but you know, that's fine, I'll take it. But Let's suppose your employer said, I'm going to give some people $5,000 bonuses and some people extra two weeks of vacation. And you don't get it. And there seems to be no correlation between how hard they worked and what they got. That really galls you, doesn't it? You know, I mean, even though you're getting everything that you were contracted to get in that job, nobody's reduced your pay, you're not getting a penny less than you should have gotten. But the fact that somebody else Would seem arbitrarily to get an extra five thousand dollars and an extra two weeks of vacation one. Boy could you use that. I mean not only Which you'd be mad at the employer, you'd be mad at God, right? I mean, why did you get him that? And not me. And you see, what Jesus wants us to do is to feel that so that you come to the place where you We realize I am identifying with the 12-hour workers, and then Jesus turns around and he says, But you see, my children, you are one hour. Every one of us are the one-hour workers, not the twelve-hour workers. And so what Jesus does is he puts his finger on our lives and our hearts and he wants To reveal to you the demandingness, the control, the lusts and the adulteries, and the desire to gossip and gossip. Cut down people that you don't like. The lying and the cheating and the little ways that you and I reflect bitter spirits and unforgivingness. And Jesus says, You You are one hour workers at less. And you see what Jesus is trying to do is he's trying to say as long as you real as long as you believe that you're a twelve hour work Ever really gonna understand my face. It's only at that place when you see your heart, and we're gonna look at that a little bit more next week. When you see what your heart is is like that you understand that you are a one-hour worker who's received nothing but grace. You don't deserve one hour space. And see, when we and I, when you and I come to that position of understanding that, then we say, Lord, I don't deserve anything of your pen. But Jesus worked the full twelve hours to The heat of the burden of the day, and I have received his pay. He was put into my account. All that Jesus earned by a life of perfect obedience. that and he paid for that so that I, a one-hour worker, can receive twelve hours pay by grace that I don't deserve. Now until you feel that you won't really understand grace. And if you think that in fact you have some right To God's grace. Then you've totally misunderstood what grace is. And this parable is to illustrate that. See, Jerry Bridges says that most Christians come to God. And when Jesus says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, he's saying, you're blessed when you come to declare spiritual bankruptcy. That's how you come to see the work of Christ for you, right? But Rich just says there's two kinds of bankruptcy. You know, he says there's chapter seven bankruptcy, that's permanent bankruptcy. That you're out of business. Gone. Debt's liquidated, but you You have nothing else to offer. But then there's Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Chapter 11 bankruptcy is temporary. Chapter 11 bankruptcy says, well, you're gonna you're gonna be given a reprieve so that you can recover and you can work your way out of the hole. And I think in a real insight, Bridges says most of us as Christians have declared chapter 11 Bankruptcy. When we came to Christ, we said, Lord, I have nothing to offer to you. I declare spiritual bankruptcy. But it's chapter 11 bankruptcy in our mind. Because what happens is we go on in the Christian life and we receive God's blessings, we begin to think those blessings correlate with our faithfulness, don't we? We begin to think that the reason God's been good to me is because I'm faithful to him. I've gained a certain favor. I've gained a certain status before him because he knows my heart that I'm faithful I'm trying, and I mess up a lot of times, but he knows I'm trying, and so therefore he's being good to me. It's almost impossible in our thinking to totally dissociate God's blessing. from our own obedience or our own efforts, isn't it? And yet Jesus is saying in this parable, until you do that, until you see yourself as the eleventh hour worker The one who comes in last, the one who says, I have no claim on any pay. I have nothing here that I have gained by my efforts. And Jesus says you're not really going to understand what the grace of God means in your life. Until you declare chastity Chapter 7, permanent bankruptcy. And say the only blessings I receive from Jesus Christ are by his grace, not because I've begun to work my way out of the hole. That you will really understand. And glory in and find joy in the grace of God. Now, if you think that that's, you know, you wonder where you are in that. Let me give you three texts. That'll help you to work this through in your life. So you see them there. I guess they're on the back side. First ones on the on the front side, the A, B, and C there. Three tests To see if you really understand this. Number one is your reaction to difficulties. Alright, in case you missed those blanks here so far, obviously the first one, the thrum and We are all one-hour workers. The test of whether I believe that is my reaction to difficulties in my own life. Bridges quotes a man whose Christian mother was dying of cancer. And he said when he talked to the man, the man said, after all those years of service, this is the thing. She gets. Identify with that? See what's that saying? She was a twelve-hour worker. How could God treat her like that? It it's that it's that idea that says, God owes me better than he's giving. He uh calls attention to the fact that the Jews in chapter seven of Luke Gospel. Talk about a centurion that had a servant who was dying. And the servant, the centurion asked Jesus to come and to heal his servant. You remember what the Jews Jews do? They go to Jesus on his behalf and they say, this centurion deserves for you to do something good for him in his trouble. Because he built us a synagogue. He loves our people. And Jesus then begins to go to the centurion. And you remember what the centurion said. He said, Lord, I don't deserve for you to even come Come to my home. And I'm a man under authority, and I know that I can speak a word, and people obey, and I believe that you are a man of ultimate authority, and you can speak a word I plead your mercy. Jesus says, I haven't found this kind of faith even in all of Israel. Here's a person who understands grace. He doesn't understand doesn't deserve my mercy. And so he gave me the mercy. And I find that in my own life. You know, this um our our generation So feeds us the sense of entitlement, doesn't it? I mean you want advertising. And the advertising constantly says you deserve the best. You deserve the best To have top quality in your life. And so come and use our product. Spend a little more. Who cares? You're worth it. You might be an axe murderer. and a child molester. You know, and I always think that. You know, I watch this. How does he know I deserve it? You know? I could have just killed my mother. And the guy's saying, you are a wonderful person. You deserve all these good things. Baloney and politicians do the same thing. You have rights. Elect me to defend your rights and to protect them and to give you what's coming to you. And so we begin to buy into the sense of entitlement, and we do, and we extrapolate it to God, and we say, God owes me too. That's what he was put in office for. to defend my rights and to make things right down here so that they're running the way they ought to. And so when difficulty comes and things happen in your life and they begin to fall apart, what happens? You say, hey God? Wait a minute. I've kept my part, at least I tried. I know I mess up, but I deserve better than this, right? Isn't the essence of a lack of contentment that we feel like we deserve better? I mean, if you really feel you deserve hell for your sin and the judgment and the wrath of God, and he says, I've called you into my eternal glory in Jesus Christ. Wouldn't you really say, no matter what I get on this earth, it's better than what I deserve? You know, you look at Paul. Paul said that He was persecuted, he was stoned, he was beaten, he was left for dead, he was out in the sea in a shipwreck. I mean, you talk about trouble and stress, and yet never once does he come He writes out of prison about the joy that he has in Jesus Christ. Why? Because he saw himself as a one-hour worker. Now, if the Apostle Paul, who lived his life in such a Obedience and self-giving all the years since he came to Christ to his death and finally died as a martyr. He says, hey, I don't view myself as a 12-hour worker. I'm the least of all saints. I'm the chief of sinners. I'm a one-hour worker and Jesus has given me twelve hours of pay by his grace, the pay that he earned in the kingdom of heaven. Then who are you and me to say, hey Lord, I can't I'll tell you, you know, I always I always get nervous when I preach these kind of sermons. Because I know the Lord's going to do something. And this week was a A horrendous week. I mean after Tuesday you can have it back. I went Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, discipline cases, tension Things that couldn't be resolved. I come home one night, tree that I loved and planted, gone, disappeared out of the yard. Couldn't I couldn't even see the trunk. Nothing was left. Then I find out yesterday that somebody in the house tried to chop down another tree. A tree that I love. Half gone too The sun goes out to mow the lawn last night. Lawn mower doesn't work. Air conditioner was having problems. On and on and on. Heat problems. Everything, you name it. God I deserve better than this, right? Don't you feel like that sometimes? And God said, hey, what are you preaching on Sunday? Okay, okay, you know Teach me to preach about grace. But we laugh because we understand our own hearts are just laugh. Like that, aren't they? And the Lord is trying to get through to us. Say, see yourself as a one-hour worker and understand my praise. You know the second thing that we see in that is even more our reaction to someone else getting more grace. Our reaction to someone else. You see, it's not so bad if we're all suffering together, right? But when someone else gets more grease, that's what really gets that was what was really the 12-hour work of Thomas. That's okay. We get this than Aaron's. But what are you giving those guys more for? Or they look work less to get what they got. You see, why does he get more vacation? Why does he have better health? Fewer problems. Their kids seem to be doing better. Their marriage is better. They have more money. Whatever it is. We can always look at people who seem to have it better and lose our dis our contentment, right? Why? Because we believe we deserve to have at least as much as someone else. We compare ourselves with them And we don't come back again to say, I deserve hell. And when God has given to me, I am great for it. I give him thanks for it because it is better. than what I deserve. I have no claim on saying I deserve to get more denaria. God, it is up to you. I thought of that just in my own situation again. You know, we think of the ministry center that we're constructing on 108. And I look at that and I say, God has been so gracious to us. that land and we got that debt free after two years and now you know with sacrifice and effort here's a one point million dollar facility going up That we hope to be able to get into and plan to be in by November so that we can begin to function in that. And God has been so good and He's shown his power to us. And I give thanks to that. Until I look at the the long reach church of God. Yeah, my friend Bob Davis. I've known Bob for many years. I saw in fact was just Ludbob was weak. Didn't tell him I was gonna say this. Look at Long Reach Church of God. They get interfaith property, they're cheap. Pay next to nothing for it. They get a whole parking lot for free because they're over the village center. Here we know anybody that's been over to our parking lot knows what we're going through to try to get a parking lot. They get one that's already there, laid out. God, why'd you give that to them? And you see, we can lose our joy And say, not, God, you've been so gracious to us, but how come they didn't have to work as hard? And that's what we look at, other Christians. And when I began to think of that, I began to realize there are two things I'm missing. Number one is that when another believer gets more grace, it doesn't mean God loves him enough. When someone else has something you don't have, it never Means God loves that person more. His purpose is inscrutable in their life, and his purpose is inscrutable in your life, and faithfulness will produce the blessing. But just because a person seems to have have less trouble doesn't mean God loves them more. That's not grace. Grace says I am forming in you the image of Jesus Christ and I have a unique person And plan of the way I'm doing it in your life. Don't look at someone else and compare it. Say, well, how come they don't work an hour? The second thing is, God doesn't owe me an explanation. Whenever I see someone that seems to be getting something and I say, Well, how come God you seem to be more gracious to that person than to me? How come they seem to get it easier? God says to me, Look Look, don't I have the right to do with my resources what I want? You trust me. You'll realize that what I've given you is my grace, and you walk with your eyes on Jesus Christ Christ, you will not have to worry about what I do in other people's lives. And then the third thing, finally, is that you and I then are tested in our understanding of God This is by our reaction to God's sovereign exercise of grace. What is my reaction to God's sovereign exercise of grace? I really believe, you're gonna think I'm sneaky here, but I really believe that one of the big problems with the idea of predestination and God's election Is a spiritual problem. Yeah, right, you know, Presbyterianism. No, I really didn't think about. Isn't the essence of our problem with the fact that God predestined us to People to eternal life, some and not all, that God elects to grace and to faith in Jesus Christ. Isn't the essence of that the problem of the parable? Why does he choose them and not others? You mean that his choosing me to life in Jesus Christ had nothing to do with my faithfulness or that I I was more insightful or more responsive or my heart was more tender or whatever else? Do you mean it was just by grace? Well, uh what'd you think it was, you know I mean you think it was sort of a combination? You know, yes, I deserved more grace because I worked harder. And so our reaction to the whole Teaching of Scripture, of God's sovereign electing grace according to his unfathomable purposes, is to us a test of do we really live and walk by grace? Or do we think that it's some sort of a mixture of grace plus a little bit of effort and some earning and s a little bit of this work And the heat of the day and the burden of the work and all that kind of business. When you and I come to understand that God's grace is 100% grace to you and me to me for every one of our blessings. We begin to enter into contentment. We begin to enter into a joy that we cannot know otherwise. Do you know Jesus talked about to the Jews, he said, when they were discussing this in Luke chapter 4, Jesus said, now, remember all the widows in Israel? back uh in the old testament during the days of Elijah. God did not uh heal any of their children but he went to a gentile widow in Zarephath. And He chose her to show his blessing. Just in case you missed the point on that one, do you remember during the days of Elisha, there were a lot of lepers in Israel? But who did God choose to heal but Naaman? A Syrian and a pretty wretched one at that. Remember how the Jews responded? They said, Yes, God is so gracious. He let him choose what he wants. We just we don't deserve anything. just cover for him and they're so great and so grateful that he has shown us mercy. The Bible says they took him to the brow of the hill and they tried to throw him over to kill him because they hated what he said. When you and I come to that place where we are prostrate before God and say, I deserve given to me grace. Jesus. Then we receive from him his work in our lives and let him determine what believes or not. And we can rest Lord our God, we confess to you this morning. that we have seen ourselves as twelve-hour workers that deserve better. And I believe, Lord, that you've been working in our hearts this morning to show us we are in fact. one hour workers at best. Lord, we don't even deserve one hour's wages. You have given us To us eternal life in eternal glory in Jesus Christ. And that was a hundred percent By your grace, your mercy to us. Lord, forgive us for our grumbling and for our believing that we deserve better or that we are envy Of others who seem to have it easier or get more or have more of your love or favor or whatever. We will come back to the basics this morning. We are on And you have given to us eternal worthiness in Jesus. Give us hearts that understand and live by grace. That we would be a contented people and pray in each of our situations