We enter the Christmas season, a time of traditions, traditions that you have, traditions that we have Traditions, some of which can be precious and some of which can be mindless. I've told some of you the story of the Fellow in Russia saw a sentry outside the palace, standing in the middle of the palace grounds, wondered why he was there, checked into the records And found out that a couple hundred years before that, the czarists had come out after a long hard winter, found the first flower of spring growing there, and posted a sentry to guard the flower so that nobody'd step on it. Two hundred years later, still got a century there. Make sure nobody steps in a flower. You know? We had traditions in our family. One tradition I remember I always always would find in my stocking a box of Hanscom's hard candies. Anybody ever had Hanscom's hard candies? I don't even know if they have Hanscom's anymore. Well I hated those things. I mean, not only they not taste good, but when you suck on them, they get sharp and they puncture your cheek. They're a mess, you know. And I I asked my mother once, Mom, um, why you always give me these hands come hard candies? We always throw 'em out at the end of the season. Nobody ever eats them, you know And she said, well, my mom used to give me Hanscom's hard candies for Christmas. I said, well, Mom, did you like them? Said, no, not really, but she gave them to me, so I give 'em to you, you know. I think finally the generation that loved hands comes died out and they went out of business, you know, nobody else could pass it on. Well Traditions can be mindless or they can be precious, but one of the traditions we have at Columbia Presbyterian is that for two or three weeks after Thanksgiving We look at a messianic prophecy. A prophecy from Genesis to Revelation from Genesis to Malachi, talking about the hope of Israel, the coming of Messiah. So that we can study that, and in doing that, we build our own hope and expectation as we anticipate the celebration of the coming of Jesus who has come once for all and who we anticipate coming again. And so we began in 1979 with Genesis 3 Worked our way on through and we're now up to Isaiah. Been in Isaiah since nineteen ninety two. Eighteen so far, working our way on through to the end of Malachi We started the four servant songs a couple of years ago. Two years ago, we just did the overviews of these precious and unique songs of the servant. that are found in Isaiah 42, 49, 50, and 53. And each of these speaks of the servant of the Lord. The servant of the Lord who is to come, who is utterly unique, and these songs are admittedly hard to understand. They're not uh songs that people often will study in anticipation of Christmas in order to get uh Some great blessings, Isaiah 7 and 9 are much more popular, but these songs, I believe, are uniquely and distinctly precious for at least two reasons. The first is because these songs contain very precise and specific prophecies about what the Messiah would be like, his person and his work. And they were precisely fulfilled. What's even more amazing is if you look at these prophecies, some of them seem to be self-contradictory, as we'll look at today. And yet, though you would read the prophecy and you say, there is no one person who can ever fulfill that doesn't even make sense. You couldn't do this and also do that because they contradict each other. And yet we see in the ministry and the life of Jesus he did everything that was said precisely. And the other reason I would suggest that these are very worth our studying. like mining gold in a deep, deep mine. It's a lot of work to get down there, but you come up with the gold and find that it's worth it. is because the these prophecies give to us some insights in the mind and the emotions of Jesus that no other place of Scripture will give us You understand something about the heart and the thoughts of Jesus through these prophecies. Sections of them are written in the first person. So they are the words of Jesus in anticipation that are so precious. They are so amenable to our falling in love with Jesus on a deeper level and finding in him our joy as we approach the season. So that's my hope. They'll be faith builders for you, and they'll help you to love Jesus more. Now let me just say that If you're one of those people who hates to come in on the TV program after a commercial or two and you miss the beginning, uh we're not going to do any review, but if you uh just have to understand the overview so you get the big picture about these four songs. Uh the tapes of nineteen ninety seven uh are on file and you can borrow those or buy them and listen if you want to catch that. Nineteen ninety eight We looked uh at the uh first servant song, Isaiah 42, so you're welcome to that. But we're just going to move right on now into Isaiah chapter 49, the second song of the servant. Now, uh, they're called songs, uh, not because I'm going to sing 'em, heaven forbid, but or that you would, heaven forbid, you think that's just me, uh Now there are there's no music to these unless part of it handles Messiah. They're songs because they're written in poetic meter. But just to show you how difficult some of these things are to understand, I consulted in Isaiah 49, the second song, I consulted eight scholars writing on this. uh to just find out where it ends. Everybody be agrees that it begins in Isaiah chapter 49 verse 1, but uh it's pretty hard to find people who will agree on where the song ends. Of the eight that I consulted, three said that the song ends after verse six. One said it ends after verse seven. Two said it ends after the beginning of verse nine. One said it ends after verse twelve, and one said it ends after verse thirteen. I'm persuaded that it ends after the beginning of verse nine But if you're interested in why I think it ends at the beginning of verse 9, you're going to have to ask me after the sermon, because I'm not going to take time in the precious minutes that we have now to defend why I think that those are the limits of the song. But it's just an example of how the songs flow in the major themes of Isaiah, and there are some things difficult to understand in it. And so let us hear again this translation I'm reading now from the NIV, which is a little different from what you read in the overhead. And I want to read it and have you think about it. Notice it's in the first person singular. And hear this God's word, the Messiah speaking in this song. And Use again, like last week, your imagination to understand what's going on here. Listen to me, you islands. Hear this, you distant nations. Before I was born, the Lord called me. From my birth, he has made mention of my name. He made my mouth like a sharpened sword. In the shadow of his hand he hid me. He made me into a polished arrow, and concealed me in his quiver. He said to me, You are my servant, Israel, in whom I will display my splendor. But I said, I have labored to no purpose. I have spent my strength in vain and for nothing. And yet, what is due me is in the Lord's hand, and my reward is with my God. And now the Lord says, He who formed me in the womb to be his servant, to bring back Jacob to him, and to gather Israel to himself, for I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and my God has been my strength. He says It is too small a thing for you to be my servant to restore the tribes of Jacob and to bring back those of Israel I have kept. I will also make you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring my salvation to the ends of the earth. This is what the Lord says, the Redeemer and Holy One of Israel, to him who is despised and abhorred by the nation, to the servants of rulers, kings will see you and rise up Princes will see and bow down because of the Lord, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you. This is what the Lord says. In the time of my favor I will answer you, and in the day of salvation I will help you. I will keep you and I will make you to be a covenant for the people, to restore the land and to reassign its desolate inheritances. To say to the captives, Come out, and to those in darkness, be free. Well Don't imagine you absorb all that right away. We'll spend three weeks on it. Try to glean what we can out of this. If you look in the bot top of your bulletin outline, you'll see that uh I put in a box there What I think is the key statement of this song, and I believe that it sums up the song in the most succinct way, you are my servant Israel, in whom I will display my splendor. Verse three There are three key words there: servant, Israel, and splendor. We'll look at each of these three words, one week apiece, beginning this week with the word name Israel. Now that leads us back to verse 1 and who it is that's speaking. Notice in verse 1, you just kind of out of The previous context, all of a sudden there is this statement, listen to me, you islands. Hear this, you distant nations Before I was born, the Lord called me. From my birth, he has made mention of my name. Literally, that last line would be better. Translated probably from my birth, he has caused my name to be remembered. That's more literally what the Hebrew says. He's caused my name to be remembered. So who is this? Obviously it's not Isaiah, because Isaiah was simply the messenger of the Lord. This is someone who is a highly exalted personage who calls to the nations to listen. This is the one who restores Israel. He's the one who does all these things that you see. Kings are going to bow down to him. So obviously it's not talking about Isaiah. Now, who is it? Well, you see in verse 3 is the one place he gives him a name. He says, You're my servant Israel. So he calls this one Israel, in whom he is going to display his glory. The only problem with that is you get down to verse 5, and he says that this one is going to bring Jacob, another name for Israel, back to him and gather Israel to himself. So here is one who is both called Israel, but is distinct from Israel. So who is he? Who is this one? Obviously a very exalted person who says to the islands, and in the verse 1, you see the islands in the Bible is always the distant far reaches of the ends of the earth So he says to the islands, to the distant nations you see there, listen to me. But clearly he's an individual. He is not just collective Israel. He's an individual because he speaks of being born. This person is a human being. Before I was born, the Lord called me. And yet he had a particular relationship with him. He's the one who's going to cause his name to be remembered. The Lord will cause his name to be remembered. Well, who is this? Well, I want to demonstrate to you this idea that it's both Israel as a person and it's someone who is distinct from Israel. Now it's Israel as a person because I believe this is the one who is all that Israel should have been and never was. If you look back in chapter 42 In verse 18 to 20, God speaks to Israel as his servant. And to the nation of Israel, he says, Hear you deaf, look you blind, and see. Who is blind but my servant? And deaf like the messenger that I send. Who is blind like the one committed to me? Blind like the servant of the Lord. You've seen many things, but it paid no attention. Your ears are open, but you hear nothing. So Israel's a nation we see again and again failed to be the true servant of the Lord. Four times in this song we see this one who is called Israel is called his servant. You see in verse 3, you are my servant, in whom I will display my splendor, Israel. In verse 5 He says, He who formed me in the womb to be his servant to accomplish a certain mission. Verse 6: It's too small a thing for you to be my servant to restore the tribes of Jacob. Verse 7 He is despised and abhorred by the nation. He says this one is the servant of rulers. So four times in this one song This one is called the true servant. He is the one who is the servant that Israel should have been. Now Israel was supposed to be God's servant, particularly in three ways God called Israel to fulfill three offices in order to display his splendor. One was the office of prophet, the office of priest, and the office of king. And so what you see in this one, the servant, is that he fulfills all that was to have been fulfilled by the prophet, the priest, and the king, and he does it perfectly. For instance, you see that he is the prophet. The purpose of the prophet was to reveal God, to display him in God and his will. And he says in verse 3, You're my servant, in whom I will display my splendor. You're going to do it perfectly. But you see that it's going to be done in conflict. Look at verse 2. The prophet speaks, and he says, He made my mouth like a sharpened sword. You say, well, one's going to display God's splendor and glory, he's going to talk about peace and love and all the things that we love to think about God. But this one, the servant, says, No, when I speak, I'm going to say things that are going to bring conflict In fact, he says, he made me like a polished arrow. So here's one who speaks in power, and it's in a military context. He speaks and things, sparks begin to fly. His words are like a sharp sword, like a polished arrow. And um that's a different view, you see. The prophets were killed because they said things that Israel didn't want to hear. This one's going to say things that are going to cause even greater conflict and rejection. But you notice there is a particular intimacy that is indicated in verse 2, because in each case, when he states the conflict, he reflects on his intimate relationship with the Lord. He made my mouth like a sharpened sword, in the shadow of his hand he hid me. God's protecting him. Then he goes on, he made me into a polished arrow and concealed me in his quiver. Now what does that refer to? It could refer to the fact that Jesus was concealed before he was born of a virgin in a manger as a man. Um I think more likely it refers to Jesus' life from his birth up to the time he was baptized and entered his public ministry at age thirty when God concealed him, protected him from Herod and from others who would do him harm, concealed him and took care of him until his public ministry when he would enter into the conflict. You see that this one is also the true priest of God's people. Look down there in verse 8. He says, this is what the Lord says. This is what the Lord says. In the time of my favor, I will answer you, and in the day of salvation I will help you. Very interesting. The time of my favor, the year of God's favor was what? The year of Jubilee. Remember there were seven years, the seventh year there would be a particular uh rest And then you go another six years and work, and then there'd be some respite after the seventh year. But then after seven sevens, forty-nine years, then God said, the fiftieth year, you took off Year-long vacation. Good deal, huh? We've got to reinstitute that. Year-long vacation. Call it the year of Jubilee. Don't even bother to plant the crops. You're just going to eat off of everything that was planted before. Don't have to do any work. Tie on a trip, go somewhere, enjoy yourself. It's the year of freedom. If you are a slave, you are automatically freed in that year So he says, In this time of my favor, the time of freedom, the time when I liberate the captives, and in the day of salvation I will help you. Now that term the day of salvation is interesting because literally in the Hebrew it's in the day of Yeshua. In the day of Yeshua, I will help you. And Yeshua, of course, is the Hebrew name for Jesus. So what he's saying is: in the year of Jubilee, that year of freedom, That day of Jesus is when I'm going to come and I'm going to help you. The priest was the one to announce that those things had taken place. And then he says, I will keep you and make you to be a covenant for the people. Let's hold on to that thought. We'll come back to it. But it's the function of the priest. Hang on. Notice thirdly that he is also the king and fulfills that that Israel didn't and should have. You see there in verse 7. that uh he is the one who kings will see and rise up, princes will see and bow down. He will be the king of kings Again, back in verse 1, you notice that he says, Before I was born the Lord called me from my birth, he has caused my name to be remembered. If you look back in Psalm 45, a beautiful poetic uh song to the king who is getting married, marrying the beautiful bride that he set his affections on. And Psalm 45 is a picture of Messiah. coming into relationship with his brides. Beautiful, beautiful picture. The end of Psalm 45, the last verse of this picture of the wedding The psalmist says, I will perpetuate your memory through all generations. Therefore the nations will praise you forever and ever. The phrase there, I will perpetuate your memory, is the same phrase you have in Isaiah 49, 1, before birth. He caused my name to be remembered. He perpetuated the memory of my name. And as we come upon Y2K, it is important for us to realize that while 700 years BC, this was written of someone unknown Who is this that has the audacity to say to the ends of the earth, listen to me. I'm going to be born and God will perpetuate my memory for all time. You think, oh. Um yet in just a little over a month, the whole world We'll be reminded of the fact that our entire date setting revolves around the person of Jesus Christ in his birth Even though it's actually around 2004 right now, rather than uh 1999 because of some miscalculations, nevertheless All history is dated by the birth of this one who says in verse one From my birth he has caused my name to be remembered. And this day, in this world, About two billion people call themselves Christians. Not all certainly are by any stretch of the imagination. But two billion, two uh out of five billion people name the name of Jesus Christ as the one who is their Savior. And so this is literally true, has literally been fulfilled in a way far beyond what anyone could have ever thought at that time. But now let me take a look with you at how he is distinct. Let's go back over that material, but see how Jesus Look on the back side of your bullet now, is distinct from Israel as its Messiah. Real quickly, first of all, again, he is an individual. Verse 1 He's not collective Israel. And that's important because Jews today, if you were to share this with a Jewish friend and say, well, doesn't that uh clearly speak about Messiah, a person, Jesus? And they'd say, Well, no, that's talking about collective Israel. But you see, it talks about him being born in verse 1. It talks about him as an individual. The Lord called me. Clearly, this is talking about an individual. This is not a collectivization of Israel as a concept. Secondly, you notice that he restores Israel in verses 5 and 6. He brings Jacob back to himself. Uh in verse six, too small a thing for you to be my servant to restore the tribes of Jacob, bring back those of Israel that I have kept. And so uh Israel that had wandered from him, he is going to restore. How's he going to do that? How's he going to do that, particularly since thirdly, you see, he's rejected by Israel How's he going to restore Israel and yet be rejected by Israel? Yet clearly that's what the song says. Look in verse 7. This is what the Lord says, the Redeemer and Holy One of Israel, to him who is despised and abhorred by the nation. Now how is he going to leave them if he's despised and abhorred by them? So you see also in the beginning of verse 4. He says, uh I've labored to no purpose. I've spent my strength in vain and for nothing. He seems like his whole ministry is a failure. And yet this is the one who is going to restore not simply Israel but the nations? I mean, it doesn't make sense, does it? And yet you see it coming together if you look at verse 8. Because in verse 8 you come back to that idea of his priesthood. This is what the Lord says. In the time of my favor, in that year of Jubilee, I will answer you. And in the day of salvation, the day of Yeshua, I will help you. I will keep you and I will make you to be a covenant for the people. So D is, he is a covenant for Israel. Now this is absolutely amazing if you think about it. What in the world does that mean? What could Isaiah have thought about when he writes about an individual and says I will make you to be a covenant for the people. The function of the priest was to offer sacrifices To the God of the covenant, so Israel would be reconciled to that God. Now what does it mean when he says, I will make you to be a covenant for the people? Sometimes we have people that are unfamiliar with covenant theology and they think this is pretty uh complicated stuff and how do you ever understand it, make sense out of it? Let me give you just the very nub and the essence of what covenant theology is. It basically says that there are simply two covenants In all the history of humankind. When God made Adam, he made a covenant with Adam, that is, a sovereignly initiated agreement. And that was called the covenant of works, because it simply said to Adam, Adam, you can eat anything you want around here, but here's one tree, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Do not eat that tree, or you will die. So the work was simply the obedience to keep that command. As we know, Eve disobeyed, Adam disobeyed, you and I have suffered the consequences ever since that. They failed in the covenant of works. Death came upon all humanity. All of the misery that we experienced all traces back to that act of disobedience Because God said, when you disobey this covenant, you will die. And death has been upon us ever since, and all its attendant miseries. But now God made a covenant with Abraham. And he said, through you all the nations of the world are going to be blessed. That's an unconditional covenant. He simply states it. And so God raises up through the line of Abraham what he calls in Romans 5 a second Adam. Here is one who comes now, and he is preserved from Adam's Sin by being born of a virgin with his Father the Holy Spirit. This one comes and God gives him the very same covenant. Jesus, the second Adam, is under the covenant of works. And so, rather than one command, he has all the commands of Scripture that he must fulfill. He keeps everyone perfectly and fulfills that covenant of works. Great for him, but what's it do for you and for me? Well, you see, the amazing thing is that God says, I will not only make that covenant with my son But look again at verse 8. He says, I will make you to be a covenant for the people. Now what does that mean? What could it have ever meant to Isaiah? He could have never figured that out or made sense out of it. But you and I look back at Jesus and what do we see? That Jesus, after having kept the law, said to the Father, Father, now glorify yourself in your Son, and he goes to the cross and he dies. taking your place for the covenant that you broke and I broke in all the ways we shattered that covenant with our disobedience. Having died for that, Jesus says, I will give you my perfect record of righteousness. I will suffer for your broken record of disobedience. We transfer the records. And you are given his fulfilled covenant by grace. So the second covenant is called, amen indeed. The second covenant is called the covenant of grace. Not because it's made with us, but it's made with Jesus and all who are in Jesus by faith. Do you see how that amazing concept is captured in that one simple statement? I will keep you. And I will make you to be a covenant for the people to restore the land and to reassign its desolate inheritance. What's that about? To fulfill the Abrahamic covenant Not only a new land, but a new heavens and a new earth through that covenant. That's what we have, brothers and sisters. Amen. Amen. You see, and that's what Jesus did So he is the covenant for Israel. And by that, finally you see there, he rescues Israel out of its sins. So he says there in verse 9. So he says to the captives, Come out, you see, those who are in slavery. Here's the year of Jubilee. Jesus has come. He's fulfilled the covenant. Come out to those in darkness. Be free. And that's the message that Jesus gives to you this morning. He says to you, Come on out. Come, be free. Be free from the judgment and the opinions of the world. From what anybody else says about you, from whether you see yourself as a success or a failure, from all the things that have to do with this world, see that I have called you by the covenant of my Son. into a relationship with myself in which you are restored and you are adopted as my son and my daughter. You are freed from the guilt and the condemnation of the law and you come to me. Now I say to you in final here, who in the world could have ever understood or fulfilled that prophecy to Jesus? Nobody. I mean he can't even understand it, let alone fulfill it, how he could be both rejected by Israel and restore Israel by being a covenant for Israel. You see in the song right there. It's clear in that song. And that's what this Messiah is going to do and what he has done. So my hope for you, brothers and sisters, is that may this encourage your faith to believe the Bible. Whatever is going on in your life now, morals or values or something in your life, and you're saying, Lord, this doesn't make sense You know, my life, I just want to go this direction, but you tell me in your word I ought to go this direction. You tell me I ought to forgive that person that I just once so desperately to hold my grudge against, to not forgive. You tell me to go in this direction, and my whole heart and everything about me wants to go in this direction. Whatever is hard for you in that obedience, in that step of faith, whether it's something you're waiting on him to do, or whether it's something that you have to decide whether you're going to do it, may this morning your heart be encouraged. This is a supernatural book. You know, nobody could have written that 700 years before and understood what Jesus was going to do. May you not only trust the book, but trust him. And secondly, may you get your eyes off yourself for a moment. And may you and I see not simply that This helps me and my faith and what I've got to do this week and the decisions that I make to trust this book that I can build my life on it. But then I would also turn and see that Jesus Himself has done this perfectly. He is so much more than I even looked for. You know, he was so much more than the Messiah that Israel looked for. They looked for a messiah who would fulfill their temporary aspirations of release from their Roman oppression. They went on a messiah who would ride in on glory and look jazzy and come in with an army and he would lead the oppressors the oppressors away and defeat them and set up the uh kingdom in Palestine. And they said that we can just get a Messiah to do that. That's all that our hearts could ever want. But Jesus we see here has done so much more than we would have ever even guessed at. You kids listen up for a minute because it reminds me of a story that I heard once, true story, written in nineteen ninety-two, about a guy who was a kid back in 1962 with three kids actually it was Mark there was uh David and there was Bob and these three kids in the spring of nineteen sixty two got a spring uh Sears Robot Catalog. And in the toy section, they looked, they saw these bikes. And there, in this one page, was the bike. This thing was called the Screamin' Lucy. It was the second most expensive mic in the whole catalog. The only thing that was more expensive was this other thing called a blue flyer, and that wasn't nearly as cool as the Screamin' Lucy. I mean the Screamin' Lucy was one that had the high seat, you know, with the banana seat, you know, and the the high handlebars with the all the streamers that went down under it had green sparkle paint and all this stuff. Man, these guys looked at that and they said, Oh man, if we could only have screaming loosies. It turned out their birthdays were one right after another, three days in a row So they said, how about we tell our folks and see if maybe we could each get screaming loose? So they told their folks, you know, and Well, you know, they got the well we'll see and, you know, no commitments, but you know, check it out. So uh I think it was Mark's birthday was the first one. They go over to his birthday, uh go over to his house and There's this big box there and they open it. Sure enough, Mark got the screaming Lucy. Hey, run down, you know, and next day is David's birthday and they go over to his place, big box. Yeah, whoa, David's got a screamin' loosey. Yes. You know, and then the third day was Bob's birthday. And he go over and there's this big box there. And they opened up the big box, and then the big box was not a screaming Lucy. It was a blue flyer Now the Blue Flyer wasn't nearly as cool. It was an English bike. You know, the thin tires, the the other kind of seats, and you know something particularly cool about And so Bob just said, wow, man, that's so blue. I mean he didn't want to let his folks down. You know, he knew they'd spent a lot more money on that than even the Screaming Lucy What was the most expensive thing there? But he didn't want it. The scream of Lucy was cool. And so the rest of the summer his friends are doing wheelies and they're going all over, you know, and he's there with his blue flyer and he can barely touch the petals and he can't you know and he wasn't real cool. But you know, by the end of the summer the chain guards had fallen off the screaming loose and one guy was getting his shoelaces all caught in the gears and getting oil all over their legs and You know how it goes, you get your pantcuffs caught in the chain guard and all no chain guard. And uh, you know, after about three rains all the green paint had washed off Handlebars no longer were up, they kind of went down, couldn't get them to stay up. The streamers were dragging on the ground, they finally broke off And make a long story short, after two summers, they threw the screaming Lucy's into the trash. Bob says, it is 30 years now, and I'm still riding my blue flyer. Yet still rides like new, still just goes ticket, ticket, ticket, ticker, ticket, ticket, you know. Now what's that saying? To get to the point. You and I look for a Savior that's going to give us our immediate gratification for the things that we define as our needs right here and now. God has defined here in Isaiah 49, a Savior who has given us So infinitely much more. He knows the need of your heart as it really is. And he has met that need In the deepest, most profound way that God Himself could know how to meet. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we are so like kids who want screaming loosies in our life. That you have sent us a Messiah like Jesus, the one who is so infinitely better. Who has so perfectly fulfilled all that you intended that we be and could never be and therefore have through him freed us not only from our sins and the condemnation from them, but from all the judgments and the pressures of this world and its estimations of our value. You have given us Jesus, who has given to us eternal life, through whom we call you Father. Who has become our prophet to reveal to us perfectly what you are like and your will for us? Who is our priest who has become a covenant for us? That we would be blameless in your sight, and who is our King to rule us and direct us and protect us, and how we love you. Give us eyes to see in Jesus' name. Amen