Dot Plant, who is co-chair of the World Missions Task Force, is going to introduce Craig. Craig and Rick Hoburn have been members of CPC since 1983. They responded to the call to missions in 1994 when they began serving as part of the Mission to the World mission team in Chiva, Japan. Since 1996, they have been part of the outreach in Makahari Bay Town in Chiba City. Through God's grace, they realized the beginning of a vibrant church plant in Kahim Makahari Grace Church in 2001. Upon returning to Japan in 2004, Greg and Reef focus on evangelistic Bible study, discipleship, and identifying and training future leaders. The Holy Spirit is evident in their lives as they balance multiple administrative tasks. leadership roles in outreach activities in multiple locations. Upon their return to Japan, they will have the opportunity to start all over again as they plant a new church in another area. Please join me in welcoming Craig to the pulpit today as he opens God's Word for us. Morning everyone. We uh came back from Japan in uh the summer of last year and uh We'll be here for an extended time this year, longer than normal. Normally we're back for a year when we come back, but this time we're back for uh two years. The reason being so that I can uh complete my seminary studies and pursue ordination so that when we go back to Japan we can go to a new location and uh be involved in starting a a new church plant there One of the blessings of uh being back for two years this time rather than one as normal is that uh we uh Our visits to our supporting churches are spread out over the two years, and so we have much more time with you. And it's been a real blessing to be able to be here. more often. We're here probably on average about half of the time. And that's much more than normal. And we've really enjoyed that very much. You know, I know I'm Craig the missionary. Um but when I come back here I know people who I've known since before I was Craig the missionary. It's a great to be a missionary and I I love being a missionary. Uh we we love what we do and we we feel that's a privilege that we can do it. But uh we love you too. And uh it it's a thrill to be back and to be able to reconnect with people that we've known for so long. It's been fun to get to know new people to whom previously we were just Craig and Ree the missionaries and to begin to have relationships with those people as well. And so it's it's a thrill to be back with you guys and to see you so frequently. Now you see that I've chosen John chapter 4 as my text, and actually I chose that some time ago before I knew that Alan would be preaching on it twice the month before. When I heard that he would be w was preaching on that, I thought, okay, I'm gonna need to choose a new sermon text. But after listening to uh his messages and after consulting with him about it, uh I came to think that, you know, uh what I'm going to stress in this passage is really different enough from what he stressed, and so I've decided to stick with it. Let's pray. Father, we do thank you that you are a seeking God, a God who seeks worshipers and who seeks them from among sinners like us. We thank you for this story of the Samaritan woman where you so clearly are seeking, and uh we thank you for the fruit that we see that comes from your seeking. We pray as we open your word and as we think on it that you will cause it to Reach our hearts with your power that your Holy Spirit might accomplish your purposes in us through your word. We pray in Jesus' name Jesus said that he came to seek and to save that which was lost. And this meeting with a Samaritan woman is a beautiful example of him doing just that very thing. What's very striking to me about this passage is how persistent Jesus is in seeking this woman. You know, it almost seems as if she's trying very hard not to be found by him. And yet Jesus gently and persistently presses on until in the end she is found by the one who sought her. But Jesus is multitasking here. Though there's rejoicing in heaven over this one lost sheep who is found by Jesus, there's more that he wants to accomplish through this these events. This is a teaching opportunity, and there's something that Jesus wants his disciples to learn through it. Let me back up a minute and set the stage. Jesus and his disciples were traveling from Judea in the southern part of Israel to Galilee in the northern part. And so their route took them through Samaria, which is in between. On the outskirts of a town in Samaria called Sikar, there was a well, and Jesus, tired and thirsty from the travel, sat down at the well. His disciples went into the town of Sikar to buy food, and while they were gone, a Samaritan woman came to draw water at the well. And at the well, she met Jesus, and they had the conversation that we read in the responsive reading. Just as the conversation was ending, the disciples came back from buying food. And so the woman left and returned to her town. The disciples were ready to eat, but Jesus had other plans for them. Discipleship training school was in session. What was it that Jesus wanted to teach his disciples? Well, we find it beginning in verse 35, where he says, Do you not say, Four months more, and then the harvest? I tell you, open your eyes and look at the fields. They are ripe for harvest. Even now the reaper draws his wages. Even now he harvests the crop for eternal life So that the sower and the reaper may be glad together. Jesus wanted his disciples to see the fields which were full of crops. Uh um ready to be harvested for eternal life. He wanted them to see the lost people that he was seeking. He continued in verse 37, thus the saying, One sows and another reaps, is true. I sent you to reap what you have not worked for. Others have done the hard work. And you have reaped the benefits of their labor. Jesus not only wanted his disciples to see the fields, but he wanted them to work in them to reap a harvest. He wanted them to bring good the good news of eternal life in him to the lost people that they meet. Now the very reason that Jesus was in Samaria at all was because he had seen the fields. Verse 4 says that on his way from Judea to Galilee, Jesus had to go through Samaria. But as Alan pointed out in his messages last month, Jesus didn't really have to go through Samaria. There were other routes from Judea to Galilee. And in fact, most Jews when going from Judea to Samaria took a longer circuitous route to avoid going through Samaritans through Samaria because of the mutual dislike between Jews and Samaritans. So the sense in which Jesus had to go through Samaria was that in order to meet this woman and her neighbors he had to go through. Jesus said to his disciples, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. And that work was to seek and to save that which was lost. He had to go through Samaria because he saw the fields. It's interesting to note that the Samaritan woman also saw the fields. When her conversation with Jesus ended, what was the first thing she did? She went back to her town to tell her neighbors about this amazing man she'd met. He knew everything about her. He claimed to be the Messiah. And so her first response was that she wanted her neighbors to meet this man as well. Now, Jesus is teaching his disciples that they too must see the fields. They had walked all the way from Judea that day. And then they'd gone into the town of Sikar in order to buy food. And all along, they had certainly met many people along the way. Had they seen those people as lost people needing to be found by Jesus? Jesus wanted his disciples to open their eyes so that they could see the fields. And he wants his disciples today to see the fields as well. In the remainder of our time, I want to look at two related questions. First, why should we see the fields? And secondly, where should we see the fields? On the question of why we should see the fields, the Samaritan woman will be our tutor In the course of her conversation with Jesus, her attitude toward him changed very dramatically. At the beginning of the conversation, it really seems that Jesus is almost a nuisance or an annoyance to her. And yet, as as the conversation progresses, things change very much. You know, because Samaritans and Jews had this relationship of mutual dislike, probably she'd have rather avoided him altogether. At the beginning, she rebukes him for asking for a drink. You are a Jew, and I am a Samaritan woman. How can you ask me for a drink? She mocks him when he offers her living water. You have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. How can you get this living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us this well and drank from it himself? Yet by the end of the conversation, she suddenly has this great desire for the people from her town to meet Jesus. She now sees the fields. Why did this dramatic change happen? In his conversation with the woman, Jesus did two things. First, he showed her who he really is. And secondly, he called her to be a true worshiper. As we said at the beginning of their conversation, she had a pretty negative opinion about Jesus, probably mostly because he was a Jew. And she didn't seem all that interested in having her opinion changed. However, Jesus broke through the wall that she had put up when he touched the sore spot in her life. Go, call your husband. One commentator has noted how interesting it is that this woman, who has been so talkative all along, suddenly has so little to say at this point. What she'd said in verse 9 was 11 words in the Greek. In verses 11 and 12, she spoke 42 words. And in verse 15, she says 13 words. But when Jesus brings up the topic of her husband, her reply in the Greek is just three words. Not have husband. However, what the woman doesn't want to talk about is just the topic that Jesus does want to talk about. He says to her, You are right when you say you have no husband. The fact is that you have had five husbands, and the man you now have is not your husband. What you have said is quite true. Imagine how shocked she must have been. How does he know that? What else does he know? It's clear though, though, that she realizes that Jesus is much more than she had thought. But would the fact that Jesus knows everything about her cause her to want the people from her town to meet him? I doubt that very much. At this point, I think the woman is mostly frightened by Jesus. He knows these things about me. To her, he seems on the dangerous side And so I think the last thing that she would want would be t to be the one to be responsible for bringing him to town. It's not clear why the woman suddenly begins to talk about worship. What is clear is that she now recognizes Jesus as a prophet. It may be that she's feeling self-conscious because he knows about her sinful lifestyle, and she wants to counterbalance that by showing him how religious she is. However, Jesus seizes this opportunity to teach her what true worship is and to call her to be a true worshiper. We need a little background before we go on. The Samaritans' religion was a mixture of Judaism and various pagan religions. When the Assyrian Empire conquered that whole area, they moved large numbers of people from other parts of the Middle Middle East. into Samaria, and those people intermarried with the few Jews who were left in in Samaria. The foreigners superstitiously adopted the religion of the Jews Because soon after they moved in, a number of things began to happen that were uh problems, and they thought that those problems were brought about by their failure to worship the God of this new land. And so they incorporated elements of Jewish worship along with their pagan worship. God had instructed the Israelites to build a temple in Jerusalem where they were to offer sacrifices and various worship. But because the Samaritans had mixed the worship of God with the worship of other false gods, the Jews would not allow them to worship at the temple in Jerusalem. And so the Samaritans built their own temple. on Mount Gerizim in Samaria. And even after that temple was destroyed shortly before the time of Jesus, the Samaritans continued to go to that mountain to to worship. And so it's that mountain that the woman speaks of when she says in verse 20, Our fathers worshipped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. Jesus' reply to that statement is the main part of their conversation. He says, starting in verse 21, believe me, woman. A time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. Yet a time is coming and has now come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit, and his worshippers must worship in spirit and in truth. When he says that the woman must worship in spirit and in truth, Jesus is in part contrasting true worship with the woman's ideas about what worship was. When she had talked about worship, What did she talk about? She talked about the place of the worship. We worship on this mountain. You worship in Jerusalem. Now, because God had told the people to build the temple in Jerusalem and to worship there, it's not that place was unimportant. But Jesus' point here is that the external part of worship Is not the main aspect of worship. True worship is not primarily external, but internal. True worship is not primarily physical, but spiritual. If the Samaritan woman was going to truly worship God, she couldn't just go through the motions religiously. To worship in spirit, our hearts must enter in. Jesus also called the Samaritan woman to worship him in truth. Why was it that her worship was not worship in truth? Because the Samaritans had mixed the worship of God with the worship of false gods, their worship was corrupted. They were not worshiping God as he really is. He's the one and only God, the creator of all, and the Lord of all creation. He's not just some local deity who needs to be appeased to make life go smoothly The Samaritans had redefined God in their own terms, and in doing so, they were not worshiping God as he actually is. If she was going to worship in truth, she needed to have her image of God corrected. And that's why Jesus made such an effort to show her who he was. That's why he wouldn't stop until he'd announced to her that he was the Messiah. I who speak to you am He. I am the Messiah. I am the anointed one sent by God to save his people. This woman knew that she was a sinner. Deep down, she knew that the way that she was living was displeasing to God. When she met Jesus, she met the one who could forgive her sin. Are there things in your life that you know are displeasing to God? Do you have a sense of your own sinfulness? I do. And yet, my every sinful act and sinful word Is paid for by the death of Jesus at the cross. My every sinful thought and desire is forgiven by Jesus. Hallelujah. What a Savior. This woman knew that she was a slave to sin. She knew that the succession of men was not bringing her happiness. She knew that she was seeking fulfillment and satisfaction in all the wrong places. She wanted to stop, but she couldn't. When she met Jesus, she met the one who could set her free from her slavery to sin. As a Christian, do you know the battle of Romans 7? I do not understand what I do. For what I want to do, I do not do. But what I hate, I do. Do you cry out with Paul, what a wretched man I am, who will rescue me from this body of death? I do. But I also answer with Paul, thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. He is the one who can set me free from slavery to my sin. Hallelujah. What a savior. This woman knew that she was just going through the motions religiously. She knew that despite her trips to the top of Mount Gerizim, in her life, she was only serving herself. When she met Jesus, she met one who was truly worthy of her worship, and she wanted to worship him. Do you find that all too often you're just going through the motions in religion? Your heart doesn't really long to meet with God? You worship at at at a church, but something else is really driving your life? I do. One of the worst things about being a missionary is being praised. People say to you, Thank you for the sacrifices you make. Thank you for your dedication. But I know how mixed my heart is. I know how my sin taints everything I do. My worship and my service are tainted by my sin. But Jesus purifies my heart and teaches me and draws me into true worship of Him. Hallelujah. What a savior. It was when this woman began to see Jesus the Savior that she was drawn to worship him. He could forgive her sin He could set her free from slavery to it, and he could make her a true worshiper. And once she was drawn into true worship, what happened next? She thought of her neighbors. She wanted them to know that Jesus was the Savior of the world. He was not just her savior, but he was theirs as well. She saw the fields and she wanted to reap a harvest from them. And that's why we as Christians do outreach. We see the fields. Because we first see the Savior. Our work in the fields is an extension of our worship. Now for the second question. Where should we see the fields? Well, that's a question that can be answered in many different ways. And I know that since the beginning of the year, you've heard about the homeless ministry to those living near Route 1. You've been challenged to see our Samaritans those who are close physically but different from us uh culturally. You've heard about the Fultas work in China and their desire to go into North Korea. You heard last week, with some drama apparently, about the work of Operation Mobilization around the world. And earlier today you heard about what God is doing in Japan. Next week, you'll hear about the work along the U. S. and Mexican border. There are so many fields, and it can be a little overwhelming. Verse 30 tells us that in response to what the woman said, Her neighbors came out of the town and made their way toward Jesus. And so just as Jesus is having this conversation with his disciples about seeing the fields, the fields around them are literally filling with people from Saikar who are ripe for harvest. His clear meaning is that he wants them to see the fields right there where they are And that's one answer to our question. We are to see the fields and to work in them where we are. However, there are many fields around us, and we can't work in them all. So how do we choose? Well, I believe that God gives us some guidance in this area by who he's made us to be. Each one of us, he's given certain personalities, along with certain gifts and talents. He's purposefully made each of us to be who we are. And in doing so, he's shown us to some extent about the fields that he wants us to work in. In addition, God gives us special concerns and passions about certain things. For example, we might have a special burden for protecting the unborn. or for international students, or for being a voice for Christ in the public arena. I believe that the Holy Spirit places such concerns on our hearts in order to lead us to the fields. In which he wants us to work. So not only are we to see the fields where we are, but we're also to see them as we are However, there's one thing I want to warn you about at this point. As humans, we have this natural tendency to give our attention and our energies to things which are directly connected to us. However, in the Great Commission, we see that God's attention is directed to all nations In his final instructions before his ascension, we see Jesus sending his disciples not only to Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria, but to the ends of the earth. Our vision for the fields is not ultimately determined by us ourselves. It's directed by God's vision of the fields. Jesus told the Samaritan woman that the Father is seeking true worshipers. And our vision of the fields needs to be widened to include all of those fields from which God is seeking true worshippers. Now, what fields do you imagine that I see most easily? Of course, I see the field of Japan. But God has been stretching my vision during our time back here in the United States. It was good, for example, for me to hear about the ministry to the homeless that CPC is taking part of. It's been good for me in an ethics class at the seminary to be reminded how terrible abortion is. God doesn't want me only to see the fields in Japan. He wants me to see and to work in other fields as well. What fields does God want you to work in? That I don't know. But I do want to encourage you that if your vision for the fields is limited only to the things that are directly connected to you, it's probably too narrow. The God who answers prayer will lead you, if you ask him, to know what fields he wants you to see. In today's passage, we've seen our Savior at work, seeking out the lost, bringing forgiveness and freedom from sin. We've seen him not condemning the sinner, but pursuing the sinner and calling the sinner to be a true worshiper. God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world might be saved through him. And we've seen him teaching his disciples one aspect of what it means to be a disciple. A disciple sees the fields. A disciple works in the fields, joining his Lord in seeking those who are lost. As disciples, we are to see the fields where God wants to seek a harvest. Those include the fields where we are, but also other fields not directly connected to us. In seeing the fields, we are expressing one form of our own true worship. May God open our eyes that we may see the glory of His Savior. and that we may see the fields in which he wants to use us in seeking and saving the lost. Let's pray Our God in heaven, we thank you that you have sought us when we were lost in sin. When we would not recognize you, that you pursued us And you per persistently pursued us until we bowed the knee, until we knew who you were, until we received the forgiveness that you came to bring us. We thank you for your pursuit of us. We pray that you would give us eyes to see the fields. We pray that the fact that you are seeking true worshipers would move us. to want to seek along with you, to see those around us and to see those not around us from among whom you wish to raise up true worshippers. We pray that you would lead us to know how we can work in the fields alongside you. And we pray that through it all, the wonderful Savior that we have would be exalted and glory would come to him. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.