And so what would your Lord have you to do this morning? Let's get the scripture up there and see First of all, finally, he says, Be strong in the Lord, and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. Why would he have you to do that? For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore, put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything to stand How do you do that? And then he goes in verses fourteen to twenty to tell you the armor to put on and the weapons to wield Those are the three parts, you remember, of this passage that we're studying on spiritual warfare, so appropriate to this time in our nation's life and in our own lives. To see what it is that God says to do, it's to be strong in his might, it's to stand against the enemy, and it is to do that by putting on the full armor of God. We've looked at that in the last couple of weeks. I want particularly to focus this morning on verse 12, where he tells you why you are to do this. Verse 12 tells you the nature of the warfare to motivate you to get that armor on. And so you look at what he says, is the reason. Your struggle, he says, is not against flesh and blood, but it's against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world. And against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenlies or the heavenly realms. Two things to notice from that verse this morning First of all, I want you to see the nature of the struggle, and then notice the nature of the enemies that you encounter. First of all, notice the nature of the struggle. It is pictured in two ways. You notice that verse 12 begins, For our struggle is not against flesh and blood. And that word struggle literally is the word to wrestle. And so some translations yours may say that, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood. And wrestling gives you a definite image, because wrestling is up close and personal. In wrestling, there is one-to-one hand combat. It's not something vague, it's not lobbing grenades or missiles across territories. It is flesh to flesh. It's an intensely personal kind of struggle. But let me be very clear. Lest um just try to clear away a very common misconception, and that is you are not wrestling with Satan. Now I would dare say, I would, I would, uh, I would venture to bet on this, that if you said to Satan, Satan, how's your wrestling going with April Davidson? He'd say, who? You know, how's your wrestling going against Alan Harris? Never heard of him. Satan's a finite being And I would I would venture to say there's probably few of any of us around here that Satan's ever heard of. Billy Graham, he's heard of him. A few others, he's heard of them, he knows them, he had a pretty large number. But you see, we are so uppity, we think that Satan's out to get us personally You know, as if he's gonna launch a personal attack on you and me. It's it's the it's perfectly illustrated, unfortunately, so much of this is illustrated in current events But we think you are at war with Osama bin Laden. And we say, you know, that he is our enemy But Osama bin Laden, I would venture to say, has never heard of you or me and anybody in this room. It's his minions, it's those who are the terrorists Who are under his influence, who are out to destroy you. And it's exactly that way in the demonic satanic kingdom. You are wrestling not with Satan. Notice verse 12. It's plural. You are wrestling with demons. You are wrestling with a force that has been assigned to this area and to your life. Can't tell you how many you're involved with, but You know, the the demoniac in the New Testament had legion against him. So we don't know the particulars of that. But what we do know is that you are wrestling and sometimes in my wrestling against demonic forces I I almost feel like I can feel the hot breath of hell against me. You ever had that? You know, you feel the assault so personally, so intensely. You ever feel that? That's a particular demon or a number that are out to destroy you. But don't get any illusions. Satan neither knows who you are or cares. He could care less who you are or anything about you. You are simply a tool for him to get at God. Because he can't assault God directly. So he assaults God through those who are precious to him. And the demons assault you as simply a way of advancing their own cause. But it is an up-close personal wrestling. Now in addition to that, this verse pictures and this whole section pictures that spiritual warfare is a corporate army battle. And so Paul mixes his metaphors, as he often does. He talks not only about one-to-one wrestling, but he also talks about putting on armor, the armor that's pictured of a Roman soldier who's part of a phalanx going into battle. And that pictures to you what he says in chapter 4 in verse 16 that we are a corporate entity, we are a body. that is together in spiritual conflict. Columbia Presbyterian, uh the Coalition of Churches of Howard County, the Church of the United States, the Church of Christ around the world, you see, is involved in conflict. So that conflict is both personal and corporate, and it's pictured in those two images. But now notice the nature of the enemies particularly. That's the focus. He states two ways. Negatively, we struggle, wrestle not against flesh and blood. But positively then four descriptions of the enemies. First of all, notice what it's not. It is not people simply that you're in conflict with. So the negative first blank is beyond people in conflict. See beyond the person. that you feel in conflict with. It you know, the the ultimate battle really isn't with your spouse, you know. It it's really not with your boss. It's not with the person in your cell or your small group that you're just finding all this conflict. Ultimately, it's beyond that. Now, you see, that's something that people like Dr. Phil in his Oprah advice and the books that he writes gives a lot of good advice. But people like Dr. Phil say the real problem is, you know, you're thinking like a victim or you've got wrong thoughts. You know, you've got to change your way of thinking. If you do that, you'll solve all personal conflicts There's a lot of good things there, but he totally leaves out the spiritual element, the idea of spiritual conflict, the fallen nature, the rest of that, you see, and so it's a very deficient analysis. You need to realize that you and I work with fallen natures that are subject to sin and demonic influence that exploits that. Beyond that, it's also beyond impersonal forces. That's the second thing. You wrestle not just against flesh and blood, but you're struggling against personal forces, not impersonal forces. Uh we don't have much of a sense of that in today's world. Larry King in a recent uh interview uh was interviewing survivors of the Twin Towers. People have gotten out alive and Uh one uh interviewee said, uh I bet you really feel lucky, don't you, that you're here. Yeah, yeah, we really feel lucky, you see. And then there's this idea that, you know, just wasn't our time, you know, fate, destiny. Interesting how people have a sense that there is some force that is beyond our control, but it's an impersonal force. It's just fate, it's destiny, or it's you know, it's your astrological horoscope, you know, it's what was meant to be Or maybe it's karma, you know, the things that you do have consequences, good karma, bad karma. But it's all impersonal. It's worth discussing people that use this kind of language and Ask them, what do you mean by this? Are these forces impersonal? Do they have any kind of purpose? Is it just a mechanistic thing? And think through because there's a lot of fuzzy thinking about these forces And Paul's saying here they're not impersonal forces. We're dealing with personal forces. Beings that are just as personal as you and me, only they're without bodies, and they have angelic powers. Also, beyond that, he says, in your own struggles, it's beyond habits in temptations. It's not simply that you wrestle with certain habits But beyond that, there are temptations that come from the outside. Now there's a balance here that you need to accept. We tend to want to blame shift on Satan, you know, the devil really got a victory there you know, and I screw up and sin and dis dishonor the Lord and I you know, Satan got the victory, sort of somehow blame him We need to accept the responsibility. No, I did that. That was my sin, my choice. I did it. But on the other hand, you realize that it isn't only Your fallen nature. You are being seduced and discouraged and tempted by forces that are outside you that the Bible gives instruction on how to oppose. And we'll be getting into that. But for the immediate, we need to recognize that there are those forces that are real and that exist and that oppose you. And then he says it's also beyond uh determination in standing. He's told you to stand. But he says you'll only stand in the strength of the Lord because you can't simply decide. Okay, you told me to stand last week. Okay, I'm gonna stand. I'm just gonna take my stand. I'm gonna stop sinning. I'm gonna stop doing this, gonna put off the old nature, put on the new. I'm just gonna decide to do that You'll decide and you'll fall and you'll decide again and you'll fall and you'll keep deciding and you'll keep falling. Until you recognize the supernatural spiritual element of the warfare that's going on, so that you see and recognize these forces that he talks about, recognize your weakness and your helplessness before them. and to know how, in fact, the Bible says to combat them. Let me give you an example in the life of a friend of mine that illustrates the The fact that our conflicts with people are beyond simply human level. It's a friend of mine, Charles McAllenny, who's an Orthodox Presbyterian church church out in San Francisco. He's been there for many years, and for many years, though he has had a an impressive ministry of mercy to AIDS patients, has had intense conflict with the leaders of the gay rights agenda in San Francisco because he has opposed that agenda and he's tried to enlist other pastors in the opposition of that. Now, I don't want to get into the general conflict, but part of that conflict was with a particular person named Jeffrey. Jeffrey Charles Chuck, my friend, describes as a fellow who was not your run-of-the-mill fellow who was involved in the gay rights movement. Uh this fellow, Jeffrey, uh was a dedicated Marxist who was one of the founders of the um group um queer nation, which was an offshoot of Act Up, uh which sometimes involves itself in violent behavior to uh frustrate uh what they call the religious right. In fact, he says, as an ardent devotee, these are Chuck's words now, as an ardent devotee of Queer Nation, Jeffrey has made it his business morning, noon, and night to harass members of what he calls the religious right, which included our family and church. He confessed to spending hundreds of dollars monthly on phone calls made all around the country, cursing, blaspheming, threatening, and damning any prominent person, organization, or state such as Colorado that opposed the gay agenda. Jeffrey has accosted us picketing at abortion clinics, city hall hearings, public school board meetings, as well as with those harassing late-night phone calls to our home. He identifies himself as the most vitriolic, hate-filled protester of them all. He has been lauded in the gay community for his violent histrionics and vile vituperations against me and my fellow pastors. In fact, it's hard to imagine a better nemesis than Jeffrey. It just doesn't take much to light his fire. One night he called me. He called me, the most notorious San Francisco fundamentalist after many years of hate. He called in order to get together Now, don't give make a mistake, he says. Jeffrey had no idea of being converted or find out how to become a Christian. He came because he was simply sick to death of the gay scene here in the city. As far as he's concerned, everybody's a hypocrite. From the religious right to the gay political activist, but most especially the gay community. He hates his own with a pure, pristine, uncompromising, and passionate hatred In fact, the one thing that most characterizes Jeffrey is hate. He came to our house and spent five hours. Discussing his life, his loves, his philosophy of death, his emptiness, his thoroughly discussing lifestyle, his fears, his hopelessness, his desire to go to hell forever His nine attempted suicides, his enemies in the gay community, and his all consuming hatreds. My overall concern was that I would be able to give him the gospel To show him the love of Christ and give them the only hope of escape from eternal hell to eternal life. Now this goes on and on describing the conversation of those five hours, but a couple things I simply want to point out. During one of the most explosive tirades, I asked him why he hated so much. He had grown up in a nominally Christian home. He had gone to church. He had gone forward in a Billy Graham meeting. He had been involved in Youth for Christ, in Campus Crusade And yet he did not particularly blame any of those things. He simply hates. He hates everybody. Finally, in the midst of one of his tirades, I told him that I loved him. Not for anything in him or me, but because of the love that God gave me for him. With tears in his eyes, he could only stare blankly back at me And then he recouped himself and went off on another monologue of disgust and hate. Again and again this goes on. Jeffrey accusing, hating, vilifying Chuck, trying again and again to communicate, there's another way. You can get out of this life. You can repent of this sin. You can come to Christ. You can receive his forgiveness. Geoffrey confessed rather his faith in Satanism and the pentagram's power. He embraced the thought of spending eternity in hell. He had no interest and found nothing attractive about forgiveness. He was lost, saw himself predestined for hell, and he wants it that way. As he goes through this, Paul says, I mean Chuck says, I was reminded of what the Apostle Paul said. in Ephesians 6. 12, that our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but it's against the principalities, against the powers. Against the world rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual host of wickedness in the heavenly places. Truly the real battle was not with Jeffrey. Not Geoffrey as such, but with his being possessed by the Prince of Darkness and blinded by sin. After five hours, they gave up. And at this writing, he had not seen Jeffrey since. Now You and I don't deal with people who usually are so full of hate and determination to resist any love. He mentions again that again and again he would tell them about the gospel and all he would be able to do is just stare. He said it was as if he couldn't even understand the words I was saying. It's just a spiritual battle going on. There's something driving this guy. There's something driving the people that resist the gospel in your life. There's something driving you. And apart from the grace of God, that same influence would be controlling you. Now, what is that influence? He describes it in four words and phrases. And it's a fearsome description. In order to wake you up to spiritual reality and to drive you to Jesus Christ. First of all, he says these are rulers You notice there. Against the rulers. The idea of rulers, I believe, emphasizes that they are territorial spirits. Satan being finite is in one place, but he delegates his authority. Just like the terrorist cells, there are groups, there are these territorial spirits. that have control and influence over various areas. Now, I hope to get back into this issue of territorial spirits, but let me just say now, so nobody is mistaken in this I do not believe that spiritual warfare necessitates our being able to name and bind territorial spirits in some ritualistic way that some Christians advocate that I think is a fairly superstitious kind of thing. But I do think we need to recognize that there are spirits who control various areas. and that some areas where the gospel either has never been preached or the gospel has had very little influence have pretty tight control. And you see a much more overt manifestations of darkness and spiritual activity, and I'll give some examples of those in future messages. There are other areas where the demonic rulers under Satan and his kingdom are simply in rage-filled defense where the gospel has had more sway. But this idea of rulers indicates that you have, as these minions, those who are ruling under Satan in plural in geographical areas. He also calls them authorities. And I believe that that's to picture not simply their rule, but their influence. James Boyce in commenting on this verse said that uh Mother Teresa was a person who had no rule, but she had a great deal of authority. That is, she influenced a number of people in terms of their values. And so when you think of the media, you think of that which influences many of the values of the culture. And I believe that when he talks about against the authorities, he's talking about that role by which the demonic Influences permeate and shape our values. They influence us through things like the media. He then talks about them being powers. They're powers of this dark world. And that speaks of powers, whether it is educational powers, whether it is political powers. Uh the powers, for instance, of the Taliban is an example of demonic dark influence. A friend of mine uh not a believer uh actually saw a video on uh cnn of a woman this was taken months ago this was not taken since september the eleventh it was taken sometime last spring or somewhere around that area A woman in Afghanistan, uh, in an attempt to expose the Taliban to the world, uh, took a camera in which she took some public shots But she also took a hidden camera in which she filmed women being corralled into an area and gunned down with an AK-47 by Taliban guards. people having limbs lopped off for various crimes, and then someone interviewing the Taliban about the exercise of their authority. And what particularly impressed my friend was, he said that as the rulers heard, uh, you know, wh why is it that you do this? Uh their statement was, well these people deserved it. They didn't deny any of these things were going on. They simply said these people deserved it for their crimes. That is the rule of law here We see that that's an example of what Paul's talking about. This is power in its darkness. We're shocked at what happened on September the 11th because The darkness is so often masked and repressed and restrained by God's common grace. But when you see it unrestrained, you get a glimpse of the powers of this dark world. And those powers at work in your heart and my heart without Christ are powers of unspeakable evil. The powers of darkness. And then that last phrase that he uses, I believe, is the most significant one: spiritual forces of evil in the heavenlies. Now, I want to come back to that in a minute, but let me just recap here three things that he is saying before I go into that last phrase, which I think is the most significant one. Paul is telling you three things about spiritual forces here. He's saying, first of all, they are powerful. They are powers. They are angelic powers. We'll go into that more next week. They are powers. So that they are overwhelming in their force and might, and your only hope of resistance is in Jesus Christ. Secondly, they are evil forces. There is not a particle of mercy or good in them. It is simply to use you to destroy you in order to wreak their vengeance upon God and to rob him of his glory. And thirdly, they are cunning These powers are cunning beyond belief. He says in verse 11, this is to stand against the devil's schemes. That speaks of his cunning. Where the place you think you are the strongest, he's going to slip in because of your pride and self-confidence. In order to get inside you and to cause you to compromise, to be discouraged, to turn against Christ, to fall where you think that you'll stand Now, this last phrase the powers, the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenlies I believe points us to an element of the gospel that is often undervalued. And it is Why we must see, you see it in your bulletin outline, that the gospel is not just about forgiveness, but about power The gospel is about the powers of two kingdoms in conflict. And I believe that we Christians, and sometimes particularly we Reformed Christians, underestimate that element of the Gospel. Let me illustrate. You look back at that phrase, spiritual forces of evil in the heavenlies. That indicates where the battle takes place The forces are in the heavenlies, the battles taking place in the heavenlies. This is illustrated for us in the scripture, particularly in a passage like Exodus 17. Where you remember that Joshua went out with the Israelites going through the wilderness and were met by the Amalekites. And the Amalekites came against God's people, and they were engaged in battle on the plain of Rephedim. Joshua and the Israelites, untrained, not soldiers, a mass of people coming against trained, battle-hardened soldiers, the Amalekites, known for their viciousness. They fight the battle on the plain, but the Bible says that's not where the real battle was taking place. Do you remember back in Exodus chapter 17, beginning in verse 10? So Joshua fought the Amalekites as Moses had ordered, and Moses, Aaron, and Her went to the top of the hill. As long as Moses held up his hands, the Israelites were winning. But whenever he lowered his hands, the Amalekites were winning. When Moses' hands grew tired, they took a stone and they put it under him, and he sat on it. Aaron and Hur held his hands up, one on one side and one on the other, so that his hands remained steady until sunset. So Joshua overcame the Amalekite army with a sword. Not because of his prowess, but because Moses' hands were lifted up. What does that mean? Then the Lord said to Moses, Write this on a scroll as something to be remembered, and make sure that Joshua hears it, because I will completely blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. Moses built an altar, and he called it. Yahweh, the Lord, is my banner. He said, For hands were lifted up to the throne of the Lord. This is prayer. This is dependence upon God. This is battle being done in the heavenlies. The Lord will be at war against the Amalekites from generation to generation. So you see here that God is a warrior and that the battle is connected to prayer Now this thing goes through the Old Testament until you come to the New Testament where Jesus comes and Jesus is that final warrior. And so what happens? When Jesus is baptized, Matthew tells us that immediately after that he is driven by the Spirit into the wilderness. What for? To do battle. Satan comes against him, and now here it is, wrestling, hand-to-hand, one-to-one conflict. Jesus prevails through the Word of God against Satan. The very next section in verse 17, Matthew says, so he goes out and what's he do? He preaches the kingdom is at hand. Now how does he preach and demonstrate that? He talks about the kingdom, but the gospel records 41 instances of healing, not only physical healing. But demonic conflict exorcisms, one-fifth of the gospels are taken up with this idea of healings and demonic warfare in which Satan is confronted and in every step, in every instance, retreats before the onslaught of Jesus the strongman, the warrior who's conquering Satan's kingdom and bringing in the kingdom of God. So in a very significant passage such as Matthew 28, Matthew 12, verse 28, Jesus says, If I by the Spirit of God and driving out demons, then the kingdom of God is coming among you. So when Jesus goes to the cross Colossians tells us in chapter 2 verse 15, it is not only. Let's never minimize it. We'll look at it tonight again. what Jesus accomplished at the cross. It is not only our justification, it is not only the new record he gives us of sins forgiven because he bore them for us as a substitutionary sacrifice on the cross. But there is also the element of power, because Colossians 2. 15 tells us that at the cross Jesus made a public spectacle of the rulers and the authorities. Same two terms that you see in Ephesians 6. 12. In his resurrection, Matthew 28, Jesus, when he walks out of the tomb, comes and he gives the commission, prefacing it with all authority has been given to me. in heaven and on earth. Therefore go and make disciples among the nations. In Acts chapter 1, he says, you'll receive power. You cannot do this in your own strength. You must go in my power in order to accomplish the commission, making disciples, seeing my power at work in you and through you. Paul picks up on that same idea in the beginning of Ephesians. Very interesting. He uses three of the four terms you have here in verse 12. When he says in verse 19, I pray that your eyes will be open, Paul says, so that you might see the power that's at work in you. That power, he says, is like the power of his working when God raised Jesus from the dead and seated him in the heavenly realms. far above all rule and authority and powers and dominions and every name that can be named both in this age and the age to come Chapter 3 he says, how does God display his wisdom among the powers and the authorities? Same two words. that you have in Ephesians 6. 12. It's through the church he displays that. In the weakness of people like you and me. And so he goes on praying. I pray that your That you will be strengthened so that Christ will dwell in your heart by faith, and you will know the power of the gospel. That power which is exceedingly beyond anything that we ask or think or can even imagine. Now that's the power that he's talking about. He's saying Jesus not only died for your sins on the cross. But in his death and his resurrection he defeated the powers of verse twelve. And only in his strength are you able to live in victory over those powers. When Paul was given his commission in Acts 26, verses 17 and 18, it was that he would turn the Gentiles to open their eyes from darkness and deliver them from the power of Satan. To the kingdom of God. Colossians 1:13. The gospel is that you and I were delivered from the dominion of darkness, that is, the kingdom of darkness, to the kingdom of the Son that He loves. Brothers and sisters, the hope of the gospel is not just. Praise God for the sufficiency of the work of Christ in your forgiveness, in the new record that you have before Him. But it is also in the fact that Jesus defeated the powers. And it in that defeat you and I are able this week recognizing The authorities of the powers to not diminish them in any way, but to recognize these powers are forceful. They are evil. They are cunning. Do you see them? Are you aware of them? If you're not, then Satan's already had a victory in blinding you to them. But being aware of them, be aware also of Christ's victory. You don't have to be in fear of them. And when do you feel this week the very most helpless about some sin in your life, some conflict, some habit Something that you feel in bondage to. Claim the power of Jesus Christ in his resurrection. That power over those demonic forces that you will be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his power. Amen. Let me close with one final example. In the last year in our own denomination, there was a missionary who was accused of behavior that was compromising the gospel. I don't even know the nature of the accusation, but it was serious enough That our Foreign Missions Committee decided that they would have to withdraw support and they could no longer endorse this man's ministry. This whole thing came to a head at the General Assembly this past June. And in great conflict, but in wrestling with this issue, dealing with the substance of the issue, this man was exonerated. It was seen that he was innocent of the charges, and the matter was settled. But there were 15 documents, conflicting, full of accusations and statements that contradicted one another, that were still there on the table and had to be dealt with. And so in the last day of the assembly there was there was a struggle. What are we going to do with these documents? How are we ever going to reconcile this? How are we ever going to put away the bitterness? What are we going to do if these charges are published? And how are we going to deal with this thing? And uh Tom Tyson in the September issue of New Horizons says something you don't often read in The New Horizons about the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. He says, We saw Holy Spirit power at the General Assembly. I'll tell you, it made me almost want to go to a General Assembly. He said, At that moment, when all seemed hopeless, a man stood up, he made a motion, said, I move that we remove all these documents. They appear nowhere, we simply get rid of them. He said within ten seconds, parties that had been bitterly opposed, everyone supported it, the motion passed unanimously. He said there was nothing left to do but to sing the doxology. Now why do I tell you that example? Because the ministry that was led, the unique ministry of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church was the ministry of the gospel to the world of Islam. That ministry touches myriads of countries uniquely throughout the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ to Islamic nations. Do you think there wasn't spiritual warfare in Satan wanting to rob us of that opportunity at this strategic moment of our history? But Jesus Christ prevailed. He did it there, and he can do it in your life. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we want to know your power. We recognize our weakness and we recognize that your power is known when we do battle in the heavenlies. Lord, we we have our eyes always on the plains of Rephedim. We see what is going on. Lift our eyes to see up on the hill where the battle is being fought in the heavenlies where we seek to by prayer enforce the victory that Jesus Christ has won over the rulers and the authorities. That Lord, you would encourage our hearts. Encourage them tonight by the elements of the Lord's Supper. Encourage them as we read your word and see that you are the warrior who has won, the hero who has defeated the terrorists. Who has ruled and conquered by your might, that we might rest in your strength and glorify you this week to see you do what we simply cannot In the power of the gospel at work in us through Jesus' name, amen