I would um debate with a a lot of what Alan said, the least of which is Godless that's uh not one of my characters in the uh only God knows that so I'm a good good hider. Uh excuse me for sitting, it's just a whole lot easier over a period of time than just the stand. I'd uh like you to turn to First Corinthians chapter one. I'm gonna tell you how that worship uh the third part of the service is one of the most worshipful services I've been through in a while. It's um worship is a lost art in the American church. We go through preliminaries to get to a sermon. My own judgment is that What you've done before the sermon and what you will do after the sermon is far more important than what I've got to say. Because if you meet with God, if you and your heart speak with God, then this is simply a little additive. That's the crucial issue on a daily basis, that you meet with God. And it is possible. That's what that's what Emmanuel of God with us is all about. That's what the indwelling of the Spirit is all about. That we can, by the grace of God, walk with Him. So worship and personal worship and corporate worship is the most important thing in my judgment that you do in your lifetime. And because what you're gonna do do for eternity, so you may as well get it right here. Because you're gonna be doing it the rest of your eternity. Do it well. And I appreciate it this morning. I'd like to start 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 18. This is Paul addressing the foolishness of the gospel? For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to those who are being saved, it is the power of God. Or it is written, I will restore the wisdom of the wise, the intelligence of the intelligent I will prosper. Where's the wise man? Where's the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom did not know him, God was believes through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who believe. Jews demand miraculous signs, and Greeks look for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified. Assumbled block to Jews, and foolishness to Gentiles. But to those Whom God has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than man's wisdom, and the weakness of God is stronger than man's strength. Brothers, think For a moment of what you were when you were called. Not many of you were wise by human standards. Not many of you were influential. Not many were of noble birth. But God chose the foolish things of the world to seem the wise. God chose the The weak things of the world to shame the problem, because the lowly things of this world and to despise things, and the things that are not, to nullify the things that are. So that no one may boast before him. It's because of him that you are in Christ Jesus, who has become for us wisdom from God, that is, our righteousness, our holiness, and our redemption. Therefore, as it is written, as ever boasts boast in the Lord. When I came to you, brothers, I did not come with eloquence or superior wisdom as I proclaimed to you the testimony about God. Barbara knows nothing while I was with you except Christ Jesus and Him crucified. I came with you in weakness. and in fear, with a much trembling. My message and my preaching were not with wise and persuasive words, but with a demonstration of the Spirit's power, so that your faith might not rest on man's wisdom Uh God's power. Let's take a second. Father, our perspectives are skewed by the experiences of our lifetime. Only you see all of reality. Only you see all of our lives. We ask that you would send your spirit among us in power now. Open our eyes that we may see in our hearts that we may understand, and our will is that we may be changed, that we might reflect you, give glory to you, bring honor to you. Not in our wisdom, but in your grace. It is to the honor of your name that we are here and that we pray. Through your blood, Jesus, in absolute dependence upon your blood, we pray. Amen. When you look at the Old Testament saints, we call them. Do you think you could have been one of them? Think you could have been a Daniel and Elias then? Think you could have banned Moses standing before the water and putting your arms out and having the water spread? You think you could have banned David with other people and battlers? Joshua, who marched around the city of Jericho and saw the walls fall. Think he could have been a Peter who spent his lifetime proclaiming the gospel? What we have I think is a tendency to elevate certain biblical characters. They live on a plane up here, and the rest of us are somehow on a plane down here. Now we think of that as being very humble. The problem with that has however, is that we expect more of them than we expect of ourselves. We use that difference as a justification for reduced responsibility. pastors and missionaries and elderly elders. And we expect more of them than we expect of ourselves. becomes a a perverse way of justifying mobility. So what I want to suggest to you is that with very few exceptions, in both the Old Testament and the New, God dealt with their Very ordinary people. Peter. Peter's grammar was so bad that he went with Philosoph of the security didn't speak correctly. And they knew he was from Galilee. He had bad grammar. didn't speak correctly. Bad pronunciation of the Aramaic. David Gut was so shaken in the passage that that has meant a great deal to me in the last couple of years. In my awaken What is King David speaking? The great saint, his heart is after God. In my alarm, I said, I cut off from your sight. David was panicking. He felt isolated from God. The 13th Psalm he says, How long, Lord? How long will you isolated? Isolate with me. How long will you be silent during relation to me? David struggled with God. Not just in his time of sin, but off and on throughout his lifetime. Moses. God comes to Moses, Moses like a God for you. Moses says, Oh. Right? Because I want you to go for your people. Right? So what is what does Moses say? Man, I can't do that. I don't think well. God says, Hey, I'll give you the words, but I Moses said, forget it. In essence, forget it. So God says, all right, I know the brother speaks well, I've trained him well, I'll let him talk for you. Now, is that a great thing of God? The guy's a weak man. He's a weak man? And you can go throughout the the Old Testament, there are a couple of exceptions. Daniel probably was an exception. Daniel is a particularly gifted and insightful man. Solomon, he should have that kind of characteristic until the end. Anybody who had seven hundred lies seven hundred copy lines and three hundred lies had a problem anyway. But these were very ordinary people. Now what do you think of of the Apostle Paul? What is we what do we say in chapter two? I came to you in weakness and in fear. Now I'm going to tell you that this man wasn't putting up and fear was to show for the people, he was scared to death. But much trembling. You ever stand up in front and have to speak in your visit for them? Okay? Nobody can hear it. Let's see what's going on. That's what God's people are like. They are very ordinary people. What does it say in chapter one? Think Paul in spice of it he has look at yourself. Not many of you are wise by human standards, he says in verse twenty six. Not many influential. Not many of noble birth, but God chose the foolish things, that's you and many, of the world to shame the wise. God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong. He didn't go out, you know, we had to Superstar mentality. You know, it's really funny to watch the Christian community in these waves of interest. Did you know that so-and-so is a believer? Arl Guthrie has been converted. And everybody's excited about Arl Guthrie and they figure out that he's a Fourth degree monk. I think it's Ala Duffy. One of them. Yeah, it is Ala Dophia, that's another minute. God chooses very ordinary people. You look for saints, you look for weak people. Now why is that important? Because when you go through what the weather's gone through this week Well what I'm going through, if you told me two and a half years ago what I was going to have to say, I would consider it suicide. I'm not a strong man. Now I'm not Pleading for your mercy. God's been very, very good to me. But I'm here to give testimony. But I'm here to give testimony to the fact that God chose a weak man and put a burden on his back and told me to yoke my My yoke is easy and my burden is light. Now that is not to say that we're both tipping, smiling through light, and everything's wonderful. Life hurts. Life is difficult. Peter was crucified a son. Almost all the apostles were killed. Daniel spent almost his entire lifetime in captivity. Moses had to put up for forty years with a bunch of whiners. You think after instead, Alex? That's what life's about. Life is pain. That's what the father's all about. And but God doesn't deal with the pain by creating this American Christian image of everything being wonderful, having all your financial obligations met and health and success and all this kind of stuff. That's not the way life is lived. Life is lived with people dying and people getting sick and people going broke and people in conflict and people at war. That's what wipes the battle. under the sin of the fall. That's what it's about. But it's also about God demonstrating his power in those difficult situations through very weak people like you and me. It's a um Yeah, the the the first time you understand, really understand that you're gonna die. It's an interesting moment. Because most of us live with a clear sense of when we were born. Most of us have our birthday. In this culture anyway. And we have a very clear sense of where we've been and we have a sense of where we're headed in terms of our dreams. And then it slowly fades off into nothing. We don't know what I mean we talk about going to be with the Lord. That's easy talk. But if you get to be with the Lord, you've got to go through death. And it's very interesting because all of a sudden you're faced with that. stuff or don't you? I remember very vividly being confronted with Hopkins with the question, do I believe this stuff I've been preaching or don't I? Time's floating. And by the work of the Spirit, He helped me to say yes, I believe it. I've struggled with it, but I believe it. And somehow God is not going to give me the strength for tomorrow, but He's going to work for today, today, and Tomorrow tomorrow, the next day the next day. And here we go, folks. And you want to know something? That's no different than what you face every day. I just happen to know what my enemy is. I was preaching up in Westminster Maryland back in June. uh on a variation of the same theme, although s not this text, was dealing with some other issues up there. And I made this statement, I said, you know, some of you are going to die before I did. Two weeks later, an eighteen-year-old boy in that church was killed. You see, we all face the same issue, which is that some of us are forced to deal with it because the doctors tell us every week that our time is running out. The rest of you have the same issue. You're very ordinary people with very weaknesses, facing very severe realities, and they may be present realities. Some of you may be going broke, some of your marriages may be in crisis. Some of some of you may be in conflict with bosses or conflict with employees. There are all kinds of crises going on in the church. But what I want tell you is if don't look at someone else and say, gee, I wish I had their strength, you've got God's strength. Well that's the point of the gospel. That God demonstrates his strength through your weakness, not through your strength. One of the mistakes I made at the pastors. I didn't expose myself enough to the people. I'm a sinful man. A very sinful man. And I'm a weakness. And I can't speak for Alan, but I'll bet with that If I were a voting man, that he struggles with the same thing. God deal with ordinary people in difficult circumstances. And the and w and the main purpose of that is to demonstrate this grace. Look at me. See, if you were wise and clever and powerful, you might take credit for your salvation. See, I've sorted out all this theology and I've read the Bible and I've come to a decision that all this is true and I commit my life to it. And you might think, gee, I did that. But God wants it very clear. Verse 21 of this passage, 1 Corinthians 1. For friends in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom did not know him. You will never know God. through your own insights. You will never know God through your own wisdom. You will never know God through your interaction with nature. We have a cabin 9800 feet up in the Rockies. Well who knows I'm going to find God is there. And he's no more there than he is here. You can't find him in your own wisdom. But God was pleased through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who believed. Jews demand miraculous science. We have a whole culture right now, Christian culture, it demands a miraculous sign. I'll believe in God if I see a healing. I'll believe in God if I see this miracle, or that miracle, or another miracle. I've been witnessing to a guy in Atlanta, Georgia, and he says, Mark, if you're healed. And I said whether I'm healed or not, God's real. And you've got to deal with that reality. I really believe I'm going to be healed. I won't get into all of that right now. But my point is this, whether I'm healed or not. You don't believe in God because of miraculous signs, you believe in God because He reveals Himself. In the Greek look for wisdom, I taught world religions at the University of Iowa for a couple of years. I'm I'm one of the one of those people who you look at the job resume and you either envy or wonder what kind of unstable character this is. One of the things was to teach world religion. It's very interesting to to teach comparative religions because every religion in the world has one fundamental element in common, save Christianity. Every religion in the world has a ladder between God and man. Every religion but Christianity has man climbing up the ladder to God. Whether it's Hinduism to get part way in a recycle, Which is which is the word you're after. Or Buddhism, you get there through a path. Or Islam, you get there through a fatalistic kind of submission, maybe a holy jihad. Judaism, present-day Judaism, you get there by obedience and going through ritual. Even warped versions of Protestant and Roman Catholic Christianity, you get there by being good. Man's wisdom, and what do we know about man's wisdom? Nothing God. The we prince Christ crucified. God coming down the ladder to man. God encouraged in the person of Jesus Christ crucified. crucified on the cross, whose blood takes away our sins, how by faith does it make any sense? No, it's foolishness. God himself said it's foolishness. Don't ever think that your faith makes sense by the world's standards. Because it never will. To those whom God had called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. See, God takes ordinary people and he saves those people to demonstrate his power, his way, the foolishness of the blood of Jesus Christ. It's interesting. Um please forgive me. I I I'm going to make a thing that it sounds pejorative and I don't mean it pejoratively. But when I was growing up I used to listen to preachers on television every now and then and they they talk about The blood of Jesus. And they parts up and down and they take their pine off the blood of peace. And that was not the religion I wanted. I wanted the religion with the blood. A religion of complex theology. Was really the Dutch-speaking community and we were very good at theology. Your denomination and mine are very good at theology. But have come back to the blood of Jesus Christ. The foolishness of the world is our salvation. The blood of Jesus Christ taking away the sins of very ordinary people. And we're changed by it. And that blood pays the way for you to be indwelt by the Holy Spirit. One of the things we've lost in the reformed community is a real doctrine of the Holy Spirit. But I want to tell you that we don't do anything without the Holy Spirit. And I wanted to raise my hand, hear no songs I thought, well, I'm going to press the The Spirit is here. And He's in your life if you come to Jesus Christ. That He empowers you and He dwells within you. And how are the lekors and how are the pets and how are the how are you going to survive? Because the blood of Jesus Christ has drawn you into the presence of God. And you've been given the Spirit of God to enable you to believe and to be strengthened on a daily day. basis. And I want to tell you there are times where you're hanging by your fingernails over the cliff. We have respers in our home every night. We just moved to a new community out here. And so we've invited the neighbor And we have vespers every night. One of the guys likes to describe God's pattern well. He says, God lets you get all the way to the end of the rope and then he solves your problem. Lest you think he did it. So God takes ordinary people, and please understand that you and I are ordinary people, and He's going to give you the power through the work of Jesus Christ and through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit to live your life to the glory of King Jesus. And don't justify your failures by looking at more righteous people or professional Christians or the saints in the scriptures. They're just like you and me and they're called to live the life of Jesus Christ just like you and me. And you want to know something? If God had put you in the lion's den, he would have given you the strength to handle it. If God had put you in the fiery furnace like Shadrach, Meshach, and the bedly hair, he would have given you the strength to handle it. If God gave you a terminal illness, he would give you the strength to handle it. handle it. By the way, life is a turn alone. And that's true. I just didn't realise it for many years. And I I don't want to make fun of my situation, but I want you to I mean we're all facing the same end curve. God will give if you turn to him, if you cry out to him, not you know crying out to God, this is something we don't do well. We pray properly. Dear Father, you know that this building is burning. And you know that I'm in trouble. Please deliver me. The Old Testament writer says, Right? I mean look at the scriptures. They cry out for help. And I'll tell you something, I cry a whole lot more than I pray properly. Excuse me for scary. Turn to your God. as ordinary weak people. But whatever you're facing, pray for wisdom, pray to be indwelt by the Spirit, which is a command in Galatians five, be filled with the Spirits that you might manifest joy and peace and love and But also that you can do the work to which you are called. Young lady was up here talking about the Evangelism Explosion Coordinator. And some of you may be sitting there saying, gee, that sounds like fun, but I can't do that. You're right, you can't. But God can. Well you can do what Paul does. Again, in chapter two, when I came to you, brothers, I did not come with eloquence or superior wisdom. Can you try to dazzle them with his good work? But as I proclaim to you the testimony about God, for I resign I committed myself to know nothing while I was with you except Christ Jesus and Him crucified. And that's what I'm here to proclaim to you: Christ Jesus and Him crucified. And His crucifixion and His resurrection, the universe. have life and the dwelling of the Holy Spirit is what's going to enable you to live the Christian life the way you need to live it. Do you like can't pray the way I need to? Okay, go back and say, God, I can't pray, teach me to pray. I can't witness. Okay, go back The guys and think, God, I can't tempt this. Teach me to happen. God being overwhelmed by temptation. Guys, we are. God, lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from evil. That's what Jesus tells us to pray. Very simple prayer. You have a relationship with the Creator of heaven and earth. Or if you don't have a relationship with it, that's what Christianity is all about through the blood of Christ. It's not religion, it's not not born, it's not being here morning, although that's important. It is a relationship with the sovereign God coming through the blood of Christ, having their sins removed, being empowered by the Holy Spirit to live the life that God calls you to live. And all I can say is I never could have survived the last couple of years of any kind of sanity without the blood of Jesus Christ and the power of the Spirit. children. I've got a sixteen year old, a thirteen year old, and a and an eight year old. And it's overwhelming to think of leaving them behind. But I've got a God. who's a who's a father to the orphan and a lover to women. That's what he tells me. That's how involved God is in my life. How involved he is in real life, whether you know it or not. You're going through a painful time. You've lost you've got a family, losing child. I think probably that's more difficult to deal with than life. If I've had forty one years, what happens when you lose a child? It's tough. But not too tough for our God. And it will be a struggle. I don't see I don't want to paint the Christianity where we tiptoe through the tools. I want to be very careful about that. Life is difficult. First of all, we have to disabuse ourselves with the American sense that we're superstars or that life is not difficult. Once we get beyond that, we need to understand And it always will be difficult, but the grace of God is sufficient for you and for this church and for the kingdom of God. All of us have our sinners. We've all fallen short of the glory of God. What I commend you to do is come back to your God, cry out, be open with him. Tell them exactly what's on your mind. If you read the psalmist, that's what the psalmist were doing. I want you to ask yourself a question, please, no responses. But I want you to think about some of this. Do you try to pray in a way that makes God happy? with your prayer. That's not what he said. He said, I see your heart. I want you to see your heart. Put it on the table and we'll deal with it. Do you live in a way where you're trying to perform for God or perform for other people? To put the image forward? That's what I did for years. That's not what God wants. He wants you to come as you are, laying before Him the desires of your heart and submitting yourself to be beloved by Him to His honor and glory. He knows the ordinary people. He he did that so when he saved you, you'd understand that he did it. And now he wants to live through you to the glory of his name. But he wants to live through you as you are. So be honest with him, be open with him, and submit to him. They teach us in seminary, we're supposed to close with a powerful illustration. I don't know if you notice, but I'm preaching without notes. And the reason for that is that for years I tried to control what God said. What I've come here today and done is just share what I what's going on in my life, what he's teaching me. I hope it's of some use to you. I would call you To be what God has already made you be. Loved sons of the daughter of the Father, loved daughters of the Father, whose sins past, present, and future are taken away, who are filled with the Holy Spirit. And if you have not yet established that relationship, please do not judge this church by its religious form. The issue is, do you want a relationship with the Creator of heaven and earth as he has made it possible? Let's play together in silent prayer. Let's not change the topic of the conversation. God's been speaking to us. Let's speak to him about the same matters that his spiritually speaking to us for the last minutes. After a time of silent prayer, I'll open it up. For people who would like to lead us in spoken word. I invite a few of you who'd like to lead us in spoken third. Remember that as we're seated it may be harder to hear, so if you lead us, lead us briefly but loud and clear so we can all join in. It's very difficult, they're very good and they're sweet. They need to know what to do. Even the crazy. Lord deliver us from the self pity that is so tempting when we are in very difficult circumstances. The self pity that wants to line It is much to say, why am I having it so difficult? I seem to have it tougher than other people. It's a pity that they think that others can't really understand. understand our hurt and that we're so very alone. Father, thank you for the message, for your word, for your servant this morning that reminds us that it is those very struggles that you designed to draw us, to cleave to you, to cry out to you. We will pour out our hearts to you and to know your strength. Lord, how many times I think in my I miss knowing that because I'm focusing on my problems and I'm indulging in the self pity. Turn our eyes to Jesus. Help us marry to see the brevity of our lives, that we might live in wisdom, teach us, O Lord, to number our days. Do I present to you a heart of wisdom as ordinary people who look to the grace of Jesus Christ? Father, if there's anyone here this morning who is perplexed, confused, wondering how can I tap into that? How can I come to know that Jesus who I feel estranged from? How can I feel like my prayers will go higher than the ceiling? Lord, we pray that you would reach down to that person through your word, by your spirit, to reveal yourself to them. Father, we pray that if your spirit is dealing with them now, that you would prompt them to speak to one of them. of us here who can help them, but they wouldn't leave alone and still in their confusion. Father, that you would prompt them during the break to be able to talk to me or to Mark or someone else here so that they might get that matter clear between their souls and you thirdly realize and do that worship is to prostrate our before you in the most helpless of positions. And so we worship. In Jesus' name. Amen.