Good morning. I want you to take out your sermon outlines on a writing instrument and I want you to to do something for me. I want you to write down one, two, or three of the desires of your heart. We've been talking about treasures, we've been talking about the idea of investing now to send our treasures ahead And I want you just to think for a minute about what are the desires of your heart. There's no peeking. It's your list You can burn it after the service if you want, so you may want to figure out whether you want to keep your sermon notes on the same page. But I want you to be honest about what the desires of your heart really are Can we have the verse, Psalm 37? Great, thank you. When I was in the navigators in college, there there was a Christian that came to me one day and told me that they had found the golden key. The this golden key was that there was a passage in Scripture that said you could have whatever you want. All you had to do was delight in the Lord. And and they showed me Psalm 37, 4. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. And we're talking about treasures, we're talking about about investing. We're talking about what does it mean to live with a heaven mindset. And so I want you to think about this this verse. I want you to think about What it means. And I want you to think for yourself, which of the two phrases do you focus on? Do you focus on that first phrase? Delight yourself in the Lord. Or do you focus on the second phrase and he will give you the desires of your heart? As we look at treasures, I want us to think about what it is that we want. Because frankly, there's a really important distinction between the gift And the giver. And as you look at heaven, if if your focus is on you Then how does it change from here? We want to look at three things this morning. We want to look at a problem, because brothers and sisters, we have a problem. We want to look at a true perspective. Because we really need to understand what it is God is doing and who he is. And then thirdly, we need to look at the question of how do we get the power to live out the reality of the true perspective in our day-to-day lives. So as we look at this, I want us to be thinking about where is my focus? Where is my focus? Let me open this in prayer. Father, we come to you. We're here today to come to you. We're here today to worship you We're with our brothers and sisters who have articulated a love for you, both by their profession of faith and by their presence, by their coming. And Lord, we long to be with you in heaven. We look forward to that day when there will be that wondrous experience of living in the immediacy of your presence. Living forever without sin, living forever without fear, living forever without without loss. With you. And so we ask this morning that you would focus us, that you would help us to see the true perspective, who you really are, what you're doing in our lives, and how we can grow in grace. And so we ask that you would take these passages, that you would take our thoughts, and that you would shape us. Give us ears to hear, give us minds to focus, and give us hearts to respond. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, there's a passage, two passages that I want to read. One of them is Luke chapter, is Mark chapter 12, beginning in verse 28. And the passages are parallel passages. They're similar teaching. They're, I believe, taking place in different circumstances. I don't believe that the two passages are relating the same account, but they are relating the same teaching. And there's a parallel passage in Matthew that relates to both of these in a little bit of a different fashion. But today we're going to look at Mark 12 and then Luke 10. In Mark 12, we read And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another. Jesus answered. The most important is hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strengths. The second is this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. And the scribe said to him, You are right, teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and that there is no other besides him. And to love him with all the heart, with all the understanding, and with all the strength, and to love one's neighbor as oneself is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. And after that no one dared to ask him any more questions. And then turn to Luke 10. Where we see a little bit different circumstances, a different purpose in the man who comes to Jesus in this encounter. But I want us to focus on Luke 10 this morning. Luke 10, verse 25. And behold, a lawyer stood up to put him, Jesus, to the test, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said to him, What is written in the law? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And he said to him, You have answered correctly. Do this and live. And that brings us to the first point, the first issue, which is that we have a problem. Jesus says to this lawyer who is there, Scripture tells us, to test him. Not to learn, and not to relate to him, but to test him. And the command is that we are to love God with all that we are, with absolutely everything in us, and that we are to love our neighbor as we love ourselves. And Jesus adds this point. Do this and live. And as I think about my own life, and as I think about who I am, and as I think about what I love, who I love. Who I don't love. I have a huge problem because I'm told, I'm commanded by God to love him with everything that is in me. In other words, my life is to focus on God. My universe is to revolve around God. And the problem that I have, and I really firmly believe the problem we have is that it doesn't. If my heart is so focused on Jesus, he's my treasure. If my heart is so focused upon Jesus On the Father and on the Spirit, that they have everything that is in me, I live for them. And this week, and a couple of weeks leading up to this, I've been asking God to show me who I am. There's a passage in Psalm 139 where the author says, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxious thoughts. See if there is any hurtful way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. And it's it's a prayer that says, God, show me who I am. That's a prayer that God loves. And God answers. And so in reflecting upon my heart over the past several weeks, there are some patterns that I've come to recognize that I really wish I'd never seen. One of which is how I relate to the administrative staff in the office. I want to tell you, we have a wonderful administrative staff. They are incredible, they're sacrificial, they're generous, they're they're they're hardworking, they're supportive, and when I make a mistake, they do a good job of fixing it for me. But As I think about the things that I need to get done, and as I think about the way that I relate to our administrative staff, I see a tremendous selfishness in me. Because what happens is I have this wonderful phone with buttons that have names attached. And I have a door that leads out to an area where several of these folks work. And when I come up with something that I need them to do, I push a button and I say, Pat, I need you to do this I'll call out and say, Eric, can you do this for me? And you may think, well, that's the way the office is structured. But God has revealed to me my heart. And what I see is that my world revolves around me. I'm not going out to the office to find out if Pat's already doing something, it's important. My assumption is she's sitting there at her desk waiting for me to give her a task so that she's ready to do it. Eric has nothing to do with this time except to answer my requests And it's just not true. They're incredibly busy, they do an amazing job, and I take them for granted. My heart reveals that my world revolves around me. I have a number of teenagers in my home. And I'll come home from dinner those evenings that I'm home and and I'll greet my wife and we'll get a conversation going. Dinner will be ready. And What will we do to call the kids then? Do I go upstairs and ask them, are you ready for dinner? Would you like to come join us? I stand at the bottom of the stairs and I yell, Daniel, Tim, David, dinner I'm at least inviting them to join us. But I'm not loving them And it may not be that I need to do that all the time, but what God is doing is he's showing me that my world revolves around me. And it doesn't. And he's showing me that even in human relationships, where I'm interacting with people on a regular basis, I'm selfish. I am self-interested. I'm self-focused. And I will demonstrate it to you. My world does not revolve around God I don't love him with all my heart, with all my soul, with all my strength, with all my mind. And I certainly don't love my neighbor as well as I love myself. And that's our problem. And if you're like me, you have the same problem. And so what's the solution? Number one, it's that second P. It's the true perspective. Brothers and sisters, I want you to understand something really clearly. The universe, not just the world, but the universe revolves around God. He is the creator, the sustainer, the source, and the ruler of all. And when we get a true perspective on who he is, it falls in place. There's a couple of stories that I want to talk about from the scriptures in terms of recognizing that the universe revolves around God. Number one is the story of Job. You're all familiar with the basic story of Job. Job is a man who loves God. You might even say that he loves God well. Because God engages in a conversation with Satan and he says, Have you considered my servant Job? He loves me. He worships me. He obeys me. And Satan's response is: well, of course he does. Look at what you've given to him. You've given him blessing upon blessing upon blessing. How could he not love you? And God says, okay, let's put it to the test. Let's see whether he loves me or whether he loves my gifts. Satan, you can take anything you want. Do not touch his house. And so early on in the story of Job, we see that he loses his children, he loses his herds, he loses his wealth, he loses his reputation. And early on in the story of Job, you have Job's wife coming to him, and she says, Look, you've lost it all. What else is left? Curse God and die. If God is no longer good for you to give you the things that you want, let go of him. And Job responds saying, Shall we receive good from the hands of the Lord and not evil? In other words, God is God, and I don't worship the gifts, I worship the giver. And we go through chapter after chapter, up until chapter 38, where Job is being comforted by his friends Who were telling him, look, God blesses the righteous and he curses the wicked. You're being cursed. You must have done something wrong. You need to follow through with the system and repent so that God will restore your goods and life will be wonderful again. But the problem is that Job doesn't know what he's done to precipitate his circumstances. And so he hasn't got anything he's aware of to confess And so Job continues to wrestle with his friends until chapter 38 comes, and God answers Job's request, because Job says, God, if you would come and talk to me. If you would come and talk to me, I know that we can get this worked out. And God comes, and in chapter 38 and 39, God speaks to Job in a way that reveals that God is God. And in chapter forty, Job responds. Let me read Job's response. Chapter 40 beginning in verse 1. And the Lord said to Job, Shall a fault finder contend with the Almighty? He who argues with God, let him answer it. So God is saying to Job, okay, so present your case. Now that we've established my credentials and you know who I am, tell me what I've done wrong. And Job, who's gone through and lost everything, says this. And Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I am of small account. What shall I answer you? I lay my hand on my mouth. I have spoken once, and I will not answer twice, but I will proceed no further. What's happening here is that Job has encountered God. Job has seen the Almighty. Job has recognized that God is much bigger than he thought he was. much better than he thought he was, and it's not time for God to answer to Job. In a similar fashion, we see in Isaiah chapter 6 that Isaiah is brought to the very courtroom of the very throne room of God. And as Isaiah expresses what took place, we read this In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him stood the seraphim, each had six wings, and with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet. And with two he flew. And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. And I said, Woe is me, for I am lost. I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people with unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. Isaiah saw who God is. Isaiah understood that in comparison with God he was broken, inadequate. Nothing. Isaiah saw that the very universe revolves around God, that God is the one of glory and of presence and of power, and that Isaiah himself, being in the presence of God, deserved to die. Because Isaiah was not the center of the world God as we see Him, in His glory, in His presence, in His power, as we see Jesus throughout the Gospels, and we recognize that He is the one who loves well, He's hidden. His glory has been taken because he's there as a man to live an obedient life, to die an atoning death, and to rise from the dead to give us new life. When we see God, we begin to recognize that the world really doesn't revolve around us. God really does deserve my worship. We see that with Job, and we see that with Isaiah. God really does deserve my love. And we recognize that when we see how God has redeemed us. God deserves my obedience. I don't give it to manipulate and receive something in return. I give it because of who he is And so as we think about what it means to love God, we're called to love Him with all of who we are, because He is who He is. And so I want you to think about your treasure. If your heart is given to God, he is your treasure. And I want you to think that it's not about you, it's about him. And it's not about just then. It's not just about heaven. It's about now. There's something that we frequently will call in in some of the people that I read the gospel gap. We understand that there are two things that Jesus has done that that we look back to when we look forward to He's come, he's lived, he's died, he's suffered in my behalf. He has risen from the dead, and he has redeemed me, so that I can come to God on the basis of the work Jesus has done with hope. And that pushes me immediately into that future perspective which says that heaven's coming. And I can look forward to eternal life with God. I can relish the idea of being at the wedding feast of the Lamb as his bride. In glory, without sin, without failure, without the fallenness that we suffer through now. And glory. And it's magnificent. It's amazing to think about what heaven will be like. But there's the present And Jesus isn't my treasure just for heaven. Jesus isn't my hope just for heaven. Jesus is my treasure now. And that's what this commandment is pointing out. It's that God is the one whom you love with all of who you are now. Yes, there is a future glory to come. Yes, there is a whole life and a world to come that we can't even begin to understand completely. But the way to send your treasure forward is to experience it now Because what's in view isn't just the future to come, what's in view is the present. And Jesus makes a difference for us 24-7 here and now. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, there is no death in heaven. David writes, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. Now. And this isn't somebody who's got an easy life. This is David. This is David who was out with the sheep. When the lions came, when the bears came. He's the David who went to the battle with the Philistines when no soldier in the army of Saul With armor and strength would challenge Goliath. And David went to challenge Goliath, not with the the armor of Saul, not with the weapons, not with the swords, but with a sling. And God. He went not in the confidence that he had an arm to kill a bear Not in the confidence that he could stop a lion. He went in the confidence that Goliath was insulting the armies of God and that God was going to win. And David had the opportunity to be a part of the battle. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Brothers and sisters, as you love God, you know his presence. But we live here and now. And we live in the midst of difficulties, and we live in the midst of trials, and we live in the midst Of a fallen world as a fallen person with fallen people. So I want to tell you a story about what's happened to me this week. Last week a week ago early in the weekend, a week ago Friday One of my sons went with me to go do some things that I was really glad he would go do. And it was it was a sacrifice of his time. It was putting him in uncomfortable places outside of his comfort zone. And he did marvelously He was a wonderful help. He was a tremendous encouragement. And I was just really proud. And then Saturday came. And something had happened between Friday and Saturday where I became a persona non-grata. I'm still not clear what it was But on Saturday, he wouldn't speak to me, he wouldn't acknowledge my presence, he wouldn't accept my help, and and and and there was just this distance between us. Then I thought, okay, well he's an adolescent, he's he's something's happened, he'll either come tell me about it or he'll get over it. And so Wednesday night Um he and his brother were at battalion and and I'm there working and at the end of battalion I take them home. And so at 8 35, one of my boys comes and says, um He'll be out soon. He's got a ten-minute meeting. So I'm thinking, okay, I'll I'll go out to my car and I'll listen to this CD that I've got, which I love. Many of the songs we sang this morning are from it. It's Valley of Vision And so I'm listening to the songs, I'm having a really good time, and and my my other son is with me, and ten minutes pass. I'm thinking, okay, well, you know, he'll get out when he can. Twenty minutes pass. I'm becoming irritated. It's late in the evening. I've been there a long day. I want to go home. I want to get some things done so they'd be ready for the day and be fresh in the morning. And and so at twenty minutes I I tell my son, you you need in five minutes to go get your brother because we really need to go home. Four minutes pass and he comes to the door. Comes in the car, sits down, says nothing. Ask him if it was a good meeting. So I'm driving home and I'm becoming more and more irritated because I'm thinking, look, I'm trying to take care of you. I'm serving you. And you're treating me with coldness. And I'm realizing that I'm finding it less and less enjoyable to listen to Valley of Vision. And halfway home I turn it off. I just can't listen to it anymore. Because I'm getting angry. And I get to the home and and and we walk into a dark home, nobody else is home, and and one of my sons who's talking to me Goes into the living room and sees that there are two wet spots. We have a 17-year-old dog named Lady. She's just about blind. She's just about deaf. She can smell well and she can bark well, and her her her her bodily functions, other than sight and hearing, work really well. And she loves our carpet Somebody had forgotten to put the barriers up to keep her on our Purgo. Washes up really easily. So my son says, uh-oh, Lady Pete in two different spots. I'm really feeling a victim at this moment. I'm really becoming angry, and self-pity is a glorious orgy that I'm enjoying. I go get the wet back. I clean up I clean up the mess. You know, we have a routine, it's water, vinegar, all sorts of other stuff. We just clean it up to get it out so that there's hopefully no more smell. And I'm really, really angry. And I'm grumbling, not under my breath, I don't want to have to clean out the wetback. Now in the middle of this process, my wife comes home and her first words are, oh, I'm sorry, I forgot to put up the barriers. Somebody's finally taking some responsibility. But does it help? No. I become even more angry because now I'm not even allowed to be a victim. Somebody's taking responsibility for their action, and I can't enjoy being a victim. So I go to the kitchen, I clean out the wet vac, I'm grumbling, I'm upset, I'm irritated, I'm just really enjoying my sinful heart. And Ann offers to clean out the wetbag. And Ann offers to take care of the mess. And I don't want her to. I know how to do it better. And I want to be a victim. What I needed, what I needed, was exactly what she gave me. I needed somebody to show me I needed Jesus. I needed somebody to come alongside me and gently remind me that I'm a better man than I was behaving. And to show me that the truths of the valley of vision are the truths I need to hear. And that my lie of being a victim who really should receive compassion and justice. It's exactly what I don't need. I need redemption and mercy. What my wife gave me was a picture of Christ. And God used that to bring me back to reality, to help me to recognize that I had gone into a full-blown world revolves around Steve Mindshut. I need Jesus then. I need Jesus now. I need Jesus tonight. I'll need him tomorrow. And so do you. And he's there. He's there. So, where do we get the power to live the kind of life God called us to live? Loving Him with all that we are, and loving our neighbor as ourselves. Where do we get it? First, we get it from God. God Himself gives us that power. Number one, he redeems us. Jesus came. He lived the obedient life. He died an atoning death. He rose from the dead, and he gives us his record and new life. And I need that. And you need that. And that's your hope. That's where you begin to recognize two things. One, that God deserves your love. A God that will do that for you is a lovable God. Secondly, you recognize that He gives you the grace to love Him. He gives you His Spirit. In Ezekiel 36, I will put my spirit in you and I'll move you to follow my commands and decrees. He gives you his word. He gives you the scripture where he makes plain who he is, what he's done, how we are to relate to him. And he gives you people. I had the valley of vision, I had the scripture, I had everything that I could have dealt with on Wednesday night, and I put it all away. What I needed was somebody who saw Jesus and would hold on to me. And brothers and sisters, you need exactly the same thing. If Anne had simply said It's okay, it'll be better tomorrow. I would have been in my funk and I would have been appropriately in my funk, because tomorrow I'll have the same family, the same dog, the same house, and the same forgetful people What I needed was Jesus, and she showed him to me. What I needed was to be reminded that he is at work not only in my circumstances but in me. He's at work in you. He's at work in you today. And he calls you to reveal the glory he's placed in you. So, what I challenge you to do today is to remember Jesus. You're going to have your Wednesday nights. You'll have them on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, and it'll start again the next week. You're going to have your trials, you're going to have your difficulties, you're going to have your circumstances. You're going to have those events that propel you inward. That propel you to believe that the world revolves around you. And you need to be cast outward. You need to see that the world revolves around Jesus. It really does. And to do that you need to be in the Word. You need to be in prayer. You need his spirit to be in you. You need to be looking to see how Jesus reveals himself to you in so many different ways. And you need people. You desperately, desperately need people who will point you to Jesus, and they need you to point them to him. God places us in a community. God places us in a family. And that's what we need. We need to be in the word together. We need to be in prayer together. We need to be engaged in one another's lives. Because we revolve around him. Jesus, we don't see you well Our eyes are clouded. We look in the wrong places. We focus on ourselves. Open our eyes that we might see you. Give us a hunger for your word. Give us a hunger for conversations with you. Give us a hunger To know your truth and satisfy that hunger. Give us brothers and sisters who know us and can be compassionate As they show us who you are, as they show us who we are. Give us fluency in the language of repentance That we might freely acknowledge when we have fallen short, when we have focused on ourselves. And Lord Jesus, I pray that you will more effectively, more fully, more completely be our treasure. That you will grab our hearts. And as we grow in our relationship with you, Lord Jesus, we would give them to you freely. Create in this body people who love you well. Reveal yourself to us in richer and deeper ways, through your word, through prayer, through worship, through one another. And Lord Jesus, create in us a people who love you with all that we are and love our neighbors as ourselves. In your name we pray. Amen.