My name is P. D. Mayfield. I serve as associate pastor here at Columbia Prez, and it is always a pleasure to worship On Sundays with you all, as we gather in the Lord's name, to hear of His goodness, to know of His kindness. If you are children of ages four to second grade, I invite you to an age-appropriate Bible lesson in time of children's worship. If this is your first time, the volunteers meet in the stairwell, so parents feel free to go with your child if you would like to meet the volunteers. And of course, children are always welcome to remain with us as well. Please, in your Bibles, turn to Philippians chapter 3. We're going to be looking at verses 1 through 11 this morning in our series, Our Joy in Christ. And as we look at the passage this morning, we're transitioning from what has come before. And Paul is beginning to set up what is to follow in the rest of the letter. So there is development of where he's been from, and there are echoes from where he has been. And we see Paul in this passage sharing more of his joy in Christ. Here now from Philippians chapter 3, verses 1 through 11. Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you is no trouble to me and is safe for you. Look out for the dogs, look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh. For we are the circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus. and put no confidence in the flesh. Though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If any one thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more. circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews As to the law, a Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to righteousness under the law, blameless. But whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ. The righteousness from God that depends on faith. That I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Father, help us as we hear your word, and help me as I preach your word. The beauty of the gospel, may it capture our imagination, may it shape our hearts, Lord, and may it form our joys as we know all things are gained in Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen. Jesus taught in the Gospels, for where your treasure is, there your heart will also be. People can be like nifflers. The fictional magical creatures in Harry Potter's world of fantastic beasts. We're not always as cute as nifflers are, but we are attracted to anything that is shiny, like jewels and gold, and we have an insatiable appetite to acquire what we consider valuable. And even if you don't know the concept of cost-benefit analysis, you do it every day. Is it worth it to me, I ask myself quite often, to save money by doing the house project on my own, or should I spend the money for someone to do the job faster and perhaps better? I don't know about you, but I know what I usually select. Another way that we do cost-benefit analysis is even at the famous The famous time of the evening. Is it worth it to watch another season of your favorite show in one sitting? Or turn off the television and get a good night's sleep? We're always weighing what might be to our loss or to our gain. And we treasure what we find valuable and we pursue what we find worthwhile. But as Shakespeare was astute to put on the lips of one of his characters, all that glitters is not gold. People from around the world can intuitively, but also very deliberately, conceptualize religious life or a moral life in terms of loss and gain. And what I mean by that is the proverbial scales. Where all the good things are piled up on one side and all the bad things are piled up on the other side. And we hope that the good outweighs the bad. Our text this morning talks about loss and gain. Paul is talking about weighing out the good, the valuable. And he returns again to one of the significant themes of the letter, and that is joy. Paul doesn't mean joy just in terms of our happiness, but he's framing lasting joy in terms of our standing with God through Christ Jesus. Paul's letter is encouraging Christians and Philippi and And through the centuries he's encouraging Christians, even to us this morning as we read the Word, we're being encouraged that our whole life All of it is centered and formed around the unity and the joy of the good news found in Jesus Christ. And so as we look at this passage this morning, we're going to see how that it's because the gospel is the very power of God for salvation that we rejoice in the Lord. We're going to look at the verses in three sections. First, we're going to be noticing in verses 1 through 3 how marks of true worship is by the Spirit. Verses 4 through 9, how the gospel provides true righteousness through faith. We'll talk about that. And then 10 and 11, how the gospel offers true life from death. And it's in these things that we rejoice in Christ. And so first, look at verses 1 through 3. It's the gospel that actually marks out what is true worship by the Spirit. And therefore we must rejoice in the Lord. If you remember that this letter is a letter of friendship, Paul knew the Philippians, they knew Paul, they partnered together, bearing witness to the gospel of Jesus. In chapter 2, Paul tells of Jesus' life, his humanity, his deity, his humility, his exaltation. Then Paul speaks about two examples. He gives this testimony of Timothy and Epaphroditus as two examples that embody this way of Jesus. in their humility and sacrificial service. And now as he he pivots into chapter 3, Paul is giving another example. For rejoicing in the Lord, and that's namely his own testimony of God working in him So look at verse 3. Paul says, for we are the circumcision who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus. Paul is briefly accounting for what makes for acceptable worship. He says three things: by the Spirit of God, glory in Christ, and putting no confidence in the flesh. Paul, he's using irony, he's using wordplay, he's setting up the contrasting reversals that will be found throughout the rest of the passage, but he's setting up This word play from those he tells to the Philippians to look out for. He says it three times, look out for. So look out for the dogs. Cultures for thousands of years have had close, trusted companionship with dogs. Our household wants a dog very badly. It's not time yet. But also we see both in the the Jewish context but also the Roman context, we see um people using that the term dogs more pejoratively, uh considering um that dogs were often seen as unclean. Therefore you see the Jewish context sometimes referring to Gentiles as d as as dogs. And then likewise it kind of carries the metaphor of those who are ritually unclean and morally impure. He says, watch out for the evildoers. Specifically, Paul's calling out those who emphasize observing the Jewish law, that is, Gentiles. Beginning to keep the Torah, the Jewish law. When you look at Psalms and Proverbs in the wisdom literature, you see this contrast between the wicked and the righteous. And Paul, by doing this wordplay, he's ascribing to those who emphasize the Gentiles must observe the Jewish law to be considered people of God. They're the ones that are actually the ones who are not doing the word, the ones that the evildoers Thirdly, he says, look out for those who mutilate the flesh. Now, this is also wordplay on the covenant sign of God's people, circumcision. This sign is what it meant to be engrafted in, to be a part of God's covenant community. Paul here then is claiming significant reversals. Reversals that those who regard to claim ritual and moral purity through keeping the Jewish law as a way to mark out those who are the people of God, he's saying those who are doing that are actually not part of the people of God, but the Gentiles Who don't need to keep that are now part of the covenant. Paul is highlighting who is actually righteous before God, and more on that in a minute. Paul, when he says worship, he isn't merely talking about what Christians do when they gather together like we're doing on Sunday mornings. Although that certainly is involved, but it's much more comprehensive. When the word here for worship, it's encapsulating all of life as our service to God. And so Paul is setting up a contrast between those who think their service to God is acceptable through self-focused observance of the law versus a God-focused dependence in the Spirit. It's what our confidence is placed in. What do we boast in? Is it Is it in our ethnicity? Is it in our religious heritage? Is it in our achievements? Is it in our standing in the community? This is what Paul is drawing focus to in his own testimony. And so how do we look out for such people? Well well in this context, Paul doesn't go into great detail. He just quickly mentions them There's a lot of debate on who these people might be. But we we learn a lot from his quick um uh mentioning of them. But it's an encouragement, certainly. He repeats it. Look out. So there's an awareness, there's a watchfulness, but he doesn't spend a lot of time on how. But there is gleaning of how we might discern with humility and awareness. But I want to draw our attention by not By how he's saying look out for these things, it's it's actually by having a different focus And that's what we'll be continuing to unpack. His testimony becomes the very way he is demonstrating that his eyes shift focus. They're redirected. To the God who is worthy of all worship, the God who makes it possible to know Him and to come to Him, to know His grace and to come and worship His name. Our rejoicing in Christ flows from true worship of God. And true worship is dependent upon God's righteousness. And that brings us to our second point as we look in the middle section, verses four through nine. Since the gospel provides true righteousness through faith, we rejoice in Christ. Now, what does Paul mean by righteousness becomes a very important question. He uses the word three times, and it's an important word throughout all of the Bible. It's an attribute of God. God is righteous. But the word also carries ranges of meaning to express fairness and justice, and it can be the quality of one's right standing. In relationship to someone else or to something else. Paul begins to contrast This contrast by explaining what he considers loss and gain. He considers what is rubbish versus what is of surpassing worth. And by doing so, Paul is highlighting how true righteousness is connected to the source of our confidence. True righteousness is connected to the source of our confidence. And he describes what he was placing in by telling his testimony. And this is where the list of things happen. He was circumcised on the eighth day, which is in accordance with the command of the law. He describes himself of the people of Israel in accordance with those who are in covenant relationship with the Creator and Redeemer of Israel. He mentions even more specifically that he's of the tribe of Benjamin, which is unique as the time in history if you consider all the history of exile and return. Um there is lost history in the nation of Israel, and yet he knows his heritage of the tribe of Benjamin. He takes pride in knowing this tribal lineage. And then the crescendo of this is that he calls himself a Hebrew of Hebrews. This phrase of aspirational ideal for a person of Jewish ethnicity, culture. Language, religion, especially in the surrounding pagan and gentile world. So he's talking about his ethnicity and his standing, his status. And he moves then into his achievement. As to zeal, I'm sorry, as to the law of Pharisee, there were particular schools of interpretation and religious piety within the people of Israel. As to zeal, a persecutor of the church. Paul's demonstrating that he was committed. He was committed to his ethnicity and religious observances to the point that he was participating in the opposition against Christ's followers, both Jews and Gentiles. He goes on to say, as to righteousness under the law, blameless, you lie. No, what is Paul meaning here? Paul is not saying that he was sinless. Paul is saying that with respect to observing the law, he was blameless. His life, his conduct was according to the law. And therefore he assumed that observing the law made his right standing before God. Trusting his standing before God was rooted in his confidence in the source. And so he's showcasing what he was placing his confidence in himself. The truest definition of self-righteousness. He was doing it. At least he was acknowledging, on one half, there were things that he couldn't do, that he was born into, but then he also references those things that he engaged with zeal and high pursuit. But Paul, but Paul was confronted with the good news of Jesus. And now Paul shifts his focus from himself to Jesus by saying that he counts all those things. As loss. Those things that he placed his confidence in are rubbish. Which some of your translations might say refuse, or in the King James even, the word is quite vulgar, it's dung. He's comparing what he pursued, but now in the light of Christ, his confidence shifts from himself to Jesus. And his whole life pursuit is now gained. gain in Christ and being found in Him. What we see here is something incredibly important. As you think about what is the claim of Jesus Christ and who he is, but also what he accomplishes and how we approach and relate to God. When we talk about the righteousness from God through faith in Christ, we have to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to be able to do that. What Paul is hammering, what he is putting all weight upon, is not himself, but rather Christ. Because this is the key of the difference between the gospel of Jesus versus any other kind of system in w in the ways you're relating to God, morality, your standing or your view your view of yourself or your standing in the community. The difference is between are you performing to get righteousness, or are you resting in the one who accomplished all and receiving his righteousness? Our standing before God is not in what we can boast in, but rather our boast is in Christ. Paul is giving his testimony. Now, I've been meeting with a group of men. We meet pretty regularly, and it's for encouragement. We spend time in prayer together. We pursue Jesus together. Holding each other accountable, encouraging us, pointing us to the hope of the gospel. And we're recently even exploring what it means to share testimony. What does that even mean, right? Is that an infomercial? Is that a sales pitch? Is that a bait and switch? What are these ways, these tactics of slick car salesmanship No, the the Christian testimony is an example of what Paul has given us. It's sharing with a depth Of who you were before Jesus, before you became a Christian. It's giving witness to how you became a Christian. How you came to faith, how you came to understand and come to believe and trust in Jesus. But it also involves since I became a Christian. These things don't have to take very long. We were even just practicing to do it for 60 seconds. How might you be ready to give a reason for the hope that you have in Christ? But also how you might be praying for people, for opportunities to share of the work of God in your life, that you might give testimony of his work in you. And so it becomes important that we all as Christians are faced, both with in the presentation of the gospel, we're having to wrestle with who are we and how are we trying to have standing with God? Is it in our flesh or is it upon Christ? And this is where it's important to see that self-righteousness is both in pride. Because you you could be like Paul. You could be all of these things. You could be like me, where I was an okay student, I I was an okay athlete, I was involved in the community, I was well thought of. I had a good life. But I thought Christianity was moralism. Christianity played a part in my family. It's an important part of the overarching story of God's work and his faithfulness. But I thought What the gospel was was that I had to try to be a good person and God would love me. But the gospel is contrary to the got to that. The gospel is that God loves you, and even when I am not good enough, that even that the wages of my sin, the very things that I'm trying to lump up on the scales, will never measure up. And yet, despite that, God is merciful. God is gracious, and God pours out his love. To be confronted with that grace. Radically transforms your very sense of self, your sense of place in the universe, because it's not how we think and see the world, is it not? Paul's testimony points us to the past, the past both of what he was trusting in, but then he's also pointing us to the past of Jesus. His perfect life, his death, his resurrection. And we must recognize and acknowledge the way that we pursue this righteousness in our flesh. Because Again, like Paul could be succeeding and thinking that he's righteous because he's performing. The other side of self-righteousness is that you are very aware that you're not measuring up and that you are failing. But again, whether you are puffed up in your pride or you are despairing in your sense of shame and wallowing in that, do you not see? That both are trusting in the flesh. Whether you're succeeding or whether you're failing, you think you are to perform. And brothers and sisters and friends who might be exploring Christianity, would you fall down with great rejoicing that that is not how it is with Christ? Our view of what gain changes. Our understanding of our right standing before God, our Creator. We recognize how he is our Redeemer and makes us new, new creations, new life in him And lastly, as we move into verses 10 and 11, we see that the gospel offers true life from death. And so we rejoice in Christ. Paul gives a string of things here, starting in verse 10, that I may know him and know the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death. that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. Paul is holding together the salvation that is past in the work of Christ, and then the hope of the future that is sure and steadfast in his resurrection. He's shifting his lens to the future and how that impacts his present. Paul Miller in his book, The J Curve. says this and and I I agree I commend the book heartily I um it is very good work of explaining The depth of God's grace, the scope of his forgiveness, but also the joy and the renewal that comes with dying and rising with Jesus. Paul says this that the Paul the Apostle completely had his lens changed. He says Jesus' resurrection transforms how Paul the Apostle Processes life. It reveals a remarkable vision of life, one that promises to undermine our modern commitment to anxiety and to free us for a life of reflective joy. Reflexive joy. This is the beauty and the paradox of the gospel where Jesus says to deny yourself and to take up your cross and follow me. Because what we lose pales in comparison to what we gain in Christ. And this beauty is put forward when you think about all that you think and do and how do the scales measure out, and we hear the gospel give us Good news, rest and comfort and freedom, where we can actually, we're singing, we're lifted up because we are not left to ourselves. Paul says in Colossians chapter two, starting at verse eleven, In him, meaning Jesus, also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh. By the circumcision of Christ, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith, in the powerful working of God who raised him from the dead. And you, and you who were dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses. By canceling, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. This is the work of Christ. This is the righteousness of God by faith in Christ. And so this is the beauty of how we we receive his righteousness, but we also live in the power of the resurrection. Because we live in the time of here and now. An author, Jerem Barr, writes: the experience of suffering prepares us to minister to others who suffer. For we have no other world in which to minister than this one that is so full of suffering. This gospel of hope, uh, this gospel that offers true life from death, as we are looking to Christ's resurrection, is what gives us the lens to endure our suffering. To endure the evils and the suffering that's in the world, but then it also empowers us to move forward in love, to enter into the suffering of others as Christ does with us. This is the gospel to receive by faith and to walk by faith And so we come to the question that we must ask ourselves when we are presented with such beautiful vision of what life is found in God. We must give an accounting of what we value, what we treasure. What do we have that we would consider loss And does it measure up to what is the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus? Is your reputation and esteem what you value? Do you value your knowledge and your and your wisdom? Do you have a sense of your own moral purity, religious zeal, and other forms of self-righteousness? This gospel to you this morning is to turn to the Lord Jesus, trusting in him and not in yourself. Your confidence is in his performance, not yours. He is sufficient. He is satisfying all our desires and wants and needs. And we find that we have gain in him. Paul Miller, again, in the book J Curve, he he tells a story. It's a recounting of a story. in his book, The J Curve, about a man named Dimitri who spent 17 years in a Soviet prison for his faith. Each morning, Dimitri would stand by his bed with arms outstretched and sing his favorite hymn as loudly as he could. The other prisoners, of course, would laugh and mock and jeer. And those years of suffering were very long and hard. At one point, he believed all his family had been killed. And in points of weakness, he was tempted to sign confessions that were not of crimes that he committed. But in acts of defiance, but because of his hope in the gospel, he enraged prisoner prison officials when he hung up the scriptures on the wall. Just a piece of a pay to the scriptures. And when he was being led away, To what he thought might be his execution, 1,500 prisoners stood and sang that hymn that he would sing every day. The guards were perplexed, caught off guard by this boisterous noise, and they said, Who are you? Dimitri answered, I am Jesus in your midst. Now he didn't mean that he was Jesus. He's meaning that sharing in the sufferings of Christ, living in the power of the resurrection. This is what is the hope that makes you have the breath in your lungs for the moment you have to give glory to God and to give testimony of his work in your life. And Paul the Apostle is giving testimony here to his joy in Christ. He writes about true worship. He leads us down the path of lasting joy. And it's eternally important to see the bridge to God. It depends on God's righteousness through faith in Jesus, not on our own. And as we pursue Jesus, we live now in the frame of his resurrection, which is the very way that we can reframe our suffering. It's because the gospel is the power of salvation that we rejoice in the Lord. There's a lot of things happening in this verse, but it is anchored to that encouragement in verse 1. Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. We don't muster that joy. Joy is not happiness all the time. There is deep sorrow in life. But there is great joy in Christ. May we know Him. May we share in His sufferings. May we rest in His righteousness and not our own. May we rejoice in the Lord. May we be found in Him. May we share that with each other. May we be telling our stories of God's faithfulness in our lives. May we be sharing with people how we have come to know Christ. How we have considered all things lost, so that we find all things gained in Him. May we have a testimony where we can say, All that glitters is not gold, but all that is gained is found in Christ. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we we rejoice in this good news and we ask for your Spirit's help. Help us to believe, help us to have faith. There are often things that distract us and hold us down and choke us out and prevent us from living in the power of your resurrection. And so we we beg of you. To help us in this endeavor as we follow you. May we look to you, may we lean on one another, and find all joy in Christ. We pray this in your name. Amen.