Many of you may not realize this, but there's a biblical precedent for a deacon giving a sermon. It's found in Acts chapter 7 and chapter 8 when Stephen gave his sermon. Now something you may not also realize is that this sermon is the longest recorded sermon in the New Testament. Now as I feel compelled to follow biblical example, I warn you you may want to get to feel a little comfortable here, settle back to get going. John 9 is a story that's pretty familiar to us. And what's familiar about it is the fact that the blind man was healed by Jesus. That the Pharisees investigated this healing quite intensely. And we also see the bold testimony given by the blind man. Today we're not going to look at any of these. What we're going to see is what happened before the miracle. We're going to see how when Jesus approached the blind man, he used this opportunity to teach the disciples. About how they should approach needy people. Now, before I read the scripture, I just want to show you some of the circumstances that surrounded this event and led up to this event. We go back again and look at John chapter 7 and chapter 8. We see at the beginning of John chapter 7 that Jesus is making his way into Jerusalem. Quietly. He's coming during the Feast of the Tabernacle. And during the Feast of the Tabernacle, which occurred about in our calendar year, probably around September. We see, if we look ahead a little bit, that it's the September before his crucifixion. So we're looking about the last six months of Jesus' three-year ministry. And as he makes it into Jerusalem, He encounters first the crowds of the Jewish people and then the Jewish leaders. Now the people he encounters are the people who, as he puts it, are living in darkness. They're rejecting God. And he has something to say to these people. Let me read to you a few of the things he has to say to them. First of all, none of you keeps the law. That's from John chapter 7, verse 19. Next, three times he says this. You do not know God the Father. Then he says that they will die in their sins. It's from John 8, verse 24. He follows that with, you belong to your father the devil, John chapter 8, verse 44. And finally, John chapter 8, verse 47, says they do not belong to God. Now Jesus says that he is the light here, and when he's talking about the light, he's talking about the light that shows the darkness how dark things are. And just like if you or I were locked up in a room, a completely dark room for three days, saw no light, and somebody opened the door and shown a light in our face, the first thing we'd do is it'd be very uncomfortable and we'd want to get rid of the light. Well it was very uncomfortable for those Jewish people and those Jewish leaders. And if we look at the end of John chapter 8, we see that what they tried to do was to get rid of the light. They picked up stones and they were ready to stone Jesus. To put out the light. But we see also at the end that Jesus was able to slip away. And that's where we come to John 9, verses 1 through 5. Let me read now from God's word. As he went along, he saw a man blind from birth. His disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind. Neither this man nor his parents sinned, said Jesus, but this happened so that the work of God might be displayed in his life. As long as it is day, we must do the work of him who sent me. Night is coming when no one can work. While I am in the world, I am the light of the world. Now you can almost envision this. Jesus slipping away. He's with his disciples. He's trying to get away from the temple and out of the city. You can see the disciples kind of surrounding him. With him in the middle, they're moving along toward the city gates to get out of the city. As they come upon the city gates, they encounter the usual number of merchants, the beggars who sit outside the city gates to attract attention, the crowds, and they're moving through. They're just about outside along the road, and Jesus stops. And he stops to look at this one beggar, the blind man. He looks at the blind man with a look of compassion and understanding. The disciples now have their attention focused on the blind man. They have to be thinking in their s to their selves, they know that Jesus can help this blind man. But the question they're thinking about is Should we get involved right now and help this man? Each one of them is saying to themselves, should I get involved in helping this man? And that's the first part you see on your outline there, the first question. And what we're going to look at in A, B, and C there underneath, is what I would call three roadblocks, or maybe even three excuses. That they think about to keep themselves from having to really help this man. The first one, A This is not the right, if you fill in the blank there, time. It's not the right time. As we've just seen in chapters 7 and 8. We look and we see that they're moving on out of the city. There are people who are looking for Jesus. In a sense he's a fugitive. They want to go after him. So they're just about out of the city, and he stops to look at the blind man. Now the disciples got to be saying to themselves, Jesus, this is not the right time to do this. You're risking your life for this one man. Lord, we've got to get on. There's things to get on to. There's many more people. Why now? Why this time? The other aspect is, guess what day it is? You remember what day this was? It was the Sabbath. Can you imagine the disciples thinking then? Jesus, you can't heal them today. You know what happens when you heal people on the Sabbath You get them upset, you get them irritated, you've already got them mad, you're pulling more attention to us. We don't need that now. This is just not the right time. Time is a real hindrance to us. Twenty years ago, if you wanted to impress somebody, you could pull out a fat wallet. kind of open it up and flash around a few bills, show somebody's got a lot of money. I know after last uh the last three sermons Alan's given that's not a problem, the C P C but But nowadays, what is it that you can impress people with? You don't pull out a fat wallet. What you pull out is a fat daytime or calendar. And you open it up and you flip through it. Somebody says, gee, can we get together? See, well yeah, uh somewhere in the next two let's see, two weeks from Thursday at eleven thirty between eleven thirty and twelve. What's important these days? Time is important that we can show people that we're busy. Time can be a real hindrance to helping the needy. What's the second aspect we look at? The second thing comes in verse two, a rather innocent question. His disciples asked him Rabbi who sinned at this manner of his parents that he was born blind. Now if you think about that, it seems rather innocent. And they're asking it from the standpoint of Exodus chapter 20, verse 5, a scripture they know well, which says that the sins of the parents will visit the generations to come. But we can even identify with that today, can't we? How many times do we hear about babies who are born as drug addicts? Babies that are born as alcoholics, babies that are not born with AIDS. A direct reflection on the lifestyle of the parents. We see that all the time. So it's not an unlikely question Why? Why did he ask this? We look at the second part of it. The second part is The man. The man himself. Is it the man's fault? Maybe he's got a sin that j that Jesus foresaw coming in his life. And it's kind of a punishment. He's being born this way because of what his life is going to be like. But in either case, in either case, what is being asked is, and what the disciples are really trying to do So we have down there in B. They're looking at it and they're saying, it's not my, fill in the blank, it's not my problem. Trying to detach themselves. They've got a very analytic approach to this. They don't want it to be their problem. Kind of keeps them apart from the problem. We can think of a couple examples that we can identify with today. Think of the classic example of driving down the road. You see a car up ahead of you. You see that there's steam pouring out the front of the car. You know the radiator's probably blown. The person needs help. But as you get closer to the car, you look at the car and you see the bumpers falling off the back. You see a couple dents in the side. It's rusting. The tires are bald. As you get up there you kind of say to yourself, wait a minute. I mean what does this guy expect? It sure doesn't look like he's taking care of his car. And oh by the way, if you have trouble envisioning what kind of car I'm speaking about, if you go out and look at Bob Bierkus's car, you'll probably be able to identify it real well. But seriously What do you think about? What you really think about is this guy hasn't taken care of his car. What does he expect to have happen? And it's easy to kind of rationalize to say, well the best thing I could do for him is to go on by, let him struggle with this this time, and maybe he'll learn the next time and he'll take care of his cost. And it won't happen again. So he kind of cruises on by How about a second example? At work, you're at work and you have a fellow coworker. He's 55, 60 years old. He's a smoker. He's been smoking 40 years. He hasn't stopped. He's a little overweight. Maybe he doesn't get much exercise. You come in one day and he's not there. They find out that he's got cancer, lung cancer. It's going to be operated on, but because of his condition, his physical condition, he's not likely to make it. What do you think of first? Are you sympathetic? Are you empathetic? What do you have kind of a logical, rational approach? Say, hey, I mean this kind of makes sense. I mean, what do you expect? Right? We know what smoke does to the lungs. Didn't keep himself in good shape It's pretty easy to think of these days, right? We're health, uh you've got this idea of if we keep ourselves healthy, nothing's gonna happen to us. It's easy to think that way. Say, well, he got himself into it and not be sympathetic, not be willing to help. How about a third example? Someone comes in here to church to visit. You about to greet him? You say hi to him, you get to befriend him. After a couple weeks you find out, you realize that something's troubling them, but they're not really telling you what's troubling them. Finally, they break down and they tell you. What they tell you is that they're gay, they're homosexual. And that's not what they're bothered by. What they're bothered by is the fact that they think they've contracted AIDS and that they're gonna die. They're bothered by the idea of death. That's why they're there. They need help. They're searching. What do you do? You say, hey, they're not even remorseful about their lifestyle. They got themselves into this. You drop 'em. Or do you be a little more conservative and wait to see how the test comes out to see whether they really have AIDS or not? How about the third option? You see them as someone who truly needs help more than ever now. Continue your relationship. It's hard sometimes. What about the third aspect? The third thing we have there, if you look at C, comes from verse 3. What it says, it won't make any fill-in-the-blank difference. The third question they can ask. It won't make any difference. Even if I put all this time in and effort and I want to help this person, it won't make any difference anyway. So why should I do it? You look at verse 3, where this comes from. In the first part of verse 3, Jesus answers their question from verse 2. He says, Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but this happened so that the work of God might be displayed in his life. It's not this manner's parents that sin. In the second half of the verse, what Jesus does is to address the issue that they haven't even asked him about yet, but he knows they're thinking about, and that is results. They're saying to themselves, if we help this man, what's going to happen? So he says that this happened so that the works of God might be made manifest in his life. We want to make sure that if we help somebody, that we're going to see results. We're going to see a change in their life so they don't do this thing that got them into this sticky situation again and we don't have to help them out again. Or we say to ourselves, boy, if I help this person, will they come to Christ? I don't know. But we want to see results. About four weeks ago, when I was in church here, I made a commitment to myself at the end I was going to go out and find somebody who's a new visitor for the first time and talk to them I got up and I got out to the door and I walked out. It was just like in this instant here where kinda God sort of focused me toward one person. I looked up and I saw this person and I said, God, you can't want me to talk to this person. See when I look at that person, the best way to describe him was basically look like a street person in the streets of Baltimore. Somebody had found in downtown Baltimore. Not your typical Colombian. And as he walked across to get his cup of coffee, nobody really talked to him, he walked back and he walked outside and he sat out on the ledge there and he had a cigarette. And the whole time I was thinking to myself, I've committed myself to do this, but what I thought about was the results of helping him out. And it wasn't that I didn't think it would make a difference in his life. What I thought was it would make a difference in my life. And that was the problem. You see, I thought to myself, this man has lots and lots of needs. He's a virtual bottomless pit of needs. And if I go out there and befriend him and help him out, what's gonna happen? He's probably gonna respond positively. But what's going to happen to me? I'm going to have to be his friend. I might even have to invite him home for lunch. If he accepts Christ, he may need to be discipled. And if he comes back, who's the logical one to do it? So I was concerned about the impact that it would have on my life and I was hesitant. Now I went out and I did talk to him. And when I finished talking to him, I didn't know who was more needed, me or him. But you might say to yourself, why did I go out and talk to him? What caused me to get over all these hurdles? And that's exactly what Jesus addressed in verse 4 is he saw the growing reluctance of the disciples to help this man. Let's look at verse four. Says, as long as it is day, we must do the work of him who sent me. Night is coming when no one can work. You see, it's fairly simple. Jesus commands us to help the needy. That's point two there. Jesus commands us to help the needy. I went out there out of obedience. Nothing more. I think that's simply obedience Jesus commands us to help the needy. And if we look at his command, the way it's broken down there in the second point under A, B, and C, He actually addresses those three things we talked about. First, time. He says, as long as it is day, night is coming. We look at time. What is he saying there? He's saying we only have limited time to help. We can't go forever. We only have limited time and opportunities, and there will be a time when we can't help. We need to do it now, when we get the opportunity. How about the second issue? It's not my problem. Look at B. Who does he say has got to help? We must do. And whenever Jesus uses the word must, he's emphatic about it. We must do. It's you and me, not somebody else. Not somebody else's problem. We must help. And the third, it won't make any difference. Why do we think it won't make any difference? Because we think of it as the work that we do, our work. And if we think of it as our work, you're right. We're not going to see the kind of results we think we ought to see. But what he says here Is that it is the work of him who sent me. And this is the second time he said that. That it is the work of God. And if we in helping the needy remember that it is the work of God that we're doing Then we can understand and realize that his work has results. And it's glorifying to him. We have to remember that. You see there? How do we respond to the needy? We respond to the needy out of obedience to our Lord. In verse 4 is our Lord speaking to us and commanding us, and we need to respond out of obedience. But what happens? We've all had experiences where we've been obedient. What happens when you continue to help solely out of obedience, time and time again? The fourth time the phone rings for some help. You get tired. You get resentful. You start to resent the person who's calling to get the help and you don't even know him. What happens after that? Your resentment continues, and who do you start to resent? You resent God. God, why are you doing this? Why do I have to keep helping these people over and over again So if you continue strictly out of obedience, there's kind of something missing. What's there? I have a job where I have to go out into the uh into the field, out on Navy ships, and do work. In fact, tomorrow I'm leaving to go out on an exercise. But uh in doing that, one of the first times I did that, several uh years ago, I was out with the project leader for this particular project we were on, and he was on the ship with me. We've been going for three or four days doing work. And I've been doing fun stuff. I was enjoying myself. But I looked beside me one day, and here's this project leader. He's crawling around on the floor grabbing the the data tapes that we had there and marking the labels and keeping a log of them and doing all the grunt work You know, and this guy's been there ten years longer than I am. He's the leader of the whole thing. He's doing all this work. And I stopped and I said, Bill, I said, Why? Why are you doing this? I said, You're the leader. You don't have to be out here He looked at me and he said, I don't want to ever have to send someone out into the field to do a job and ask them to do something. without knowing what it's like to do it myself and to be able to have understanding. So when you call back in and you've got a problem, I know what you're going through And you say to yourself, wouldn't it be nice to work for a boss like that? Wouldn't it be great? But you do. We all work for a boss like that. Our Lord Jesus Christ. He's done everything he commands us to do. He doesn't command us to do something that he hasn't done himself and know and understand. And that's exactly what he tells the disciples in verse 5. In verse 5 he says, While I am in the world, I'm the light of the world. Jesus served the needy. Verse 3. And again, we look at that, those three aspects. Time. He said, While I am in the world, reminding this, he was in the world a shorter time than we were, most of us. He was in the world 33 years. Most of us will go a lot longer than that The mere fact he was in the world. He left heaven, a perfect heaven, to come here for you and for me. When you and I get to heaven, we won't have to leave. But he had to leave there. Was it ever a good time for him to do that? Did you ever think it was the right time? Did he say Nope. Time. How about the problem? Says our problem, right? Our sin, our sinful nature? Was it his problem? He was perfect. That it says, While I am in the world, I am. I'm it. I took on everything, all of your problems. Myself. He did it for us, for you and for me. And he had nothing to do with our situation, with our problem. Yet he did How about the results? I am the light of the world. When he's talking about light here, he's not talking about the light that shows the darkness how dark things are. He's talking about the light. That is the light of salvation. Salvation for the world. Can you imagine? He could have said to himself, it won't make any difference See, these people are sinners. And even when I die for them, as long as they live, they'll continue to sin. And we do But he knows the results will be eternal life for you and for me. So he did it for you and for me. He served us. So, what's that other ingredient in our response to the needy? We respond to the needy out of obedience to our Lord, and we respond to the needy out of love for our Savior. He is our Lord and Savior. And just as we can't separate those two things, He's both. We can't separate our obedience and our love in our response to the need. We can't do that I want to look back one more time at the story. I want to look back at the blind man. And when you see the blind man there, you remember with everything going on around him, the potential for losing his life. The disciples looking ahead to everyone else that he could help, the crowds around him, Jesus focused on one individual man. He focused on one individual person. In this story, it's the blind man. But I think in this Gospel of John, it's also a picture to us, of you and of me. You see, we're the beggar. We're the helpless one that's sitting there amongst the crowds. And when Jesus came to save us, he didn't wave a wand over a bunch of people. He directed his compassion and his understanding directly at you and at me. How can we not help? How can we not help but respond to the need, just as our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ did? Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you that you indeed are our Lord and Savior. We thank you for all that you have done for us. Lord, anything you ask us to do, you have done first. And you've done it in a greater way than we will. Lord, we just ask that you would continue to have mercy on us, that you would continue to show us and to give us the heart for those who are in need. Lord, we thank you for your love for us. We thank you in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ. Amen.