Well we come this morning to the conclusion of our series on saints being equipped for ministry. looking over these past weeks uh from Ephesians chapter four at the relationship of the elders to you as a body we see that uh primarily We are equippers. You see that in Ephesians chapter four, in verses eleven and twelve, it was he, Jesus, the risen Christ, who gave some to be equal. apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers. That's us. The elders who are pastors and teachers to prepare, to equip God's people. for works of service. And so you, God's people, we equip and we talk about how we primarily are those who equip you by our pastoring and by You can see the triangle there kind of summing this whole thing up now. The equipping with a three-fold function of restoring you from sin and from suffering. supplying you with faith and obedience, training you by scripture and by life so that you can do ministry for God. looked at the relationship you have to one another through this series. Do we together have a relationship as a body? We belong to one another. And we affect one another. We need one another. We're accountable to one another. And one of the things that has uh excited me through this is that God's using his word, and I've heard of more people who are getting Together in accountability relationships, seeking to hold one another accountable, to pray for one another in areas of their desire for Christian growth. And that's exciting to me to see God using his word in that way as we understand how we need one another and can serve one another in the body of Christ to grow together. the image of the Lord Jesus. We're to speak the truth to one another. And so you see in Ephesians chapter four, we've looked at verses fifteen and sixteen that instead of being tossed back Back and forth and uh kind of uh infancy uh and immaturity. Uh we are speaking the truth in love, and so we in all things grow up into him who is the head that is Christ. Christ and from him the whole body joined and held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. the conclusion of this whole series, we want to come back to be able to look at the purpose of the whole thing. What is it that God is doing through this equipping and through these relationships? Relationships that we have together. What is the purpose of this? What is his calling for us as a body, particularly as Columbia Presbyterian Church? And so we come back to verse 13. I want to see verse 13 in the context of verses 11 and 12. So once again, look at God's word as we begin our meditation on this this morning, picking up from Ephesians chapter 13. 4 verse 11. That it was he Jesus who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare, to equip God's people for works of service, equipping saints for ministry, so that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in you your your mind kind of short circuits about halfway through and say, uh I'm not sure what that's all about. Take me back to the beginning. Uh I I need to understand that. I'm sure there's a lot there if I understood it, but it's too much And what I want us to see this morning is that God's call to Columbia Presbyterian Church and to you if you are part of us in this body is a staggering call because it is nothing Less than for us to attain to and to reflect the very fullness of Jesus Christ to our world. Now, what does that mean? And that's what I want for us to focus on as we put together Together, all that God has been trying to show us in these last few weeks about what it means that we are saints being equipped for ministry. He intends for us, this body, this weak puny body, you. and need to be attaining to and to be reflecting the fullness of the risen Savior to our world about us. Now, I suggest that that That is a life-changing vision to those who are ministers at Columbia Presbyterian Church. But it's only for those who are the ministers at Columbia Presbyterian Church. Just the ministers now And so if you're not that, then it's not for you. But of course, if you understand what we've been talking about at all through this, uh this is for us. Who are the ministers? And so if you identify with that, if you say, Yes, God has gotten a hold of me, and I see I am one of those who are called to ministry, this is the vision I have And I want you to see that this is a vision that is worth giving your life to. And I want to do that by looking at three simple questions. Why is it? What is it? And how do we do it? All right? So first of all, now that's You can see it's kind of annoying as crowded bulletins again. See along the top there, that kind of gives you the flow of verses 11 to 13, so you kind of see it diagrammed out there. Okay, now that's kind of the review. Now we're down to the Y point. portion. Why is it that we do this? Well, the why, why is it that we have this vision to attain and to reflect the fullness of Christ? It's because of the basic New Testament. Principle that I call the indicative imperative principle. Now the indicative imperative principle, in case you haven't heard or need to review on that, is simply to say that as Christians, you are called to be what you are. Be is the imperative. Be is command, you know, to be what you are. Indicative is the statement of fact. Now you can And sum up your whole Christian life by that simple statement, you are to be what you are. Or to spell it out a little bit more, the principle that you see there, we are to become in our is anybody We are to be in our to become in our experience what we already are. We even lost a blank on that one. I don't know what happened to it. That printer's not very reliable. What we are in Christ. Alright? I could probably try for that one too and somebody would have come through. But that's what it is. We are to become in our experience. What we already are in Jesus Christ. Ephesians chapter 1 to 3 tells you who you are and what you have in Christ. Chapter 1 Chapter 4 to 6 tells you therefore what to be, how to enter into that. That's the whole framework of the book of Ephesians. Chapter 4, verse 1. Paul says, as prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. Now again a number of you have heard me go through that because that's such a crucial verse. Ephesians 4 1 In the book of Ephesians. You say, well, that looks so exciting to me. But when you look at that word worthy, it doesn't mean I urge you to live a life worthy. You know, get out there and be worthy of all that you've gotten. You know, Jesus is giving you a lot now. In Thanksgiving, come on, get out there and be worthy of it. Obviously, we can't be worthy of it. The word is a uh is a uh mercantile word. It's a Word from the business community of that time, it means to bring up the balance of a scale. And so what Paul is saying, literally in the Greek there, is I urge you to live a life In balance, that you will bring up the balance of your life into equilibrium with the calling that you have received. That's literally what that verse is saying. And so what Paul is saying, all the things I've just told you that you are, that you have in Jesus Christ in these first three chapters, now I'm going to tell you, bring your life into equilibrium. Bring your life into balance with what you have in Christ. Now, how does this apply then in terms of the church being the fullness of Christ? Well it's very simple and it's precious to see it. I want you to follow through with this because if you can, if you really follow through this, it changes your whole view of what the church is and who you are as part of that. The indicative is given to us in chapter one, verses twenty-two and twenty-three. You can do this with everything in Ephesians. And uh I alluded to a number of things uh before four. But here's just another example of that same principle. In chapter one, the end of our purpose statement as a body, you know, that we would know Christ, know our hope, know his power. You come to the end of that whole section about his power, and he finishes there in chapter one, verse twenty two. God placed all things under his feet, Jesus' feet, the risen Christ, and appointed him to be to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Now that's telling you and me a simple statement. There's no exhortation. There's nothing you have to do. It's simply saying that CPC is the fullness of Christ. You see that verse 23? His body is the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. So that's the next little point. CPC is the fullness of Christ. Now, in terms of the imperative, and I'll we'll spell out in a couple minutes more what the fullness of Christ means. But no matter how weak, no matter how deficient you see the body being, never forget what our church is in the eyes of Jesus Christ. It is the container of his wholeness. Nothing less than that. There is the closest possible relationship between Jesus. much so that he describes himself as a head to the church which is his body. And then he goes on, now that's the indicative. He says, that's who you are. relationship to me. Then you look over at chapter four that we've been looking at these past few weeks and you see in verse 13 what does he say? Now, let's build up the body until Do you see the connection Chapter 1, you are the fullness of Christ. Chapter 4, attain to the measure of that fullness. Why do you attain to the measure of the fullness? Because you are the fullness. And so when you attain the fullness And I seek to become like Jesus and attain to the measure of that fullness, all we are doing is laying hold of by faith, taking possession of something that we already are. Now you say, well, it's still understand why you're so excited about that. I mean you know not exactly jumping out of your seats out there, you know. But you gotta understand what the three in principle this is. It's telling you that you are telling you simply to become as a body what you are already in Jesus Christ. You see, somehow when we look at the evangelical church, when we look at the church of Christ in general, we don't see something that looks all that glorious, do we? We look at the church and we look at uh what we see of the history of the church. We look at the church today and we say, come on now you you tell me this This is Jesus, the risen Christ, builds everything in every way, and this is the best he can do. You know, uh the average church in America currently gains one point six seven converts. This is not just transfer groups, but they make 1. 7 new believers per 100 members per year. That's the staggering rate of growth in the American church today. See most of the growth that we see, we see all as you know churches drawn up, mostly transport growth. But in terms of conversions, one point seven per hundred Christian members. You know, in the 1990s, it is estimated 25,000 churches will close by the year 2000. That's not exactly glorious, is it? Average church in America has a membership of 75 people. That's about the median. Uh the church is losing its influence in society. By most counts of what we look at in terms of how much the church is really affecting our culture, we're losing ground, aren't we? too beginning of it to becoming increasingly secularized. We are seen as increasingly irrelevant. Our commentary our commentaries upon society are sometimes feared because people say I don't know what we do if those people ever got into power, but there is not a real sense of threat from us, is there? Kind of written off as people who, well, you know, they're They have their views, but it's not the mainstream, and it's not really affecting the culture. And so when we look at the church, we realize that today, as we see it, it looks like less than glorious. It looks less than the fullness of a risen Christ. We remind ourselves that that's not just true of today, it's been true throughout history. The English poet Sweinburn said That he could bring himself to possibly worship the crucified Christ if it wasn't for his leprous bride. Or even back in post-New Testament times, the Roman subject Said that when he looked at the Church of Jesus Christ, it reminded him of a congregation of frogs croaking in a swamp. Real glorious picture, huh? We are a weak people. We are a despised people. Make no doubt about it. We are not looking to the world very glorious. And when you look back in your own experience in churches, don't all of us have those horror stories? Whether it's looking in church history at scandal and corruption and division and bickering or in our own experience. We say, how do I understand that the scripture says that this is Jesus' body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way? And that therefore he's calling us to attain to that, to enter in somehow to that fullness of what all that means? What is it that that means? What is it exactly that we are to enter into? Let's look at the second point, then flip over onto the back. The second point, which is what? What is it that we are to enter into by the way on the front there if that wasn't uh clear therefore CPC is to attain to that fullness in our experience, we're to take it By faith in the possession of our experience, what exactly is it that we're to take? Well, I believe that it means that we are to display His presence and his power to our world. His presence and his power. Why do I say that? Well, look again at chapter 1. Look at chapter 1, verse 22. Paul says there, God has placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body. The fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Now that word fullness is a very rich word, and there's a lot of debate about exactly all of what it means. particular context but in this context it probably means that the church is the container of the fullness of Christ. What he's saying there that That he has appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the container of his fullness, who is the one who fills everything, in fact, fills the whole universe, and in particular, He fills the church with his presence. It's his presence that he's talking about. That becomes clear, particularly clear if you look over in chapter 2, in verses 21 and 22. 22, Paul says that in him, the whole building, this is describing the church as the temple, you and I, uh as that holy temple of his presence, in him The whole building joined together rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. That's talking about the church. And in him you two are building being built together together to become a dwelling in which God lives By his spirit. And so this is talking about the triune God, Father, Son, and Spirit, dwelling in his people. And that as he dwells in us, he fills us with his presence. And the picture is sort of like the temple. Remember when Isaiah saw it in chapter six? And as he looked at the temple, he saw the glory of the Lord fill the temple. And that glory The glory of the Lord was so awesome in its filling of the temple that the foundations of the temple shook because of the presence of God within that temple. The Shekiah glory had come. and had pulled the temple with a glorious radiance of a smoke and a and a uh uh cloud that was impenetrable but was so awesome that You felt you could not even gaze upon. So rich was its glory. And it's clear that the scripture says that the temple of God is the fill of the fullness of the Of his presence. And so we as his people are the containers, the fullness of his presence. Jesus, the risen Christ, dwells in his church. Again. I say it there is the closest possible connection between Jesus and his church. As on earth Jesus did nothing apart from his people, so his people do nothing apart from Jesus. We are identified with him. He is identified with us. But it's not only his presence that is his fullness in us, but it's also his power. Look again at what he says there in Ephesians chapter 1. If you remember Paul's prayer was that we would have our eyes, verse 18, open. eyes of our heart to see reality, that we would know the hope that He's called you to. Then verse 19, and that you would know His incomparably great power for us who believe. That power, he says, was like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. resurrection power and seated him at his right hand, its ascension power in the heavenly realm. What is that extent of that power? Well, it's far above all rule and authority, above all power and dominion, above every title that can be given, not only in the present, but also in the age to come God placed all things, everything, all governments, all powers, evil and good, under his feet and appointed him head over everything to the church He rules it all for our sake, because we are joined to him, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. So we voluntarily submit to that power. But that power fills everything in every way. That's what he says in verse twenty-three. The power of the risen Christ extends to every square inch of the universe. There is not one quarter of the entire universe, billions of light years from end to end, that can hide from the power and the authority of Jesus Christ. And in particular, that His power and his presence. And so you think of those two ideas. That just as the Shekinah glory filled the temple, so the Shekhinah presence of Jesus Christ fills the church. Just as the power of the risen Christ fills all the universe and the extent of its authority, so that power fills The church in every way. It is for us, verse 19, who believe. We have that same power. That's what Paul says in verse chapter 4, verse 13. That's what I pray that you will attain to, that you will enter into the measure of the fullness of Christ's presence and his power. That as you become Become like him, entering into him, knowing him, reaching unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God, becoming mature, attaining therefore in the experience of your church in the experience of your body into the measure of the fullness of the presence and the power of Jesus Christ. Now is that enough to give your life This is what God, I believe, is calling us to do. And when we look at the church and its weakness, there's also another side of what we need to see. The other side is that apart from the presence and the power of Jesus Christ, the church would have been extinct long ago. And there's nothing that can explain in human reason why By such a distinctive sect of Judaism. Why a sect that would follow a first century rabbi and his teachings would have taken off and changed the world? Yet when you look at the Church of Jesus Christ today, it's not hanging on by a thread. The Church of Jesus Christ is not enduring through the scandals and the corruptions, bruised and broken and Just barely making it. So again, we as Americans have a distorted picture. Because in most parts of the world, the Church of Jesus Christ is flourishing to a greater extent In work when you believe. In Africa, in Asia, in Latin America, throughout various parts of the world, we're seeing Jesus Christ fulfill the promise that He is building his church and he is doing it in a glorious and triumphant way. There is suffering, there is persecution, but when you look at the church in China, for instance, a church that was weak, A church that didn't even have the scriptures, they were forbidden, and during the purge of the 60s of Mount Saitung and the gang of four, it seemed like the church was going to be eradicated. And yet from those times, just a little over 20 years ago, 25 years ago or so, we have now a church that's over 50, some say now 60 million strong. Still thriving under persecution. Pastors who have been imprisoned for years, one pastor I read of just recently, had his arm chopped off and was beaten with an axe. To get him to deny the faith of Jesus Christ, he went back to his congregation, continued to preach, and the church continues to grow. The church is supernaturally triumphant beyond anything That man can understand. Because Jesus is connected to the church. It's his fullness. It's his bodies. Now the thing that for you and me is, do we dare I believe that that same Christ in his presence and his power intends to fill Columbia Presbyterian Church so that we would reflect the fullness of his presence and power to Howard County. In central Maryland. Do we believe that? That's the question. Dare we believe that those stories that we hear of the triumph of Jesus Christ In other parts of the world could actually happen here. Or do we believe we've become so secularized and our eyes are so focused on only what we can see? And the lifestyles that we've become so accustomed to But we say that's not really a vision that I'm willing to give my life. It cost me something that I don't want to enter into. But Paul says, Oh, don't miss that. The church is the fullness of Christ. Now I pray that you will enter into the statute, the measure of the fullness in your experience as a body of believers. How do we do that? Just think of uh one other thing I was just reading this week. Uh we have missionaries that have gone from the Orthodox Presbyterian Church over to Eritrea. A war-torn place in Africa that's now a separate country from Ethiopia. And they went over there in a place where the church had been driven out. The hospital that had been built there was uh burned out, it was uh destroyed. Nothing seemed to be left of that world. And some of our missionaries have gone back there and they've tried to start English classes and Bible study groups. And a report comes every couple of weeks that they just can't write fast enough with keeping up with what God's doing. They say, the buildings are crowded out. The fellow who's teaching says he doesn't have any room to stay And people are hanging out the windows. They're standing outside to hear the scripture. And there is a tremendous revival going on in Eritrea right now. And our missionaries are looking for more help. Give us people we can't minister the word fast enough because of Jesus building his church. Is he the same Jesus here? Do we believe it? How do we enter into it? Final thing, how How do we take possession of our identity as the container of the fullness of the risen Christ? How is it that you and I can know right here in central Maryland the presence of the presence and his power enter into our identity. The answer is very simple. It's right there in verse 15. Right there in verse 15. Instead speaking the truth in love, we will enter all things grow up into him who is the head. I believe that's the key. We're to grow up into the head. Now that's a very interesting phrase to grow up into the head. Oh that's great. Boy you knew you really helped me out here. Now I'd really wondering how it's going to enter I grow up into the head. Well that's really good Al. What does that mean? Okay? Let me unpack it. Headship means two things in the Bible. Two ideas that are meant by head. The first is that head is a life source. By the way, if you want to fill in those two blanks there, draw up into the head means his life and his authority. That's what it's talking about. To live in his life and in his authority. The Greek word head refers to a life source. That's the A. The idea of head means origin. We still carry that over to the English, don't we talk about the uh origin of a river as being its headwaters? That's that same idea. It's the origin of something. And so when we think of Jesus as As the head, verse 15, we grow up into him who is the head. The very next sentence you see says, from him. From him. You see, he's the origin of the church. He is its source. The church comes from the risen Christ. He's the first fruits. We are those who walk in him and after him. So Jesus is our life's source. And that means that when Paul says in Galatians 2. 20, I live. I've been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live. Yet not I, but Christ lives in me, and the life I now live in Live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave his life for me. The life I live, I now live by faith in him. He's my life's source. Or as John 15 puts it, that John read to us earlier. He's the vine. We are the branches. And we are to live by design. Growing daily our life from Jesus, growing up into Him as the head, the life source, seeing that He is the origin of our talent, of our life. Day by day. Now what does that mean? Well, just to illustrate that, I brought alongside the Potter's house. Right, then uh you talk about the uh our our new facility. This this came from a tree that's uh a few feet from where now the uh building is going up. And as you can see see it's no longer attached to the tree. Now this is a branch and the scripture describes us as branches. But you see without being connected to the tree there's no longer any Now, we're to bear fruit. And obviously the the illustration is kind of simple and you might say, have you have them slip into the kids' message here? But you know, just think about it. You know, we could tie fruit on that, right? You know, you could c you could tie all kinds of things on there that would make it look like this branch was very fruitful. I mean, you know, if you want to carry the vine illustration, you know, there it is. You know, there's some rates hanging on a But you know, it wouldn't be very nourishing, would it? You know, it looks good and yet there's no life to it. And isn't that so much a picture of what the church in America often looks like. We look like we have life. There's growth. I mean, you know, you can add more, you can just keep tying more branches and More wood. I could have gathered a whole wood pile out there. In fact, there's plenty for the youth for if you want to make some money and then just chop that stuff up and split it and sell to people for their fireplaces. You make a lot of money. But just to do That's not going to give any life. Because it's disconnected from the life source. That's exactly what Paul's talking about in verse 15. Grow up Into the head. And so one of the things that most excites me from this series is how I've heard of people who have said I have come to a deeper awareness of my need regularly Daily to meet with Jesus Christ, to be in his word, to draw my life consciously from him for the need of each day. Lord Jesus, if I I am the branch. I cannot live this day apart from you, Lord of Ox. Lord, give me your life. Help me this day, Holy Spirit. Fill me, equip me for the temptations that I'm going to meet, for the people I'm going to relate to, for those who are without Christ and don't know about you, that I might be able to be faithful to And simply honor you in whatever opportunity to give you. As we're connected, we bear fruit. Disconnected, not growing up into the head, there's no fruit to be blessed. The second image of the head is that of authority. Headship means authority. And again you see That we are in verse 15 to grow up into him who is the head. And then he follows it again by saying, from him, the whole body joined And held together by every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in line as each part does its work. The head is the command post. The head is where the brains are Right? And that gives the commands to the body. And so when we think of Jesus growing up into him as the head, we think of him not only as our life source to enable us to live day by day in this in the power of the Spirit. But we think also of His power as it is exercised in His authority directing us as the power body. Because we believe that if each of us is obedient to Jesus Christ as the various parts of the body, he will direct his body. That's why our session is not worried. About the ministries in the new facility. We're not saying we've got to kind of organize the congregation. We believe that the head will direct his people. That as each of us Whether they're part of whether uh of the new facility or whether there's something uh at your workplace or in your neighborhood or totally separate from the nucleus in the but it all relates to our being connected to the head and following his instructions you see again the idea of head and body body analogy um illustrate the uh principle here. Because when the head speaks to the body, suppose the body decided to function independently And so suppose my right foot decided to go right and my left foot decided to go left. And they decided, I don't have to listen to what the head says. Who's he think he is? I'm gonna go the way I want to go. And I'd stand here and do a split because there would be an independent spirit in my body. Or suppose my one hand decides it wants to shave, and the other hand decides it wants to wash My face. It'd be a bloody mess. And that's the way it is in the body. It's a bloody mess. Because we have various parts of the body disconnected from the head saying, This is what I want And we go charging off on our own direction without consulting the head. So brothers and sisters, this is why we're saying at a crucial time in our life we need to come to Together under the head of the Lord Jesus, drawing our life from him. And we need to be praying about God how God wants to use each of us in building this body so that we will keen to and reflect the very fullness of the presence and the power of Jesus, Central Maryland and a culture that is dying apart from us. People you so desperately need. And we ourselves who so want to see more of that presence and that power in our own life, right? Let's go to him now. And that's for him to be happy. Oh Lord are not When we see what you design, when you tell us that we as your people are the very container of the fullness, of the presence, of the power of the Jesus, risen Christ. But our hearts stir within us and we dare ask, could that really be true? That's so different from my view. of the church. That's so different from the sense of glory that I see in what seems to be despised and weak and thickering and divine. It seems so full simply of people's opinions. Oh Lord, how you call us now. Verse chapter 2 That we as your people we're not responsible for everybody else. But Lord, we are responsible for our own body. So we pray that you would build in us faith that we would long to attain to to enter into the measure of the stature of the wholeness of Christ. We each were daily drawing upon you our life's source of strength and power. And Lord, we know that whatever programs we design Whatever ministries we could conjure up will be worthless. Whatever we do as a body to make known the saving power of Jesus Christ, it will be utterly worth useless unless that saving enabling power is at work in us who believe. So Lord, for those of us who have Found ourselves doubting. Forgive us. Give to us a renewed sense of faith and the power and the presence of Jesus. That this week we would meet with you. We withdraw our strength from you for the battles of each day. We pray, Lord, that we who have been going our own ways and we don't consult you. We simply plan our careers and we plan those things we want to do and we fit you in around the corners of our lives, Lord, we pray, that we would grow up into them. We would give up our instructions from you. We would meet with you day by day for you to tell us how you want us to go and how you want us to live. Lord, we seek your face now. We might know you in new ways and in greater power. For Jesus' sake. Amen.