Let's open in prayer. Father, there really is nothing that we have that compares to the hope that you've given to us. There is nothing we can possibly possess that comes near to the value of the salvation And of the relationship that you have lavished upon us because you love us. And as we come this morning to study this passage in 1 Peter again, we pray that you will open our eyes. That you will touch our hearts and that you will fill our minds. That we might know you better, that we might better grasp the salvation that you have given to us and its incredible value. And Lord, that we might love you more. Please do your work through your word in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let me begin by reading First Peter chapter one, and I'm going to read up through verse twelve. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to God's elect, strangers in the world scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. Who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit for obedience to Christ Jesus and sprinkling by his blood. Grace and peace be yours in abundance. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you who through faith are shielded. by God's power, until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. These have come so that your faith, of greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by fire, may be proved genuine, and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. Though you have not seen him, you love him. And even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy. For you are receiving the goal of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Concerning the salvation, the prophets who spoke of the grace that was to come to you searched intently and with greatest care. Trying to find out the time and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing, when he predicted the sufferings of Christ. And the glories that would follow. It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you, when they spoke of the things that have now been told to you. By those who have preached the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Even angels long to look into these things. We've been studying the glory of the gospel and its its its incredible impact on the life of those in northern range of Asia Minor who were suffering the persecutions of the Roman Empire. That same gospel and its richness has been given to us. And this morning we focus not so much on a series of commands or on a series of explanations of the gospel. But we get a glimpse. We get a glimpse of how precious this gospel in its details is. To begin that, we need to see that the prophets told of the redemption that was to come, but they had few details. If you look at verse 10 and 11, it speaks of the fact that they were speaking of the grace that was to come to us. The grace that was to be proclaimed to us, the grace that indeed came to them, without the details. If you look in verse 10, it speaks of those who spoke of the grace that was to come to you. And it says of them that they searched intently and with greatest care. In some commentaries, they speak of how deeply that desire lived in the hearts of the prophets. And we'll get into that in a little bit, but the thing that they spoke of first was the fact that redemption is necessary. We've already spent a time this morning listening and responding as Sandy read to us from Romans 2. Now I don't know how you felt as you heard that message. Whether you felt like, well now wait a minute, we were completely justified in the events that we've done this week, and so how in the world can you tell us that we're being judgmental? Or whether you felt I really do wonder whether what we did was right and I'm really not responsible for it, so how can you blame me? Or whether you felt some other way of trying to avoid some of the responsibility. But the truth of the fact this morning is that every one of you sitting here, every one of you sitting here is a sinner. And as Christians, we oftentimes will talk about our sin in generality so that we can be somewhat comfortable while still acknowledging the fact that we're a sinner. Or we may categorize it with, well, we're sinners in areas where everybody's a sinner, so it's okay. I'm no worse than you are. Well, you know what? That's true. But it's still ugly. It is still heinous. It is still destructive. And you need to be redeemed We cannot live up to the law given by God. Even Adam and Eve, who had one thing. God said to them in the garden, Don't eat. of the fruit, of the tree, of the knowledge of good and evil. They were not yet sinners. They were not yet broken as we are But they broke the mold that made us, and we're as guilty as they are, and we're guilty of our own sins. We are broken people. We are sinners in need of redemption. Even as God brought them out of Egypt and gave them the law and gave them his own presence in the temple, the law itself, which was to remove sin, was insufficient. The sacrificial system is not enough to restore those who have sinned. And if you want to turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10, I want to read four verses that point out how clearly the author of this book, reflecting upon the law that was given, recognized its inadequacy. Hebrews chapter ten, beginning in verse one. The law is only a shadow of the good things that are coming. Not the realities themselves. For this reason, it can never, by the same sacrifices repeated endlessly, year after year, make perfect those who draw near to worship If it could, would they not have stopped being offered? For the worshippers could have been cleansed once for all and would have would no longer have felt guilty for their sins. But those sacrifices are an annual reminder of sins, because it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin. The author is pointing out his own understanding in light of the gospel of the inadequacy of the system that God had given to promote salvation. It could not free me of the guilt of my sin. That was a necessary observance. In the Old Testament time period, the believer, in obedience to God Would follow the sacrificial system, but there was nothing inherent in that system itself that could deliver them from sin. It was a picture of what was to come in itself, a prophecy Of what God intended to do, and a statement of the hollowness of the system itself Redemption was and is necessary. God Himself had given an indication that he was not finished in what he had done with the prophecies in the temple system. Please turn to Isaiah chapter 53. For those of you with a study Bible, it's pages 1094 and 1095. For those of you who don't have one, I can't help you. Somewhere in the middle of your book. So we'll be looking at a few passages here briefly to be able to show God's own foretaste, his own prophecy through the prophets of what was to come, how important redemption was We're not going to study these passages in great depth, but I want you to look at them and feel what God was saying to us through the prophets. Actually, let me begin in chapter 52 at verse 13. See, my servant will act wisely He will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. Just as there were many who were appalled at him, his appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man, and his form marred beyond human likeness. So he will sprinkle many nations, and kings will shut their mouths because of him, for what they were not told, they will see What they have not heard, they will understand. Who has believed our message, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? He grew up before him like a tender shoot. Like a root out of dry ground. He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him, nothing in his appearance that we should desire him He was despised and rejected by man, a man of sorrows and familiar with suffering, like one from whom men hide their faces He was despised and we esteemed him not. Surely. He took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows. We considered him stricken by God, smitten by him and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. We all like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. There in Isaiah Five hundred years before Jesus came, God is speaking of the person of Jesus. He's speaking of the situation of the need we have for redemption. And he's speaking of how he will bring that redemption to pass through his suffering servant. Psalm twenty-two is even clearer about this. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me? So far from the words of my groaning. O my God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer by night and are silent. Yet you are enthroned as the Holy One. You are the praise of Israel. And you, our fathers, put their trust, they trusted, and you delivered them. They cried to you and were saved. And you they trusted and were not disappointed. But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by men and despised by the people. All who see me mock me. They hurl insults, shaking their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let the Lord rescue him, let him deliver him, since he delights in him. Yet you brought me out of the womb. You made me trust in you, even at my mother's breast. From birth I was cast upon you. From my mother's womb you have been my God Do not be far from me, for trouble is near, and there is no one to help. Many bulls surround me, strong bulls from Bashan encircle me. Roaring lions, tearing their prey, open their mouths wide against me. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is turned to wax. It is melted away within me. My strength is dried up like a pot sherd, and my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You lay me in the dust of death. Dogs surround me A band of evil men has encircled me. They have pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. People stare and gloat over me. They divide my garments among them and cast lots for my clothing. But you, O Lord, be not far off. O my strength come quickly to help me. Deliver my life from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dogs. Rescue me from the mouth of lions. Save me from the horns of wild oxen. The passage continues, and it's a taste of what Jesus experienced on the cross. It's only a taste because it speaks of the destruction of humans to the person of Jesus. It does not speak beyond the first sentences of the wrath of God poured out on Jesus for your sin. Of the abandonment that he felt, not only at the hands of those who were trying to kill him, but because he took your sin and faced the wrath of God. And yet we can see that. We can see that this isn't simply a passage of David's grief and anxiety as he is being oppressed, because we see Jesus. We know the words that he spoke. We know the events and the circumstances of his life and his death, and so as we read this passage, it has a richness and a depth for us. that it could never have had for David. That it could never have had for Isaiah as he read this in worship. In Ezekiel chapter thirty-six, you knew I'd sneak it in there somehow Verses 24 through 27, it speaks of the meaning and the changes that have to take place in redemption. This is a glimpse into our very life. And perhaps the most clear to those who were reading and understanding the prophecies prior to the coming of Christ. But even so, it was not clear. Listen as God speaks to us. For I will take you out of the nations. I will gather you from all the countries and bring you back into your own land. That would have been understandable to the Jews in exile because they were in different nations. But from now on, it begins to become confusing for them. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and to be careful to keep my laws. That would have been as unclear to the Jews in this time as Jesus' comments to Nicodemus were when he said, You must be born again. Jesus spoke in the same vein, and yet Nicodemus' response was, what? Must I enter again to my mother's womb? The prophecies were given in part. And those prophets longed to see more. God had not revealed the whole picture to the prophets, and they wanted to know more because they had a passion for God. They knew him, and he revealed to them very little They made a careful search, an inquiry, as we look at 1 Peter 1. It says in verse 10, They searched intently and with the greatest care. They examined every detail. They lived with these prophecies. They hungered to know more. They longed to see what would take place and when because they had the promise and no sense of the fulfillment. They sought to know the circumstances of the coming redemption. And not only the prophets, the angels. Long. In the Greek it says to peek, to take a quick look, to stoop down and look as if through a keyhole. To see what God was going to do. And even the angels didn't know what we now know. Peter's developing this passage For a very, very significant reason. His readers were facing persecution. They were under oppression. They could lose their lives, they could lose their families, they could lose their jobs, they could lose their their world. They needed hope. They needed more. And so Peter is developing the value of their salvation. He's helping them to see how incredibly rich this is and what depth and detail God has given them in the revelation of their salvation. He has just spent his opening sentences in his letter, talking about the details of what God has done The richness of a new birth to a living hope. The fact that that hope was secure, would never perish, spoil, or fade. And that they, in spite of their persecutions, were also being kept secure. Shielded by God for the inheritance that was to come. But beyond that, they needed to know how richly God had blessed them. With the wisdom and knowledge of the events that had taken place, those things that the prophets had barely, barely touched They had heard, if you look in verse 12, things that have now been told you by those who preach the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. We and the readers have received a tremendous gift. We know the details. God doesn't simply speak to us. He communicates. God hasn't simply said, it's okay, I'll take care of it. He doesn't look at us and say, trust me, it'll work out. For those of us on this side of the work of Christ, we look back and see how We see that it's a past fact. We see the riches of his love because we see Jesus born. Obediently living his life and dying for us. We not only know that it's going to take place, we know that it has taken place, and we know what that is We are able to be emotionally engaged in our salvation. And that's what Peter wanted for the Readers, to be emotionally engaged in the wondrous gift that had been given because they know everything about it that they need to know. We can see Jesus In these pages. We can be encouraged in our prayer to see what He has done and the love that He has demonstrated and He still continues to hold for us. We can be fully engaged. Now let me just look for a moment at the opposite side of that, because I think many of us, and I know that in in my own past, many times I have Wanted to settle for the big picture. My wife continually accuses me. Of wanting to get that nugget of information. out of the conversation she wants to share with me, or that nugget of information out of the letter that was written, or that nugget of information out of the issue that I have to deal with. I want the big picture. What are the steps that I have to take? Let me get it done and that's it I don't emotionally engage in those sorts of issues. That's a real mistake. Not to emotionally engage in conversation with your wife, guys. Take it from me For two reasons. One, I bear the bruises. But two, I've learned the reality of what she's saying is true. Be emotionally engaged. And be emotionally engaged in this. Be emotionally engaged in the truth of the gospel. Because it is your life. It is your hope. It is your eternity. Sometimes we, however, do settle for the important big picture. I want you to replace that word big picture with superficiality. Perspective is important, but perspective is important to know how the details fit. I've come to the conclusion that perspective apart from the position of details is unimportant. I need to know that it fits and where it fits so that I understand its value. But I need, I need the details. Knowing those details along with the big picture gives us a greater confidence in our experience of intimacy. I want you to think for a minute. And men, this is more directed at you because the women are going to know this intuitively. When you ask your wife, do you love me? if you've ever done it What you really need to move from is do you love me? That's the big picture. If you get that checked off, you might feel good, but without ever being emotionally engaged in that relationship. We need to move from do you love me to how do you love me? Why do you love me? When? You need to move into those details because that's where the relationship is experienced. Taking a little bit more out of the realm of emotion. And into the realm of responsibility. Are you taking care of this? Now we're moving from say maybe husband to wife to parent to child, or maybe child to parent. They may want to ask the same question, but anytime you're in a relationship where you're asking, will you take care of this? Are you taking care of this? What you're really asking is much deeper. You're really asking, how are you going to do it? I want the confidence and the comfort to know that you, even if I don't ask will tell me, yes, I'm taking care of this, and I care about you and not not only to tell you yes, but to tell you how To tell you when, because I want you engaged in that issue. I want you participating. I want you with me. The gospel is a with me issue. And the prophets had to settle for so long because God had not revealed to them the with me issues in the depths that He has to us, that they had to settle for simply yes. I am going to take care of this. And they had to trust the character of God without the kind of knowledge that God has given to us. We have the whole picture. Verse 12. We have those things that have now been told to us. That includes the prophecies, and please, please, don't write them off. If you look at Ezekiel, if you look at Isaiah, if you look at the Psalms, if you look at the historical events of the Old Testament, there is such depth and richness of God's person In those pages, that having the additional information that he's given us of who he is, what he's done, and of his rich love for us, those pages come alive. That's the prophecy. We have the fulfillment as well. We have the testimony of the events of redemption. The things that have been spoken to us by those who proclaimed the gospel to us, we know what Jesus did. We know why. We know when and how We know his feelings as he spoke to his disciples. We know that Jesus is the person of God, man in one person, that the second person of the Trinity, the Son. God the Son became man and God in one person, that he might live a perfectly obedient life. without the taint of sin, that he might sacrifice that life on the cross. Not only to purchase our redemption by his physical death, but by bearing the wrath of God. Well beyond what we read in Psalm 22 in this passage, in the study today. He bore the wrath of God for you. We know that he rose from the dead and has triumphantly gone again to heaven, that he's given us his spirit That we might not live life in a field of works and struggle, but in sanctification and triumph, because God loves us so much that He not only saves us for heaven, but He saves us from sin here and now. We have the teaching of the New Testament to make sense of the things that have taken place. Even in the beginning of these passages, Peter speaks of the richness of redemption. We know more of what Jesus did and why. We know what he has done So, how do we respond? Why did Peter include this? He's already spoken of both the salvation and of the response to salvation of worship. He's spoken of the security we have. And of our need to love Him. The ability that we have, because of the gospel, to overcome the trials that will face us, and the hope that even overcoming the trials gives But he wants us to be emotionally engaged. Salvation is not a future gift that has no present ramifications. As you face those trials now, it is the gospel that gives you the hope. So that you can survive the trials and have that hope reinforced by the very fact that you survived. Jesus wants your heart As you give him your heart, you know a greater wealth from the gospel than you could have ever known in a heartless way He wants you, like the prophets, to make careful and diligent inquiry. He wants you to dig it out with your fingernails. To know him. He offers to you himself in full detail. Tremendous richness, so that whatever else you face pales. Last week we spoke in the sermon on overcoming trials that nothing else can stand a comparison with the gospel. But if you live with a big picture of superficiality of the fact that there is a hope for you in heaven, and you don't, don't Focus on what that hope is. On the person of Jesus and the richness of his love for you. You don't have the full experience of that hope. You don't know him the way he wants you to You don't have the comfort from him that he wants to give. So the outcome of these verses is to be challenged to know that there is so much more than you can possibly fully grasp until you face him across the feast in heaven. But the struggle and the search and the satisfaction Can begin now. Love Him. Know Him. Study Him. Let's pray. I'm just thinking about it. Jesus, I pray that you will show yourself to us Not only by the words that we read as we study the things that you have said through your apostles and through your prophets, but that you would reveal yourself to us by Giving us that hunger for you and satisfying it. That you will move us beyond the big picture That you will move us into the richness of that intimacy of the details of the gospel. Show us, Lord, how deep your love and affection for us is. And that it's not simply for all your children, but it's for us individually. You love me, the sinner that I am, and you love all of your children, the sinner that they are. Lord don't let us don't let us ignore that. Don't let us run from that Break forth in your glory and in your details in our life It is in your name that we pray. Amen