Um if y'all will be patient with me, I am having to make some adjustments on use to preaching in Portuguese I found that when I was preparing in English I have to prepare a good bit more content because in Portuguese I'm still struggling to be fluent. And so I s I speak in long descriptions to get to my point, you know, and so in English I can be a lot more more brief and and also just a little bit bigger of a crowd than Sorry. Than we have normally at our churches. We just they just got out. We're only an hour time difference and so I'm eager to hear how the church service went there in Brazil I do want to say thank you to the church for your support of us and uh especially um sending this group down this year. That was a huge blessing to our church and it meant a ton to our ministry. Um God did some great things uh while they were there. And so I'm really appreciative of you all for loaning them out to us for a few days. And it was really, really great. But just um real quick by way of introduction, um If you can't tell, I'm from Georgia. I've got a little bit of an accent. I have the same accent in Portuguese, which is really interesting. So but I'm from South Georgia, a little place called Bainbridge, Georgia. Um and I interesting enough my parents were part of a church plant when I was really young and that really led um to my salvation because I was surrounded by uh older men and women who are really authentic about their faith. And I remember early on the the missions conferences um that we would have at our Our little church met in a uh paint store, an old paint store, and just the impact that had on me, and then later on my dad, um Mm some of you may have heard of the commission was asked to go, um he's an accountant, was asked to go to Russia to buy a semi-truck to convert into a chapel. And when he came back and was telling me about his experience there, I really believed God was already at work in me, um, preparing me uh for the future. Um They that uh I have like Bill mentioned, um when when I was in college, I got involved with a ministry called Campus Outreach. My wife and I both were involved. Interestingly enough, my wife Amy became a believer through the ministry there at West Georgia And a big part of her testimony was her brother had become a believer at West Georgia. He was a football player there. And when he came home She barely recognized him. She's like, who is this person? This is not my brother that I knew because of the difference that Christ had made in his life. And then two years later, um her sister became a believer through the ministry. So it is a ministry that's really um dear to our hearts. Um While we were students, we got asked to go to Thailand on a short-term trip, and it was really there that God confirmed for me a desire to pursue going overseas. Um and so right out of school, um, we got married. Uh we wa waited a year as newlyweds and raising support and then we were served for eight years. with campus outreach. Campus Outreach is a ministry to university students. Belo is the third largest city in Brazil. Has about six million in the metropolitan area. The campus there is over 50,000 students. It's one of the top five universities in Brazil. I don't know what they were thinking, but I went to West Georgia. This you've never heard of West Georgia. It's not a very well-known school. And I studied English and they put me with the engineering students at a top five university. in Brazil to talk about uh Christianity and it was uh quite an experience those first eight years um But it was one that was really just so amazing to be a part of, to see um first fruits coming off of the campus uh there. Along that time we ended up planting a church. We always seek to partner with a church, and we partnered with First Pres, First Presbyterian in Belarusanche. And then later we moved to a plant of theirs. And that was really where we sought to understand how to connect this ministry to unchurched, secular, um many I think of the first group of uh discipleship group I had, three of the four guys were atheists before they became believers. And so how to introduce them to church in a culture that is highly, highly prejudiced towards evangelical Christianity. And so that really caused us to ask a lot of questions about how we did church and how we could really get them fully involved. So after eight years we returned to the U. S. Um We were back in the States where I worked as a research librarian. Long story how I ended up in that. But uh it was a great blessing to our family um and got to be involved in the church. Which was really uh great for me to be just as a lay leader in the church and to um really grow in my understanding uh of of church a and the importance of it in our lives and also to come alongside the campus outreach again, but this time in a whole different way, as it was on the university campus where I was working Um wasn't planned, just how God did it, and just being able to be alongside come alongside the s the the leaders there and men be as a mentor, the students. Um and so As we were back in the U. S. , really couldn't shake the desire and question of whether I should be overseas. And um asked the question many times. My wife and I talked about it. And then in 2018, the church in Brazil asked if we would be interested in leading a uh marriage retreat. And so I had been asking the question already and they reached out to me and I was like, God, what are you doing? Um, you know, is this a open door? And so I tried to take a semester off of work. to really put it to rest to say, okay, we need to go back. Um I managed twenty days off of work. I couldn't get a full semester. Tried. But we went and as I was there um I really saw and talk with the leadership about a dual role. And so we returned working with the church as assistant pastor And then working with the campus ministry in member care where we're mentoring the young staff and caring for them, shepherding them. I guess I'm too old to go on the campus anymore. I don't know. But but that we see really um a great need for that to connect the campus and the church and to care for the young missionaries there. So That's a little bit about me. I think later today I'll have a chance to share a little bit more specifics about the ministry. But The CPC trip was really a great picture of ministry overseas and because it's all about partnership. And probably the highlight of that trip was we had we have community groups that meet during the week in people's homes, and we had a one community group where um so all the team would go, I I ran them ragged. We went to a different place in the city every day. Um but we had them share their testimonies at each uh home. And in this particular meeting, um one of our members, Zaymbertu, was sharing his testimony. He became a believer. He's a really successful businessman, worked in the bank system for a long time. But he became a believer when his daughter became a believer at the university. He she came home, shared her new testimony with him, and he became a believer. So he was sharing his testimony. And then Bill shared his testimony shortly after, and across the room is seated Caesar. Caesar is Luca, one of our staff members who became a believer at university, who is now studying the Bible with me. And he got to hear Zayumbertu and Bill's testimony that day. And so you had this this huge convergence of the campus ministry, our partner church, the church, you know, all together and ministering side by side. And and really that that is uh you know what it's about. And You know, one uh cultural thing, and then I'll get into um scripture today, was that one big difference in Brazil that you'll notice if you come down, um, hopefully many of you will come, is Long tables versus short tables. I know that sounds funny, but you know, when when we sit down to eat together in Brazil, we're gonna find a way to make one table. And we're it's just gonna be one huge table. Everybody's gonna sit at the same table. You know, versus you know, you go to a restaurant in the US and it's hard to find if you come with a group larger than four, it's hard to find a place to sit. You know, and but this is even in our house. Like we have folding tables in our house saved up because we know When everyone comes, everyone's gonna come for one. And then we're gonna have to extend out the tables. I'm sure that the the team could uh give testimony to that to about how many long tables that they were sitting at. And side note, when I was learning, you know, when I learned to share my faith as a university student, it was one-on-one primarily. I get to Brazil and I'm having to share my faith with the groups of, you know, eight five or eight people at one time and and just because they are so community focused versus individual and I've learned a lot about that. But I want to ask us this morning and lead us into a time of really considering, are we called to function as one long table, as the worldwide church? You know, or it you know, it what is our part in the worldwide body? I think that um this is something I've been thinking about uh for the last month or so. And, you know, some would call or use the words like partnership or um networks, you know, when you talk about the worldwide church. But I want us to think just for a minute about examples of networks that we have in the world. You know, some of the ones I thought of obvious one. I worked in libraries as the World Wide Web. You know, we have this great network of linked series of hubs of information. that are connected and cataloged and that they are you know they send out information, sometimes not always good information, sometimes viruses, you know, but but you had this example of this huge worldwide network of giving and receiving information. Another one I thought of was the airlines. Obviously I've been uh traveling uh lately to get here and you know airlines are another man-made network But we only seem to think of them as networks when something fails in the system. You know, a bag doesn't show up, a flight gets canceled, and then you remember the huge intricate network that it is of these different independent um functions within to make this whole thing work. Think about all the different parts at play in that in a in the airline network. You know, just from the the guy down I don't know why they still use these guys, but the guys directing the planes, you know, to come in to the person printing out, you know, uh taking your bags. You know, it's a huge network. And then lastly, one close to my heart and I'm sure yours is the coffee trade network. Um but you know in Brazil that's a big deal. You know if you look at a a picture of the network that goes into coffee trade, you know, Brazilian coffee is all over the world. And, you know, you have producers, consumers, you know, you have all the d all that goes into that. And I say that this morning, bring up those examples more as just a thought exercise. You know, I like uh I like for us to challenge us in the thinking. It's like, how would you describe the network of the worldwide church. You know, we have some examples in the Word. We talked the God's Word talks about it being a temple. You know, where each part is built together to form a whole. We talk about as a body with interconnected members that are together, functioning together. We're described as a family. with our roles and relationships and generations. You know, all those things are we talk about about the church. But what does it look like? What does that look like as a worldwide and what part as a local church do we play in the worldwide body? And so today I want to talk about two instances where Paul and Peter mention the church globally in God's Word. It talks about it worldwide. And hopefully, today as we reflect on God's Word, that we can we can see And be encouraged and challenged to know our part in worldwide mission. So pray with me now. God, you are the Lord of the harvest, and you have asked us to pray. You've asked us to look on the world with compassion and to pray that you would send out workers. And God, I pray for those two things to happen in us today that you would get fill us with compassion, with uh zeal. For your name to be known, and God, that you would send out workers into your harvest field, Lord, as you already are doing in this church. And Father, we thank you for that truth that you are Lord of the harvest. We pray this in your Son's name. If you would look with me today in Colossians 1 3 through 8, so this is the first instance. There could be more. I'm not saying that this is uh an exhaustive treatment of the topic, but this is one that caught my attention. So I'm going to read for us Colossians 1, 3 through 8, and talk about our first point. which is rejoicing in the harvest when we talk about our part in the worldwide church. So Colossians 1, 3 through 8. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints. Because of the hope laid up for you in heaven, of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, which has come to you as indeed in the whole world. it is bearing fruit and increasing, as it also does among you since the day you heard it, and understood the grace of God in truth. Just as you learned it from Epaphras, our beloved fellow servant, he is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf and has made known to us your love in the Spirit. So here's the reference that as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing. So what is rejoicing in the harvest look like? And I thought of just a few uh examples. Um, first of all, Paul he was purposely, intentionally connected to God's movement across the world. He took to heart, which none of us doubt, Acts 1. 8, to the end of the earth, and he saw the importance of the worldwide church being connected And he made a point of it to know what was going on. And then he intentionally, in this letter, And which we know is God's Word, Spirit-inspired, He intentionally connected, informed the Colossian Church about the gospel movement in the world. And so you have this, he is connected, and then he takes it on himself to inform and include the Colossian churches, new believers, into what is going on in the world. And then, meanwhile, personally, he is rejoicing at the gospel on the move in Colossae. And so you see this network And how the worldwide church there is functioning in rejoicing in the harvest. That and, you know, he he says in verse 7, You learned it from Epaphras, which took the message to them. Verse 8, He made known to us your love, and so Epaphras returns and makes known to them what had happened. And then in verse 6, you know, the context of that is that he is connecting the church to the greater movement. Why is he doing this? Why is he why is this part of Scripture? Why is he this part of his ministry to the church? Well look in 9 and 10. And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner So as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Do you notice there that Paul gives a parallel statement there? He said earlier to them He says, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing. And now he's praying for them so as For you to walk in a manner worthy worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing. So Paul is making this uh effort here so that what is happening elsewhere Paul prays what happened with them. You know, when you um when you look at networks, you know, some I know there are many people in the room much smarter than me today. But there are nodes and edges they talk about in a network. And so to be a a real like node in the network, you should not just be receiving. but you should also be producing and sending out. And the edges, those are the lines that connect these different nodes. And so Paul is clearly saying here that It is not enough for them to receive, but he wants them to become also producing sending out workers to see the gospel growing where they are. You know, and so it has that repeated said, this is what's happening in the world, and I'm praying that this happens with you. And what does that sound like? The bearing fruit and increasing. Well Paul is really just saying, in other words, what God said in Genesis 1. 28, when he said, be fruitful and multiply, bear fruit, be fruitful, multiply, increase. And so That our aim should be to see the gospel take hold in households, communities, cities, countries. And when it does, we rejoice And really what rejoicing is there is being filled with courage and being filled with vision. You know, faith. Faith is us believing and living according to something that we cannot see, but we see glimpses of it. And so when we get this glimpse of the gospel, another glimpse of the gospel. then we rejoice and it fills us with courage to keep on, to keep on going. And so, you know, we should work fervently that those These new outposts become strongholds of local bodies, of reproducing believers. And, you know, I believe We mentioned it this morning, but you know, how do we engage in the harvest? You know, it can mean going and sending, and it should continue. You know, missions is changing and soon we many Myssiologists predict that we're going to see the home bases shift to the southern hemisphere. But it is no less important that we continue to go and send. It just means that there's a little bit of a difference now. Something that I talked to the CPC team about, we used um Romans 117 that talked about mutual encouragement. That now when we send, when we go, we seek, which which we should always try to do, to partner. And that we are going as partners. But also we engage in the harvest through Thanksgiving. We cannot diminish the importance of Thanksgiving in our lives, of continually Seeking out information that will build thanksgiving in us, that we will walk with thankfulness. You know, we have many so many reasons to be disheartened in our world. But we need to see what God is doing and be filled with thanksgiving. That is such the drive of going and sending. And then prayer. You know, we Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians 3 that we are God's fellow workers. And so he's given us the privilege to go, but he's given us the privilege to pray. And so this should drive us to pray for them and you know, as I mentioned in equipping. Like we go And, you know, what's close to our heart and our church and our ministry is equipping. And, you know, 2 Timothy 3. 16, God's word. What is the end of that? Passage to equip the man of God for every good way. Ephesians 4, when he talks about the given as apostles and prophets and teachers, what does the end of that verse say? to equip the saints. And so how do we rejoice in the harvest is to say to them, hey, you can do it too. You can testify to what God is doing in you. You can rely on the gospel and see it bear fruit among you. I have four children. Um, you know, three over the age of eighteen, so now, you know, they're off on their own. We only have one at home. But what is my word to them as we touch base, you know, we have Google Meet like once a week, they'll call home, you know, call back to us and we'll say is like, hey, you can do it too. Like take courage, be strong and courageous. You know, s God gospel is true and it can bear fruit in your life too. And that's what we do is we rejoice in the harvest. Just a quick example of that in Brazil. There was a guy by the name of Brian Phillips who was on staff of campus outreach in at Sanford University in Birmingham. He met a young student named John. and came alongside him, began to disciple him. During the course of John's time at Sanford, he came to Brazil on a short-term trip, decided to come back Um starts going to campus, shared an estate, and then a young guy named Pedro, his sister becomes a Christian. He's still young, he's in high school, but he meets John. John uh in the community there leads him to Christ. begins a disciple Pedro and then Pedro decides to come on staff. Um he meets a guy named Victor, Vitor is a PE student there and he begins to share after a long couple year years of of evangelism. Vitor became a believer, has now recently come on staff, and just in the last few weeks, Vitor has started studying the Bible with a guy named Mateus that he connected with playing basketball. And Mateos is now studying the word for the first time. Like this has all happened within the last 20 years. you know, of multiplication and of people rejoicing in the harvest of what fruit came in their life and and trying to give that away to others to see that bear fruit in their lives. And so the gospel is bearing fruit. It's increasing all over the world. And I hope that that encourages you as you hear that message. of Matthews studying the Bible and that you would respond in praying for him and thankfulness and wanting to see the gospel continue to bear fruit. But for my second um point is what about suffering? What about suffering? Because we know that Our brothers and sisters in Christ are suffering all over the world. Um, as I sure I'm sure that many of you are are experiencing as well. Well, now we're going to go to Peter and what he had to say. If you want to look with me, 1 Peter 5, and I'm going to read verse 6 and on. It says, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God. so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him. Firm in your faith. Knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. So here we have again now Peter making mention of the global worldwide church. He's saying this suffering that you're experiencing, this is happening all over the world. And You know, what do we gain or learn when we hear of news of suffering all over the world? Now that news, I will say personally, as I'm a newsletter writer, that's hard just hard to share. You know, it is not easy to share news of suffering, um, of failure, of weakness, you know, but it's true. And, you know, you are reading newsletters, you've got to read between the lines. You gotta remember that just as you are suffering, your brothers and sisters are suffering as well. It's just not always sometimes it's sensitive information, sometimes it's so long to try to explain, it's hard to put in there. But I tell you, when I put in a mention of suffering or weakness, that is when I get the most response in my updates because we know that we are suffering. We know this is the reality of our lives. Jesus said in this world you will, you will have trouble. You will have tribulation. And so, um, you know, just over the course of the last few years in Brazil, we have experienced some major suffering. both the level of just the city and then personally as well. You know, one was starting over after the pandemic. Just the pandemic hit us really hard in Brazil. We were um you know, we were down. I remember my first day at church. It was limited to 25 people. And I was like, there was uh one my son was in college, so he didn't go with us, but there's five of us, and I was like, okay, do I go to church? Because there are five of us. And there are only spots for 25 people. You know, but we had to start over. Campus was closed down for two years. We lost every connection we had on campus in a campus ministry. And those that had come through the campus were tremendously hit with The struggle that was. Returning afterwards was marked with insecurity by the part of our staff and lack of courage. Just unknown, like what am I doing? Can I go back? I feel older. I you know, weaker and you know it was really um really trial a trial. During the election, I don't know how much you know about the Brazilian elections, but they've really kind of mirrored some of what's going on here and our church was at risk of division because of the political uh turmoil in our country and then struggle for financial stability after um the the pandemic. And so we have been under great suffering. Um and you know, and that's not to mention just individuals and homes. But When Peter is relaying news from the world to the exiled church, he relays that they are suffering. And he relays it in a way that he says this should bring firmness in your faith. So I believe this I mean there's probably a book written about it somewhere but that one just grabbed my attention because I was trying to do the Mental gymnastics to think is like, how does knowing that others are suffering bring firmness to our faith? Right? And so I I chat you know it's great ideas to go back and read 1 Peter because it talks so much about suffering. But We cannot forget that we are part of a brotherhood and part of our brotherhood is because we are suffering together Peter is saying that as you suffer, know that your family that you haven't even met is also suffering. I often say, when you're praying, It's only natural that we're praying about things that are immediate to us. But as God prompts you to remember your brothers and sisters, pray the same thing for them. Because they are very likely suffering in the same way. And personally, I say that it means a lot to me to know that you are suffering. I know that's weird to say, but it means a whole lot to me. And the reason that it means a lot to me is because You know, as Peter talked about in his first letter, submission to governors, subjection to employers and masters, serving one another at home as man and wife, suffering as believers, burdened as leaders, persecuted. You know, all of these things, he says, you're experiencing this. Know that your brothers are experiencing this as well. Well, it means a lot to me to learn that you're suffering until Christ is formed in you because it gives me courage. In my marriage, if I know that you're suffering, it means that you are in the fight. See, Christ formed in your marriage, and it gives me courage to continue in the fight. As I hear about your church today, And what you're involved in, your your efforts to make Christ known, it it gives our church courage to stay in the battle and to suffer. And so we, as we are filled with knowledge of the worldwide suffering, it brings us firmness in our faith. Because remember, faith is what is in what is unseen, it's what we know in part. What we will soon know in full. And so as we see it, it should bring firmness to our faith. And and it counts for us. I know that's uh like It doesn't have to be a personal trial for someone else's suffering to count for us. 1 Corinthians 12, 26. We all know it really well. It says when one member suffers, all suffer together. And so this, although it's rightly applied to the local church, it also means the global church. As the global church suffers, we suffer together. How do we suffer together? Partner, partner in suffering. Let me as the body of Christ take some of that burden on thee. If there's any opportunity that I can see that I can lighten the load for you. Let me take it. And that can be through the things we've mentioned, giving, sending, mentoring, hosting, resourcing. Praying in suffering. You know, think about the context of 1 Peter. You know, Jesus shared with Peter what he was praying for him in Luke 22, 32. He says, He says, I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail, and when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Think about the magnitude of which Peter experienced how that prayer was answered. And then he turns and writes 1 Peter to the exiled believers. And if you go back and read it. He refers to himself as fellow elder. You know, he wasn't local, but he was a fellow elder of that church. And the whole letter reads Almost like a prayer and thanksgiving for them. And it's one who had Jesus pray for him that his faith would not fail and that he would in turn strengthen the brothers. And so we should be praying for one another. In that way. And then follow. We share in the suffering through following the examples of others. You know, we I've th I've been thinking so much about obedience lately, and obedience really is just about trusting. Like you're over and over. Having to make decisions to where it's like, okay, I trust you, Lord. I trust you. New suffering, new trial, I'll trust you. And how helpful is it to have others that have gone before you? Like that's a big challenge in Brazil. Like our church is super young. We're they're first generation. One of our elders, you know Thankfully he's broken 40 now. But he, you know, he's been here to your church. Many of you may have met him, Chiagu and Chiaguinu, and so he I mean he is Became a believer. He's a first generation believer. Became a believer on campus. And he is just trying, you know, one stage at a time, like, got married. Okay. What does that mean? I'm married. What does that mean? Two young girls now. Okay, what does that mean? Now he's an elder in the church. What does that mean? He needs examples. And so his time was relished here in your church. He's still emailing Bill. asking him questions like, what about this? What about this? You know, and so we need to follow examples of one another. And lastly, this isn't uh just a enclosing This one's not as long as the others, but we our part in the worldwide body is through can we are connected through messengers And this really caught my attention in the Colossians passage reading about Epaphras. And, you know, Paul. He was effusive in his praise for Epaphras. He called him beloved, fellow, servant, faithful minister. In just this short little passage. And what had Epaphras done? He took the message, shared the message of hope, and then he came back and he shared with them as he continued to pray until Christ was formed in that church. But then also There's another guy, um, Ticicus, and he's at the end of Colossians, and Ticicus in 4. 7 Paul says that he was sending Tychicus. He says, Ticicus will tell you all about my activities. He is a beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord. I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that we he may encourage your hearts. Look at his role. Like that's what his role is. He's like, I'm gonna go and I'm gonna be a messenger. I'm gonna tell you what's going on and I'm gonna clue you, I'm gonna connect you to what God is doing in the world. And So, how can God use you as a messenger? What part can you play in that? Where do you have a chance to connect other believers to God's movement across the world? And, you know, we often receive prayer requests. And I just say one small step. I know that there are many, many prayer requests, but that we could be quick to pray. Like offer an immediate immediate prayer. You know it's like man I gotta update. Let me just stop right now And just say a quick prayer for my brothers in Brazil. And so today, I hope that we will be rejoicing in the harvest, that we will be you know, persevering in in suffering and that we be connected. Be the messenger that we can be to others. So let me pray for us. Father God, thank you for your word to us. Thank you that your gospel reached us. It has been fruitful in our lives to give us hope. And God, we pray that that same hope could spread throughout creation, Lord, throughout the world. God, move in each one here today. Give them small steps of faithful as faithful ministers where they are to be messengers of hope. connecting the body to one another, connecting the local body to the world. And God, we thank you and pray all this in your Son's name. Amen.