We're resuming our series on saints being equipped for ministry, which is our vision currently now, as we are continuing. Constructing in the midst of watching the walls go up of the Ministry Facility Center over on Route 108. And so we're spending some weeks looking at this idea of saints being equipped for ministry. We're looking at Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 to 16, from which this idea comes. Is that going to help us? Okay. Appreciate that. Uh Ephesians chapter four, verses eleven six to sixteen. Let me remind you that this is so that you will see What God, not Alan Harris, is calling you to go. I'm gonna try with this one, right? You cutting this one? Since nobody's listening to me right now, let's just uh hang on. Okay? Yes, huh? Am I supposed to play the guitar now? I used to play the guitar one time. I'll let that one slide by. Okay. Where was I? Ephesians chapter 4, verses eleven to 16, to see what God is calling us to be and to understand that we are as the corporate body at Columbia Presbyterian. Now the first week we did this, remember we looked to see uh who are the reverends and The ministers of Columbia Presbyterian, and we saw that that's you. You are the reverends, you are the ministers of Columbia Presbyterian Church, because Ephesians chapter 4, verse 12. says there that uh these apostles, prophets, pastors, and teachers are to equip God's people, and that word God's people there is the saints, a reverend Is a person who is of exalted status, worthy of honor. Verse 12 says that you are saints. That means you are God's holy ones. You are a people set apart. Under a special status belonging to Jesus Christ. So you're the reverends. You're also the ministers because it says there in verse 12 that you are equipped for works of service. And the words, their works of service, and the Greek is the word service, is ministry. So you are equipped for ministry. You are the ministers of Columbia Presbyterian. church. I am the equipper. We as the elders are the equippers, you see in the beginning of verse twelve. We are to prepare or the word is also to equip you. Now the second week we saw that the overall purpose of this equipping is that you would build one another up. That we build each other up for what purpose? You see there in version Verse 12, that the body of Christ may be built up for a particular purpose. Until verse 13, we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become We said you boil that all down, it says two things. You are to grow in your knowledge of Christ and your likeness to Christ. Christ. So you are to know him, understand him, and you are to become like him. And that's the purpose that God has for you. It's in contrast To verse 14, you will no longer be infants tossed back and forth by the waves blown here and there, by every wind of teaching, cunning, craftiness of men, and their deceitful scheming. But instead of Instead, and here's the strategy that God has given to us, the blueprint, the manual for how we grow up in Christ. Verse 15: instead, speaking The truth and love to one another. We will in all things grow up into Him who is the head, that is Christ. From Him, the whole body joined and held together by every Every supporting ligament grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. Now it's at this point in the series I need to pause. And to review something there from verse sixteen about our relationship to one another, because as products of American culture, I believe we have been so brainwashed, we have been so immersed with the thinking of American culture, about our independence, about our isolated way of thinking and living, that the The idea of the church presented in the New Testament is utterly foreign to the way that we think. And you don't realize how foreign it is until you begin to think Think about it for a while. I believe that this American mindset was uh illustrated in a movie recently where you had uh an American American college coed who went to England and she was being romanced by a young Englishman there. And in one scene, they're together in a An old, 500-year-old chapel in the countryside of England. And the fellow says to her in that scene, which means a lot to him, he says, It's here I come into this chapel and here I see in the history and the traditions that are represented in this place, I view my problems are utterly trivial. And it It is here that I find my place in the world. To which she smiles and responds, Yeah, when I have problems I go shopping. Now You know, doesn't that capture an American mindset? You see, most other cultures find their connectedness with other people and with their history. To be much more important to them. In America, we pride ourselves in our isolationism. We are independent. Self-sufficient. And so when we think of salvation, we grasp that truth: that salvation is individual. You are not saved by your parents' faith or by my faith or anyone else. You don't come to Christ and go to heaven through associating with some church because of your membership in it or anything else. It is a personal decision that you have to make in response to the claims of Jesus Christ for you, whether you trust in his death and resurrection. For the forgiveness of your sin and for the transformation of your life. However, we've taken that true idea and the necessary emphasis of it, and we have so emphasized that as Americans that we have taken the idea of salvation as being totally individual. And so we'll When we think of the church, we think of it by and large as a collection of individuals, a voluntary association for the simple purpose of helping us to grow. In our own cultivation of our walk with Jesus Christ. And the church's legitimacy is only to the extent that it helps me to know Christ, to walk with With God and to be fulfilled as a Christian. And so it's from America that we have the hymn, He lives, He lives, Christ Jesus lives today, He walks with me and talks with me. With me along the narrow way. He lives, he lives, salvation to impart. You ask me how I know he lives? How? He lives within my heart. He says, No There's no sense there of the objective reference of Scripture, of being part of the body of Christ, a corporate identity, of the people of God. It is me and Jesus He lives in my heart. That's the ultimate verification of the fact that I'm saved. Now I submit to you that is utterly foreign to the thinking of the old Old and New Testament. In the Old and New Testament, there is no such thing as a solitary Christian. Christians are always understood in their very identity. In terms of their relationship with each other as well as with God. They are the people of God. And so we need to think about this and understand what this is. This means in order for us to be able to understand God's will and purpose in calling us as saints equipped for ministry. Because until we understand our relationship to one another We won't really understand God's call to us in terms of ministry. I am convinced of that. Ministry will always be seen as some voluntary idea of By which I, in response to God, choose to somehow give myself to someone else to help them out. Rather than seeing that I am absolutely dependent on God These brothers and sisters, and my identity as a Christian, and my health as a Christian is dependent on my relationship to the body. And so, what I want to do is look today. three things from verse 16, comparing that with 1 Corinthians chapter 12, which expands on this idea, verse 16, at some length. in order to three see three points about our relationship to one another. The first one is on your bulletin outline there that we belong to one another. We belong to one another. Now in order to make this point, I forgot that I wasn't going to sit back down again, so I need to get a book that I was going to quote from. Hang on. Okay, I'm back. Now you notice there in in verse sixteen. Ephesians chapter 4. Paul says, From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in light. That's uh build on the idea that he uh developed in verses three to six back there in the same chapter. Look at that in Ephesians chapter four, where he says Make every effort to keep the unity of the spirit. Through the bond of peace, there is one body. You are not just an individual and a voluntary association. You are part of One body. You are one, therefore be one. You are in one spirit, just as you are called to one One hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all, and through all, and in all. They compare this with the idea that Paul develops in First Corinthians twelve. And put your finger in First Corinthians twelve. We'll be flipping back and forth from Ephesians 4 to 1 Corinthians 12, so you might as well when you find it keep it. So you don't have to keep finding it, right? In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verses 12 and 13, Paul says, the body is a unit, though it is made up of unit. And though all its parts are many, they form one body, so it is with Christ. The analogy of the human body to the spiritual body of Christ. For we were all baptized by one Spirit into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks, slave or free, we were all given the one. Spirit to drink. When Daniel was baptized this morning, he was baptized into this one body as part of the body of Christ. He is now part of us. There is an identity. A corporate solidarity between us and him and one another.