Now last uh Sunday I was in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and I uh worshiped with an Orthodox Presbyterian church near there that's a vital and growing church. Heard a Dutchman preach the gospel just back from Africa in a tour there where a number of people had come to Christ, read some of the testimonies with a powerful message. It was a good worship service But I must say I'm really glad to be back. It's good to be back home with you all. I uh would like to raise this morning, however, a couple of questions with you before we get back into the book of James next week. So I don't interrupt James. And so we're going to do this kind of a week earlier than Independence Day. But I have a couple of questions that I want to address because of the summer it is and because of the week that it is. As you know, uh a week from this Saturday is the Fourth of July. Does that matter to you? Say, yeah. I wish it was on Friday rather than on Saturday, you know. No, I don't mean that. I mean this independence thing. matter to you. Do you identify with the United States' history, with its heritage, with its welfare? Is patriotism a Christian emotion? That's something that we should feel, or as Christians, that we should separate ourselves from. This is the summer, as you heard earlier, of the bicentennial of our Constitution. Does that matter to you? Should it matter to you as a Christian? What about that whole matter of uh celebrating the bicentennial of our Constitution and all the issues that that raises? This past week after I came back from Grand Rapids, I caught up some on the news, and I personally found this an especially depressing week Concerning national news. I mean, just besides all the conflicts and things going on, you know, I I read this uh one article that talks about the depletion of the ozone layer, you know, and how there's not enough that's being done to really render that and we're in for some really tough times if we don't take some serious action and then US News has a cover article on the birth birth and the anti-child attitude of our society that's causing us to not even replace ourselves as Western civilization. and the dire consequences of that in the next fifty years, and then you turn to Time magazine and they've got a cover article on the crisis of childcare and what's going to happen in the society where we are choosing to raise children in a way that no society has ever chosen to raise them before. through institutional childcare and nobody knows what that's going to produce in the next generation. And you read all that stuff, you know, and you're weeping and crying and say, well at least It's summertime and I can get away to the beach and I can get all this stuff and then I read this article about the beaches are washing away and we don't have any beaches left because everybody's over developing the coastline and we're losing the battle to save the beaches, you know. And you go on and on and on and I think, you know, there's a cursion. Should I just separate myself emotionally from that whole thing? Or should I be bothered by that stuff? Should there be some sense of identification and involvement with that? Or even take on the local level. Now I don't know about you, uh those of you who are in Columbia. Probably received this booklet sometime in the last week or so. Those of you are outside miss this privilege, you know, but it's Columbia 20, a good place to be, you know. And so you read this thing, and there's all these testimonies of all these people that have lived here for ten, fifteen, twenty years and all that Colombia has meant to them and how they love Colombia and they feel so grateful to be a part of Columbia and the Columbia experiment and all this kind of thing, you know. And these people will show up to any meeting to help to improve Colombia and they want to organize things to better life in Colombia and on and on and on this whole thing goes and you read that now what's your response as a Christian? You say I didn't even look at the book, you know I just tossed it aside. But did you look through it? How did you find your own emotions, those of you who are in Colombia? Or, you know, same kind of thing concerning the bicentennial on a national level. How do we feel when we see all these things in the media That attempt to raise emotions of gratitude, of identification toward these kinds of things so that we want to be a part of it. What should be the Christian's attitude toward involvement in civil society? Should we simply say we are part of the kingdom of God and the kingdom of God is not a part of this world? We should be evangelizing and making disciples. And there's no sense in a sinking ship to try to rearrange, paint, and fix up the deck chairs. The whole thing's gonna go down in a few years And so what we ought to be doing is we ought to be filling the life quits to get people off the ship and let the ship go down. What should be our attitude toward that as citizens of the kingdom of God as we're pilgrims within this society, Columbia, Howard County, Maryland, United States? Well I find personally one of the most helpful verses in all of the Bible is probably not the first one you might turn to. But it's a little verse tucked away in Jeremiah chapter 29. Jeremiah 29, verse 7 And I find that one verse to be one of the most helpful verses to help me to understand what my attitude should be towards civil society as I think about the bicentennial, the twentieth anniversary of Columbia, or anything else. Now before we read this verse, let me explain a few things about the background of it. The verse was written around 590 BC by Jeremiah the prophet. It was written during the reign of King Zedekiah, the last king of Judah to reign before God through Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians destroyed utterly the city of Jerusalem. And so Zedekiah only reigned about nine years and ten months before utter destruction came. Therefore, this verse was written sometime within the ten years just before the final destruction of Jerusalem, the temple, and all of those things that were precious to God's people. Many of these people had already been taken into exile, into Babylonia and into the city of Babylon. And so Jeremiah the prophet is writing now to these people who have already gone into exile. In Babylon. And he's writing to them not his own advice, but he's writing to them, as he says in verse 2, the very, or verse 4, the very word of God. And so as he writes this to those who are in Babylon, it's very important that you understand what Babylon is, you see. Babylon is the arch symbol of paganism in all of the Bible. There is no more hated word for God's people than Babylon. Babylon were the people that came in and destroyed the temple and took the very ark of God, that sacred, holy ark of God that was the symbol of his covenant and his presence, and used it as a war trophy. To show that they had defeated Jehovah, God of the Jews, utter disdain toward anything of the people of God Babylon is uh the city that God again and again and again through the prophets threatens that he is going to destroy it and utterly decimate it. You see that in as a theme of chapters of the Old Testament prophets. You come to the New Testament. You come to the Book of Revelation at the end, and what's the conflict in the book of Revelation? It's between Babylon and the New Jerusalem. Were the new Babylon and the New Jerusalem, spiritual Babylon and spiritual Jerusalem. And so John uses Babylon as his symbol to sum up all that is set against God. It's the ultimate symbol of humanism. And so now you have God's people held captive to this raw pagan society They furthermore know from what Jeremiah says that in 70 years God is going to destroy it, he's going to free them, and he's going to bring his judgment on it. Therefore, in this situation, what should their attitude be toward Babylon? That's very instructive to us, you see. Because that is a worse situation than we are in. Now what should be their situ what should be their attitude in that? There's some alternatives. First of all, they could be uh encouraged to violently overthrow Babylon I mean that's certainly not out of the realm of God's plans, you know. Look what he did to Canaan. Look what he did to Jericho, how he placed a ban on all those cities That the Israelites came in to conquer and then to take over that land. So it's possible that Jeremiah would say, you know, God is going to raise up a leader and we're going to overthrow Babylon. We're going to lay a band to it. We're going to lay it waste. Another possible attitude would be that of what you might call passive resistance. You know, you're you're not going to destroy Babylon, but you're certainly not going to advance it Because everything about Babylon is set against God and his glory, and therefore, you know, when they try to get you involved in that, you uh simply must resist passively, you know, Gandhi's kind of uh technique toward India and the British Empire, uh, but then overthrow it, just passively, peacefully resist it Well another possibility would be a kind of a uh non-involvement with a lifeboat mentality. You know, okay, you're gonna live in Babylon for a while and While you're there, you should be able and eager to share with those Babylonians that you come in contact with how there is a God in heaven who has made the heavens and the earth. And this God has made a covenant with his people so that we can have our sins forgiven and that there's a way to approach. And God is going to provide a provision in the Messiah who will take away our sins. And as we trust him, we can find forgiveness and new life. And you hope that a number of those people will give their hearts to this Messiah who's to come. And they'll come back with you when I bring you out of Babylon. And they will have eternal life. And they'll flee from that city of destruction. That's another possibility. Now what is then the attitude that God says these people should have? Well let's now, with that background, take a look at Jeremiah chapter 29. I hope you didn't read ahead. Sneak ahead there and read that verse 7. Don't do it yet. Let's come to it in the context of the letter. We're just going to read now Jeremiah chapter 29, verses 1 to 2. This is the text of the letter that the prophet Jeremiah sent from Jerusalem to the surviving elders among the exiles and to the priests, the prophets. And all the other people that Nebuchadnezzar had carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. This was after King Jehoiakin and the Queen Luther, the court officials and the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, the artisans had gone into exile from Jerusalem He entrusted the letter to Elassah, son of Shaphan, and to Gemoriah, the son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah, king of Judah, the last king now, sent to King Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon, and it said This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says to those that I carried into exile. Not you, Nebuchadnezzar, I was behind that. I carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. Build houses, settle down, plant gardens, eat what they produce, marry, and have sons and daughters The five wives for your sons and give your daughters in marriage, so that they too may have sons and daughters. Increase in number there, do not decrease. In other words, so quarcel up, live as normally as you can live. You know, don't uh look at the thing as a rest stop or a motel, you know, you gotta settle down there. Have a life as normally as you can have that life there. But then notice how he sums it up or comes to a climax in verse 7. Also Seek the peace and the prosperity of the city to which I have called you into exile. Pray to the Lord for it. Because if it prospers, you too will prosper. I suggest to you that is an utterly startling verse. I would have never expected that God would tell me as an exile in Babylon to have that kind of attitude toward the city that's holding me in captive. Who's holding the Ark of God as a war trophy and is set entirely in its philosophy and goals and purposes against everything which got which glorifies and honors my God But that's what he says. And so I want to draw from this three principles, three calls of God which make utterly clear what his call and purpose are for his people. Fill them in as we go along. Number one, a call to civil participation. You see here a call to civil participation. Also seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into exile. Seek Babylon's what? Seek its peace and prosperity? Do you mean when they call a Babylonian town meeting because the hanging gardens are sagging, that I should shut up? And try to rectify the situation? Do you mean to tell me that when the Babylonian sewage plants go in bed, you know, and they have to call for some civil participation to get things going again, I should be concerned about Babylonian sewage? Do you mean that I should be politically involved in Babylon? Well the answer of God is quite clear. It says seek its peace Peace, the word shalom, means it's full well-being. It's the word used of the Jew to greet another Jew to talk about the good life. Seek for Babylon to have a good life, its peace and its prosperity. And it's clear from Daniel's example that that involved political involvement. Turn to Daniel chapter 6 for just a moment. In Daniel chapter 6, you have a very interesting example of how God far God wants this to go In Daniel 6, you read, It pleased Darius to appoint 120 satraps to rule throughout the kingdom. With three administrators, political administrators here, three bureaucrats over them, of whom one was Daniel Daniel's a believer here now. He's one of the exiles. The satraps were made accountable to them so that they king might not suffer loss. So their whole job is to make sure that there's a prophet in Babylon. Now, Daniel so distinguished himself. Among the administrators and the satraps by his exceptional qualities that the king planned to set him over the whole kingdom. He's outdoing the heathen to make Babylon successful. He's so involved in that city and in his administration and And all the things that he's doing, that they say he's better than anybody else we got around here. Let's make bad Daniel to be the vice president. Let's put him over everything. And then look at verse 4 At this, the administrators and the satraps, who were jealous of him, tried to find grounds for charges against Daniel in his conduct of government affairs. But they were unable to do so. They could find no corruption in him, because he was trustworthy and neither corrupt nor negligent In other words, he put his whole heart into it. He was not only not corrupt, he didn't just say, well, you know, I gotta sort of do what they asked me to do, and I'm not particularly happy about it, because this whole place is just gonna go down to tubes in seventy years anyway, so I'm gonna invest myself in this for. But, you know, I will try not to be corrupt and I will share Jesus with those who come alongside of me and try to have some contact with them to bring them to faith and to eternal life. But he went further than that. He threw his whole heart into his civil participation. Now am I saying therefore that for us that that means we all ought to be politically involved? Now, what I'm trying to draw from this as a principle is simply that we are in a better situation than the exiles in Babylon, right? I mean we're not being held captive by Columbia or Howard County or the state of Maryland or the United States government, you know. I mean we're here because we choose to be here. Verse 4, however, still applies. God says, I've placed you there And God has placed us here. By His providence, we're born in this country, and many of us have moved to this state or this area or whatever. But we are here. We believe by God's appointment Howard County and the United States government and all the rest are not really quite as evil. I mean you you might think they're pretty bad, but they are not as evil as the Babylonian government, right? I mean, you know, the United States government doesn't brag about the fact that it's defeated Jehovah. You know, and it doesn't seek to hold God's people in captivity as a testimony to the fact that the United States' God is greater than our God. So we do have a little advantage in that score too. And the other thing is, we really don't know how long the United States is going to exist before God chooses to destroy it. It could be more than seven years, it could be less than seven years, could be very quickly, it could be a long time But we don't have the knowledge that they had that every year that went by, you know, it's seventy minus or it's X minus, you know, seventy minus two, four, eight, ten and all this. And so, therefore, I would suggest to you That as the people of God within this culture, society, symbolized by city in the scripture, we should therefore be more greatly freed up to be involved in civil participation. Does that mean we don't want to be politically involved? No, I'm not saying that. At least in terms of holding office or making that a high priority. But I think that our sense of civil participation is revealed more in subtle attitudes. Let me give you an example. You walk along a bike path and you see some trash. What's your attitude? You say, Yeah, it's Columbia for you a bunch of raw pagans that don't have any sense of decency around here, you know Let that trash pile up, you know, who cares? this place is going to the dogs anyway, you know. Or do we say, No, hey man, I'm part of this place. And we teach our kids, you know, pick up the beer cans. You know, I was walking across Geneva, uh across Talvin College campus and I met one of my brothers with a beer bottle in his hand, you know and It was just after one of the sessions, I could hardly blame him, but you know, I saw him and I met him here and he quickly assured me that he had just picked this up off the campus because he wanted to make sure that it got in the trash and not just laying on the lawn there, you know. Well, I mean what do we do when we Fine trash. That reflects something of our attitude toward the place we live. Is it the seeking of the peace and the prosperity of it? What about reading the flyer? Yeah, again, I'm sort of hitting on the people in Columbia. I have realized there's a whole lot of you are outside of Columbia. You can apply this, you know, the Laurel Leader and all the rest of the stuff, Howard County Times and everything else, but you know, different levels. But let's just take the Columbia Flyer because a lot of us read that. When we read the Columbia Flyer, do we sort of scan through, you know, see what the movie section says or the arts or the you know sports? And then, you know, as far as the editorials are concerned, we want to see if there's any hot Christian issues, you know. Anybody trying to take away? our freedom. If I try to do something against us, they buy out for us, you know. And if there's not, then you know everything else we just sort of scan over because we're not really interested in it. Or are we interested if there's some injustices that some people are concerned about in this area? Do we read some things and say, now what is God's perspective on that? Is there a way that I can better this place? Because it suits my interest. I can't be involved in everything. I'm not trying to imply that. So don't go away and say, holy cow, you know, besides all the discipling and all we oughta do now, he thinks we ought to be getting out there and getting on every kind of county council and village board and everything else in this whole place. I'm not saying that. But we do have particular interests as people. And there are things that we look at and we say, boy, you know, that's an area that I'm concerned about Do we just look at the so-called Christian moral issues and the Christian religious freedom issues? Or do we say, God says I should seek the peace and the prosperity of this place? How can I be involved as salt and light for Jesus Christ to make this a better place to live? Let me give you the second point. Not only are we called here to civil participation, but this verse goes on to say That we are called to civil prayer. It's a call to civil prayer. Say you gotta be kidding. Look what he says. Pray to the Lord for it. Say, hey, I have no problems praying to the Lord concerning Babylon. I gotta pray that God's gonna wipe the place out, you know. I mean, boy, really, I identify with those impregatory songs. You know, where David calls down wrath on all his enemies. Boy, man, I can really enter into that when I pray about all these people around here. But that's not what God says. He says, pray to the Lord for it. You see that? He's saying enter into a concern for its spiritual prosperity and its good Be concerned for Babylon. Again, I would suggest that you see a good example of this in the life of Daniel, who was known to be a man of prayer. Now what was his attitude as he prayed concerning Babylon? I think we have a clue to that in Daniel chapter 4. So now take a look just a couple chapters back. You still maybe had your finger back there in six, but right back in chapter 4. At this point, remember Nebuchadnezzar had had a dream that had greatly disturbed them about his own personal future and future of his people. He just didn't know what it meant, so he got a hold of this guy Daniel, who's supposed to be able to good be good at uh telling what dreams meant. And when he called him in Daniel also called this is Daniel chapter four verse nineteen now. Daniel who was also called Beltashazzar was greatly perplexed for a time. His thoughts uh terrified him. And the king said, Hey, uh, don't uh let the dream and its uh meaning so alarm you but then how does Daniel answer? Word in this case called Beldeshazzar, he says My Lord, give only the dream applied to your enemies and its meaning to your adversaries. It's a dream to scare your robe off. But Daniel doesn't say, hey man, your time's come. Boy, you think you got us in exile. Boy, God's got something in store for you You're going to be like a wild beast that's going to be crawling around and your fingernails are going to become like the talons of an eagle, and you're going to be reduced to utter abject desperation until you cry out to God and say, God have mercy on me. Nebangel doesn't gloat in that. He says, oh, that dream only applied to your adversaries. He's concerned for Nebuchadnezzar. As a human being. Do you understand that? And then after he interprets that dream and all that it means, then down in verse 27, you notice how he finishes it up. Therefore, O king, be pleased to accept my advice. Yay, like a toy with the dream is gonna what it means, what it's saying is gonna happen to you. Now I'm gonna throw in some free advice at the end. You don't have to even pay any more for this. Uh this will come along with the interpretation. Renounce your sins. by doing what is right, and your wickedness by being kind to the oppressed. It may be, then, that your prosperity will continue. There it is again, there's that word, you see, prosperity. But Daniel, of course, understands that Babylon's prosperity is linked to spiritual issues, not simply to wise administration and good financial leadership. Daniel understands that if Babylon does not acknowledge Jehovah God as King of all the earth, their prosperity cannot continue. And so I believe that we have here sufficient warrant if this is Daniel's concern for Nebuchadnezzar, that he's also praying this for Nebuchadnezzar. And you and I are called in 1 Timothy 2, verses 1 and 2, to pray for all people. And then Paul specifies for kings and all in authority. Now, what should we be praying? I suggest that we pray something like Daniel 4. 27. Lord, we pray that you would cause our political leaders to renounce their sins by doing what is right, and their wickedness by being kind to the oppressed. So that the prosperity of the United States might continue. And I would suggest one very practical thing. During the next weeks and the next few months, probably up through September, you'll be hearing a lot about the bicentennial of our Constitution. I suggest you try to program something in your mind that whenever you see a little blip on TV or read a little something, that you commit yourself to 30 seconds prayer for the United States. And then in those thirty seconds you simply pray something like Daniel 427 or Proverbs 8, 15 and 16, By me, kings reign and do what is just, and make laws that are just, God says. By me, princes, rule. And that you say, Lord, I pray that you will cause our leaders to realize that their only authority comes from you, and that they will make laws that will be just, that you will give us courts that are just, that you will give us administrators that are just. That you will bring repentance and humbling and revival to our land. And that you just take thirty seconds to pray that. And if the Spirit of God gives you a particular burden to go beyond that Go beyond it. Don't quench the spirit, but hey, it's 29 seconds already back to the program, you know. Jonathan Edwards said, Man, whatever I was doing, if God prompted me to prayer, I just put it aside because he said those were precious moments. So if God prompts you to go further, go further. If he doesn't, then fine, quit at 30 seconds, back to what you're doing. Can you imagine how we as a people So Could be called to civil prayer just by the reminders that we have and the things that we see. If we use those as just momentary reflections to pray that God will be honored, that He would bring repentance and revival to our local situation, to our state situation, to our national situation. Then finally, the third point that I suggest here is that there's a call to a civil principle. A call to a civil principle. Again, back to Jeremiah 29 and verse 7. The participation, seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I've called, carried you into exile. Called a civil prayer, pray to the Lord for it, and then the principle, because if it prospers, you too will prosper. I suggest that's a very important principle because it's in contrast, I think, to what many Christians believe. We believe our prosperity has nothing to do with the prosperity of the United States. Or even a local situation. But I think what God is saying here is that we cannot isolate ourselves from our secular situation. We cannot opt out of it. As if we're only citizens of the heavenly kingdom and not citizens of this kingdom. Paul, I would suggest, reaffirms that when he tells us in 1 Peter 2, in verse 1 and 2, pray for all people, particularly says, Pray for kings and all in authority. What's the reason? I suggest it's a parallel to Jeremiah 29, 7. The reason? So that we may live quiet and peaceable lives in this world. You see, there's a certain principle that if God gives peace and prosperity to the general situation in which we live If there is a freedom that comes from stability, that comes from peace and justice that Christians need to be working for. Then God says generally the church is going to be better off. Generally, we're going to have more freedom. If there's peace from stable laws, courts, and administrators, if there's a peace that comes from the freedom to live distinctively as Christians We are generally going to prosper along with our own situation. The gospel will prosper as there is peace in the general civil situation that we live in. An example that I think that beautifully portrays this is the one that's given by John Bunyan in his famous little classic Pilgrim's Progress. It's in part two, which is much less well known. In part two, Christiana is going from the city of destruction to the heavenly city, and they stop off for a time in that place called Vanity Fair. And you remember Vanity Fair was known for its desire to persecute the Christians. and had shown itself having great animosity toward Christians in the past. But during this time, Vanity Fair, the city, has a problem. The problem is a monster It's a dragon with seven heads and ten horns. And that dragon is invading the city and it's eating the children and it's causing all kind of havoc in the city and everybody is scared to death. Among the pilgrims there is one Mr. Greatheart. And John Bunyan says that Mr. Greatheart decided to risk his life for the good of the city so that he might go out and slay the dragon. Mr. Greatheart then goes out and he engages the dragon in combat. He mortally wounds the dragon so that it withdraws and doesn't attack the city for some time. Though the city is not generally converted from this, Bunyan says they so respected the pilgrims That they did no longer hurt them, but allowed them to live in peace, so that they might live distinctively as God's people. Now, Bunyan was not naive when he was writing that. Let me remind you, he wrote that from a jail, from a prison for his own stand for Jesus Christ. But nevertheless, he had an insight that said, if the city prospers, we as Christians who contribute to that by our own concern and involvement, being freed up to be part of that rather than feeling like somehow we ought not. to do that will generally contribute toward the prosperity of the church, the freedom of the gospel, and its own advancement. And so let me then simply say, I hope this frees you up, that when we are part of the Columbia Fair, for instance, as we have been and continue to be through this weekend, it's not simply to evangelize people. It's less simply so that we can pass out tracts and booklets and invite people to the church. It's partly because we're part of Columbia and celebrate. the fact that they're having affair. Because we're part of this society. And we're celebrating with that. But even while we celebrate with it, we realize that our eye is not fixed on Colombia as any kind of permanent city. But our eye is also looking ahead, realizing that Colombia will one day be destroyed. Babylon was destroyed After this, shortly after this, just the 70 years after Jeremiah root, the Persians, under the leadership of Cyrus, crept under the walls and they took over the city. The Jews were freed. And about 400 uh well, then shortly after that, uh there were a number of uprisings and rebellions. And there was a particular rebellion I never get this guy's name straight here by uh Belshamanai along with Shem Ashariba. Glad that they didn't go down as a big place in history. But they rebelled uh against the Persians. In 482 BC and in 478, along came a fellow by the name of Xerxes, who utterly destroyed the city. He didn't entirely destroy it, so it was uninhabitable, but Babylon never again again regained prominence, and gradually it simply wasted away and was never rebuilt. 482 years later, give or take a couple years, the Lord Jesus was born. He came to establish a new city. And a new kingdom. He came to give his life for the sins of those who are part of the city of destruction. He came to give his life for your sin and for my sin. So that as we give our lives to Him, confessing our sin and coming to Him to receive His forgiveness, we become citizens of that kingdom. And so we look beyond all of the cities that we're part of here. And beyond to the New Jerusalem. Because Jesus is one day going to come and he's going to destroy all this. And when he destroys it all, there's only going to be one city that's going to remain. It's the New Jerusalem Those that belong to Jesus will be part of that new Jerusalem forever. And that new Jerusalem will have an eternal shalom, prosperity, and peace. But while we're on the way to that city, let's not despise the motel that keeps us while we're pilgrims. Let's pray. Lord our God, I pray that you would help us As Christians who are also citizens of this country and local citizens, to be able to live in a constructive and creative tension In the fact that we are citizens really of two kingdoms. We are citizens of two cities. We are citizens of this spiritual Babylon that we see that with its humanism and anti-Christ attitudes seeks always to pull us away from you. that has within it the seeds of its own destruction. And Lord, we're amazed that you tell us that we should seek its peace and its prosperity, that we should pray for it. Because if it prospers, we too will prosper. And Lord, we pray that you would free some of us up who somehow look with disdain upon our own living situations, our own civil governments. But that you, Lord, would give to us a new freedom to feel a part of that. To feel a healthy and positive feelings of involvement with our country And concern for it. And the Lord, even while we're doing that, you would then give us that hope that we do not have a hope that this city will be made right and perfect. But that we who have given our lives to the Lord Jesus will be part of that heavenly city that will last forever. Ah, Lord. Give us that hope and that longing for the Lord Jesus to come so that that city will be established. That city where he is building us a home right now And that we will be part of that forever. May no one here miss out on that. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.