Now we continue in our series in the book of Amos, and we come now to chapter six. Amos has been developing the theme of God's displeasure on those who name his name And yet are self-centered and complacent. And you remember he has described himself as their adversary, even as a lion about to pounce on them. And he develops this idea further and more specifically. in chapter six. And so now let's hear God's word as we consider Amos chapter six. And we'll consider all of this chapter this morning. And so let's give our attention to that chapter as we hear God's own Very word addressed to us. Woe to you who are complacent in Zion, and to you who feel secure in non Samaria, you notable men of the foremost Nation to whom the people of Israel come? Go to Calon, look at it. Go from there to Great Haman. Go to there to Gath and Philistia. Are you better than those kingdoms? Is their land larger than Yours you put off the evil day and bring in a reign of terror. You lie on beds, filled with ivory, and lying on your couches. You die on choice. Lambs and battery calves. You strum air on your thoughts like David and improvise on musical instruments. You drink wine by the bowl and use the finest motions. But you do not grieve over the will of Joseph. Therefore you will be among the first to go into exile. Your feasting and lounging will end. The sovereign man has sworn by himself, the Lord God Almighty declares, I abhor the pride of Jacob, and detest his purpose, and he deliver up the city and everything. They did it. If ten men are left in one house, they too will die. But if a relative who is to burn the bodies comes to carry them out of the house and asks anyone still hiding there, is anyone with you? And he says, No. Many of us say, shh! We must not mention the name of the Lord. For the Lord has given the command. And he will smash the great house into pieces and the small house into bits. The horses run on rocky crags, there's one plough run with oxen, but you have turned justice into poison, and the fruit of righteousness into bitterness, you who rejoice in the conquest of liberty. the bar and said, Did we not take thy land by our own strength? For the Lord God Almighty declares, I will stir up a nation against you, O house of Israel. He will oppress you all the way from Lebal Hamath to the Valley of the Araba. Let me ask you, as we speak on that chapter, how did you feel when I read that? encouraging chapter is so I sort of need a pickup this morning, something to uh get me going for next week. And uh I don't think that's the chapter is going to do it. Not a very encouraging, up chapter. Perhaps you felt some guilt as you read the indictment against luxury and against complacency. Perhaps you felt a little anger of feeling guilty, and you found yourself feeling, what is this? Am I supposed to feel guilty? for enjoying things? Is God against a little pleasure in enjoyment in life? What is with God anyway? Seems like every time I want to enjoy something I need to feel guilty about it. And so perhaps you have some mixed feelings. your actions as you hear that chapter. Let me remind us at the outset of it that we need to make a distinction. A distinction between some sour-faced super spiritual who's against all thought And against someone who would come to us by ahead of a party and warn us that our party has set the house on fire and that we better get out. And as we were to flee the building as it burns down about us and find that we've escaped with our lives, would you find that you resent the person who spoiled the party by telling you to leave? You see, there's a distinction between somebody who's simply against Paul in good terms And somebody who's in touch with reality and says that this is a time to await. This is a time that we need to be aware of what's coming. We need to be aware of a certain danger. And wake up to it. And when we read people like Janaine Greer, a secular feminist, who writes in her latest book, Sex and Destiny, that our culture is on a suicidal course because of our short-sighted obscenity. Session with self-gratification. Then we better stop and listen. And then we read that Billy Graham has said in his latest book, Apocalypse, Approaching Hook Greeks, the four verse of the Apocalypse. Apocalypse. Graham says in this book, there is something ominous in the air, and my bones like germs vibrate with the horror and the hope of it. Speaking of the four horsemen of the apocalypse in the book of Revelation, And Billy Graham, who has been a confidant of the past seven presidents and has taught this with heads of state all over the world, says, there's something very almonds in the air. God's judgment is about to talk. We need to stop and we need to say there's something that Amos is trying to tell us. And he's not against thought, he's not against enjoyment, but he's saying you've got to wake up to assert the reality. And the reality Is that God hates two things? Those two things are a self-satisfied complacency and pride on the part of those who name his name. And so God is saying through his prophet, To us that there is a universal principle here. And that principle is a declaration of what must happen when those who call themselves by his name by caratemi the vertex of a self-satisfied, complacent and proud culture. And we hear the world talk about us. We hear them in secular media, in the books, in the movies, in the television programs, and we need Stop and listen and see what God's answer is to this. So I want us to notice three things from Amos chapter six. First of all, I want for us to notice God's indictment, and then God's response, and then what should be our response. First of all, what's God's indictment against the people at this time? He gives to them two charges. He says, first of all, you're complacent. That's in verses one to seven. speaks of their pride in verses 8 to 14. First of all, he says you're complacent. Verse 1. Woe to you who are complacent in Zion, to you who feel secure by Mount Samaria. Let us Speaking both to the southern nation and to the northern nation. Zay is in Judah, so this is a message to both parts of the church. And it's particularly a message addressed to the evangelicals. He says, I'm concerned about your complaint. Especially those of you who are influential, you knowable men of the foremost nation, you who are the influential people in the notable nation. And if that doesn't describe you and me, I don't know what that is. Influential people within a leading nation in the world. And God says you can place it in two ways, in your position and in your possessions. First of all of your position in verses one to three. Probably what Amos is doing here is mimicking the government PR. The government probably was saying the kinds of things that you have here in verse two. Go look at the nations to the north, look at left in the southwest. Are they better than us? Look at all we have done. Look at our conquests. And so Inus is saying, looking at your position. You compare yourself with others and your power, and you find in that status. You find in your status that which gives you security and complacency. And in an achievement-oriented culture, you say, We've made our mark to say degree. And perhaps whether you have made it or not, you feel at least the pressure to need to make it. And so Amos is saying you have found a certain complacency in your position, whatever that is. But also that It says in your possessions. Look at verses 4 to 7. He speaks of a materialistic culture, a culture that is very well off. And notice this: a culture which, if you read verse 4 to 6, You would never guess who's on the brink of disaster. This is a culture which seems like it's got a name very secure. Notice the emphasis on the houses, on the food, on the music, on the arts. And the intemperance, even, because of so much that they had. You might characterize it as the dealer of society. Notice what he says. He says, you know, in bed, it laid with ivory. Very major, some large on your couches. You dine on choice lands, you fatter calves, your brenades. You strode your hearts like David, famous papist, and you improvise on musical instruments. You have finely. tune the arts. You drink water and by the ball fall. And that word, the Hebrew word means a large bowl. You know, you just buzzeless stuff down. And then you use the finest motion, speaking of the deodorants of that day. You see anybody Max Factor who just making all my candidates back in that society. It was a society that pampered itself, and they had a great deal of luxury and ease. And Amos is making the connection. Not an inevitable connection, but nevertheless a connection between materialism and complacency. When I say not an inevitable connection, I mean not inevitable between having many goods. But materialism is The worship of the goods, the finding of the security and the complacency in the material things. It reminds us of the Puritans. Why can't we learn our lesson from them? Even in our own culture. Do you remember how the Puritans? Puritans fled from England in 1620 in order to worship the Lord Jesus, to have freedom in order to establish a society in which the Lord Jesus could be king, and in which his principles could be worked out in righteousness and justice. And they suffered a great deal. That's why we have thanksgiving. But God had preserved them from starvation, which was a very real threat. But within one generation, in their seeking of Jesus Christ and their good stewardship, they become rich. And so thirty, forty years later, you have a well established material society which is enjoying very goods, and at that same time you have the decline of Puritanism in the United States. The declare of its effects, the sounding of its theology, the diminishing of its spirituality, so that a generation later, cotton later, writing the history of this, reflected on us down for a moment I think. Religion begot prosperity and the daughter devoured the mother. That's what Amos is writing about. Amos is saying you're so hung up on all those things that you enjoy that there's one That you have forgotten, it's at the end of verse 6, and that's the key statement. You do not grieve over the will of Joseph. You do not grieve over the will of Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Jose The breaking of Joseph. Nothing wrong, you see, with having a bed, with smile gray. Nothing wrong with having a choice lamb and a pat of calves. It was God who had instituted the peace days for us to celebrate. And to enjoy his goodness. Nothing wrong with music and fine-tuning and developing the arts. Nothing wrong with even drinking of those things which God has given to us for pleasure. With the other, God's not again. But he's saying the fact is you're so settled on these things, you have forgotten to grieve over the will of Joseph. Why Joseph? He's talking about Israel here. Why does he call Israel Joseph? Along with Jerry Mojar in his commentary, I agree that the reason he probably says Joseph is because it reminds us of Joseph. Do you remember when his brother said he was a slave? They wanted to get rid of him and they threw him into a Before they saved him. And as they threw him into the pit, and Joseph was there all for mercy, what were his brothers doing? They were feasting, they were eating, they were enjoying themselves. And in their enjoyment, They didn't hear the cries of their water. And Amos is saying you are caught up in a culture which is so set upon the things which it enjoyed, it's so consumed, so obsessed with short term self gratification. Did you not hear the cry of an apostate church? You're not hearing the cry of a culture that's buried down the tubes, and as Janet Greener says, is set on a suicidal force. Davis wants to call our attention to the fact that it's not that you shouldn't enjoy life, but you've forgotten how to grieve over sin. Now think about peer meeting on Wednesday. We should be praying for apostate churches with leaders who have gone from the gospel of Jesus Christ. That God would bring them back to see his word. And I thought, how rare it is. That we pray for such a thing. How much do we grieve over churches that are meeting this morning around this country in which they're strawberry rather than the bread of life? In which people are using the name of Jesus. Jesus Christ as a banner for self-glorification, self-actualization, in which we use Jesus Christ as a means for us to afford ourselves and to exalt ourselves. And Jesus Christ glories later with us. Do we grieve over that? Do we grieve over the fact that our nation has come to such a point where we can call good evil and evil good, where gay rights And other movements take on such an arrogant militancy that there's not even the consideration that what God's Word says has any authority in the laws that should be made? An illness here in the You have forgotten how to grieve over sin. You have forgotten how to grieve over the breaking of the people of God in this culture. You are proud people, he says in the second part of that chapter. You're proud in your achievements. Your pride in your fortresses, verse 9. Your pride in your conquest, verse 13. There's a little bit of humorous irony in verse 13, kind of a prophetic bitter irony and a little sarcasm there. He says you rejoice in the conquest. Of Little Deborah. It might not mean much to you, but if you look up Low Deborah on the map, you find it's this little hic town out there in Transduham in the northeast. In fact, he was so small and so insignificant that the word Lou Deborah means nothing. It means it's it's nothing. It it's not even worth giving a name to, you know. It's the kind of place where they had to change the population numbers every week because it was you know double and a half or something like this. There was many cows as a people. It isn't You're exalting over the fact that you conquered the over the boy. It reminds me of a the show once I heard on Jackie Greason. You remember that back in my member of my parents used to watch that twenty years ago. And there's Jackie Greason there, you made a big shot on his head. and he says, just remember, I'm king and you're nothing. I'm king here and you're nothing. That's why he said big deal, so you're king and nothing. And that's what Amos is saying. You're bragging over your achievements. You conquered. What have you conquered? Nothing. And Lamus is saying, you're growing in that which is shame. The new man can come this Tuesday and we can see God's great provision for us and facilities. And He is taking care of us. And what is provided for us. And we will be the temptation if it isn't that nice. We've turned it off. Look what we've provided. Look how we have found us. And look what we have accomplished. Look at the things we've accomplished in ministries and programs. as a congregation. God says your pride is detestable. But it's a local. Billy Graham once wrote that the smallest package I ever saw was a man all wrapped up in himself. And the same thing can be said of a congregation. In order to be great in God's sight, we need to humble ourselves. And so God gives his response to these invitements. He gives us response, and we need to notice as we see God's response, but God is not an impersonal machine. He is not talking about impersonal principles here. God is a feeling person. And so he states his response to this sin, to the sin of complacency. And thy in terms of his reaction. Notice that. He's not talking about the cracking out of some machine that works in response to certain in-person or input. That is that I made you in my image. This is what you've done. You've forgotten how to grieve over sin. You've exalted yourself in your supposed achievements. And all have a response to that. Three responses that he mentions. First of all, he says, I abored. Verse 8. The sovereign God is sworn by himself the Lord God only declares, I abhor the pride of Jacob. That's a strong rule. I detest it, he said. I loathe that pride. It's like the worship in chapter five that we looked at, where God said, You think that you're impressing me, but you're not impressing me at all. Your fortresses don't impress me whatsoever. God says I I hold that pride. Secondly, he describes his response in terms of alienation. A vivid picture given in verses 9 and 10, a difficult picture to interpret, but the gist of it is somewhat clear. It's the picture of a siege. Their conditions in this seat. Ten men are left in a house and they're all gone. And somebody is sort of digging through the rubber, you know, after a disaster, and they're trying to find out if there's any survivors, and they say, Is anybody here? And this one person comes So there's nobody left alive. And in that time, our immediate response where there's possibly going to be an oath, a calling out, oh God, or Jesus Christ, as we would say now, something that would call out, an exclamation, an oath. In response to the tragic situation, immediate response to the feelings, hush. We must not mention the name of the Lord. What's that saying? That's saying things are so bad. The time has come when God is so alienated from his people. That they dare not even use his name, either lightly or vully. This the term for cursing has even passed. The term when God's name has a power in cursing has gone. God is so Utterly, early from his people, they say don't even use his name. Perhaps there's a native superstition in it, as often happens in tragedies. Don't even use our name, and perhaps something worse will happen. No possibility of calling upon the Lord for mercy, utter alienation, but even calling on his name as an oath, not alone in prayer. And then he describes himself as an enemy. He describes himself as an enemy. Verse 3. He says, You put off the evil day and rain near a world of terror. A world of terror. Perhaps you saw a tale of two cities on Wednesday night. in which Dickens portrayed the wave of terror in revolutionary France and what a terrible time that was to live. And it's that same kind of thing that's described here. Do you know Carolyn the Second was reigned at the time Abrahus prophesied. Between Jeroboam II and the end of this nation there were six more kings. Of those six kings, only one passed his throne to his son. All the rest were assassinated. What Amos has to say here came literally true. It was a reign of terror after his days. A reign of terror which led to the utter desolation of that nation. But God again uses a certain prophetic irony, a kind of prophetic humour and s and cynical uh sarcasm in portraying this. He says in verse one, Now I want to speak to you who are the first men of the first nation. The Hebrews literally the first. You're the first words. The big shots. You use in verse 6 the first notions. The first excuse me, verse 6. The first notions, the first notables. None of this Canaanite stuff for you. You go into the highest quality stuff. First unions. And so God is saying, let the proprieties be just observed. You want to be first? All right. Verse 7? You'll be the first ones into exile. You're going to lead the way in judgment. God says that those who were influential and did not use their influence in order to turn their culture will be the first to suffer. Verse 7. Therefore you will be among the first to go into exile, and your feasting and lounging will end. Verse 8. He says that he's going to deliver up the city and everything in it. Verse 11. He speaks of smashing the houses, utterly crushing the small houses. Verse 14, he's going to stir a nation against the house of Israel. I'm going to impress you all the way, all the way from the north to the north. to the south is what he's saying there. Because of your foolishness, your stupidity. And that's pictured you see in verse twelve. Again, it's a it's a difficult image, but the essence of it's probably pretty clear. He says to horses run on Rocky crags. The picture there is cliff bases and rubble, huge boulders that are piled up. It would be very difficult to get any kind of a horse up. They say, you know, if you want to go up a cliff base, over huge boulders that are piled up. You're not going to go up there on a horse. Well, you're going to take a horse up there and break the horse's legs. He says if you're going to plough, are you going to try and plow those boaters for the oxen? Utterly stupid and useless. Some uh translations, some uh manuscripts have dis Sea in that second part, there's going to plow the sea with oxen, it'd be the same kind of idea to reading. Uh, you know, who's going to think of plowing the sea with oxen? Uh it is something stupid and useless. And he said, That's just what you have done. When you turn justice into poison, And the fruit of righteousness and the bitterness. He thought that by provoting values for your own ends that you would thereby reap the benefits. And this is it's utterly stupid and useless. Because God's ways will win up. God is a God of justice. He's a God of mercy and a God of justice. And he says, you can't run out by trying to pervert values in your culture. And so what is our response to be to such a word? Our response is of course simply to heed the two wordings that God has given to us. But as a church we humble ourselves and we learn to grieve over sin. Then we learn to humble ourselves. He speaks that in chapter four that we return to our Bible, that we look at our hearts and we see the pride and the complacency that we have over our accomplishments, and that we learn to humble ourselves before Him. believe that in our day we need to learn a whole new kind of feeling of our helplessness and need of Christ. Do you know we have become so far as a people that even the gospel has been distorted and manipulated In order to fit our proud nations. A hundred or two hundred years ago, the gospel was that you are absolutely helpless to lift your finger for salvation. And the only thing that you can do is to cast your Upon God's mercy and to plead for Jesus Christ in his work. And God Himself must even work in your heart that response to him. What are we here today? Design for Jesus. Come to Jesus. Exert your will and your faith toward Jesus Christ. You have something to give him. You are valuable in God's sight, and he's made you so precious. He wants to have you. But the whole message is because you're not going to be able to do that. Come today that I have the power to come to Jesus Christ so that I might be saved, a kind of cooperation between me and Jesus. And the gospel today has not shattered my self confidence. The Church of Jesus Christ should be so shattered in our self-confidence that when we look to Jesus Christ we realize that from the very first to the very last, salvation is by grace, not by what we do. But we need to humble ourselves to come to realize again that grace really is grace. It's not a cooperation between me who only decided that it was a good deal, it was something worth doing to give no letter. To Jesus, but rather that I was utterly helpless to save myself. And if Jesus Christ came in his infinite mercy, he came and not only did he accomplish salvation on that cross and take him. My sin and in rising again from the dead, but he by his spirit reached out and applied that salvation to my life and took me, overcame me with my stubborn resistance. Jesus Christ took that. will of man and turned it toward himself. And he has saved me. He has rescued me. He has brought me out of the mirror in the pit. He set my foot upon the rock. And it's not what I did to contribute to that. And once you get, brother and sister, some sense of that helplessness, but it shatters the possibility of crying. And it lays us along. And it lays us now in a in an exhilarating sense in the Lord. Because it lifts him up. And it helps us to see what our real confidence is, not in the flesh, but in his grace. And the second thing we need to do is, along with that, we'll need to grieve for the renewal of Joseph in our day. To learn to set our hearts on the power of the work of the Spirit, not just our minds, but to feel grief over sin, to even be able to weep over. Those that we know and care for who do not know Jesus Christ. When is the last time you for I, in our prayer, for that person that we care for, without Jesus Christ, had not only prayed for them in some sense. sense perhaps of exasperation that they keep holding up, but even grieved, as we're told here in verse six, grieved over their will, grieved over their brokenness. Grieved Over the destruction of their life apart from Jesus Christ. Grieve over a society that's where structures are set in a way against Jesus Christ. That's all. I need to know much more. about that. As I prayed through this week and this message to try and capture something of what that means, I find my own heart more convicted than it is any in to the kind of grief that Amos is calling upon us about. A hundred years ago, in Victorian England, there was the same kind of spirit of complacency. There was the gospel preached, but it was to be preached properly, not in a way that is going to upset the proprietors of the dead. And the messages were to be just so low and the services were just so set, but everything was quite properly done. But there was very little food, a very little fear of God in any real sense. in the worship. And in that scene, God raised up a 16-year-old man who he brought to himself. And that man came to Jesus Christ at the age of 16, took his first pastorate, At the age of seventeen, and then was called to a church in London at the age of nineteen, a church of two hundred and fifty people. And so in the year uh in eighteen fifty four, actually the very end of eighteen. eighteen fifty three, Charles Harry Spurgeon at the age of nineteen first stood in the pulpit of New Provestry Church. Putting a quote from his biography, Spurgeon came to London conscious that God had been hiding his face from his People. His knowledge of the Bible and of church history convinced him that compared with what the Church had a rule to expect, the kind of thing we talked about last week on Pentecost, what the Church had a role to expect through the fullness of the Holy Spirit From the first fruit to the harvest, that the Spirit of God was in great measure withdrawn what we see. And if God continued to return his grace, he declared to his people nothing could be done to extend his kingdom. This is not true. Your knowledge, nor your talent, nor of your zeal, he would say, that can confirm God's word. Yet, brethren, this can be done. We will call to the man until he reveals his face again. All we want is the Spirit of God. Dear Christian, Wait, await, await. That was a message of a nineteen year old preacher in London. Before many months had passed, it was manifest that the congregation in Newfound Street Church was awakening. And as travail and prayer became the characteristic of the church, one common burden spread from pastor to people. The Lord, send a blessing. He must send it, or our hearts will break if he does not. Oh how that convicted me. Do I feel that long you feel that you must send your spirit to change Colombia? Or your hearts will break if you don't. And you say, Well yeah, I'm gonna be a little bit disappointed, but Think it everywhere. Our hearts will weak, he prayed. But a change took place in the Father Days. Now instead of the old dog prayers, every man seemed like a crusader besieging the new Jerusalem. appeared determined to scan the Saster of City by the night of intercession. And soon the blessing came upon us in such abundance that we had not will to receive it. The spring of 1854 there were 250 people In a church that was to seat a thousand. By the fall of that year, six months later, there were five hundred people meeting not for morning worship, but for praying. Five hundred people Assembled every week to pray for God's Spirit to be output. Regular attendance arose at such a rate that by eighteen fifty six they had to have a building project to expand their seat in fifteen hundred because three thousand people were packing in every week to hear the gospel. In one year we recorded one thousand conversions to Jesus Christ. They led an Exeter Hall we found four thousand. And they filled that. And they finally went to the Metropolitan tabernacle had seated 5,000 and was built from floor to seal every week. And God's spirit has outpoured on a people who have learned to grieve over the fall of Joseph. In our day, Francis Schaefer has been a one who God has raised up to grieve over the fall of Jesus Joseph in our day. May we join with it? Will we follow in his trail? May we come tonight and see what it means? To grieve over the fall of Joseph and how God would raise up in our midst those who we would use mightily to transform this structure, this culture, even where Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, teach us how to grieve over the fall and the ruin of Joseph in our day. Teach us, Lord, to grieve over sin and over sinners, those that we have shared your gospel with and have turned away. Teach us, Lord, to grieve over a society. And culture that's turned its back upon you. Lord, we pray that you'd strip us of our self-confidence, that you would show us Jesus and lift it up. Or that we would be so concerned that people Bow the knee before him. Then we would be moved emotionally to see people ignoring him. We would actually grieve over people who ignore our Lord Jesus. Lord, if there's somebody Here this morning, who has never bowed to Jesus Christ, we pray that you would lift up that one. Show him your power, your mercy, and your grace. Show, Father, what you have done in Jesus Christ to bring it to yourself. Strip her out. And shadow their self-confidence until they must lie over before you and cry out for mercy and receive it even to everlasting life. Lord, make us a people who cry out to you. Lord, say the blessing. Our hearts will weak if you don't send it. In Jesus' name. Amen.