I have the opportunity to introduce our guest speaker this morning. Uh the last, like I said earlier in the series of uh our missions kind of pseudo month, I guess you could say. Uh Tito Padilla, he and his wife Kim and their three children serve in the El Paso uh Juarez area. They serve with MTW and Beam. You may not know, but Tito, for those who've been here a long time, you know, Tito was uh uh an intern here for two years. Uh they've also served in South Africa Spain and again now in Juarez. Tito's one of my favorite mission speakers. I've been here for almost five years and just hearing him preach really uh brings joy to my heart. So we're excited to have him here this morning. I just wanna let you know following the service we're gonna have uh Tito have about a thirty to forty minute presentation to talk more about what he's what God's called them to in uh the Tex Mex border region. So please stick around following the service for that time. You it it's really hard to um preach after that fine performance. Um and I hope the parent of that young lady was videotaping that. I I think that's this precious and uh later on in life she will enjoy watching that when she's a teenager. That's that's what I tell my girls. I says, I'm gonna blackmail you and uh pull out all those old videos Thank you. Thank you for praying for us. Thank you for loving us. It is a delight to be here. Greetings from Kim and my kids, Joshua, Rebecca, and Elizabeth. They're holding down the fort over in the on the border and so they freed me up to come here. God is good. Well you turn in your Bibles to Jonah. Very familiar story But I want us to read the last chapter of Jonah. Jonah chapter four Also, want to give you greetings from the other brothers and sisters that with whom we labor And Beam, the Board of Evangelism Mercy Ministry, Jean Bowman and Luann, his wife, you they've been here, and uh some other folks from Juarez um that you've labored with. So Let's give attention to God's Word in Jonah chapter 4. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. And he prayed to the Lord and said, Oh Lord, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish. For I knew that you are gracious, God, and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and relenting from disaster. Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. And the Lord said, Do you do well to be angry? Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city and made a booth for himself there. He sat it he sat under it in the shade till he should see what would become of the city. Now the Lord God appointed a plant and made it come over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head to save him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant, but when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant so that it withered When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah so that he was faint, and he asked that he might die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. But God said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry for the plant? And he said, Yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die. And the Lord said, You pitied a plant for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in the night and perished in the night. And should not I pity Nineveh, that great city in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who do not know their right hand from their left, and also much cattle? Pray. Lord, we ask that you would teach us, that you would magnify your glorious grace against this backdrop of Merciless and compassionless hearts. Would you by your Holy Spirit examine us And would you direct us to Jesus that we might see him in his splendor and seeing him might be moved. To serve you here and around the world. But we ask in that precious name. Amen. I want to tell you about two people that uh I've had the I guess opportunities to serve in different ways, but also us at Las Tierras Church in El Paso. One I'm going to call Joe and the other one I'm going to call Maria. They're not the real names. Now both of them, well they have great needs. One's American, the other is Mexican. But they both have tremendous needs, emotional needs, and very needy people spiritually as well. They can't pay their bills. They can't pay rent. They can't pay the electric bills. They have debt. They have problems all around. Their lives are a mess. Except as I consider both of these people, Joe and Maria, I realize that I have compassion towards Maria, and I have very little compassion. Towards Joe. They're both needy. But my heart is not very much bent in showing mercy to Joe. Now, Joe and I have some history. He doesn't like me. Imagine that. And he's had occasion to say quite a few things about me that now I suppose some of it's true and some of it's not true And see it's kind of jaded me toward him. Let me take it out of the personal for a moment. As you think about folk that you feel compassion toward You think about them and you think about others and you go, Well, I'm don't have much compassion to that person. But let's take it out of the personal, let's move it into the realm of nations For whom do you feel more compassion? For the Japanese people or for the Libyan people? I suspect that if your heart is anything like my heart, there are moments when we have selective compassion and selective mercy. Mercy. What is this about my heart that will extend mercy to some sinner, but yet to other sinners will withhold it? Is this selective compassion really a compassion that's born out of the gospel? Or is this something out of a heart that's yet to be transformed and penetrated by the gospel? As we come to this last chapter of Jonah, you know the story, very familiar story God calls Jonah to go and preach to the Ninevehites, go to Nineveh, but he doesn't go. He goes in the opposite direction. You remember that? He takes a ship, he boards a ship, and he goes in the direction of Spain, some say, and Tarshish The other side of the Mediterranean Sea. Why? Because there's no way that he's gonna go and preach to these who are sworn enemies, the sworn enemies of Israel, these Assyrians in modern day Iraq But God in his compassion and his mercy goes and restrains Jonah. He's on this ship, they throw him overboard. Go into the sea and there's a great fish that swallows him up. And there in the belly is a great ship of this great fish He has some sort of repentance and confession. And God gives him another opportunity. And then he goes to Nineveh. And lo and behold, he arrives in Nineveh and he preaches not a very grace-filled sermon. Forty more days, and this is going to be Nineveh's going to be overthrown. I think in Hebrew it's five words. That's it. And lo and behold, what happens? They turn from their sin. And they seek God. They humble themselves before God, and God relents from the destruction that He had threatened them. Now think about this. Isn't this, wouldn't have this been just a great place to end the story This is wonderful. This is what every missionary dreams about. Let me preach to the city of Sudajuarez and let them all come to faith in repentance. And believe me, people of God, you would know about it. Right? Well, but you know. The story doesn't end with rejoicing. The story doesn't end with celebration. It ends with a prophet of God who's angry. He's angry, and what's displayed in Jonah's heart is a merciless, compassionless life. But what's intriguing is that Jonah's merciless heart is the backdrop for highlighting God's compassion. And I am convinced that part of my struggle as a missionary, as a pastor, and perhaps part of your struggle too Is that the compassion and the mercy born of the gospel doesn't penetrate that deep into our heart Oh selectively it does. With some people, yes. With some nations, yes, but not with all nations and not with all peoples. And so I want us to look at Jonah's complaint, first of all. Well we see it's a religious man's resentment and then God's confrontation of Jonah. Jonah. First, Jonah's complaint. Verse one in chapter four of Jonah it says, But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry It says, it displeased Jonah. What displeased Jonah? Well, I think we can say that the Ninevehites turning from the sin Displeased Jonah. And the fact that God relented and God did not destroy them. That displeased Jonah. Now you need to understand that The Hebrew word that's translated displeased is the same word that we find in chapter 3, verse 10, where it talks about the evil. It says how how they turn from their evil way. It's the same root word. And so one scholar translated verse 1 of chapter 4 this way. It was evil to Jonah, a great evil, and a burn to him. You see, You can't say that Jonah was simply displeased, that was just a little bit of discontentment, that he was just a little whiny at the moment. No, there was a deep heart attitude in Jonah. He was angry at what God was doing. It was a matter of fact, it seemed evil to Jonah that God would show mercy to this people He was essentially saying, God, you got it wrong. How can you show compassion to these wicked It's as if one pastor said, it's almost like he's equating God's mercy with sin. God you got it wrong. You're too soft on sin. Display your judgment. He's resentful He simply can't stand what God has done. He's angry because the Ninevites, they're a violent people, they're a brutal people. social injustice, cruelty filled that nation. They served multitude of gods. They were no worshipper of God. Not the God of Israel, not the God of Jacob and Isaac and Abraham. How could they receive the same mercy that the people of God, the chosen people of God, had received? Oh, it just didn't make sense. Though he has good theology in verse two. I know you are gracious God. And merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and relenting from disaster. He's using covenantal language. He understands this thing about God's mercy But he didn't want it displayed to others. Jonah says, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. Please take my life. I I mean, Lord, you just saved this whole bunch of people in the city and you know, and I just can't stand it. Just kill me Pastor Jim Keller put it this way. It's just Jonah saying, kill me because I don't want to live in a universe run by loving God like you. Kill me, God, because I don't want to live in a universe Run by a loving God like you. And I ask myself, how can this be? And then I think about my own heart and I understand a little bit better Because I think what we see reflected in Jonah, we see reflected in us oftentimes, this moralistic tendency deep in our heart. This religion, an external religion within our heart. You see, moralistic religious people are concerned about rules. We're concerned about tradition. We're concerned about laws. We're concerned that people obey them And this becomes the ground of acceptance. This means if you obey certain rules and laws and traditions, then God accepts you And so Jonah, the religious moralist, he's angry at God because these people didn't follow the rules. These people didn't even know the traditions. Not these Ninevehites. There's a law to follow. They're prophets. There's the oracle of God. There are customs, their traditions, their sacrifices, there are ways to pray, and none of these things have the Ninevehites done They just don't fit God. They don't fit the pattern. They're not following the rules. Lord, they're immoral people Lord, what you need to do is give them justice, give them what they deserve. Now I can understand that a little bit There are some people that I like to pray judgment on. And I ask myself why See, my moralistic and religious heart withholds compassion and mercy I put compassion and mercy in a straitjacket. Oh, I want wide mercy from God. It's like a huge funnel. Yes, come right down to me, Lord, but when it comes out. It comes out very narrow. I don't understand the wideness of the compassion and mercy of God. I've made it too narrow. If you've ever been to El Paso and Cidal Juarez, what do you see? What divides the cities? It's this river called the Rio Grande, which is not very grandeur. And you look at the river and you go, Wow, that's it to the river. There's this not much there. Some there's sometimes there's barely a trickle there. And if that's all you think about the river, you go, Well, there's that's n there's nothing there But you have to go up further. You go up in the New Mexico and you see the wideness of the river. You see that originally it's broad. And I have to look a little deeper, and I have to look a little higher up, and I have to see that the breadth of God's mercy is much greater than my heart often reveals External religion and moralism will kill The gospel of mercy and grace. You see, Jonah was something of the prequel to the Pharisees It says Jonah hated the Nineveh, so the Pharisees hated the Lord Jesus, and they worked for his destruction. Why? Because Jesus didn't follow the rules, because Jesus didn't follow their traditions. He wasn't in step with the religious program. No, he showed compassion to the prostitute. to the glutton, to the outcast and refugees of society. And that's what makes Jonah a reluctant missionary. And it makes you and I reluctant this religious moralism. I forget how much mercy I've received. And when I forget it, I become very hard and very limiting in the mercy I extend To others. And believe me, God has been good to me. And God's been good to you. But one of the things I understand about my own heart Is that though God has been good, that doesn't mean that the gospel has captivated all of my heart. There's still areas of rebellion deep within me And deep within you. Let me ask you, are there people That you're willing to show compassion toward. And others you say, no, they're not worthy of it You know, there are sinners with a capital S, and then there are small S sinners. Which one are you? Are there worthy sinners and then are there unworthy sinners? Are there deserving sinners and undeserving sinners I am, and you pray for and you support a sinful missionary I want you to think that because that's the truth, there are times When compassion and mercy is so hard to see generated in my heart, I can't do it Some of you who've prayed for us and known us for years, you know that when we were serving in Madrid, Spain, we had some some challenging times and some conflict. There was a division and the team and we Kim and I and another family we worked with a in another area in Madrid and the team went on to do Something else, the rest of the team. I wish I could tell you that I prayed that the balance of the team would be successful. I hoped of course I never said this, it didn't sound too good, but I hoped that their work would be destroyed. I want a judgment for those that I called my brothers and sisters And what God does oftentimes is he exposes our heart. That's a hard look to see the reality of one's own heart. But that's what God does with Jonah. He does with you and me. And so he confronts Jonah And exposes his heart. He could have taken Jonah out. He didn't have to do that with Jonah, but he shows him patient mercy. Yes, he comes with this pouting prophet who's having a temper tantrum. And he engages him in a counseling session of sorts, and he poses three questions to Jonah and a parable. So look with me. In verse 4, the first question. Do you do well to be angry? Jonah, do you have any right to be angry with me? God wants Jonah to examine his heart. To see if he's right in having passed judgment upon God Himself for showing mercy. Is showing mercy and compassion to sinners a bad thing? Absolutely not. But notice Jonah doesn't answer. He goes outside of the city and he builds a shelter. Right? Verse five. He builds a shelter. What's he doing as he goes up on this hill? Perhaps, perhaps The Ninevites will yet be destroyed. Maybe the repentance isn't really real. Maybe it's really not heartfelt. Maybe there's a chance. Just just Hopefully, God, I'm gonna go up on this hill and I'm gonna watch. You know, maybe it's a day there's thirty-nine more days left until the forty day time bomb message expires And maybe I just will be lucky enough to see some hell, fire, and brimstone come down. So he goes up and he builds his little shelter I mean you need a shelter. I mean this is this is not Maryland, you know. It's not green there. It's more like El Paso Intense scorching heat. And so he builds a shelter to provide some kind of shade, but it really obvio obviously wasn't very adequate. And so what does God do? God provides a plant that grows quickly, perhaps even overnight. And so this plant provides a cool shade, wraps around the shelter. So Jonah has some comfort from this tortuous heat. Oh now. He's delighted. And it says he's exceedingly glad. Oh the irony. Did you just taste the irony of this At one point he's exceedingly angry and now he's exceedingly glad. He's a stable man. Have you ever found one? I think just like me And what's a God doing with him? Is God toying with his prophet? No, God's exposing his heart. And you see you see well this Seems kind of cruel. No, but really, it's not cruel. When God exposes your heart, it feels horrible, but don't you know that is grace? That is God be merciful to you so he can see you in our heart. And when you see your heart, what do you do? He wants you to cry out to him. And so this plant that he brings is like this parable, this object lesson. He appoints a plant, it just says he appointed The fish and the plant now here appoints a worm. And you know what happens. The worm causes the plant to wither, to dry up, and to die. Well. Our missionary is not very happy. Well, God's not content just to leave it there with him, and now he appoints a scorching east wind at Sorako. It's one of these winds that can reach, according to scholars, 60 miles an hour, increase the temperature to anywhere from between sixteen and twenty-two degrees Fahrenheit. And so here's the prophet of God waiting for destruction to fall on Nineveh, and he has this intense heat on his head, this hot air blown around him, sand on his face, all around him, being sandblasted. And in verse eight he says, he becomes so faint, he says, he wants to die. Look, I just want to die. And so God asks him a second question. Do you do well to be angry for the plant? Do you see what God has done? Jonah was angry because of God's mercies of the city of Nineveh. Now he's angry because of the withering plant. And what God is doing, he's setting up an argument. But Jonah known as from the lesser to the greater. And what he's doing is his comparison. He's doing this comparison between two things He wants Jonah to see that his compassion for the plant doesn't compare in any way to the compassion that God displays to the Nineveh. And he asked him about the plant. In verse 10, you pity the plant for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in the night and perished in the night. Jonah, did you create this plant? Jonah, was it a gift to you? Did you send it? Yeah, Jonah, you didn't do any of those things, but you were terribly upset. You had compassion to this plant that you didn't take care of. You didn't cause to grow. But Jonah, can't you see? I have more than 120,000 people here That I created in my image, they're mine. They're mine, and should I not have more compassion on them than you have on this plant? They're morally obtuse, these people They don't know the left hand from their right. They're morally clueless. Yes, they're responsible for their sin. They don't know right from wrong. Truth from lies, they can't get out of their sin. They're rebels and they can't get out. And then in verse eleven, the third question And should not I pity Nineveh, that great city? May I not be concerned for this city? Should I not pity them And what we find is a devastating critique of Jonah's heart, of his spiritual condition. You see, God has a right Do you remember the parable of the laborers in the vineyard? In Matthew chapter 20 Jesus tells this parable. The master of a house goes out early in the morning and he gathers and he hires some laborers and he agrees to give those laborers a denarius. And throughout the day He hires other laborers. And finally toward the end of the day, he's one hour left in the workday. And he hires some these other laborers. And so at the end of the workday, he begins to pay them all. But he begins with those who worked who came to work last. What does he pay them? He pays them a denarius. And so those who came to work first in the day who bore the heat of the sun of the day, they expected more. And so in Matthew 20 It says, these worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us, you have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat. But the master replied to one of them, Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Do you not agree with me for denarius? Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to the last workers I give to you. Am I not allowed to do what I choose with what belongs to me? Or do you begrudge my generosity Do you begrudge my generosity? I sometimes begrudge God's generosity. Some of you know that part of our ministry in Las Tierras is that of extending mercy to those in our community. And we've been involved in the construction of two homes And some of you here have labored with us in the home that that belongs to the Rodriguez, Rodriguez family. And last summer you were there doing hanging doors and the doors have fallen off. Don't worry about it, but we've replaced that. The w no, they haven't fallen down. Where's Jim Johnson? He goes, Oh no, it's it's your it's your But you know what's striking about that? There are people who've come up to us and neighbors who said, Why are you helping this family? You know they're really not worthy of it. They don't deserve it. We respond, we we tell them about the grace of God. But what was more alarming was when the pastor of this church where this family attends, at least some of the members attend, he came up to us and I learned this through a colleague of mine. He says, You know, you all are fools What you're doing is foolish. They're not worthy. And it broke my heart. And I can accuse that pastor saying, What kind of pastor are you? And then I I look at my own heart I'm just selectively compassionate about different people. And what God does He cut Crushes any notion of religion in my heart. God crushes Jonah's religious scheme And his moralism. Let me ask you this morning, what's the condition? Of heart compassion within you. Are you selectively merciful? No. Dumb question, right? You are. You are Do you categorize people into a worthy, unworthy sinner, deserving, undeserving nation? What moves you? What will produce in you and in me the gospel compassion, not humanistic empathy merely, but something much deeper, something that this doesn't surface from our natural tendency Listen, I confess to you I am a sinful missionary, and you know what moves me to do that Because Jonah and his story written here for us, I see it as his confession. This is a confession of a reluctant, sinful missionary. How else? How else would he be willing for the Spirit of God to move upon him, to have this enscripturated for thousands of people, thousands of years, to read about a man? Who's selfish? Who pouts? Who's merciless? So everybody can examine his life He's willing to do so because there's something else that's gripped his life. There's something that has set him free. To love the unlovely, to love the enemy. And that's the gospel of Jesus. We had neighbors we had because they've moved out, but There's a young man probably in his early twenties and he had a lot of other young men living in his home and they liked to party. And so being the uh pastor I had to go over, you know, and gently encourage him not to, you know, just turn at four o'clock in the morning would you turn the music down just a little bit? Well, I he didn't like that. And so on different occasions I've had to go over three or four in the morning said, Would you just please turn it down, you know? And we got to a point where it just it was unbearable and I had to call the police. The police came and uh they arrested several people. They had some outstanding warrants Some of the guests in the home. And that was the night that all hell broke loose. Uh this fella began to yell obscenities at four or four thirty in the morning and they were directed right for us. He knew we were awake. Everybody was awake on the street. He yelled more obscenities and he threatened us, he threatened to kill us, time and time again. And every night for the next week, that that was his plan. He was gonna kill us. Now, you know, at first I go, Oh, this guy's just he's a little unstable, but he's a little black Jonah. He'll get over it, but he didn't seem to get over it. But my wife being a more pious saint than her husband decided she was gonna bring some cookies over to this young man. And I go, Are you nuts? Are you nuts? You're bringing cookies. I hope they're laced with a little poison or something like that. He I mean that's the last thing you want to do, right? You you want a little bit of revenge, you want a little bit of justice, because I couldn't understand how can mercy and justice intermingle. I do I couldn't figure that out. But then God in his great mercy, what does he do? He points me to the cross. Because at the cross you see both mercy and justice. At the cross, what do you see? You see Jesus, the compassion of God embodied in Jesus Christ. In Jesus Christ, who took upon himself all my hard-heartedness, all my selfishness, all my self-righteous pride. And he was destroyed. He was destroyed. The wrath of God fell on him, or should have fallen on me And in that wrath, in that justice, I see the glimmer and the beauty of mercy. And it's when I see that that I'm humbled. When I see the cross When I see the sacrifice of one who died for sinners while we were yet his enemies, Christ died for us. And when I see that in my better moments, I am humbled, I repent And the gospel digs a little deeper in my heart Where are you this morning? Who is it that God calls you to demonstrate mercy towards Yes, you do, of the great mercy you've received in this one who is greater than Jonah, in Jesus You who have received mercy freely, give it away And you will know when you do so, it's not because of any great power in you, but it's Christ in you. And then you'll know you are loved That you are affirmed in his love, and he will receive the glory. Because wide is his mercy It's wider than you think. It's wide enough to cover all the nations. It's wide enough to cover you and me. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your mercy toward us. May we give it away freely, as freely as you've given it to us. For we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.