For those of you who don't know me, we're going to be uh looking at Psalm 130 this morning. So if you have your Bible, please feel free to go there. It'll also be on the screen. I'll read the word and then I'll pray and we'll ask God to help us as we learn this text. But Psalm 130, a song of ascent. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits, and in his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning. O Israel, hope in the Lord. For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption, and he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities Let's pray. Gracious Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Would you, by the ministry of your Holy Spirit, help us understand it more? We ask in the name of your Son Jesus. Amen. So just the other day, April 1st actually, was the uh three-year mark where my my first wife passed away. And uh on April 1st I had buried her into the depths of the earth. And as horrible as an experience as that is, if you've ever lost a family member or a friend, it actually fails a comparison to things. There's something else even more worse and more deep and more problematic. Than death, which is sin. And the sin that separates us and God. And so this psalm, Psalm 130, is one of 14 songs known as the Songs of Ascent. And if you're familiar with ascent just simply means to go up. And the song, these 14 songs, I I've I've Shown this up here, I want to give you uh a word of uh encouragement to consider in your own devotions and meditations, you could read through these psalms. They're they're relatively simple and easy and quick. quick to get through, but read them and how would you, if you were to put a one-sentence or a one-line description of the psalm, and this is sort of an example of uh of that But Psalm 130, so all these songs, they are songs that describe the work of God and how he is at work in keeping them, preserving them. Causing the eyes of their hearts and their minds to to worship him and to look upwards and to not look at the circumstances of their lives. And so Psalm 130, though, I think stands out because if we think about the an in a sense, which is to go upwards, we're starting somewhere. And so Psalm 130, I think, gives us the picture. of starting at the lowest depth from which we can start, which is our sin. And so we're going to learn about that today in this text. So that phrase out of the depths and by the way the bulletin outline is just going to be the the text of the word here. So Out of the depths, here's your Hebrew lesson for the morning. It means Mahemakim. And it's used only five times in all of the scriptures, and it means the depths of the sea. So when we're thinking of the imagery here, out of the depth, I want you, and I think that the writer wants us to think of It's as if we're at the bottom of the ocean under weight, under pressure, under dis what may seem like uh emotional and mental despair. Seemingly separated from men, seemingly separated from God. And for some of us, in my work as a counselor, this is kind of, even somebody recently said to me, this is where they're living. It's as if they're just living in the depths and suffering and and hardship. And uh maybe some of you are in a season of life right now. Maybe you're struggling in your marriages or your life as a parent, there's medical struggles. some hardship and what and what have you. And even churches I know can be living in these difficult seasons of life. When I first came here w two years ago, actually I think around this semester time frame, one of the things that we did as a congregation was we set aside a whole uh semester to pray. And so that is, I think, a natural response, which is a response that we see here. Out of the depths, I cry to you, O Lord. And that's the counsel that we receive from the Word when we're in the depths, when we're seemingly separated from God. And so notice the direction of the prayers. These are prayers that are directed to God. You might even say these are tears of assent. Tears that are going up to the Lord. And it's in these moments when I think about my work as a counselor that that really crystallizes my limitation as a counselor, wherein people People can come and they can cry out to me, but sometimes the tears are just way too heavy. I can't bear them in the way that the Lord does. And this is what the psalmist is wanting us to do and what he's modeling for us. To cry out to God with our tears. When we're at the bottom, this is the counsel that we receive. And I and I want to encourage us before we move on that. There isn't a depth too deep wherein when we cry out, the Lord cannot hear. You cannot be so separated from God. Whereas my one of my mentors would say, you cannot screw up your life so badly that the grace of God will suddenly be just cut off and ended. Now, on the other hand, I will say we we can we can sin in ways that we have ramifications for the rest of our lives. Things like that happen for sure. And so it is good to ask this question when we're looking at someone who is in the depths, you know, out of the depths I cry, it is good for us to ask, how did how did so-and-so get there? How did we get into the depths in the first place? And I think we get some clue of that in the next verse, verse 3. If you, O Lord, you can move it to slide three, if you, O Lord, should mark our iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? And so when the writer is in the depths under the profound weights and the burden and stresses of whatever is going on, This is where his mind goes. He's thinking about his sin. That if God were to mark it, he knows he could not stand. When he's, and you can go back up to verse 2, when he's saying, Oh God, hear my voice when he's in the depths, let your ears be attentive, he's begging for mercy. And as he's begging for mercy, he's thinking about his sin. Now, there's a little bit of mixed commentary about whether Psalm 130 specifically is a uh like a psalm of David for instance and and so is David referring to some specific sin or is this sort of a psalm that was actually written even post exile and maybe the writer is giving a meta narrative of Israel. I don't know the exact answer to that, but what I do know is the answer to this rhetorical question: that if the Lord were to mark iniquities, who could stand? What's the answer to that? No one could stand, exactly. And so here's, I want us to dive a little deeper into this verse, and we will get through the whole to the whole psalm, but Here's two questions. Do you mark your own iniquities? Do you ever mark your own iniquities? The other question is, do you ever mark your neighbor's iniquities? Do you ever mark your own iniquities? Do you ever mark your own iniquities? What I mean by that first one, with that first question It can kind of go one of two ways. And one way is that we could do it in a legalistic way, where we can sort of try to keep track of our own good deeds and maybe assume that through that then we're right with the Lord. It's not what I quite mean by that. What I mean is a little bit of what Jesus actually means when he says in Luke 21, 34, I'll quickly just read it for us. This is what he says, but watch yourself Watch yourselves lest your hearts be weighed down with dissipation and the drunkenness and the cares of this life, and that that day may come upon you suddenly like a trap. He's talking about the end times there. Jesus is warning us to watch ourselves. And so let's go, let's go to another example of Paul. This is what Paul says. In Romans 12, 3, he says, For by the grace of God, for by the grace given to me, I say to every one of you, do not think of yourself more highly than you ought. But rather think of yourself with sober judgment in accordance with the faith that God has distributed to each of you. It's Romans 12, 3. And that verse is preceded by A very famous passage, Romans 12. 2, which says, do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And so I think that one of the first fruits of a renewed mind is us taking a sober reflection of how we're inclined to think more highly of ourselves than we ought. So when the Spirit is at work in our hearts, if there's anybody's sin that we're growing in a new awareness of, an increasing awareness of, it's our own sin. The sin that dwells within us. And there's another passage from Romans 7 I know that many would be familiar with. Romans 7. 34. It says, What a wretched man I am. Who will deliver me from this body of death? And if you're if you're if you're like me, you you have a tendency to not only think of yourself more highly. But you you might also not think of yourself as a wretch all that much at times Pride has a way of doing that. I know the pride in my heart. When it gets busy, when it's at work, I'm not I'm not crying out asking who's going to deliver me. I'm I'm more inclined to say, hey, let me show you how you can be delivered. In a judgmental sort of way. And this gets to the second question. You know, do you ever mark your neighbor's iniquities? There's so much trouble and violence in Christ's church is wrought because there's a tendency to mark or a tendency within us to want to mark our neighbors' iniquities. before we take an honest account and look at our own hearts and our own sin. I wonder how much more familiar that sounds with something like what Jesus said. Jesus says in Matthew 7, he gave a very apt adjective To describe the person who is concerned about the speck in someone's eye when there's a plank in our eye, what's the word that he used to describe that individual? A hypocrite. I've I've never I've never personally been called a hypocrite to my face. But, you know, if this if this applies to us Then Jesus is calling us a hypocrite. And that's a good thing. That's good counsel for us to hear. It's a good rebuke for us to hear. You know, again, in my in my work as a counselor You know, working with marriages, working with individuals. There's so much strife because the insistence, like dough, you know, when we knead out dough, there's so much insistence on correcting the other person and the problem of this other person in our life. And one of the ways that we manifest that judgment is through the things that we say. And let me just give another New Testament reference here. James 3 6 says, and the tongue is a fire and a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell. And so the entire course of marriages or family relationships and work relationships, they can be set on fire by the things that come out of our mouths. And so the words that set ablaze, this life that's been set on fire, it's not tethered to an awareness of our own heart and the own sin that dwells within us. And so the moment that we begin we give in, the moment that we give in to thinking of ourselves more highly than we ought, we've we've lit this match, so to speak. And so yeah, there's small gestures, passing comments, things that people say, things that people do. But if the words that come out of our mouths are not tied to an awareness of our own sinfulness, And our own tendencies to think more highly of ourselves, we're going to suffer more than we need, more than we need to. I say this again in all kinds of counseling contexts, but I say this phrase, and this is this is one of my few original thoughts of my life, but You cannot, let me put it this way, the way we respond to sin matters just as much as the sin against us. The way that we respond when someone sins against us matters just as much as the sin against us. So to say another way, we never have permission to sin. No matter how great the sin against us is. And so I have people asking me, okay, Edward, so how do I respond, actually, when I've been harmed or hurt? What really do I need to say or do in that scenario? And so I'll answer that question by asking another question. Do you want to respond like Christ? Or don't you? Do we want to respond like Christ or not? See, when people sin against each other and they harm each other and they hurt each other. They put themselves in what I call an escape room. Familiar with that game where you have to kind of find clues in order to get out of the escape room? And the only way out of that escape room in these contexts that I'm describing is forgiveness. That's the only way out. And so if we want to be like God, we need to entertain what verse 4 is getting at for our own lives. We figure out a way how to apply it to our own lives. But that's what makes the beauty of so of verse 4 so beautiful. Now we can go to verse 4. It says, but with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. And so there's two things that this verse is re-responding to or giving us. It's giving us the solution to the problem of verse 3. Which is forgiveness. And then it's giving us the point of this forgiveness. What's the point of the forgiveness? Well, it's to fear God that he may be feared. So let me un sh unpack a little bit of both of those there. So this is how you and I and Paul Answer the question, who's going to rescue us from this body of death? Like, how is that going to happen? It's going to happen by and through forgiveness. And so we are rescued from what our Heavenly Father has done unilaterally in Christ and applied by his Holy Spirit. Forgiven. We are forgiven if we are in Christ. And so the rescue that Paul needed, the rescue that I need, that you need, is forgiveness. And so that turn of phrase, the butt with you, O God. That is an important turn of phrase. Whenever we're hearing that in in the Bible somewhere, especially if it's it's been preceded by some build-up of a no-win situation where there's no way out, and you hear but with you or but God We need to pay close attention. That's good for us to take note of that moment. But if the Lord counted our iniquities, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness. And so I think a practical question for us is how acquainted are we with the forgiveness that we've needed in order to be reconciled to God? I think we learn from the scriptures that the best way, I think the best way to become acquainted with this forgiveness is we have to we have to work at these two things at once, three and four. We need a growing honest awareness of our own sin. and how much we cannot stand in order to get the real beauty and the grandeur and the greatness of the forgiveness that's in Christ And again, when we're thinking of ourselves more highly, when we're not seeing ourselves that much of a wretch We can be prone to being concerned with consequence of sin against us, right? We might even perseverate on that. And when we're persevering in the consequences of other people's sins, we don't ask what I found to be a little bit of a clever turn-of-phrase in one of the commentaries, which is: what are the consequences of forgiveness? I'm going to read here a piece that I thought was helpful. It says, Thus you see, the doctrine of free forgiveness actually produces in man's mind a fear of God. You might have thought that the opposite would have been said. There is no forgiveness with thee that you may be feared, but that is not so. The opposite of true is true. When there is no forgiveness, Or when man thinks that there is none, what's the consequence? He's been driven to despair, and despair leads to desperate living, and where there is no hope of forgiveness, there is no proper fear of God. And so, practically speaking, some of the consequences of forgiveness are we stop studying fires with our tongue. We stop marking our neighbors' iniquities. To use some more modern parlance, we we let people off the hook in a way. But why fear? And what does it mean to fear God exactly? Well, at least in part we fear because Of the gulf that we've come to see between us and God because of sin. Okay, we fear because we see how great the guilt is apart from forgiveness. And that not even our best acts of contrition can satisfy the wrath of God. So when we see the depths of our sin properly, we're seeing how holy God is, how mighty He is. Again, I want to go back to that imagery of Mahemakim, the bottom of the sea. I've seen sometimes I'll get these YouTube uh shorts that show up on my feed and they're of these massive fishing boats or or navy navy boats or whatever and they're out in the middle of the sea in these raging storms and there's these forty-fifty foot waves And they're just crashing, and it's it's scary. It's terrifying, really But inside the boat, it's completely safe. It's safe inside there. But we wouldn't dare step out of side the enclosed area. And in the same way, our sin is terrifying, but we cannot face our own sin alone. And the weight is beyond us Our sin is too powerful for us. But what is more, the wrath of God is even mightier than our sin. But with God there is forgiveness, that he may be feared. And so what does it mean for us to fear God? It means that we're worshiping with worshiping him with at least these two things in view. that our sin and the wrath that we deserve because of his holiness, yet at the same time we're safe and secure by his forgiveness. And this isn't this isn't just sort of any kind of old forgiveness. Right? Like when you when you bump into somebody in a busy subway system and you say, excuse me, I'll forgive me. This is forgiveness that's tethered. It's tethered to something solid and strong. It's tethered to a person. It's tethered to Jesus Christ. And so let me finish reading up the rest of our text here. In verse 5, I wait for the Lord. My soul waits, and in his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning. O Israel, hope in the Lord For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption, and he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. So what are the things that keep you up at night? What problems right now are you waiting for resolve? And what is the psalmist waiting for here? What is the psalmist waiting for so intently and so badly that it's more than watchmen for the morning? Well he's waiting for the Lord. Sometimes, sometimes our hearts Are more busy waiting for our suffering and our ailment and our struggle to end more than we're waiting for the Lord. More that we want we want things that our pain to stop more than anything else. Sometimes that's where we can be, and sometimes that is what keeps us up at night. And so is your story akin to this meta story of Israel? I mean, what they were waiting for, what the writer here is waiting for, they're waiting for the Messiah. They're waiting for relief from all of their guilt, all of their sin, all of the iniquities that we see promised in verse 8. And what Israel was waiting for, we have, we have in Jesus Christ. So Christ is our hope. We have hope in Christ, and don't take my word for it. Take what is what does the text say here? It says, in his word I hope. So I'm saying these things. That you have hope in Christ. And that's true. But what does the Bible say about that? Let's sort of look at another passage here, Romans 6. 23. For the wages of sin is death. But, and there's that but again, that turn of phrase, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. So if you are in Christ, you're forgiven The question or the question if if you know most of us I know here are in Christ, but maybe you have a friend or a loved one or maybe maybe you're you've been attending CPC for a while and you're not really sure where you stand ultimately, or you're listening online. In God's providence, you're hearing this message of the gospel. There is freedom and there is forgiveness in Jesus Christ. And if you're not in Christ, The other kind of fear is very real. You should fear his judgment. But let me urge you, see, there was a marking that took place. See, our sins did need to get marked somehow, somehow. And for all of us who have come to find salvation in Jesus Christ, God, the Father, did not mark our iniquities against us, but he marked them on Jesus Christ. Every single one. The ones that we forgot about, the ones that maybe we're planning on, every single one has been marked on Jesus. And if this is again unclear, where things need to be more clear, there there are elders in the back who I'm assuming in They will be waiting with eager expectation to to flesh out what what this really means. What does it mean to have forgiveness in Christ? Let's pray. Gracious Father, thank you for Feeding our hearts this morning with Psalm 130. Thank you that you have rescued us out of the depths of sin and death. We rejoice, giving you glory and honor and praise, knowing that when you did set out to mark our iniquities, you did not mark them upon us, but you graciously marked every last one of our sins on your Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. And as the psalmist waited for Jesus' first coming, oh God, we do eagerly wait his second coming. We wait for Christ's return to take us all to be with you where you are. We long to be with you. We wait for you. Like the psalmist, we wait more than watchmen for the morning. In the meantime, O God, do not relent in giving us grace that will enable us to that will enable our hearts to a fuller awareness of our sins so that you may be feared and that you may be worshipped more fully. as you deserve. We love you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.