I asked Richard last night how he'd like to be introduced. And he said, just keep it as simple as one, two, three, four. One, he has a wife named Rachel that he chased halfway around the world on the ship Logos. It's a good name, Rachel. Two, he has two boys, Simon and Jonathan, and they're angels when they're asleep. He spent three years in India with OM and has served on three of OM's mission ships. Four is he served in four corners of the earth in ministry, and Richard has a passion to see the world turned See the church turned inside out so that we can turn the world upside down. See the world turned upside down. And I first met Richard over twenty years ago in Baltimore. Some of you might remember when the Logas was docked in front of Phillips. Any of you remember that? And um I met him at that time and in no time I was on the ship serving. So Richard has a a gift to impact and motivate for service. Welcome, brother. Turn to the person next to you. Actually, stand up or say. Stand up. Turn to the person next to you and say, I'm glad you're here. Smile as well, just so that uh now I want you to turn around to the person behind you and say, Listen up, God has something to say to you this morning. Great, now take the seat. That wasn't too painful, was it? Now you have to excuse me, I go to a church I'm based in Atlanta, Georgia. I'm from Georgia, where it's 60% black this church, and uh when you speak they talk back to you. And uh as you preach, if you're doing well, they say, All right, Jesus. Not so well, help him, Jesus. If it's going bad, take him, Jesus. If it's real bad, take me, Jesus So you can choose one of those four this morning. All right, Jesus. Help him, Jesus, take him, Jesus, or take me, Jesus, uh, this morning. I'm excited to be here. It's amazing Saying uh Jack, how long have you been a Sunday school teacher? Uh not a Sunday school uh a uh a high school teacher? Middle of high school, twenty eight years. Twenty is that wild? We should clap him for that, shouldn't we? Wow, twenty-eight years. And I think I've had it rough. Well, do you like my box, sir? It's a fine box. Thank you very much. Karen. Karen. Karen, do you like my box? Yes. Good. You looked a little unsure. You're absolutely sure, Karen, you like my box? You're absolutely sure. Wonderful. How's your PDA doing? Is it doing all right? Lunch at uh Do you like my box? I do. Good. Good. Do you like my box? Great. Where's your box? I don't have one. You didn't bring a box? No. Wow. You can't have my box. This is my box. I like my box And why do I why do I like my box? Well actually we all like boxes, don't we? We watch a box, work at a box. Live on a box, drive a box, worship in a box. One day they'll put us in a box. We like our boxes, don't we? Why do I like my box? Now talk to me. I know you're Presbyterians, but talk to me. Why do I like my box? Oh safe. Who said that? You get a free book afterwards. Why is it safe? Anyone? I know what's there. And what's not. Why do I like my box? Sorry? Say it again out loud. Oh, I'm the only one in it. Yeah, this is my comfort zone. I like my box. I like to be safe. Hey, the American dream, what is it? Get a big box. Fill it with the latest and greatest. When it fills up, get a bigger box. Raise kids to get their box. Because here's the philosophy. If I have a nice box and I make it safe Then I can be risk free, as risk free as possible. And then I'll be worry free. And then I'll be happy. Hey, if I'm risk-free, I'll be worry-free, and then I'm gonna be happy. And we all want to be happy Is that right? Funny thing is, I've been around the world and I met people in their box And they don't look happy campus. Let's play it safe, risk-free Doesn't seem to be worry-free. In fact, the more stuff you get and the bigger the box, the more you worry about it, how to keep it and keep it from others. I was with a friend recently. His house backs onto a beautiful golf course. He says, Richard, I spend $200 a month watering the grass. It looks like a happy camper. In fact they wanted to move, they had a consultant come in, said you'll have to get a totally new kitchen. That'll cost you fifty thousand dollars He said we were happiest when we lived three years in Japan in a little place. Interesting. And folks, I wonder how much really happens for the kingdom inside this box. That you and I, inside this box, can be nice, respectable, Bible believing. People, nice people, but totally irrelevant to the kingdom. When we're inside this box. I wonder, folks, if it's only when we step out of the box And take a risk and step out into the unknown that we actually make God happy. He says, without faith it's impossible to please me. It's impossible to make me happy without taking steps of faith. That means I know how to make God happy today, but with faith, it's impossible not to please him. When I take a step Out of my box. When did you last take a step for God that was risky? When did you last pray? When did I pray? A risky prayer. I wonder if this is going to get answered. When did we last give a risky gift? You know, a more than, whoo, this, how's it gonna work out if we give this? Or a risky act of service, stepping out of my comfort zone and going for God. Because so often We pray safe prayers, safe giving, safe serving And I wonder how much happens to the kingdom. And how much does it really cause God to smile? Interesting Jesus told told a story about a master, gets his three servants together. When he gives five talents, one, two, one, one. Off you go, invest it, I'll come back and check you out. The one with five, whoop, away goes. Whoopsie, out of here. The one with two, whoop, away goes. The one with one Let me use this. The one with one. Whoops. Hey, hey Joe, you with the fine? Take care! Watch out! Risky business! You could blow it all! Hey you marry with the two! Be careful! Master will not be a happy camper if you blow that! Take it easy! What am I doing with this one? Um wow, what should I do with this one? I feel good. I do I feel good. And uh hey. I'm sure it's gonna be okay with the must It's okay with me. I'm sure it's going to be okay with him. We're cool. We're cool So what's gonna happen to Joe and Mary? They could lose it all. Master's not gonna be happy then, is he? I I I feel okay. I do. I I I think the master you know, we we' we we're tight. I th I it's gonna be good. He's okay. After all, I didn't lose anything. That's good, isn't it? No, I know I didn't gain anything either, but hey Two sides to a coiner. Can't have it all. It's it's gonna be good. I wonder if this is you this morning. You're playing it safe. Inside your box. Your home, your job, your church. It's all nice. Nice life. God's given you talents. Hey. We're cool. And you feel it's okay, your life. And it's okay with the master When he comes back again and checks up on me. Hey, I'm okay. He's okay. We're okay Oh hello Moss. Hey, good to see you. You're looking good. Oh, here comes Joe, here comes Mary. Hey Joe. Wow, Master seems happy with you. Wow, you thought you doubled it? Woo! Wow, enter the the But become a partner? Vice President? Hey, way to go. Hey Mary, you're looking good? Wow, Master seems happy with you You've wow doubled it as well. Become a partner as well. Enter the kingdom. Whoa, please! Go, clear, go! Hello, Mark. Looking good. Been away a while, I don't. Missed you. Oh, you want one moment. Here it is, Must. Hey, you can count to it Down to the last cent took care of that talent you gave me. Here it is, Lord. Listen to these words. This is from the message. Modern paraphrase. The master was furious. That's a terrible way to live It is criminal to live cautiously like that. Hey, what you think's okay, it ain't okay with me. It is criminal to live cautiously like that. If you knew I was after the best, why did you do less than the least? The least you could have done would have been to invest the sum with the bankers where at least I would have gotten a little interest Hey, you were the one, you're a poor investment. A poor investment. Are you living cautiously? You playing it safe? Safe praying, safe giving, safe serving? And think it's okay with the master Well I have news for you. It ain't And then I read these stunning words. I find them difficult to fit in my theological box. By the way, maybe you can help me afterwards. Take the one and give it to the one who risked the most. So Mars says, hey Joe, you were the five risk the most, you could have lost it all. Here's one more. Interesting. And get rid of this play it safe who won't go out on a limb. Throw him into outer darkness. You want a big box? It's called hell. And brothers and sisters, I find those terrifying words that don't fit easy. I try to find my theology to kind of, you know, because I want a nice, safe theology as well. So I can feel comfortable. I'm okay. I'm okay Really, really Folks, on that day when Jesus comes back again, and we give an account for our lives Our lives as men, our lives as women, our lives as husbands, our lives as fathers, mothers, our lives as servants. Will a master say to you, that's a terrible way to live. It is criminal to live cautiously like that. Take this play it safe who won't go out on a limb and get him out of here. Get him out of my sight. Not easy. Because if we play it safe, we want to come to church to be stroked, not smoked I'll never forget. I was in the Midwest last year at a church. And there was um this man, Carl. In fact, I arrived on the Saturday And they said you're gonna stay with Carl. He was a president of a bank. So it's nice. Be a nice house. Met his wife. And she said, Oh, you'll meet Carl tomorrow. He was up uh this morning about five and uh he's at a basketball game. He's selling, would you believe it, t-shirts? To raise money for a mission outreach. I thought that's interesting. Ex-president of a bank, out at five in the morning, Saturday At a basketball game telling selling t-shirts for a mission outreach. He should be sleeping in and then switch on the golf channel He should be in cruise control. Sliding to home plate. Interesting fella. I'd like to meet him. Next morning Carl took me to the church. Man in his seventies, very nice suit, silver grey hair, groomed. But there was something about it was interesting. We grabbed a cup of coffee and then he was just about to go in the sanctuary. They got this new sanctuary. And there was a big sign outside the door. No drinks in the sanctuary. You know, a big placard. They just moved in a two or three weeks before. He said, Oh He said, wow. I liked it when we're in the gym. If you spilt it, you just kind of mopped it up and there was no problem. Now And I thought, wow, there's something about this guy Ex-bank manager, retired bank manager, a little feisty. And during the worship I was near him And there was something about it. You know, you meet sometimes somebody, and there's something about them that you can't quite put your finger on. There's something about them, but it's a little different. And there was something different about Carl. Silver haired, seventies, nice suit. That wasn't different, but something about inside. Afterwards I said, Carl, tell me what's happened to you. Something has happened to you. Tell me the story And Carl looked at me. And he said, Well, it was one Sunday. I was in church, grown up in church, nice church, Midwest, nice Bible-believing church. Four or five hundred folk. Said raised in the church all my life Every Sunday get up, hands folded, sing from the neck up. And he said, The Lord spoke to me And said, Carl, your whole life can be summed up like this Hands folded, erect You raise your family like that. Your business. All safe. He said that morning I walked out of church and I knew things had to be different I went home, sat with my wife at the kitchen table, and I said, honey, I don't know how many more years God has got for me But I played it safe all my life. I think we should sell this great big house. Sometimes I don't even know if you were there. Phone you. See if you're in. Or check if the car's in the garage. He said, I want to get my four kids together. I'd set up a big investment for their futures. I'll give them something. And he got his four kids together. Told them the moves. You're going to get something, but not what you're going to get He said I played life all like this all my life. And I want to do something. The years God gives me, and the money I have, and the prayers I pray. For the kingdom, and especially for those who have little or no opportunity to hear good news And he did it. Sold the great big house where the two of them were in it. And the boat. And the big cars. Got his four kids together. And the funny thing is, folks When I looked at Carl, silver haired, nice suit, distinguished looking man, there was like a two-year-old running around in sight. It was like he'd stepped out of his box and he wasn't coming back Because folks, this is a terrible way to live. And this is a terrific way. It is criminal to live cautiously like this. The terrific way to live is to live courageously. Which way are you going to live? Cautiously or courageously? A terrible way to live, or a terrific way to live What is okay with you or what is okay to the master And if this morning you'd say, you know what? I want to step out I want to pray some unsafe prayers. I want to give an ungi unsafe gift, even this morning in the giving time. Give like I've never given before. I want to step out in a mission experience in this next year. I just challenged the team in South Africa to go to China. Anyone here this morning would say, you know, the way I'm living is not quite as okay as I thought it was. And when the master comes again, I want it to be okay with him. Just stand with me now. Stand with me now. Anyone this morning? Lord, may there be some Carls here this morning who walk out and go home and sit with their wife and say, Honey, I can't play it safe the way I've played it. Lord. Lord, I ask you this will be an out-of-the-box church Lord, this fine Presbyterian church. But be an out-of-the-box, box, risky church in its praying, in its giving, in its serving. And Father, we talk to you an out-of-the-box God, who sent your son, and your son stepped out of the box when he could have played it safe. And step down into our world. And the Son says, as the Father had me step out of my butts. So I want you to step out of your box Lord, may we never be the same. In Jesus' name. Amen