This is an exciting time for us as a church. You've been hearing that in one way or another. Uh you think of the contract signed and dramatic process going on in the construction over at our old campus. There is no more lobby there. Things are disappearing rapidly. A lot of stuff going on there. The search committee meeting weekly Every Tuesday evening, praying and seeking for the person that God would have to come here and to be the team leader, they're also making progress. This morning, kicking off our academic year of ministry, bunch of tables out there for different kinds of ministries. Encourage you to go out there and walk around. They're not going to grab you, they're not going to bite, just walk around and see what's there. either for ministry or perhaps for a small group. I have a piece of a table out there for the Sunday morning prayer teams Uh, you know that um we encourage people to come and spend one Sunday morning a month praying behind the curtain. There's always a couple people back there praying for God's work If you'd like to join that team to uh be praying for God's word to make power and change lives, then welcome you to stop by the table and sign up and we'll give you more information. So a lot of things going on there. Now, as most of you know, this is also my last fall at Columbia Presbyterian, and I decided I prayed long and hard about how to spend this time. And I've decided to revisit the book of Ephesians. I am planning to preach nine sermons on key texts from the book of Ephesians. It's interesting to me that in 1996, when I decided to preach on Ephesians, I planned about nine sermons. And those of you who chuckle know it turned out to be 125 sermons over six years. This time it really has to be about nine sermons. I don't have the option Now when I said that I was going to finish Matthew early and finish that last spring, I mentioned that it was because I had I said several sermons that I would like to preach that I just wouldn't get any other chance and so I had a lot of fun laying out all the things I would like to preach and I probably came up with seventy, seventy-five sermons and started narrowing that down to what might be manageable. And so why have I decided to repeat a book rather than just give you some more things that now I'll probably never get to preach, and at least not here. I realized as I put those sermons together that they lacked continuity and they weren't strategic That is to say, there were things I wanted to preach. It'd be a lot of fun and delight for me, but I thought at a time of transition Because the book of Ephesians is so rich, after all, 125 sermons didn't do it justice, so I figured there's a few more things that could be mined out of the treasures and the riches of that But that it would be continuous and it would be those things which would reaffirm our core values and our philosophy of ministry as a church. And through all the transition, as staff changed and the facility changed, I think it's good for us to be able to once again reaffirm This is who we are. This is what God has said that we are to be and how we are to function as a church for the months, for the years ahead, and whatever else changes. After all, the book of Ephesians, as I mentioned when I preached this thing long ago, is Paul's manual for church growth. Well, not really. It's really his manual for instructions for how to be a healthy church, with the understanding that healthy churches grow. So it's how to be a healthy church. It's biblical principles for us as a congregation. Therefore, I hope that God will use this time of revisiting some of those principles. I am not re preaching. Nine messages. Those of you who are looking to recognize them probably will not recognize. It's nine texts. With a different approach to sum up what God is saying through this book. And today I want to begin with an overview. The overview of the book of Ephesians. Two ways to get a handle on what the book of Ephesians is about. And it's done, I believe, best through two pictures. Two pictures. The first picture is the picture of a scale. A scale that depicts to you and to me what I call gospel grammar. The second picture is a picture of four postures. Four postures that speak about the process of growth in the Christian life. So this morning, just two main points. First of all, gospel grammar. That's the first line. Gospel grammar. And you heard read uh from Ephesians 3 and 4, but here is the key verse, I believe, that unlocks the meaning of the book of Ephesians. It's Ephesians 4, verse 1. Not a verse that you would probably put on a plaque to put on your desk or on your wall, but I think it is this verse that unlocks the meaning of Ephesians. Paul says, as a prisoner for the Lord then. I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received. Now, I look back again preparing for this and I'm still amazed. that I have never found a commentary on Ephesians, and I have a number of them. I've never found a commentary that stumbles over that word worthy. Because if you look at it and take it at face value, that should jar you. Paul says, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. So it seems like he has given you three chapters of grace and the new life that you have in Christ. And then he says, now get out there and live worthy of that. So with one hand he has laid a foundation of grace, and with the other hand, he rips it away and says, get to work, live worthy of it. How could he possibly do that? And I don't know of any commentary that wrestles with that or that solves what I think is that critical problem because I think it's the key to the whole understanding of the book of Ephesians. The reason that it is not taking away grace is because the word worthy is a word axios, which means literally to bring the balance of a scale into equilibrium That's its simple, basic root meaning, to bring the balance of a scale into equilibrium. Therefore, the Harris translation of that verse, as a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to walk in equilibrium. To bring your life into equilibrium with the calling that you've received. So picture me as a scale Well on the one side you put a five-pound weight, so the scale goes like this. On the other side of the scale, you've got this large bag of rubies. And you pour those rubies onto that scale, and when it comes into balance, equilibrium, it is that word in Ephesians 4:1, Axios, it is in equilibrium. Now I picked that Ruby's illustration because that's a verse of Scripture. Proverbs chapter 3, verse 15, the Greek translation of that verse. says wisdom is more valuable than rubies and then the New Test the uh Greek translation of that verse uses this word axios where it says No precious thing is equal to her in value. In other words, what the book of Proverbs is saying there is picture a scale. And on the one scale, you put God's wisdom And that wisdom is what the Bible says about who God is, who we are, how to live, how to be able to live this life. Then you begin to pour, it says, rubies. And as you pour rubies, you find that it never brings the scale into equilibrium. No matter how many rubies, Proverbs 3. 15, go check it out, no matter how many rubies you pour onto the scale, wisdom is always weightier. Paul gives you the same kind of idea in the New Testament. He uses that same word, Axios, in Romans 8 and verse 18. In that case, what he's doing is saying, take your present sufferings. Now put those present sufferings on a scale. He uses the word axios, put it on a scale. Now he says, put on that other side of the scale the glory that's going to be revealed in you in all eternity. And he says the glory that's going to be revealed in you will always far outtip the scale, no matter how great the sufferings are. It'll never use the word anaxios. It'll never be brought into equilibrium. Okay, with that background now, you come to Ephesians 4. 1 and see that what Paul is saying here. is that I've given to you three chapters of your new life in Jesus Christ. What He has done for you, His grace, His mercy, the peace he's given to you. Now I am saying to you as his prisoner, bring your life into axios, into equilibrium, because right now it's not. Right now, you look at the gospel, you see all this new life that you have. You see what the Holy Spirit in you means, all the rest of those things, and you say, but my experience is not in any kind of balance with that. So what Paul is saying is, I want to show you now how to bring your life more into equilibrium with your calling. That's what this is about. So gospel grammar is to say that on the right side of the left side of the scale, as you look at it, the left side of the scale, chapters one to three, you have all the facts about the Christian life. Those are, if you remember grammar, those are the indicatives. Then you have on chapters four, five, and six, the left side of the scale, your right side of the scale, you have The commands in chapters four, five, and six, chapters one, two, and three are almost all statements of fact. Almost no commands. Chapter 4, 5, and 6 is mostly commands, very little statements of fact unless it's referring back to chapters 1, 2, and 3. And gospel grammar is simply saying The imperatives are based on the indicatives. The commands are based on the facts. What you are to experience How you are to live this week is based on who you are and what you have in Jesus Christ. Now that is so precious, brothers and sisters, because It means that everything God's called you to do, He has constituted you and empowered you by His Spirit to be able to do it Therefore, the Christian life is discovering more of the gospel and how it applies to your current situation so that you bring your living into equilibrium with your calling. That makes sense. Let me give you some examples of what I'm saying there. Another way of summing it up would simply be to say the book of Ephesians is calling you to be what you already are in Christ. Be in your experience what you already are in your life in Christ. And you see some examples that I've put down there. Next blank, every command in chapters four, five, and six is based on a fact in chapters one, two, and three, some examples of that. Chapter 1, verse 4, you are holy, therefore, chapter 4, verse 17, beginning of chapter 5, therefore be holy. You are made new, chapter 2, therefore live as a new creature, chapter 4. You are one with every other believer. Chapter two. Therefore live in peace with other believers. Chapter 4. in the beginning of chapter 5. You are sealed with the Spirit, Chapter 1. Therefore be filled with the Spirit, Chapter 5. You are pure, therefore be pure In every case, it's simply saying, by faith, learn to appropriate, to grasp, to live in your experience that which is the new nature that God has already given you. Now how do you do that? The way you do that is through the four postures that Paul constructs this book around. So the first point in the Christian life is the process of discovering more about the gospel, your new life in Christ, learning through your trials and your joys, to trust and obey so that your experience is coming more into equilibrium with that which is already true of you in Jesus And you do that through four postures. Sit, kneel, walk, and stand. I probably could have paused and most of you or some of you could have said, what are the four postures? Sit, kneel, walk, stand. Yeah, okay, good. Thank you. I know you would have gotten that. All right. What he does is gives two postures in the first half. Sit, kneel. Two postures in the second half. Walk and stand. The bulk of the first three chapters is teaching you how to sit. Then there's a few paragraphs at the end on how to kneel. Bulk of the second two three chapters. is on how to walk. Then there's a few verses at the end on how to stand. You see in your bulletin outline where those sections begin and end. So I won't go over that. You wouldn't get it by my just saying it anyway. Just look at it and look it up if you want later. But I want to go a little bit for the rest of the time over what those four postures mean. The first one then is to learn how to sit. You read in chapter 1, in verse 19, when Paul has talked about what he wants you to know. Wants you to know him, wants you to know your hope in him, and he wants you to know his power. And he describes that power in verse 19. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms When Jesus finished his work, his death on the cross for your sin, and he was buried, he rose, God raised him up. He ascended into heaven, and he sat down at the right hand of God because his work was finished. That was the depiction that Jesus had nothing more to do to save you and me from our sins and make us sons of his glory and heirs of his kingdom. Then in chapter two, he describes the wretched condition that you and I are in. We are under God's wrath. We have walked in our own way in disobedience. And then you have that gigantic, huge but in verse five, uh verse uh four, excuse me. But Because of his great love for us, God who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ. Raised him up, raised us up, even when we were dead in transgressions. It is by grace you've been saved, and God raised us up with Christ and seated us with Him in the heavenly realms. So the essential gospel that Paul's portraying here is that Jesus died for sinners, paid for their sins once for all. Rose up because death could no longer hold him, seated at the right hand of God because his work is finished. Now he takes you and me, who realize our wretchedness, realize I'm in disobedience, I deserve God your wrath. And he says, but because of his mercy, not because of anything you've done, not because of anything I've done. Because of his mercy, he raised you up with Jesus He seated you with Jesus because there is nothing left for you to do to gain his favor. Amen? Nothing. You rest. The gospel is learning to rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Now, as I had done many, many years ago, let me again make a suggestion. For being able to preach the gospel to yourself. Every morning I do physical calisthenics. The older I get, the longer it takes. My wife has said, you probably will have to give up your job fairly soon because it takes you half the morning to do your exercises. The push-ups, the stretches, the squats, the sits, the you know, um, you know, twice a week, the runs and you know I mean it just goes on and on And uh so I finally get down, you know, about an hour, hour and a quarter after I get up to finally be able to go eat breakfast. Well, what I want to suggest to you here are some spiritual calisthenics. When you wake up and you toss yourself out of the bed, the first thing to do is to sit on the edge of the bed. And to imagine I am now resting, sitting in the finished work of Jesus Christ Lord Jesus, you have done everything in taking my sin by your death on the cross, in giving me your righteousness Crediting me with the life that you have lived so that I have nothing to do this day to gain and earn the favor of God. I sit in your finished work. I enjoy it here for these few moments. This day, whatever I do, whether I screw up or whether I do things that I say I was pretty proud and satisfied of that. It makes no difference in how much you love me. It makes no difference in your favor toward me. You may discipline me, you may bless me in different ways, but I am resting in the finished work of Jesus. That's the first thing about the gospel. The second thing is then to kneel. Paul says in chapter 3, in verse 14 For this reason, I kneel before the Father. Then verse 16 he says, I pray. He prays to know two things. So he says, I kneel to pray and ask God to do two things. So I suggest that you get up from the bed, you turn around, kneel by the edge of the bed, and the two things that Paul prays for at the end of chapter 3. Are the two things that you and I most need. Number one, he says, to know more of the dimensions of your love for me. And secondly, to know more of your limitless power in my life. So, Lord, two things I pray that you will show me this day. More of your love for me. More of the length and the breadth and the height and the depth. And notice that when Paul says that in chapter three He says, You being rooted and grounded in his love, you pray to know it. So knowing it doesn't change it, it just makes me aware of it So pray, Lord, help me to know. Think about that day where you may experience rejection, where there is going to be some test. That is going to try and make you feel unloved. Lord, help me this day, in this situation, to know more of your love for me in Christ. And then as he goes on, as you heard Dan read from the end of chapter three, that his power is far beyond anything we could ask or imagine What challenges are you going to face that day? What challenges will you face tomorrow? Lord, I'm not up to this. You know, my power is brought to an end in my weakness. I need your strength. And so you kneel and you ask for God to do those two things. Then you get up and you walk to the bathroom. At least that's where I always walk. That's probably pretty safe to say that's where you'll head. And as you walk to the bathroom, whether it is five steps or fifteen steps or whatever it is, You imagine I am now walking in this new life this day, step by step. I'm not leaping in one jump to the bathroom. I'm not crawling to the bathroom. It is one step in front of another. Seven times in this book, Paul uses that word walk. Most translations translate it live. But you have in your bulletin outline the seven times that that word appears as walk. And so in front chapter four, verse one that we've read here, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to literally walk. in equilibrium with the calling you've received. But then in chapter 417 he comes back to that idea and he says, so I tell you this. And I insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles walk. So it appears twice in that verse. You don't walk as you used to walk. The walk is how you live. It's your day-by-day, step-by-step experience. You don't walk that way anymore. So you ask, Lord, show me how you want me to walk. Show me from this scale of the infinitely heavy wisdom of God that far outweighs bags of rubies. Show me what's a better way to live. Instruct my heart. Help me to see the ways that I want to walk that are my own way and not yours. Teach me how to walk. And then ask him specifically, Lord, help me to put off the old nature and to put on the new nature. And we'll get back to that. But remember, Paul describes this walk, this new nature, as putting off old, filthy, dirty clothes and putting on something that's new and clean and spotless. In chapter 4, verses 22 to 24, remember he said, you were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self. Which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, and to be made new in the attitude of your minds, and to put on the new self created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. This is the new walk. So you're walking to the bathroom and you're saying, Lord, step by step, this day teach me how to walk in my new identity in Jesus Christ. You come into the bathroom and if you're like me, probably most of you, first thing you do is you stand there and you look in the mirror. Reality check. As you look in the mirror, you say, there's the enemy. You know, I'm gonna, there's gonna be a struggle today. I'm going to be opposed. There are going to be demons who will want to cause me to doubt you. They will want to discourage me. They will want to distract me. Lord, I take a stand and when I stand there I I take a posture of firm stance in front of the mirror. You know, if you looked at me damn crazy there, seeing kneeling walking, standing and looking in front of the mirror. You know, but you stand there and you think, Lord, help me now to stand against the enemies. It's a reminder. Paul is very practical, he is saying here, as you walk, it's not It's not just going to be a walk in the park and you know I just day by day just learn more how to put on this new nature and God is just empowering me and all this. You're gonna be opposed Satan viciously, maliciously, sneakily will do everything he can for you to say, I don't even know if this is true. I don't know if this new walk stuff is just power positive thinking. It just seems like I am full of troubles and woes. Where is God's power? And so what does he say? Stand in the armor that he provides. So again, look at the verses In chapter 6, for he's bringing things into occlusion, conclusion, he says in chapter 6, in verse 10, finally be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Then verse 11. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. Then he goes on, verse 13, therefore put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground. And after you have done everything to stand, stand firm then with the belt of truth and the rest of the armor that you put on. So learn to be aware that there is a spiritual battle going on for your life and your soul. It's a deadly, malicious battle. But he has promised you, I have given you armor to withstand all of the assaults of the evil one. And you can stand. You can do it in the armor that I've provided for you. I've given you everything that you need. So imagine yourself putting on that armor as you put on your clothes. Preach the gospel to yourself. Wake up every day as a pagan and preach the gospel to yourself. Begin to build your faith, even before you get out of the bathroom. Can you imagine yourself doing that I mean that's not so hard, is it? But we need to do it every da I'm not saying every day you gotta sit on the edge of the bed, you gotta kneel, you gotta you know, that becomes a superstitious thing and pretty soon, you know the you know the Presbyterian church has its liturgy, everybody's got every day they've got to sit, kneel, walk and stand. There it's a cult, you know, it's you know, because if you don't do it, you're not a Christian. I'm not saying any of that. I'm just simply saying from time to time, but I would ask you this week To do it tomorrow and three other times this week just to experience it. Then you decide if you ever do it again in your life or if you do it from time to time. I, you know, I do it every once in a while. The point is to preach the gospel. The point is that Paul has given to you the basic gospel grammar. Learn how to experience by faith what is already true of you in Christ. You do that by learning to rest in him, by learning to kneel so that you might know more of his love and his power, that you learn to walk. Command by command, attitude by attitude. Lord, I think that that sister of mine is in denial. I think she is out to lunch, and I sure hope somebody helps her out. No Lord, give me courage to speak the truth to her in love. Help me to not give garbage talk. Dan read uh to no no unwholesome talk when we went through that. The word's literally garbage. But that which builds up. Why? Because we are already being built up Lord, help me to learn what it means to live by the wisdom of this book in the power of the gospel. So I ask you, what's the Spirit saying to you this morning for this? Which of these postures is the one that you feel is most neglected in your life? What insights about the gospel is God opening up to you from His Word? I encourage you to take some time this next week to read through the book of Ephesians. We'll be looking at it for the next few weeks. You could do one chapter a day. From now until Saturday, read the whole book. Begin to take a hold of the rich treasure that God has given to you, because His word is infinitely rich. Let's pray. Lord, how we thank you that the wisdom of your word outweighs bags of rubies And we don't believe that. There's a lot of things, Lord, that we say, this doesn't make sense to me And I think I understand this better sometimes, Lord, than you do. And I'm going to go with my gut and all the rest of that. And we pray that you would teach us to value the wisdom of your word. The power of the gospel. That gospel which has by pure grace given to us new life in Jesus, so that we are seated with him in the heavenly realms. Waiting till he comes to make the enemies, his enemies, the footstool of his feet. We thank you that whatever trials and suffering that we are experiencing It will be infinitely outweighed by the glory that will be revealed in us. And so, Lord, we pray that you will help us. To bring our living, our experience, our thinking more into equilibrium with that new life in Christ that you have given to us Teach us, Lord, how to sit and kneel and walk and stand in Jesus Christ. In particular, specific ways, fill in the details of each of our lives. We come to you now, Lord, to commit ourselves asking you, please, Lord Do that in us. Give us new, a new step ahead in our walk with you this day, this fall, as we look at the riches of this book. And seek to live it, experience it for your glory by your power in Jesus Christ. Amen.