Be here this morning with you. Uh surprised to have the snow. Uh when I left home in Rockville there was no snow and then as soon as I hit one of these mountains up in the hills of Colombia off of Ruana, I began to see white all of a sudden. And then it got better and better, prettier and prettier That's wonderful. And I'm glad that this uh cross podium is just the right height for me. I'm not sh I'm not sure about Todd and uh and Herman, but this is ideal and There's a clock right in front of me, so uh my time is up. Good morning. You're probably wondering whether I would have an accent or s or not, right? But a guy named Su Chang, you know, uh how good could his could his English be? I used to get kitted all the time back in uh LA when I used to work for a bank out in Beverly Hills. They thought I was so young, they said, Since when did Bank of America start hiring high school students? And I was twenty-four at that time And then, hey, I finally met a boy named Sue. Those of you that are laughing are old enough to know that one by Johnny Cash. Some of the younger ones you go home and ask your parents about that one. But here's a real boy named Sue. This is my first time worshiping here at Columbia Presbyterian Church, but I want you to know that I'm already familiar with your church and your deep compassion and commitment to world missions. Herman was uh kind enough to send me a lot of information regarding the missions program and I'm excited of what's been happening since 1993. And to dedicate a whole month out of a year to the purpose of missions speaks volumes about the pastoral leadership as well as the congregation. I also want you to know that uh you already are impacting my family's spiritual growth. Let me explain what I mean by that. Every Thursday morning. On my way to church right here in Columbia, the Korean American Church of Philippi where I'm currently serving as staff, I drop off my wife, Kathy, and my four-year-old son, youngest boy Nelson. And uh for Nelson this is school. And uh he's got two older brothers that are already in school, so this is a wonderful time for him to uh grow in uh the study of the Bible and also come to know Jesus Christ. I want to commend you and thank you for your partnership with BSF in opening up your church to the ministry, especially in how it has impacted my family. My wife is a better wife and I love her even more. because of her growth spiritually through this ministry which is related to your church. And as part of my contribution to this partnership, because I've benefited from you already Every time I drive by Route 108, which is at least twice a day, on my way to church and on my way home, usually five to six times a week, I will pray for you And the people that make up this church. Not the building, but the people that are dispersed throughout the greater Washington and Baltimore area. So that you would be living witnesses where you are I want to begin this morning with a question. What do American Express, MCI, Hertz, Hyatt Hotels, Korean Airlines, Kincos? The PTA at Centennial High School, the European Economic Community, Habitat for Humanity, World Vision, Stuart and Jill Disco, Paul and the Philippian Church have in common. Did you get all that? Now I know it's gonna take you an hour to figure that one out. Since I only have twenty-five minutes. I'll get to the answer. The answer is that they're all partners in one form or another. American Express, MCI, Hertz Renacard, Hyatt Hotels, Korean Airlines, US Airways, they're all partners together in that every dollar that I charge up on my American Express, and I do I am earning points with all of their partners. When I go to Kincos and use my American Express, I get a ten percent discount. You didn't know that, some of you. You should use your American Express get a ten percent discount. I also receive special discounts at places such as uh Radisson and Hyatt Hotels And MCI sent me a $160 check last year thanking me for partnering with American Express and MCI. as her long distance as my long distance carrier. This is a partnership that's based on the bottom line, profits. It makes sense for businesses to partner together The PTA Centennial High School is an example of parents partnering with educators to build a better school and to improve the educational experience of their children. The European Economic Community is not so much a political partnership as much as an economic partnership. And their goal is to become competitive, even though there are twelve independent countries to be more competitive with the rest of the world, especially the Pacific Rim. Habitat for Humanity? Uh President uh Jimmy Carter is probably the one that's most famous associated with that ministry. They partner with destitute families in building homes and giving them interest-free loans World Vision partners with churches, families, and some of your families, as well as individuals, to provide relief and development to millions of children that need sponsors in order to live, in order to get an education. Stuart and Jill Briscoe, partners as husband and wife, probably the most the oldest partnership that is well, stick on to the Trinity, right? Because God said, Let us make man in our image. That's partnership between the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. But then Adam, Adam and Eve, they're true partners. As husband and wife. But Stuart and Jill Bristol remind me of a partnership of a husband and wife in ministry. Finally, Paul and the Philippian church were partners together in the gospel. If you read Philippians 1:4, that's what he says. The koinonia that they experience is the word fellowship, which is also another term for partnership. And throughout the letter he talks about the different aspects of his partnership with that church and their partnership in his mission's ministry. The theologist George Peter summarized Paul's partnership in the gospel with those churches in the early days this way. Paul's partnership relationship was one of full participation in the life of the churches And in their mobilization and enlistment in prayer, personnel, and finances in evangelism. Paul discovered the resources for all his advances in evangelism and church expansion in the churches he planted Thus the churches became involved with Paul from the very beginning in an aggressive program of evangelism and church multiplication. It was a total partnership ministry from the very beginning. This morning our focus will be to unpack some of the issues that are relevant to becoming partners in missions. Partners in missions or partners in the gospel as we face the great challenge of world missions in the 21st century. What I'm going to do is I'm going to focus on Romans chapter ten, verses twelve through fifteen A. And I want to really cover some of the more basic uh proves that Paul outlines in those verses regarding this gospel, the mystery of the gospel, regarding the message of the gospel, the means of salvation And then finally the models or the model for partnership and missions today. First of all, we want to unpack what it means to reveal the mystery of God. Ephesians chapter 3, Paul expounds at a greater level what the mystery of God is, that Jews and Gentiles are one body in Christ. I don't know if there are any uh Jewish brothers here, but if there are, would you raise your hand? Do we have any Jewish Brothers in the Lord with us. Well, I don't see any hands, so that makes us all Gentiles. We are all Gentiles That have been grafted in, according to Romans 9, 10, and 11, into the body of Christ, through Christ. That is the mystery In Galatians chapter 3, verse 28 and 29, Paul wrote this: There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to promise Romans 10 12, he states the same truth in this way. For there is no difference in the New American Standard, it says there's no distinction. Between Jew and Gentile, the same Lord is Lord of all and richly blesses all who call upon him. Now, for those of you who might have or should have taken the Perspectives course. And I I have a partnership with the U. S. Center, so I'm plugging the U. S. Center's Perspectives course offered through the U. S. Center. And there are about seven courses offered in this area. You know that every time you come across the word blessing, blessing in the context of God's plan of salvation, it should immediately bring to mind Genesis 12, 2 and 3, otherwise known as the first. Great Commission. The first Great Commission. The first Great Commission was not given in Matthew 28. It was reiterated by Jesus. The first great commission was given to Abraham in the covenant that God made with Abraham in choosing him to bless him and to make him a blessing to all the families of the earth Let me take you back several thousand years to the days of Abraham before the concept of Jews and Gentiles ever emerged in human history. In God's call to Abram out of Ur of Chaldees in Genesis 12, God promised to bless him. That included spiritual blessing as well as uh a posterity, a lot of children born to him, as well as wealth and land. It was a complete blessing. God would make him a great nation, make his name great, and by making him a source of blessing, he would bless all the families of the earth. Check Genesis 12, just verses 1 through 3. God promised to Abraham that all the families of the earth, which is referred to in the New Testament, as peoples, Nations or even the word tribes in Revelation 5. 9 is used to describe that same term. God said that they would be blessed through him We also know that from Galatians 3:29, which I just read, that anyone, Jew or Gentile, male or female, slave or free, black or white or Asian, or American, Indian, or whoever you are, whoever believes in Jesus as their Savior and Lord. Is Abraham's offspring and heirs according to that promise made in Genesis 2. 3. The point is this the mystery of God which has re has been revealed is that there is no difference, no distinction between Jews and Gentiles in Christ. The same Lord is Lord of all. He's the Lord of the Jews, he's the Lord of the Gentiles. He's the Lord of the reached and evangelized, He's also the Lord of the unreached and the least evangelized, and the people that are living in some of the most remote corners of the world. What I mean by that specifically is that Jesus is Lord of the Muslims and the Hindus and the Buddhists and the Communist Chinese and the North Koreans and the tribal peoples. Even Israel, back in Palestine and Jerusalem. He's especially their Lord and Savior To those that place their faith in Jesus as the Messiah, as Yeshua, or as Issa, as the Muslims will say, as the Son of God as the one crucified, dead, buried, and risen again. And those persons who have an equal uh who have a faith in that same Lord have an equal standing before the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as heirs. of the promise made to Abraham in Christ. In Christ, there is no distinction. We're all one. And I think you can say amen to that. Now, those of us that are part of the Gentile church may not be profoundly touched or moved by such a statement. But for Paul, the Pharisee of Pharisees. Born of the tribe of Benjamin, who hated the church, who hated the Gentiles. And as a Jew man, he would awoke every morning thanking God that he was not born, first of all. A gentile, second, a woman, third, a slave. That was Paul Until the Damascus Road experience, and until the revelation of God, the complete revelation of God, while he was in the deserts of Arabia for three years. But for Paul, a devout Pharisee, now a Christian, to say that Jews and Gentiles are all one, it is enough for the Judaizers, the Hebrews, to want to kill him. At all costs. That is the mystery of God. That all of us are one new man, whether you're a church in Mongolia a church in the Soviet Union, a church in Africa or Latin America or North America. We are all one body in Christ, part of the universal body of Christ, those that have been redeemed through Christ. Now what is the message? What is that message that saves us and bring us brings us into that one body of Christ? Verse 13 Verse 13 says, for whoever will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. If the mystery of Christ revealed in Jesus is the oneness of Jews and Gentiles and then what is the message that brings this oneness about? Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved, says Paul. That's the simple message of the gospel. And I love that word, everyone. And it should remind you of the word whosoever in John 3. 16. Remember that? We all know John 3. 16. Probably in Greek, right? For God, say it together with me, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. That's the new American Standard Bible that I remember, right? Let me say it another way. Forgot to love the Jews and Gentiles. Forgot to love the Muslims. Forgot to love the Hindus. About a billion of them in India. For God so loved the Chinese. For God so loved the Buddhists. For God so loved the tribal people, still waiting for their first Bible. For God so loved me. For God so loved each one of you. That he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever among all those people representing this global humanity should not perish but have eternal life. Do we really believe that? The sixteenth century Protestant Reformation leader Martin Luther, and you should all be familiar with him as a Presbyterian church. Martin Luther saw the entire message of salvation summarized in this simple yet profound statement by Jesus, for God so loved the world. As he meditated deeply upon that, he began to break down phrase by phrase, word by word, and in it, in each phrase, in each word He saw the amazing truths of the gospel message. And he said that the greatest of everything is included in John chapter 3, verse 16. He said For God, the greatest lover, so loved the greatest degree, the world, the greatest number, that he gave the greatest act His only begotten Son, the greatest person or the greatest gift, that whosoever, the greatest invitation, believes the greatest simplicity in him The greatest person should not perish the greatest deliverance, but the greatest difference, have the greatest certainty, eternal life, the greatest possession. Boy, only Martin Luther could say something like that. Isn't that amazing? Isn't that the case? That in the gospel, in just one verse, it is packed full of truth that the greatest of everything that God has to give to Jews and Gentiles and to every individual. Man, woman, or child is contained in faith in Jesus In Christ, lost sinners from all nations, tribes, and languages have the hope of receiving the greatest of everything that God has to offer them in Christ. This is the message that Paul died preaching. Right? This is the message of salvation that we must also preach in our generation at all costs. And I tell you, it's costing a lot today. I have a friend that went to Dagestan just south of Chechnya in the Caucasus. Recently a Swedish couple were kidnapped for ransom by Chechnian rebels. Some of you might have caught that on the internet. There are also Newt Fives missionaries that have been kidnapped for political reasons for a number of years now. You've seen them on television as well. Their wives and their children pleading for their lives. Mission agencies are having seminars on emergency kidnapping situations, what to do when there's only 48 hours to respond and they want $100,000 or half a million dollars Many of them, about eighty percent of them, unless they're paid, missionaries will be killed. We'll never hear it on the US News and World Report or Nightline or the Washington Post Uh I would die when I see that kind of report on the Washington Post, wouldn't they? But the fact is, many missionaries today are laying down their lives just as Paul did to preach this simple message across cultures and languages. Now what about the means? If The simplicity of the gospel message in verse thirteen is whoever will call upon the name of the Lord in faith as Jesus is the Savior and is a Lord. If they will be saved, then what is the means of bringing about that salvation? Paul asks a number of questions. He asks, how then can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching to them? Very rational, very logical, as Paul typically is You can't have one of the others, one is built upon the other. For everyone to be saved, whosoever calls will be saved That's the gospel message. But how can they call if they have no hope of believing? And how can they believe if they have not heard anything of the message of their faith. And how can they hear if nobody will go and tell them? That's the essential logic here But the questions remain. How can they call on the one they have not believed in? To this day, these questions are relevant. Now the answers are found when You ask the questions in reverse order. The answers are found in the questions when you think about it. When someone preaches the gospel of Christ to those that have never heard, and then having heard, they believe in Christ. And if they believe in Christ as their Savior and Lord, then they can call upon Him to save them from their sins. And anyone who calls upon the Lord Jesus with that understanding of who Christ is and who they are. Then they will indeed be saved. You see that. And really begins with someone going, someone being sent, an apostle, a sent one. And then Someone sending those that will go. Therein lies the partnership that Paul talks about in verse fifteen You know, I realize that this has always been the means of salvation. The means of salvation throughout history, which God has used since Christ, time-honored truth and principle on how people get saved. A few of us will be able to say that we saw a vision and an angel appeared to us and that angel told us that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. Although there are some miraculous apparitions of Christ in dreams among certain Muslim people groups, where they are beginning to see these visions and dream dreams and see that Isa is Lord and the Son of God. And so without anybody preaching to them, God is saving some of them. And missionaries years later arrived there and realized that these Muslim mullahs had become Christians. Now that's more of an exception than the rule. God is capable of breaking the rules. But the general rule of preaching the gospel is that Christ must be preached. Christ preached himself during the days of the gospel. Peter preached Christ in Acts chapter 2. Paul preached Christ from the day of his conversion. Luther preached Christ, Calvin preached Christ, Wesley preached Christ on horseback, went around the world some ten or fifteen times on horseback. William Carey preached Christ in India, Hutam Taylor in China, Don Richardson among the Sawi people of Indonesia or Irianjaya. As are your missionaries preaching the gospel in Japan and throughout the world. Got many friends throughout the world as well, in China, Indonesia, Russia, Mongolia. It is the same method That Paul used, it is the same method today, and it will be the same method in the 21st century. The faithful proclamation of the gospel by his faithful heralds. That's the means of salvation. Now, what is the model? Now, there is a danger when I say the model So don't think of it as the model as in capital T H E underscore bull type the model. It's the paradigm in which we see this partnership working out In Paul's life as well as in modern missions. Paul says in verse 15a, how can they preach unless they are sent? And that verse alone has created a whole book called Serving Ascenders. Some of you might have read that. Written by Neil Pairolo or Pirolo. Serving Ascenders And in that book, he points out the importance of partnerships between the goers and defenders, between the missionaries and the sending churches and the agencies. The partnership between those who are called to go and those who are called to support those who go. And Neil talks about five different partnerships in his book. The moral support that is required, logistical support, financial support, prayer support, re-entry support Those are all aspects of partnership between the missionaries that go, laying it on the line, sacrificing it all. And those that are committed with an equal level of commitment to preach the gospel, but called to stay, supporting them and partnering with them so that they can do their job. And in this book in the introduction, he talks about how during war, and I think I can back it up with the Gulf War, which involved watched on television in 1991, for every foot soldier on the front lines. Nine support staff were needed in the quote line of communication, either in the Pentagon or on the field base in Saudi Arabia or in one of the hospitals on one of the naval ships. or in some telecommunications center throughout the United States, from Colorado to Kansas to Washington, D. C. Nine support staff required for every soldier that is on the field, a foot soldier. And I would like to liken in the spiritual battle of missions as the missionary or the missionary unit. being sort of the foot soldier in the princes, and you and I and the sending agencies and the supporting agencies as the nine support staff. Now, are we going to win the war if the foot soldier is committed to fight at all costs, even be willing to take a bullet for it and maybe even die? And then the rest of us and the support staff behind the lines, we're not as committed to that same war? We would not win that war, I'll tell you that much. Everybody in that line of communication, from the secretary to the person that sends the fax or the email and the the chain of command. From the greatest to the least, including the foot soldier, the missionary, must be equally committed to the commanding officer. And who's that? Jesus Christ. And then the cause, which is global missions in our generation, is possible. And I believe it is possible. That is a partnership that we're talking about. It's not just a one partner and another partner coming together, although that is the most basic partnership, but we're talking about a multifaceted partnership line of communication and networking and such networks exist. If you check uh eighty two thousand dot org in your world wide web you will get a feel for that. Or if you check out the US Center for World Missions. uh website, you will get a hold of that. Or if you read any updated newsletter on what's happening in the world in terms of missions, you will sense that there is a tremendous level of partnership at work in global missions today. I want to share a little bit about my story and the model that I am pursuing as a entrepreneurial business person. I'm a pastor, I'm an ex-banker business school graduate, and I've had my own business for the past ten years. It's an export business. We export water purification systems. It's a very biblical business, I think. We provide living water, clean water to the people of the world. For-profits, we're a for-profit company. But Two years ago, as my father retired and I took over the business and I've been involved in the business since since its inception, I began to prayerfully consider what the Lord might have me do in this business and through this business And it's part of the Calvinistic that uh all vocation, whatever you are, right, in that you are to glorify the Lord, right? Vocasio Dei Every vocation that you could possibly have, except for the immoral stuff and the illegal things that people do in this world, except for those. Any legitimate profession is glorious unto God if you serve the Lord through that. Whether you're a secretary or a mailman or the President of the United States. And I'm not saying that the Secretary is any less than the President of the United States. That's not how I want it to sound. Everybody has a role, even a homemaker. Children. Okay I discovered that I have a very unique role as a business person. And so I began to network with certain agencies. I am part of the Southern Baptist Convention, so contacted the Southern Baptists. And I'm also networked with a number of other agencies like Pioneers, Frontiers, International Missions, OMF OC International. Those are about five or six agencies that our business is currently networked with. I wrote them a letter saying this is our business, this is our vision, we're committed to the same cause that you are This is how we think that we can be of service to you. We could create platforms, entry visas, we can set up liaison of representative offices in creative access countries where missionaries are not allowed or religious visas are not offered. which is most of the countries of the world by the way. And we are willing to share the profits that we can generate as you represent us and we will train those workers that you have on the field or that are in the pipeline getting ready to go. Many of those agencies responded, about five or six of them. And in the past two and a half years we built a good network of a working relationship. In Turkey, we've got two m two offices set up in Turkey, uh Istanbul and Ankara, for instance, uh giving a couple of missionaries the opportunity to get residence visas and working permits. Very difficult country to get visas. We just sent uh uh a missionary into the Middle East. This country is right next to Saudi Arabia. I won't name which one. But he just landed there, uh returned after eight years and a year of furlough. We sent him back after training him for seven months as the Middle East sales representative for my countr for my company out of this city in the Middle East. We've got a Southern Baptist working in Sichuan province in the middle of China, the most populous province in China. About a hundred million people live there in a city called Chengdu. who is representing our company and doing picnicing missions through that. We I just came back from a meeting with about Ten different people, all field representatives or field directors for four different agencies in Indonesia, in the city of Bandum, in January. had a strategic meeting with them as to how we could create job opportunities for their Indonesian disciples that are ready to be deployed as cross-cultural missionaries. All we're waiting for is the economy to get better. Right? But we're praying for that. Now let me just challenge Those of you that are entrepreneurial business people, I want to talk to you. The opportunities are incredible for businesses. We know that God is going to use tent making as well as business, entrepreneurial business, in making strategic inroads in some of these difficult to reach, difficult to go countries And I want to uh prayerfully create a network of business people with their with different experiences in this area to begin to pray together how we might work together. We're here as a support company. It's a small company, but we believe we can do a lot of damage to enemy forces In this strategic partnership. And we are open to partnering with your church as well. Our company is, as well as agencies. A court of three strands is not easily broken asunder. Business people, local churches, field missionaries, and they're sending agencies. Well, court of four strands I guess Let me close with this final illustration. What is the partnership between the goers, the missionaries, and the senders? The analogy that comes up is that Of someone that is repelling down this steep mountain. I've done that. Scary. Scary. The mountains of uh North Carolina. It is scary to rappel down a 200-foot cliff with one man holding the rope up there And I had to think long and hard before I went down. Because my life, my family, and their future is really dependent on whether this man holding the rope is going to hold on to it. The role of a missionary and the dependence of a field missionary and the supporting and sending church is like that. You are the ones that are holding the rope. They are taking great risks to go into different countries of the world. They're depending on you. The Lord is counting on you as a standing church, as a missions active church, to continue to hold that rope in partnership with them, knowing that they cannot do their work of evangelism and church planting. Unless somebody be there holding that rope through prayer, financial support, encouragement, care packages, an understanding, compassion in your heart. And any and all strategic support that you could possibly offer them so that we are a team or true partners. May God use CPC in that kind of strategic partnership in missions where we need more churches like yours. Let us pray. Father, we thank you this morning that We can hear Paul, the greatest pent-making missionary that ever lived. To say to us that one of the models of, if not the model, of missions is the partnership that exists between sending churches and going missionaries. And I've added one more dimension, that of entrepreneurial business, intent making, and the impact that that could have on kingdom purposes. We pray that you would use this church, this body of believers To hold that rope tight and securely so that those that are depending on their prayers and their support would find strength, encouragement, and freedom to freely preach the gospel. Which is able to save men and women of all peoples, nations, and tribes. It is to your glory and honor that we pray and ask. Amen.