Our scripture that will direct our thoughts this morning from Ephesians chapter one As we read verses 15, beginning our reading at verse 15, reading down through verse 23, the end of the chapter. Let us hear now the word of our God. For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus, And your love for all the saints. I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation, so that you may know Him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you. the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and his incomparably great power for us who believe That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age. But also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church. Which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way Let us ask for the Lord's blessings. We open thy word, O Lord our God. Open thou our hearts and our eyes. We come our God with busy minds and busy lives, quiet us at the foot of the cross We come empty, O Lord our God. Fill us by thy Spirit. Minister grace this morning to those who have special need here, who are concerned about the things of thy providences in their lives. We're concerned about decisions that must be made, perhaps in the home or on the job tomorrow. Concerned about problems they're facing in everyday life and their battle with sin and temptation and greed and envy. And then Lord, we pray too for those of our families yet on vacation, as we thank you for those who have returned. Come, O Lord, and bless thy word, and may we see Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. A few years ago it was my pleasure to To be on the faculty of Reformed Seminary in Jackson, Mississippi. My particular position was in the field of pastoral care And my task was to teach the students something about being a pastor. And I had them write each one of them in this particular class a five-page, no more, please. a five page paper. And they were to write on Paul the pastor. Not Paul the theologian, not Paul the missionary, not Sharp, not Paul the church planter. But Paul the pastor, and I'd taken the precaution to go to the library and look up all the books that were available on the subject, and saw there were none. And so I told the students, gentlemen, don't bother looking in the library for a book. I said it's not there. Just get out the scriptures and read in the book of Acts and read in the epistles and understand and discover for your own soul Paul the pastor. His concern for the people of God and the churches. Well, of course, the students did come back and say, you're right, there was no book in the library. That's the custom of students. I said, I know that. It was years later that I was informed that a book had been written in the late 1800s on this particular subject. It is not an overworked subject. Paul the pastor, as he opens now his pastoral heart to the church at Ephesus, This was the church where, according to Acts chapter 20, he had spent approximately three years in their midst. Teaching them, walking before them. What an experience for any congregation. I don't know how large that church was. It did indeed become one of the more significant churches of Asia Minor. And a church to whom one of the letters in the book of the Revelation was written, and to whom the Apostle Paul also wrote this magnificent opus, this magnificent work on the Ephesians. This was a church where Paul had ministered with great fruitfulness. It was a church for which he had a deep and unabiding concern. And he thanked God for them, and he had a prayer for them. And that's the subject of our thoughts this morning. There are four things in this particular passage to which I would call your attention. The source for answered prayer, which is the Trinity. The second is the enlightened the prayer for enlightened spiritual eyes. The third Is the prayer for the transforming in the heart and the life of God's people of the hope that is ours in Christ? The prayer includes rejoicing in the glorious riches of our inheritance in Christ. And finally, the prayer concludes with A prayer that we may understand more the power of God in our lives. Now let's look at the particular parts of this prayer. First of all The source for answered prayer is the Trinity. How beautifully that is expressed for us in verse 17 I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation. There is the Trinity identified. Usually throughout the New Testament, where simply God is mentioned, it normally has reference to the Father. And this is spelled out here: the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father. But here you have the Father and the Son and the Spirit. Consider for a moment when you ask for something To whom are you coming when you ask? The children have gone to children's church, or I would address them. in the sense of what do they ask for? And I presume, Gary, in about an hour you're going to be eating your lunch and you're going to ask for a third helping of something that you like. And you expect somebody to hear you, don't you? You expect them to pass what you're asking for. Paul said, I am asking the Trinity. I am praying to the Triune God for that which my soul needs and that which this church needs. The church at Ephesus. But it's more than the church at Ephesus. It's the church at Frederick. It's the church in Vinland. It's the church In Burton'sville. It's the church at Columbia. Paul's prayer for this church prayed to the Triune God The Father's role in our redemption. What was it? In the opening verses that were read as part of our call to worship, It's the work of the Father in accomplishing his good pleasure, his purposes. The Father, the glorious grace of the Father. There is a parable in Scripture that I think has become misnamed. We call it the parable of the prodigal son. The emphasis, dear friend, is not on the prodigal son in that parable. Consider the emphasis is on the Father. That's why Jesus taught that parable. The Father's grace, the Father's search, the Father's love, the Father's faithfulness, the Father's forgiveness, the Father's joy, the emph This is in that parable is on the Father And your heavenly father and mine loved us before the foundation of the world and wrote our names in the book of life. And the Son came to accomplish that redemption. And this was the role of the person of the Trinity that we call Jesus the Son. For it was his task in the work of redemption to accomplish it, to take in his own body our sins on the tree, having lived in his own life a sinless life of Perfect obedience. He took our sins, for he had none of his own, and he took them to the cross. He accomplished our redemption. But what good would that be without the application of that to you and to me? And that's the role of the Holy Spirit of God. For this is his particular function, even the application of redemption, a sealing enablement to apply to you and to me. Spiritually dead sinners to apply to us the will of the Father accomplishing his pleasure through the death of the Son. And redemption completed. Now let's look at this matter of the enlightened spiritual eyes Back in the messianic passage in Isaiah chapter 11, and perhaps Paul was alluding to this passage. A shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse, from his roots a branch will bear fruit. The Spirit of the Lord will rest on him, the spirit of wisdom and of understanding. the spirit of counsel and of power, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord, and he will delight in the fear of the Lord. We need enlightened spiritual eyes. And this is the work of the Spirit of God, for the things of the Spirit are to be spiritually understood. And he opens the eyes of those who are blind. He gives life to those who are dead. He warms the cold heart. He fills the empty life. This is the work of the Spirit, enlightening our eyes. Our enlightenment will cause us to know him better. And this is a parallel to Paul's passage in the book of Philippians, where he says, that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of his suffering being made conformable unto his death. I want to know him in the richest, fullest sense of the term. The enlightened spiritual eyes to see God's ways and person. I never heard the definition of the doctrine of God or the nature of the person of God until somewhat years after I came to know my Lord. God is spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. And of what does his goodness consist? But love and mercy and grace and providence. If I'm going to know my God, then I must know him as he has revealed himself. You children are going back to school in about two weeks. Your mothers and dads are very happy. The teachers are delighted. And you kids are delirious with the opportunity. But what a tremendous experience. Really now, aren't you kind of glad there is something called school to go to? Aren't you really kind of glad? You don't want to not know more than you know now, right? You want to learn some more. And you know, if we're going to learn something about our God We must see where he has revealed himself first in the world, in the world of creation and providence. God made all things. He communicated himself in his power, in his majesty, in his might, in the world of creation. And then by his providence he leads and guides and brings affairs into our lives. And we call all of that experience. Now I must understand my God. And if I'm going to understand my God, and if I'm going to have enlightened eyes, I must ask my God Who am I? In the light of who are you? Who am I? What are your gifts? What are your talents? We were talking yesterday with plants concerning little Matthew. And while Matthew has his problems and his difficulties, Matthew has some great gifts too. He has an imagination that won't quit. It goes on and on. The other day out at the Potter's house he was walking around with an invisible telephone. He was carrying on a conversation all over the house about everything. I don't know what God has put in that little mind or in that heart. I don't know that. And the parents are mystified to know as well. They're trying to find it out too. I don't know what lies in the heart of my grandchildren. I have a better understanding of what's in the nature of my children. But I look at my grandchildren and I wonder what God has put there. And this area is why you're going to school. So that you and Jeff can find out. who you are and what you know and how God put this world together. And Jeff that includes arithmetic and mathematics. And I was never good at that, along with a lot of other things. But this is the point of going to school. This is the point of developing one's life, of finding out what my God has made me to be. That I in turn may refine and develop and utilize that capacity. Subdue the earth and rule over it to the glory of God has never ever been removed. But alas. The eyes of natural man are darkened, and his ears are stuffed shut, and his tongue is muted, and his heart is cold, and he's ignorant. And he is in his sins. And so if I'm going to know my God, I must know him also where he has communicated himself in his word. And in his glorious word I have the fullness of the gospel. And the fullness of the gospel is that my God tells me first of all who he is. And then he tells me who I am, and he tells me of my desperate need for him. And he tells me that I am unable to call upon him because I'm dead in trespasses and in sins. The dead call not, the dead speak not, the dead cry not, the dead move not. And yet the scriptures come to us in the external call. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call upon his name while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way. Ah, but the wicked cannot forsake. The wicked cannot call. The wicked cannot even hear. And that's why the Lord God has given to us the efficacious call and the working of the Spirit of God in our hearts and in our lives. And he gives to us the word of the gospel. I can look at the leaf of the oak or the maple, and I can see there the design of the Creator. I can see there the marvelous working of providence, as even now leaves are beginning to turn and to fall. I can see the providences of my God. But those leaves tell me not of my sin. Those leaves that tell me not of God's grace. Those leaves tell me not of the will of my God for me. Where then shall a lost sinner know? Where shall an empty heart be filled? And where shall an empty head come to know? In the word of redemption, the fullness of the gospel. And that's why we need scripture. The entrance of thy word gives life. How thankful we are for this. Now, having prayed for that We see what else Paul prays for. And isn't it interesting that for which Paul does not pray for Columbia Church? He does not pray for size He does not pray for power. He does not pray for riches. He does not pray for social significance. He does not pray for those things for you, beloved. He prays that your eyes may be opened, and that you may know the Spirit of the Living God in your life, that you may know the power of the Eternal Father. And the redemptive, transforming experience of personal faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what he prays for. That's what he's concerned about. Ah, Pastor Paul, you knew my heart. You must have looked at your own You must have considered who you were, and you must have reflected upon what God did for you when you prayed for me. He prays having looked at the glorious nature of God. He prays having looked at the question of a spirit of wisdom and revelation that we may know him better. He then prays that there will be the transforming, the transforming nature of our hope in Christ. There's an interesting parallel in Peter. I I don't know whether Peter read the Paul's remarks when he And the scripture that has come to us when he wrote this, or if the Spirit of God visited upon the Apostle Peter a similar heart. But here the passage in 1 Peter 1 3 and following. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil or fade. kept in heaven for you who are through faith shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. Their hearts and their minds were quickened alike. Their theology was in total agreement. This beautiful passage of Peter is a companion portion with Philippians and this portion in Ephesians. By the hope of the church, what do we mean? We are referring to the promises, to the precious promises God has given to us in the gospel. The precious promises, God's promises in Christ, of which the present work of the Holy Spirit Is but the token to us of the future. I can have assurance Because my God has revealed Himself in Scripture. I can have assurance for the future Because I have seen what my God is in Himself and how His providences have dealt with me in the past. I can have assurance beyond this life. I can have absolute hope. For the world in the world to come. The hope of the believer Rests in the precious promises. Oh, there are some promises that you have not yet seen fulfilled, that I have not yet seen fulfilled, but What God has done is a token that He's yet going to do more. I especially appreciated the remark of Tom Broad two weeks ago when he said, God will never love us more in the future than he loves us. Today. But my assurance of that love that delivers me from the fears That assurance is resting upon the hope of the promises of my God for me. So the promises to us in the gospel Are yea and amen. Jesus said, I am the water of life. Come, thirsty one and drink. I'm the bread of life. Find, O weak one, my strength. I am life eternal. I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, you shall be saved. These are precious promises to you and to me that we can lay hold upon, for God has laid hold upon us in these things. And we find also that this prayer for the transforming of our lives Is nothing more than God's sanctifying force in us now. We'll come to that in a moment when we look at the question of the power of God in our lives. It's a sanctifying work. The Spirit of God is to sanctify us. That word simply means to make holy. To make holy. We are holy in Jesus Christ, and we are being made holy day by day. And this is Paul's prayer for us. What sin bothers you today? That didn't bother you ten years ago? What fear grips your heart today that never bothered you a year ago? What anxiety rests and looms large on the horizon of your thinking that you never thought about a while back. Now that I have reached the tottering old and weakened age of 66, there are some things that I think about now that I didn't think about thirty years ago when I was young and in uh something of my ministerial prime. Well, I think that my days are coming to an end. I I don't know when. I have a mother who's ninety-five, and if that if that line goes on, I have a few more years yet to go. But reasonably considered the three-score years are mine and ten almost I don't know how long I have. I have become more conscious of the fact that I have more career behind me than I do in front of me. I never thought of that a few years ago. What fears do we have? What anxieties? What testings? I have testings today that I never had a few years ago. The grace of God that was rich toward me in some ways in the past, ah, now I need for today. Some of you have undergone some heart work in the last year or two. And now you have a little cloud. I had a heart surgery. I've had a heart attack, you say. I never had that before. I have to think about this, don't I? There's a little cloud there. We trust God today and for tomorrow because of what we have seen in the past. And God strengthens our hearts and our faith. This is Paul's prayer for you and for me. I must draw Upon the water of the wells of salvation. I must take of the cup of salvation and drink. Having dipped deeply into the well of everlasting life. You say, but Pastor, my cup's full. It's absolutely full. Do you know what to do when your cup is full? And you don't know what else to do? You know what to do? Ask God for a bigger cup. Ask God for a bigger cup. Not to take from you the trials and the tribulations necessarily, but to ask you for a bigger cup. That you may understand the hand that gives it to you. Taste and see that the Lord is precious. Well, Paul's prayer goes on. And he has a prayer for the fullness of our inheritance in Christ. Now, the inheritances that we have in Jesus Christ are really our spiritual blessings. Oh, the spiritual blessings that have poured out to us. And first of all, we see in these spiritual blessings the reality of our riches in Christ. In theology, we refer to the application of redemption. The application of redemption That begins, you see, with the effectual call of God. God calling to us. Ezekiel, see that bunch of bones Yes, I see that bunch of bones. Now Ezekiel watched the bones. And Ezekiel watched the pile of bones. And the bones took life, and the bones reassembled themselves. There's a beautiful spiritual about the bones. But the point is in Ezekiel, that passage is given to us that we might understand the sovereign power of God. What is it that He does? He calls that bunch of bones. And he says, move. Now how can a bunch of bones move? The first funeral I ever conducted was when I was about twelve or thirteen and I buried my sister's little cat. I often wondered what in the real world I ever said. But that was my first funeral. That cat was dead. But it was a pretty little kitty. I remember it. I never cared much for cats, but that was a pretty little kiddie. God calls us out of spiritual death. And that's the work of regeneration. The first of the applications of the effectual call is in regeneration. You must be born again. And that's not given in the imperative, that's given in the declarative. It's simply a statement. You must eat to live. You must be born again. You cannot do anything to be born again. The Spirit of God causes you and me to be born again. That's the first blessing. And the second is conversion. And conversion consists of two things. The regenerated heart now naturally does something. It turns to God in repentance and in faith. And you put the two together, and it's like two sides of the same coin: faith and repentance. That's conversion. And that's the blessing of God. Newness of life in Christ Jesus. Oh, that's your inheritance, child of God. That's the blessing that's yours. And then after that is justification, the act of God's free grace whereby He pardons all our sins and accepts us as righteous only for the righteousness of Christ, which is imputed unto us and which we have received by faith alone. That's the act of justification. And that's the glorious experience. That God does in our hearts, just in the sight of the Almighty God. That's a spiritual blessing. My sins are forgiven. My God has granted me full pardon. That's the blessing. No longer though I bear the burden of my guilt and my sin. I'm cleansed, I'm pardoned, I'm free in Christ Jesus. I am the Lord. Son of liberty, for the Son has made me free. And he has made me a member of the family, and that's the blessing, too, that we have: adoption, part of the family of God. Inheritance, the blessings include the family relationship. Those are the blessings of the past that have continuous application. Well is the present application. The present is the work, the ongoing application in sanctification. God working in my heart, this is the blessing of inheritance in Christ Jesus. The glorious truth that my God convicts me of sin, of my thought life Of my indolence, of my laziness, of my lack of drive, of my lack of enthusiasm. My God convicts me of my tongue, of my temper. My God convicts me of greed and of avarice and of lack of trust. Oh, the Lord God works on me, beloved. I assure you, he works on me. Day by day, he has not forgotten my address. My relatives don't know where I am. My father said of his sister, even the angel Gabriel couldn't keep track of her. And I traced his record and he was about as transient as I But my God knows where I am when it comes to conviction for my sin. And he puts his glorious finger right on the spot in my life, and he rubs it good. And one of the wonderful works. Of the blessings in Christ Jesus is that he convicts me of sin, that I might bring that sin to my Lord Jesus and find grace to help in time of need and pardon and cleansing. That's the present blessing. Oh, but that's not all. That's not all. We have the blessings of the past, we have the blessings of the present, but we have the blessings of the future in our inheritance in Jesus Christ. And that blessing of the future, dear friends, is in the glorification that awaits you and awaits me. And someday I shall be with my Lord. I was involved in a funeral service this past week for one of the uh residents at Charlestown and uh one of the grand at the grandmother of Denise McKinney. I had a nice relationship with her grandmother when we were at Charlestown. How quickly life is over For the child of God, we enter into the presence of the Lord. Here today, but gone tomorrow. But where do we go? We go to be with the Lord. The other night in our small group, I was asked, since I have reached this old age, how I feel about death differently than I did a few years ago. And having experienced these two or so years at Charlestown, I must say that I I I see death as a much more natural conclusion of things than I did years ago When I view death as kind of an interruption of plans, interruption of a life that hadn't yet met its fruition. And complete fruitfulness. I kind of view death as an interruption. But now no. Now I have reached the point My career and much of my life, I presume, is behind me, and I shall view death as the proper terminus. And so I shall be with the Lord, forever with my Lord. Isn't this the hope too of the gospel? The hope yet that is ours, glorification, the future application. Blessed be the Lord for giving to us these things. And finally, the Apostle Paul prays, Oh, Columbia Church, I want you to know the power of God. Tom last week spoke of the one use of the word power, dunamis. That speaks of the concept of enablement. Another word for power is exusia, meaning authority. Now, it's when you put the two together that you get the better understanding. God in your life and in my life has absolute authority. And he works enabling us to do his will by his Holy Spirit. Paul said, I want you to know that power. This is that which secures to you the hope and the inheritance. If it were not for the power of God, there would be no hope assured for you and me, and there would be no inheritance given to us. But its spot of glory is power of Almighty God. You see, he speaks here of the incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. This power secures the promises and assures all of the blessings of the inheritance. It's the strength and the might, the irresistibility, the glorious outworking of all that God is in my life and in yours. But don't forget the doctrine of God, the definition of God For the power of God is but you see only one part. God is infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth. You must not seek to separate his power from his goodness, his power from his justice, his power from his wisdom, his power from his truth. His power from his love. For God is all the time everything all at once. When then my God deals with me in his power, he's going to deal with me in his wisdom and his love and his justice and his truth. I don't know what power of God would mean if it were dissociated from the rest of the nature of God. Paul says, I want you to know him. And to know the power that is in that knowledge of his greatness This power of God sealed to us our redemption in Christ Jesus. It raised Christ from the dead. And that resurrection of Jesus Christ becomes a token of my and your resurrection from the dead. Do you realize that? As he arose from the dead, we too shall rise from the dead. Had Christ not risen, then we would yet be in our sins without any hope. But now is Christ risen, and you too and I shall rise. Let no burial be without the word of resurrection hope. And help. But there's another token also. Not only did Christ die But Christ was raised, and not only was Christ raised, but he ascended into heaven. There he sits at the right hand of God the Father. Ah, that's a token. And I would have you think on that Even as Christ rose and ascended and seated in his power, You and I will rule and reign in him. His coronation was a token Of your coronation and of mine. Now, read Paul's prayer again, O child of God. And rejoice. He prayed for Columbia Presbyterian Church. He prayed for sinners such as you and I. He prayed For us. Blessed be the Lord. Oh, may our hearts respond to this prayer to the Triune God. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, our eyes to be opened, the hope of the gospel to grip our hearts The inheritance that is ours in Christ Jesus, and the onworking, enabling, authoritative power of the Spirit of God. The token of the past, of the present, and of the future. Hallelujah! What a prayer. Hallelujah. Thank God. For Pastor Paul's prayer. For you and for me. Let us pray. Oh Lord, hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Oh, my soul, and all that is within me, forget not all his benefits. We praise thee for thy greatness. We exalt thy name together. Bless thy word to our hearts. If there's one here that's discouraged, If there's one here that's dismayed, if there's one here that's disinclined, oh, may that one See the Christ, the accomplishment of redemption, and by the application work of the Holy Spirit Draw nigh to him who took in his own body our sins on the tree. Blessed be the Lord Empower us for godly living. Capture our hearts and our minds and our thoughts. And Lord As the young people and children return to school, guide them and direct them. Help them as they stand in the face of secular humanism And the temptations of the world around them encourage their hearts, fill their lives, and may they know. I belong to Jesus, the conquering lion of the tribe of Judah. Who sits upon his throne? All power and glory and wisdom and majesty be thine now. And evermore. Amen