Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus. To all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi, together with the overseers and deacons, grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God every time I remember you in all my prayers for all of you. I always pray with joy because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. Being confident of this, that he who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus. It is right for me to feel this way about all of you, since I have you in my heart, for whether I am in chains or defending and confirming the gospel. All of you share in God's grace with me. God can testify how I long for all of you with the affection of Christ Jesus. And this is my prayer, that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and depth of insight. So that you may be able to discern what is best, and may be pure and blameless until the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of righteousness. That comes through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God. As we come before the Lord on this day of prayer, we can do so with expectation, we can do so joyfully, because we know that the Lord God delights to hear our prayers. He delights as an earthly father would delight to have a child sit on his knee and ask of him. So we come for his guidance over many of the concerns that we have here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. I think of the facility question that we have before us. We also think of the expanding ministries of the church and some of the small group Bible studies that are being started. We have a great deal to pray to the Lord God about. I have been involved in quite a few days of prayer through college and seminary, and very frequently a theme that would be hit time and time again in a message would be that of Luke 18, where we see the widow. uh coming before the unrighteous judge and pleading her case with him. And finally, after this has gone on and on The unrighteous judge agrees with her. He gives her what she asks for, simply so he can have some rest from her. The proper application is drawn from that. How much more will the Lord God give to us who are his children? Who comes to him. Now that may be a very familiar theme for days of prayer, and I'm going to depart from that now that I got that plug in there anyway. I will depart from that and direct your attention to Philippians the first chapter, where we will emphasize not so much that we should pray. But we are emphasizing what we should pray. And we will be using Paul's prayer for the Philippians as a guide as we look at it. Paul is praying for the Philippians. And we too should pray for our church for the following things. We should pray that our love abound in knowledge of God. And depth of insight so that we can love others in the church more effectively. We are to pray for discerning love. And we are to pray that we will be more obedient before God. And all the while we are aware that the only way that we can have any righteousness at all is because we are rooted in Jesus Christ. And that to the glory and praise of God. We learn from this prayer what God would like our church to be like. It is a community of believers who know and love the Lord God. It is a community of believers who know and love each other. Our theme for this morning is that you are to pray that your love may grow in knowledge and discernment. You can be sure that the Philippian church was a church that genuinely had love for the Lord God and for his people. Paul wrote As we see in verse five, that he rejoices because of their partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. He is delighted with their cooperation with him in spreading the gospel message. He writes frequently of the great joy and the love that he has for the people there. There is absent any of the sharp criticisms that Paul uh gives to the Corinthians, or especially to the Galatians, as he is dealing with the problems in those churches. You remember to the Galatians, he says, You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? But to the people at Philippi, he could well say, you loving and joyful people, keep doing what you are doing. Keep working the way you are doing. Paul was praying for first of all the growth of their love. As I mentioned, the Philippian church had a record of loving both God and men. They were concerned to help Paul as he was uh preaching the gospel in Thessalonica and in the church in Corinth. He says time and time again how thankful he is that the Philippians uh joined with him in the fellowship of the gospel, in the partnership of the gospel, in helping spread the word of Jesus Christ through those cities. Time and time again Paul mentions how grateful he is for their fellowship. In the spread of the gospel. In fact, that's one of the reasons for writing this letter. Paul is concerned to thank them for their generosity, for their for the love that they have shown to him. I would like to commend you two here at Columbia Presbyterian Church for the love that you have expressed to each other. My wife and I have been here for just two months, but we already have seen the love that you have shown to us and have appreciated a great deal. And I encourage you to keep at it, not just with ourselves, but with with each other. You shouldn't be surprised, though, if your love for one another is somehow incomplete or imperfect. The love that the Philippi had for one another was also imperfect. It was not quite right. There was another problem that Paul is addressing in this letter. As you flip over to the fourth chapter in the second verse, it says Philippians 4 verse 2. I plead with Euodia and I plead with Syntiche to agree with each other in the Lord. There evidently was a tendency to division, a tendency to divisiveness that Paul is also concerned to deal with. It was not yet a problem full-blown and a problem that had potential for dividing the church right in two. But it was a problem nonetheless that Paul was concerned to deal with There was a problem in their love for one another. Paul wished their love to over to overflow, to abound, to expand, to grow even more and more. But he did not wish their love to grow simply in a vague sense, simply on an emotional level. He was concerned to direct their love He was concerned to indicate to them that their love was to have certain qualities about it. The first quality that he mentions is that of knowledge. Your love is to abound in knowledge. Notice with me two other prayers that are listed that are uh recorded for us. First in the first chapter of Ephesians, Paul is making a prayer very similar to this one in Philippians. He says in Ephesians 1, verse 17 He prays that God will give them the spirit of wisdom and revelation, so that they may know God better. So that they may know God better. Again, turn on the other side of Philippians to the letter to the church at Colossi. Colossians 1, verses 9 and 10. Paul prays to the end that God will fill them with knowledge of his will through all spiritual wisdom and understanding. That they may please the Lord, growing in the knowledge of God. Paul is concerned that our love grows in knowledge of God, knowledge in an intimate sense. It is knowledge that develops as we internalize the Word of God, as we attempt to view all of reality through the terms that God has given us in His Word, that God has decreated. That God Himself redeems his people in Jesus Christ. It is that knowledge, that renewing power of the Holy Spirit that Paul is concerned grows in us. Uh Christians oftentimes misunderstand exactly what is knowledge of God. I have heard of the knowledge of God identified with simply rote memorization of perhaps a shorter catechism or scripture verses. Now I certainly don't want to disparage the shorter catechism, because it is uh it contains perhaps the most crystallized, the the most uh succinct form of doctrine that we have. Yet there are people that tend to identify knowledge of God with roast memorization of such things as how God has dealt with humanity, how he has redeemed us from crisis. Whether or not we we know those things in our head is not really the point, the most essential point of knowledge of God. It is of course important to know those things, but they cannot Be alone. They must be accompanied by a life that is obedient to the Lord God. If our understanding is intellectual only, and it is not accompanied by true knowledge, True obedience, true love for God, then it is no knowledge at all. You see, even our knowledge of God must have form, it must have structure to it And that is obedience to the Lord God. It is more than simply an effervescent emotion, but it is obedience that comes to expression within the covenant community. That is true knowledge of God. It does not occur in isolation from others. Rather, it is the expression, it comes to expression in our relationship. To other believers. You see how naturally Paul is moving from knowledge of God to perception, that our love would abound in perception, in depth of insight. Again, we see here the the uh concern Paul has for the community of believers, for the fellowship of God's chosen people. He is concerned that their that their growth in love is in knowledge of God, but also in perception of other people in the community. We too should be praying that our love for God and our love for one another here grow exponentially The word for perception, as it is, appears here in our text, or depth of insight, appears only here in the New Testament, but we can get an idea of its usage from the way it is used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. In the book of Proverbs, for example, time and time again it is used to translate the word wisdom. Wisdom in contrast with folly. And here in the letter to the Philippians, certainly the idea of wisdom is here. We are to pray today that our love will grow in knowledge of God and of his character. That we as redeemed people will accurately reflect that currency. But we are also to consider the growth that we are to enjoy in perception of one another. of problems that we see in our midst. Again, we are drawn back to consider the covenant community that Paul is addressing here. Our love is to grow in wisdom In applying what we know about God and about his word to the concrete situation we have here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. Our love for God is to be reflected in our love for others. Back in the Middle Ages it was a common thought that if you were really going to love the Lord God You would isolate yourself in a monastery and you would go about in silence praying to the Lord God uh worshiping him just as an individual. Though there were other people around in the monastery, there were even rules uh prohibiting discussion between between the members there. It was thought that to love God in the purest possible way would be done so just in this silent way, without without the context of believers around to interact with But is that the way God expects us to love Him? Are we second class Christians because we choose to marry? We choose to live in a society and work in a society that is godless? Of course not. We do love God, however, by demonstrating that love to other men, particularly in the household of faith. When we love God, we fulfill that love in caring for and serving other people. At Columbia Presbyterian Church and elsewhere as well. But how are we to love us here? I would encourage you to stay tuned to this pulpit for the rest of the series on love that Mr. Harris is leaving. He is bringing taking us through First Corinthians thirteen. And last week you remember, for example, we talked about love being kind. Do you remember what he said about kindness? Do you remember what the essence of kindness is? It is to perceive a need in someone else and to attempt to meet it. Now I didn't reali I didn't realize that that was the trust of this test as well when I selected it, but it worked out in God's province. But I'm really trying to drive at the same thing. If we really do know God If we really do try to love him, we will also be perceiving needs in others in our community here. We will be attempting to meet those needs. We will be attempting to apply the word of God, what we know of God. To meet those situations. You need the perception of the problem and the practical ability to apply God's answers to it Turn with me if you would to Hebrews, the fifth chapter. Hebrews five verses eleven through fourteen. We have much to say about this, but it is hard to explain because you are slow to learn. In fact, though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you the elementary truths of God's Word all over again. You need milk, not solid food. Anyone who lives on milk, being still an infant, is not acquainted with the teaching about righteousness. But solid food is for the mature, who by constant use have trained themselves. To distinguish good from evil. Note particularly verse fourteen The New English Bible renders that last phrase, their perceptions, the perceptions of the mature, are trained by long use. to discriminate between good and evil. The mature in the gospel are being trained over a period of time to distinct distinguish between good and evil They're training their senses to be discriminated. The writer is talking about the ability that we have and that grows as we grow in faith in Jesus Christ. that ability to perceive problems accurately and to apply incisively the Word of God to deal with them. What the writer of Hebrews is encouraging us to do is to use the use the Word of God, as Paul encourages us to do in Second Timothy three verse sixteen where he says The Word of God is God breathe and it is useful for training in righteousness. It is useful and profitable for training in righteousness. Verse 10 of Philippians 1 goes on to describe then the soul of love. As we grow in love and knowledge of God and perception of ourselves. We are better enabled to discern what is best. The thought behind this word discern is that of testing, as we would test a coin to see if it is counterfeit or genuine. So it is with our lives. We test. We approved what is genuine. Now though the people at Philippi were a a covenant community, they were the household of faith. They also were a group of sin. They had some problems in living together. They needed to know God better and to know how to love one another in a community better. The goal of their life. The goal of our life. is that we discern what is death, that we know what God's will is for us, and that with wisdom we apply God's word to our lives. And we mentioned that there was a tendency for dissension, for division in the church in Silicon. Now I wonder if we are entirely free from that same tendency here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. In certain respects we are in a very difficult time. Some would say that we are in a crisis situation I don't know that I would go that far, but we certainly are having a difficult time, for example with Sunday school rooms, space available for that. One class is meeting in a kitchen, another is meeting in a home three quarters of a mile down the road We also have a nursery situation that is overcrowded and quite difficult. In this situation, we must pray for the guidance of the Holy Spirit. We must apply God's word to this situation. We must pray that God will enable us to submit fully, entirely to His will. And we must pray that His Spirit will enable us to overcome any selfish motives concerning this decision. Again, this is training in righteousness. When we internalize the Word of God, when we make it a part of ourselves and we view reality through the terms of the scripture, that God Himself is in control, that He is our loving Father. that is training in life. We would do well if you listen to the words of an early church father back in the fourth century St. Augustine once said that the only thing which really unites men is a common desire for the same end. In whatever happens, we must have the same end. We must be concerned with the unity of the body of Christ. We must be concerned with the glory of God. We must pray that God will keep us from division in this matter. The text goes on to say that we are to be pure and blend. These two words are really very close in meaning. It is not hard to figure out what Paul is deriving at in these two words. God is pure. God is blameless. And he requires the same thing as us. But for a moment think of the word pure in the context of the covenant community community that I've been talking about. Our love is to abound in knowledge and depth of insight for God, in knowledge also of our fellow man. Our love is to abound in perception, in depth of insight for others in the in the covenant community. The word pure likely has the significance of being transparent. You can see through it. Motives are unmixed, motives are pure. And how else can you minister to someone in the body unless they are pure? Unless their motives are pure. Unless their motives are unmixed. How else can we be of genuine help to one another unless you come to them honestly And they are honest with you as well. You must be transparent with one another. That is the meaning of the word cured. Perhaps some of you have succeeded more than most. And I would commend you for that. The goal of your love is be pure. But I wonder if some of us also pretend to have our whole life under control and we are not being transcended. I wonder if we pretend that we don't need the support of the body of believers when we come into a rough time in our life. We are not being transcendent if that is the case. There are some who try very hard to hold up the appearance that all is well and that they need no help at all. I was uh familiar with a family a number of years ago who seemed to have a very difficult problem in their family. They did have a very difficult problem in their family. And it was their concern to keep that keep that problem to themselves. They wanted no one else to know about it. A couple of months later they found out that a number in the church were gathering to pray for them Specifically in relationship to this problem. Very asking. They left the church. They couldn't tolerate other people knowing them so well that they knew their problems. They knew what they hurt. They were not transparent. They were not pure. They had an independent spirit. They could not tolerate other people seeing them and helping them with their problems.