The truth of that song is so piercing. I have goosebumps. My arms. God is indeed our rock. Christ is our hope. And this Sunday begins our new sermon series on the parables, where Jesus is teaching us What the kingdom of God is, and what it means to receive that kingdom, what it means to know Him. Let me begin with another writer of the New Testament. It's 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 20. This is Paul writing to a group of Christians gathered in the city of Corinth. And this is what he's telling them. In speaking about the kingdom of God, he says these words. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of talk, but of power. Jesus desires to use parables as extended metaphors for what the kingdom is. And in so doing, he gives us in very clear terms, now that we have the entirety of the New Testament written, what it means to enter into that kingdom. But as we begin this series, I wanted to pick up, if you will, a rather straightforward, more simple one-point parable. But out of this parable, you will see that there are going to be themes that I and Pastor Flora will be picking up throughout the fall. And it means to, in some ways, challenge us. Because before I read, I want to make you aware that this falls within the middle of the book of Matthew. It's not the first parable that he uses, but it's one of the earlier ones. But there is this notion, in fact, some believe That Jesus used parables to make the truths for which he was teaching about more simple, more easy to understand. But in fact, as we read through the Gospels, particularly just the chapter before this one What we learn is that in fact Jesus was not teaching in parables to make things more easily understood. In fact, it was the opposite. Because Jesus had been accused of doing things, casting out demons, doing miraculous things, doing them in the power of Satan. The Pharisees accused Jesus of this. And so though Jesus was doing these powerful things out in the open in clear sight, In response to their accusation, his response was, okay, I'm now going to teach about what I have come to do, the kingdom. But in a way that is going to challenge you because it's going to be obscure. He would draw his disciples aside, he would often interpret them. But now that we are on this side of the resurrection, we now have the scriptures, so we can look back and we can locate their meaning. But they were a challenge to people. Oftentimes very piercing. Razor's edge. It's sometimes very black and white, all or nothing. And that is what we find here. We find two men giving up everything because they have discovered A pearl and a treasure of great price, the kingdom of God. Matthew 13, verses 44 to 46. The kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field. When a man found it, he hid it again, and then in his joy went and sold all he had and bought that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant looking for fine pearls. When he found one of great value, he went away and sold everything he had and bought it. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me this morning? Heavenly Father, by the work of your Son Jesus Christ, and through the promised giving of your Holy Spirit, we pray you would come as power. To make your presence known among us, that you would open our eyes, that we would see wondrous things in this portion of your word. That you would open our hearts to receive. The kingdom of God, Jesus Himself, that we would receive Him And count everything else as worthless in comparison to Christ. Help us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to do the best I can this morning. I've discovered something in Maryland. It's called ragweed. I don't ever recall this being outside of New York for 10 years, but I've now discovered it and um it's not very fun. So I'm going to do the best I can this morning. Uh I'm getting close to uh losing my voice. in its own unique way. So let's work together. Let's hurry so that I can get to what God has given me this morning to pass on to you. So let me jump to the outline. You see in your bulletins, you'll find that as we look at this parable, we see that there are two kinds of people. There is also this treasure or pearl. What is this treasure or pearl? And then how are we to respond? Two kinds of people, what is the treasure or pearl, and how do we respond? And that is to say, many of the parables are going to be in their own way very application-driven. So we march forward to their application. Let's look together. He gives us two kinds of people in just these few short verses. He gives us first a man who's working in the field. A man who's just a common person, and it seems like he's at least not intentionally looking for any treasure at all, and seems to come upon this treasure by accident. So what does he do? He wanders into the field, he finds a treasure, and then he hides it, sells everything he has, and goes and buys that piece of property. Now, to our 21st century minds and ears, it seems somewhat, at least, potentially illegal, unethical In other words, what in the world is going on here? Now this isn't the point of the parable, but we need to understand it so we can drive there. So here's the issue. They didn't have banks. Money itself was not something that was traded as a commodity. So therefore they didn't have, you know. Chase Manhattan Bank where you go and you put your money in and you earn interest. If you had valuables, if you had treasures that were passed on in your family, What you would often do is find some way to keep them safe, either wrapping them or putting it in some sort of container that you had built, and you would bury them on your property. Now, at the time in which this, and of course, pretty much during the whole time Israel ever lived there, but also particularly during the time of Roman rule You might have had a field, but what would happen? Under Roman rule, there were people were fighting over land. People were scared out of their homeland. So either A Oftentimes fields had to be abandoned, either or they lost their lives, or they lost their property, or they just frankly forgot that the treasure was hidden out there or where it was hidden. So there was no law forbidding you, were you wandering through a field, if you were to find a treasure, to claim it as your own. So he's not doing anything against God's law here. He's simply being shrewd. Not finders-keepers, but in some sense. He sees a great treasure, but here's what he does. Of course, he finds it by accident. At least from a human perspective, he goes and he sells everything he has to buy it. The second man doesn't find his pearl by accident. That's what he does. He's a merchant. And pearls during that time were of great value, far exceeding their value in our present-day world of jewelry. Jewels like pearls were used as head ornaments, neck ornaments, and were on full display. And sometimes in the scriptures, they're not always seen as things of value or of good, but often elements of great greed But here, the pearl represents something of beautiful value. And this merchant knows pearls. It's his business. He's seeking it out. And of course, he sells everything he has so that he can buy it. These two kinds of people to some degree At least help us to understand different ways that people hear of the kingdom of God. Because that's what Jesus says. He says, the kingdom of God is like. You see, in my case, I'm more like the first guy. I was not diligently seeking out the claims of Christianity. In fact, I was avoiding Christianity at all cost. I didn't seek Jesus out. I was not weighing the arguments for Christ. So, from a human perspective, at least from my perspective, as I look back, I have no idea, except by dumb luck and accident. Now I know it's God's design. But from my perspective, I ended up on a youth retreat where somebody told me of the kingdom of God that is in Christ. And a few hours later I was on my knees receiving the one that I had rejected. But I will tell you. Scarcely then did I understand just what of great value I had received. Jesus tells us something here. That this man received it and he sold everything. But I knew. I knew I was stepping into something very new, very different than what I had lived By the way, I was playing, I don't know if any of you have ever had this, and maybe some of you are today. Jesus, if you do this for me. Then I will do that. I was playing that game just hours before I received Christ. I said, Lord, if you will do this, then I will follow you. By God's grace, he did not give me what I was trying to bargain. The second man seeks it out diligently. I think of famous authors like C. S. Lewis or another Christian theologian, Francis Schaefer, who found themselves either in atheism or agnosticism But they were considering the great arguments, the great truths. Who is Jesus? They were seeking it out. Maybe not him, but they were weighing the arguments, at the end of which they were utterly convinced of his glory, of his beauty, and they gave up everything. So there are these two kinds of people. Very different ways, but with the same response. They found something that exceedingly outweighed anything that they had ever had, anything they could have imagined And they gave up all of it that they might receive it. The second thing that this text tells us about is not just the two kinds of people that Jesus is describing here. He also uses this phrase, the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven, or the kingdom are used synonymously throughout the Gospels by Jesus. Here he uses the phrase kingdom of heaven, and it is like, but the issue is, what is the kingdom? So if the kingdom is like a treasure, if the kingdom is like the pearl. then we know then what those two things are pointing to, but that doesn't necessarily tell us then what is the kingdom. Jesus uses and refers to these synonymous phrases some 70 times throughout the Gospels. And what we need to understand is that the kingdom of God, or the kingdom, or the kingdom of heaven, though they are synonymous, they need not refer to a literal place. A land that has borders. It's something very different than that. You see, early on in the Gospel of Matthew, in fact, it's referred to in your bulletin in Matthew 4. Jesus is teaching about what is taking place, and this is at the very early portion of his ministry. And this is what he says. When Jesus heard that John, that is John the Baptist, who had also referred to the kingdom of God, And when Jesus heard that John had been put in prison, he returned to Galilee. Leaving Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum, which was by the lake in the area of Zebulun and Nephthali. To fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah. And this is what the prophet Isaiah said: the land of Zebulun and the land of Neftali, the way to the sea, along the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, the people living in darkness. have seen a great light. On those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. And then we read this. From that time on, Jesus began to preach, repent, the kingdom of heaven is near. So there Jesus begins preaching that message, while at the same time we see the reference to Isaiah. So that the kingdom of God is a light coming into the darkness of the world, and that light has shined. And Jesus says, for the kingdom of God is near. And then he continues to develop it till we get to the point of Matthew chapter 12, which I referenced earlier. In that passage, they are accusing Jesus as he has now driven out demons to be doing so under the power of Satan himself. Jesus says that is utterly ridiculous. How could I, serving and by the power of Satan, be casting out demons which belong to him? He says, a house divided against itself cannot stand. And he says, that would be impossible, he goes on to say. He says, then if I drive out demons by the Ezebub, by whom do your people drive them out? You don't have that power. So not only can I not be serving Satan himself, because that would be impossible to do so, you don't have this power. And so he says, so then they will, he says, they will, they will be your judges, but I If I drive out demons, now note this, if I drive out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. So Jesus tells us something all wrapped up. He starts early on in Matthew and says, the kingdom has come as light So it's not a set of ideas to assent to. It's not a philosophy or a theory. It's something else, something more powerful. It's a person And Jesus continues to teach on it to a point where he says, the kingdom of God has come upon you when by the Spirit of God demons are driven out. Who's the one driving out the demons? It is Christ by the Spirit. Therefore, Jesus is wanting us to pick up the message, which the Pharisees were blind to see. That Jesus is this pearl. Jesus is this treasure. Jesus is the kingdom of God. This is what Paul then is referencing in 1 Corinthians 4, verse 20, as I said earlier. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of talk, but of power. It's not a bordered land. You don't need a passport. You don't get your way into the kingdom. The kingdom has come. And it is Christ who has come as a great light. But let's go further. There's one other element about this idea of kingdom. It's the word kingdom itself. You see, the term kingdom itself works in Greek like a noun with action. For example, love, to reign, or to rule. are both nouns as well as they are verbs. The word kingdom functions the same way. So the kingdom is not an abstract thing. It is the king who has come to reign. And what has that king come to do? This king has come to free a people who are in darkness. To free a people who are in darkness because they are enslaved to sin. That is why at the beginning of Matthew, Matthew tells us that Jesus was given that name because he will save his people from their sins. sins. So the king has come as a kingdom by the power of God To bring life through salvation to free us from sin. The King has come. And so the kingdom of God then is this treasure, is this pearl. And so he says, the kingdom of God is this, but notice: inherent within the parable is a response. How are we to respond? Well, I believe that we are to respond in three ways. There are many ways perhaps we could respond, but three ways I believe that I've come to As I've studied it, as I've read, and I I can't help but see it, that first to receive this means then, if Jesus is the king, who is the king over the kingdom, who's come as light, To rid us of darkness, to free us from sin, then first and foremost, it means we must be willing to submit to his reign. If this man sold all of his land and everything he had, if this pearl merchant sold all of his jewelry and all of his pearls to hold this one, what they are saying is that this is greater than everything I've ever had. So that to come under the reign of King Jesus means that we are called to look at our lives in comparison to who Jesus is and what he has come to do. To look at all of our pursuits, all of our aspirations, all of our ambitions. And say, how do they stack up against Christ? And Christ, who is greater, to come under his reign means To turn from finding our identity, finding our hope, finding our salvation in anything of our own making So that means first that to respond means that we are giving ourselves over to a complete reorientation of life itself. To come under the reign of Christ is to come to one who will completely rework, reorient from the inside out life as we know it. C. S. Lewis writes of this in his book, Mere Christianity, as he describes what God does in Christ. When we come into a knowledge of Him, when we submit ourselves to His kingdom and His rule He writes these words. Imagine yourself as a living house. God comes in to rebuild that house. At first, perhaps you can understand what he is doing. He is getting the drains right, stopping the leaks in the roof, and so on. You knew that those jobs needed doing, and so you were not surprised But presently he starts knocking the house about in a way that hurts abominably and does not seem to make any sense. What on earth is he up to? The explanation is that he is building quite a different house from the one you thought of. Throwing out a new wing here, putting on an extra floor there, running up towers, making courtyards, you thought you were being made into a decent little cottage. But he is building a palace. He intends to come and to live in himself. To come under the reign of Christ is to bring our whole life. And as we sung this morning, Mark, do you have that chorus from earlier, from our offertory? On Christ the rock, I lay my dreams. Come with your fire consuming me. Come with Christ the rock, I make my plans partner with your purposes. That means that I take my dreams, what I'm hoping for, what I daydream about, what you daydream about, what your aspirations are, and you bring them. to a new king. Because to come under his reign is to be reoriented, to be made new We're no longer kings. We're no longer what we thought we were, the head over our own lives. The things that we thought satisfied, pale in comparison to what we receive in Christ. But it's also this: that we must go down deep and consider what drives us. What is your desire? What are you longing for? What are your ambitions? One more quote from C. S. Lewis. In his sermon, The Weight of Glory, he says this: indeed, if we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the Gospels, It would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures. Fooling about with drink and sex and ambition with infinite joy, when infinite joy is offered us. Like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by an offer of a holiday at the sea. No matter how big your ambitions are for yourself or for your children, no matter how great your desires and how powerful you feel them, before the promise of Christ. and the joy that he gives us, the freedom that comes through the forgiveness of sins and a life made new, they will never satisfy. I said this a couple of weeks ago. I will repeat myself again. Not one job, not one paycheck. Will ever love you back. Not one aspiration Will ever be enough to secure you the joy that each of us were built to long for? Not one relationship, no matter how beautiful the marriage, no matter how long-lasting, no matter how intimate it may be. Could never ever remake and give a joy like the one that comes with knowing Christ. For which marriage is merely the best human picture we have. But even it pales into comparison what Christ has come to do So if you're single, longing to be married, looking for that hope, hoping that that will plug up that desire, and all things will be right Marriage is good, but it cannot save you. Only Christ Secondly, not only to respond does it mean to be completely reoriented, it also means this. That we enter into an unconditional relationship with God in Christ and not a consumer relationship. What do I mean? For many, Christianity oftentimes becomes I go to Jesus when I need something, if I need help. So young people How often do you find yourselves in the foxhole of prayer when the big test is looming We often go to God when we feel our need and help, and we go to Him, but the reality that we find Is that when we go to God for help, we're greeted with a God who doesn't just want to help us. He tells us of something that we are scared of, and this is it. Our greatest need is not that we need something. It's that Jesus means to make us holy He wants to do more than help us. He wants to make us like himself. A beautiful son or daughter of the most high God. And it's another thing that so oftentimes we go to God when we feel the piercing sharpness of suffering. And there is no doubt there are many of you here this morning that are suffering and know it acutely. And while there is much suffering in the world That suffering isn't as deep as our biggest problem, which is sin. Sin is behind so much. It's at our very core. And so oftentimes we go to God like consumers. We want God to help us with this. We want Him to get on board with our purposes. We oftentimes when we really look at how we treat God, it's oftentimes scary how much I wonder, how much am I trying to be like the world and still be a Christian? Do I want God's will just conveniently line up with my desires? But what he calls us into is an unconditional relationship. Why? Because to receive the kingdom It is done by faith and not by merit. You see, we could read this parable and be tempted into thinking that we somehow can buy into the kingdom. But that is not what Jesus is saying at all. Because the kingdom can never be bought. It can never be earned. It is only received because Christ Work is completely unilateral. He does it from beginning to end, and nothing we can do can ever earn it. Therefore, if God's work in Christ is unconditional, therefore our relationship with Him is unconditional, which looks like this: back to the consumer idea. God is not like the government whom we owe taxes to. You see, if I owe taxes to the government, there is a finite amount of money which I owe them. The rest of it is mine. But we don't have that kind of relationship with God in Christ. We have one that is completely unconditional, therefore, there's no condition on what I'm to give to him. Everything belongs to him. Everything. And so that means that it re- it helps us to rethink the gospel. So many people think that if the gospel is by grace, then it doesn't matter how I live. That's not the gospel. The gospel is complete and utterly free. Not so that we can live however we choose. No, the gospel means to remake us so that our lives are bent on obedience to be in the shape of His Majesty. To glorify him. And that if it's by grace, he can ask of anything of us. Anything. Anything. It is unconditional, but his love is so good. He knows our deepest needs. And these two people sold everything because of the surpassing value of the treasure. But there's a final response. It's not just an unconditional relationship and a complete reorientation. There's another response that we see in both of these people. There's a certitude, there's a certainty. The first one, it says that then in his joy he went and sold all that he had and bought that field. He saw the treasure. Therefore, in joy, he sold everything. The merchant received the pearl, sold everything. Because they were certain that which they were receiving was greater than everything else. And because it was something that they now had in their possession, absolutely everything else is no longer based on them. Their certainty, their certitude is based on the treasure. It's this certainty is not to be based on ourselves, on our ability. On how big our faith is, or how right we may be, our certainty is in who Christ is It's outside of us. And if our certainty is outside of us, then humility ought to be a byproduct that is increasing in my life. Repentance should come all the more easy because I see how much Christ loves me, and I can freely and more freely confess my sin. Because there is nothing then that can rob me of his love. He knows everything It frees me. And if it frees me, it humbles me. But then there's the final. It produces joy. Joy. The first man in joy sells all that he had. It's almost as if he couldn't wait. Both of these men are all in. No doubt. Couldn't wait. Got rid of everything else to claim that. You see, the joy set before them was greater than what they would lose The Bible tells us about Jesus that for the joy set before him, Jesus endured the cross. Do you hear? You see, we might receive the kingdom of God. We may have received forgiveness of sins and we may know Christ. But life here is still going to be difficult. There's still going to be suffering. So that means this. That Jesus has promised to come again. He has promised us And so therefore, though we don't see the kingdom in full, we may taste of it now, but we have a joy set before us. And that no matter what we might face in our circumstances and situations today, the joy that is before us, the return of the king, at which point everything will be made right. And the kingdom of God will be in full view, and we will see Christ clearly, and we will know that we are clearly and fully known. Then nothing here can rob us of that deep joy that is greater than anything else. Do we know that joy? Have we known that complete reorientation? Christianity is the kingdom of God in Christ, unconditional. Free, but cost us everything because of the joy and the goodness that it brings. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, help us to see the beauty The wonder and the value of Christ and his kingdom That we might respond in coming to you, surrendering ourselves. And in our surrender, O Lord May we see the joy that is ours in Christ. The forgiveness of sins, yes, but a whole new life. A whole new way of looking at life. Help us to know it, Lord, this morning, by your Spirit and Word. In Jesus' name. Amen.