Check 'em at the door to make sure they don't have any cookies in their hands Pentecost is two weeks from today. And so I think it would be good for us to step aside from the commands. and from the counsel of James that we might focus for three weeks upon the God behind the wisdom that we might focus on his nature as a motivation for following and his resources to enable us to follow what James is telling us to do. And so I'd like to, in celebration of the coming of the Spirit to the church at Pentecost, to look again at Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2 verses 1 to 4, and I'd like there to take a look during these three weeks at three pictures of the Holy Spirit. Three pictures that I think are very helpful for us in understanding his work in our lives. After telling us That the Holy Spirit came at Pentecost in verse 1, that you've just heard read in Acts chapter 2. Luke goes on to give three pictures in verses 2, 3, and 4. of what the Holy Spirit is like in his coming. In verse 2, he pictures him as wind In verse 3, he pictures him as fire, and in verse 4, he pictures him as other tongues or foreign languages. Now why is the Holy Spirit pictured as wind? Why is he pictured as fire? Why is he pictured as other tongues or foreign languages to us? I want for us to consider this in each case, why the Lord gives us these pictures, and then make application to our lives one at a time. And so this morning we begin with the Holy Spirit as wind. I think it's especially appropriate for us to look at these three pictures. Because in considering James, we compare these pictures and we find that they will speak to us of the Holy Spirit as power, as purity, and his tongue control. And so as we look at this and compare what God's been teaching us in James, I hope that it's going to encourage us to see the power that's available to us to do what James is talking to us about doing. Because I think that very often as Christians we're much more aware of our sin and our inability to do what God tells us to do than we are of the power available to us and the resources to do what he's called us to do. And I don't know about you, but I know that after looking at James all the time that I've been looking at it, I need to be reminded of the power of the Spirit now. And so I think it's important for us to, when we're going through a section of the scripture, to sometimes stop and look at another section that'll help us to have that section complemented and filled out by another perspective. And so I think it's going to be helpful for us to take this break from James. And to be able to see something of the power of the Spirit. And whether you need it or not, I need it these three weeks, so it gives me an excuse to study this, okay? Let's look again at those four verses And notice the four pictures. Pentecost, which is the first fruits of the wheat harvest, symbolizing the first fruits of all the nations being brought to Christ after the completion of his redemptive work. And then the three pictures, wind, fire, other tones. When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind. came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw of what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. Now get the picture. The Lord Jesus nearly uh well fifty days before that had died, Passover time, and nearly fifty days before that, had risen from the dead. He had spoken to his disciples. Now just a few days ago he's gone back to heaven. And they're all sitting in a room here in Jerusalem. We're not told anything about what they're doing. We're not told that they're praying. It can play a monopoly for all we know or some counterpart back there. But they're doing something altogether And then all of a sudden, without any warning, there's a tremendous sound. A sound like a hurricane is building and coming through the house. Nothing's moving. Just a tremendous sound of rushing wind. And then they see upon the heads of one another these flames of tongues that come down and and there's these flames of fire that sit on each one's head. We're not exactly sure what that looked like, but there was Some tongue of flame that was seemed to be just above the heads of each of the disciples. And then all of a sudden, you find yourself speaking a language you'd never learned Yeah, you're speaking Cappadocian or something, you know. And you don't know quite what you're saying, but you're praising God and speaking of His wonders. And they begin to walk outside of the building. And all these people from Phrygia and Cappadocia and Egypt and Persia and all the rest of these places hear you as a group of people praising God in all these different languages. And they understand you. And they're amazed. They don't know what to make of it. Now that's the picture of what's going on, and there's a danger of being overfamiliar with it and miss exactly what the significance of it is Particularly when it's kind of a hot passage, you know, in which people take sides and is this for today or is it not for today? And what about the tongues and all the rest of that? And we'll get into a little bit of that later Not today, you know, you could tune in a couple weeks from now. But the point is, what does this all mean? Why did the Holy Spirit come like this? He could have come in a lot of other ways, you know. It could have been a bunch of doves that came down, you know, because he symbolizes a dove, or they could have been all splashed with water. Because you have water baptism and spirit baptism. But he comes as wind and fire and tongues. Why is that? Why is that? We stop and think The elements of wind and fire are two of the three most powerful elements in nature. The third one, interestingly, is water. And that's also the symbol of the Holy Spirit in baptism. And so you have the symbol of spirit. You have the symbol the symbol of wind and the symbol of fire, and then the third symbol of foreign languages or other tongues. Two of the most powerful elements in nature, the third one having to do with man taming the most unruly creature within nature. His tongue. And so there's a tremendous emphasis on power here. But this morning I want to just look at wind and what that means to encourage you and me When we look at James and we say, I just don't seem to have any tongue control. I just seem so full of selfish ambition. I'm so aware of my sin. How can I ever change? And that's what I want us to see in connection with the message of Acts 2. What about wind? Well, in order to first of all appreciate why the Spirit's given to us as wind here, we need to have a lesson in language. And that lesson is that in English we have three words spirit, wind, breath. All three of those words very distinct. Interesting, notably, in both Hebrew and in Greek. You have one word that refers to all three of those things spirit, wind, and breath In the Hebrew, the word duach is a word which can recur to spirit, wind, or breath. Any one of them. Just read it by the context In the Hebrew, the word pneumatos is a word again referred to spirit, to wind, to breath. Any one of those three. Only the context will tell you how to read it. And so you have here as a symbol of the Spirit two ideas of wind and breath being communicated. What about them? Well, that brings us to the two heads or the two parts of the outline here. So follow along in the bulletin outline, fill in a couple of things to keep you awake, and we'll move on through it. Alright, first point, the spirit as wind, that refers to his power. That's the first thing to fill in. His power, verse 2. You see that emphasized in verse 2 by that word violent. Notice suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind And this isn't just a zephyr, a breeze that's blowing through you. This is a violent sounding wind that's tearing through the house. And it's communicating power. Two things I would suggest is communicating about the power of the Spirit. First one, A, that it's irresistible power The spirit is irresistible power. You notice they're sitting there and all of a sudden they're taken off guard by the sudden, violent wind that comes through. And there's nothing they can do to keep it out. And nobody says, hey, shut the window. You know, close the doors. You've got to keep this wind out of here from blowing everybody away. There's nothing you can do. The wind is simply there And nothing can keep it out. I've heard of winds that um one occasion I remember in a storm in the Midwest A w a uh wind took a straw and blew it right through a wall. Just a straw. And sometimes in a winter storm you've tried to Caul everything up and keep the wind out, and yet you know that the wind will always find its way through, sometimes through solid walls, because it's an irresistible force The Old Testament is full of pictures to us of the irresistible power of God's win. For instance, in Job chapter 37, in verse 10. Uh Job says, the breath of God produces ice, and the broad waters become frozen. I remember one time Kathy and I a long time ago went out from the Straits of Mackinac, Lake Michigan, took a boat out to Mackinac Island. And it was just after a storm and so it was sort of like being out on the ocean and it wasn't that big a boat either, you know, or rocking up and down or anything. As we're going out there, some of the natives were talking to us and saying, you know You look at this expanse of miles between where the shoreline is there and coming out to the island where there's no cars, you know. And he said, in the winter, you can drive a snowmobile from that land out here to the island. Over all those miles. Why? Because the wind comes from the north. And the seasons change. And that wind, just like Job says, produces ice. And all this water turns to solid ice so thick that you can drive a snowmobile on it. That's the power of God. Huge air conditioner. You see, and nothing that we can do can compare with the power of wind to produce temperature changes, to produce ice, or to thaw it in the spring. And God says, that's a symbol of my spirit in his irresistible power. Or you have another example in Ezekiel chapter 13. In Ezekiel 13, God's speaking about his power. And again he describes it in terms of wind. In Ezekiel thirteen and verse thirteen he says, This is what the sovereign, you see, the powerful Lord says, In my wrath I will unleash a violent wind. Same idea is Acts two. And in my anger hailstones and torrents of rain will fall with destructive fury, and I will tear down the wall that you have covered with whitewash And will level it to the ground so that its foundation will be laid bare. Yeah, the three little pigs, you know, huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your door down. God says, Hey, I am going to blow and I will blow your walls away. You think that you can defend yourself against me. I remember one time Kathy and I went down to Ocean City. to try and get away for a couple of days and the timing wasn't too good from one perspective. We got there just as a gale approached. And the gale was so furious it washed away the boardwalk so we didn't walk on the boardwalk that day In fact, it washed away the beach. There was no beach. It was just ocean rollers coming in where the beach used to be. In fact, it rolled over the parking lot. At one point I was driving in ocean water up to the headlights down the street A boat of over a forty foot uh uh sailboat from Canada had gotten lost and its masts were broken and the sails were torn in shreds and watched the the lifeguards, the um uh coast guard go out there and rescue this thing. Tremendous power of wind. And up the street a few blocks from where we were uh staying They were building a shopping mall, and it was only partially completed. So they had the walls up, but they hadn't had the thing completed. And the wind literally blew the walls down of that shopping mall Flatten them out straight. God says, that's the power of my spirit. I will level your walls, he says I will blow these things down because it's an irresistible force that nothing can withstand. We have in Psalm 15 or Psalm 18, excuse me, another example Of the power of God's wind. In Psalm 18, David's crying out to God for help, and he says, Lord, help me And David says, boy, so yeah, I was really impressed with how God answered it. Because he says in verse seven, you know, the earth trembled and it quaked and the foundation shook. You know, I mean, when God answers prayer, you know fool around, you know, and David says All these things God began to do, and he's speaking about the power of God in his redemptive acts. And then he comes down to verse fifteen, and he says, The valleys of the sea were exposed The foundations of the earth were laid bare at your rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of breath from your nostrils. And see, there it is again. That word that can be translated at the blast of the spirit of your nostrils, at the blast of the wind of your nostrils. And in this case, the translators pick the word breath. But you could have used any of the others. And you see again, the picture of the power of wind here. Not only does it freeze and thaw, not only does it blow things down and change landscapes. But David here is saying it can dry things up. You know, we're used to at this time of the year seeing puddles after rains, spring rains and all the rain yesterday, you know, you got a lot of puddles out there. And you can watch them over the next hours dry up. Down at APL, a couple of us have seen some puddles down there where there's some tadpoles. And there's one big puddle, and I estimate it were about a thousand tadpoles living in that puddle And I'm sorta rooting for that puddle to hang in there, you see, because if that puddle shrivels up and dries up before those tadpoles change, they're gonna be in big trouble. So they gotta h you know, hurry on up and get become toads before that thing dries up, because puddles dry up by the wind. And you know, David started saying, he's hey, you've seen puddles dry up. You know something of that power. But he said, Can you imagine a lake drying up He said, yeah, well you know we've seen lakes dry up, you know, eventually they sort of seep down and no rain and and the wind will come and evaporation and they'll dry up. But David says, hey, that's nothing. He says, the power of God is such that the valleys of the seas were exposed, and the very foundations of the earth were laid bare. Do you see what he's saying? He's saying God's wind drives up the ocean. He's saying you look at the middle of the ocean, you go down into that trench A mile down, and you see it laid bare because the wind of God has come and it's dried up the ocean. That's the power of God pictured in wind. But so is it any wonder to us that when God picked the symbol of his power in its irresistible force, he picks wind to show us the nature of his power. You have the same picture in the New Testament. Do you remember in Matthew 14 when Jesus sent the disciples out on the boat and they're laboring there all night, rowing to get to the other side, and a wind comes up, a squall on Lake Galilee. Terrific windstorm and they're rocked in the boat, and Jesus, Master of Heaven and Earth, walks on those waves. Subduing the wind. An even clearer picture is in Mark chapter 4, another occasion, where they're out in the boat, and you remember this time Jesus is in the boat and he's asleep, and this furious squall, Mark Mark 4 tells us, comes up onto the lake. And the fishermen are terrified at the power of the wind. And they say, Master, don't you can that we're going to perish, the whole ship's going to go down We can't bail it out, we can't get to shore. Don't you care that we perish? Mark tells us that Jesus got up and he rebuked the wind. And he said to the waves, Quiet, be still. And then the wind died down, and it was completely calm. And the wind is reduced to obedience, like a whipped puppy, to come to his feet in submission. And he says to the disciples, Why are you so afraid? Do you still have no faith? You can imagine what they're doing. They look at each other. You've got to picture the expressions in this, you know, to get the power of it. They were terrified and they look at each other and they say, Who is this? Even the wind and the waves obey him Hey, picture yourself in that boat. One moment you're sure that you're going to go down under the power of the wind, and now you see here's one that's got more power than all the wind. This is the one to whom the wind is in submission. This is the one who, by his power, in dominating heaven and earth, comes with the very power of the wind. He is the one who controls it. And so after his death and his resurrection in which he's conquered death, he comes and he sends the wind. The wind now is his spirit coming as that irresistible force under his control to fill the church. And through the church to become an irresistible force in bringing people and nations to the feet of Jesus. That's the nature of the Spirit of God who's come in us. But you say uh it just doesn't seem like that in my life, you know? I mean it's nice to hear that, but somehow I can't relate to that power in my life And that's because of the second characteristic of the wind. Not only is it irresistible force, but it's an invisible force or an invisible power. And that's part B there. You see, we're reminded of that in that phrase in Acts 2 where it says, the sound of a blowing violent wind came from heaven. And that's the word from heaven or from above, which reminds us, of Rejesus words, to Nicodemus, you remember in John chapter 3 Where Jesus said in John 3 and verse 8, the wind or the spirit, remember, same word, the spirit or the wind blows wherever it or he pleases. You hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it's going. So it is with everyone that's born of the Spirit. And in verse 7, he had said, so you must be born again, or literally, from above, from heaven. And do you remember that uh just last week and the last couple of weeks in James 3. 17 we've talked about the wisdom from above, from heaven. You don't see it It's a power that you see only in its effects. As Jesus says, you you can't tell where it comes from, you can't tell where it goes. How do you know? Because he says you see its effects in lives. I remember one time I was out praying. As I was praying, I looked at the leaves on the tree near where I was standing, and I noticed the leaves flutter. And as I saw them fluttering, I was struck by the fact that I wasn't amazed that those leaves began to move on the tree. We take it for granted because even though we don't hear anything, and I didn't see anything hitting the leaves, I knew that the leaves moving were an effect Of a breeze that was passing through them. And so it didn't surprise me that the leaves would move. Even though I couldn't see what was making them move, I knew that there was a power that was producing that movement. And so I see a man who has been an alcoholic for thirty years. He's gone every psychologist and psychiatrist and been in every kind of health care situation. that he could find. He's tried three or four different religions and none of them have worked. And we sit down and we have a Bible study in Isaiah chapter 53 and talk about Jesus coming to take our sins and our diseases And he comes to trust that Jesus is his own Savior. Now that was over five years ago, and he hasn't taken one single drink since that time, and his life's been put back together. And you say How did that come about? It's just words, words that were communicated in air, and he simply believed some things. How could that change his life like nothing else could do? And you say, that's the irresistible, invisible power of the wind in his life. And that's the spirit. And Rocket Burgerson today celebrates just over a year off of any kind of drugs, including crack. And what is it that can produce that kind of change in a man and put his life back together so that we can celebrate with him in what God has done? Whereas of uh thirty-five men who were in the treatment center with him a year ago, he says that only four are not back on drugs or dead. We say that's the effect of the invisible spirit, wind, breath of God in a man's life. We see the effects of that power as God moves upon people. But how does he do it And that leads us to the second picture that's given to us of wind here. The Spirit is not only wind, but he's also breath. And that speaks of his communication. That speaks of his communication. You see again, it's notable that what was present here was not in fact a real wind It was the sound of wind. You see in verse 2? Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind. came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were. It's a supernatural sound. Now what is my voice as it comes to you now? When you think about it, physically, my voice is simply wind passing through my vocal cords, causing them to vibrate. make certain sounds through that vibration which passes through airwaves, comes upon your eardrums, and causes your eardrums to vibrate, and produces some sense, hopefully, in your brain as you hear those sounds. But it's all wind. Sound is wind. It's the breath of one person transmitted through air to the mind of another person. And so you have here pictured the sound of wind. And that's amplified, no pun intended, by verses three and four, when he then picks up on that and says, What's the next picture? Well it's fire, but it's tongues of fire. Again, the idea of communication. And then of course, most clearly, this supernatural communication is communicated in the fact that in verse four they not only speak, but they speak supernaturally. How do you speak supernaturally? Speak a language that you've never learned. That's supernatural speaking. And so this whole thing, you see, builds in the idea of supernatural communication. And there's two ideas about the communication that are pictured. First, A, it's powerful communication. It's powerful communication. God's word, his breath is powerful, and sometimes his word and his breath are used synonymously in scripture. For instance, in Psalm 33, in verse 6, speaking of the power of God in creation, the psalmist says, By the word of the Lord were the heavens made. Their starry host by the breath of his mouth. God created by his breath? Well yes, because by his breath he spoke his word And that creative, powerful word accomplished what the Lord intended in his thought. And so you have here a powerful communication. And Jesus, when he stands before Lazarus' tomb, calls, Lazarus, come forth! And Lazarus doesn't sit in there deciding whether he's going to come forth or not, you know. Lazarus immediately as a result of Jesus speaking comes forth automatically. His word accomplishes that which he speaks. Powerful, effective communication. And so in these couple chapters, Jesus says in Acts 1. 8, he says, you're going to be witnesses, you, for me. And then he gives them the power to become by the power of his spirit effective witnesses for him. But this witness, this communication is not only powerful, but also be there. And It's personal communication Personal communication. Because you see, the emphasis in Scripture is not only on the power of God's communication, it's also on his intimate personalness. For instance, in Genesis chapter 2, at the very creation of man, you have in Genesis 2. 7 the statement about how God formed man, and it said the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And man became a living being. There it is. That same Hebrew word for spirit, breath, wind, he breathed, and the spirit of man became alive. And so you have, you see, the picture of the intimacy of that communication. Nowhere else in creation is there such a picture of God's intimacy as his coming and breathing into man's nostrils. God's own powerful breath. And so his communication is intensely personal to us. And when we read 2 Timothy 3:16, all scripture is given by God. It's God. breathed is what Timothy was what Paul says in 2 Timothy 3. 16. It's God breathed. And again it's a form of this same word from pneumatos. All scripture is God breathed. And therefore it's effective, you see, for rebuke and correction and instruction and training in righteousness. Because it's God's powerful word to your life and to my life as He speaks personally to us. And so when he says in Acts 1. 8, you're going to be my witnesses, that's a personal command. And then you remember the disciples all gathered together, and we read here that all of them were filled with the Spirit personally, doesn't pass by any of them. All of them receive this power of the Spirit, and they all speak in tongues to communicate the wonders of God in foreign languages. And then we go on to see how each of them He gives the command to repent to all those that are gathered and to be filled with the Spirit. It's God's personal invitation to each of us. And so the lesson of all this is simply that the Spirit of God, you see, has come as the mighty wind breath to change the landscape of your life and my life. By the gospel of Jesus Christ. God's Spirit comes because Jesus has died. He's risen He's conquered death. He's risen in power, so that the gospel will come to you and to me in life-changing power. Now, three words of application of this to our lives. First of all, think of that in terms of your own life. I really think we need to do this. You see, I think that we become deceived by much of the psychological studies today on genetics, on training, conditioning, and all the rest of that, to view ourselves As fixed by a certain determinism that has forced us to be what we have been for the rest of our lives. You say, hey, my genes are, you know, they're just sort of screwed up, you know, and these are the genes I got, and so research says that I can never change. There's only a certain very limited amount of capacity for me to change in my life. And God says the Spirit changes landscapes. He comes an irresistible power. You're not and I'm not bound and enslaved to my genes. They affect me, they certainly must be taken into account. in my growth. But it is not an ultimately limiting factor. Neither is my past experience or the conditioning and how I behave and react to certain situations. Because the Spirit of God is more powerful than any of that. Now let me hasten to add that while sometimes this the wind will change landscapes by means of hurricanes and tornadoes and Cyclones and the rest of that. Most normally the wind changes through the change of seasons and the breaking down of the elements in slow and gradual forms No less radical, but normally a slow, gradual process. And so, while we should not expect that God is necessarily going to change a lifetime of patterns of sin. or maybe generations of that overnight. We have to be careful, particularly after we've after we've walked with the Lord for some years, I think, to not fall into the trap of thinking, I've sort of changed as much as I'm going to change. The rest of it is simply coping with the sin that I'm stuck with. I believe there's an encouragement here for us in the Spirit is wind that says God can continue to change as the seasons of our lives. more and more about our life. And so I would like you to hopefully sometime today get together. We're going to spend just a moment after this To talk to the Lord about some area of your life that you believe could never change. And that God wants to show you I can continue to work in your life and change that. And so I would encourage you, as you see down there in the bulletin outline, that you might consider keeping a spiritual journal, if for no other reason, than to track the changes of the Spirit of God in your life. Sometimes it's very difficult for us to see the change of spring to summer and summer to fall because the things are so gradual, you know, and you Look at the winter and all of a sudden it seems like all of a sudden it's spring, and particularly around here, people will all of a sudden say, All of a sudden, it's summer. And I didn't notice the transition. But if you observe day by day, you can record that transition and it helps you to observe more particularly the changing of the leaves and the sound of the birds in the different uh Sounds that they make as they move on from season to season, and the different shades of sunlight as it rises and falls. So keep a spiritual journal in your life as one means of tracking the change of the Spirit of God. But then there's the other area. There's the area of other people's change. Do you find that you're praying for people to change that are close to you? And you've come to the conclusion they're never going to change. This person's hopeless. I've prayed for this person for months, for years, and they're just never going to change There's hope. You know, now sometimes the person may not be changing because they're in reaction to you or to me because we're placing a condition on accepting them only if they change. And they say, well, I'll be darned if I change. And so we may be having an effect on that change process. But maybe God is calling some of us to give that person up to God. And to say, I'm going to pray for the Spirit of God to do his work. In sanctifying that person, making him what he wants that person to be, and not according to my particular agenda. And believe the Spirit can change landscapes. Or then finally, praying for a person that doesn't know Jesus Christ. Do you believe that the Spirit of God can use your clumsy witness and my clumsy witness? to bring life from death. And that's the most pointed application of this whole passage, of course, because you have Peter who denied the Lord, and so cowardly that he couldn't stand up to a servant girl and admit that he was identified with Jesus, who when the Spirit comes, stands up before people that are mocking, and before a crowd of thousands, he declares in very simple terms, nothing very flashy, no three points in a poem with lots of illustrations kind of message. A simple declaration of the fact that Jesus has risen and he provides forgiveness to those that come and seek him. And 3,000 come to Jesus Christ that day. Why is that? Not because of Peter's cleverness, but because the Spirit had come upon him. The Spirit who is the mighty wind, breath of God Who is able to change the landscapes of our lives? Let's pray. Take just a moment for you to speak to God about that area of your life. Some else's life that you're praying for, that you believe is absolutely unchangeable and hopeless. And let God speak to you of the power of His Spirit right now. Encourage us, Lord, with a mighty wind of breath Of the Spirit of God, who is able to change the landscapes of our lives. Lord, show us that you're able to do that. Challenge us to believe you in our hearts, that we might see you do great and mighty things. Because of Jesus. Amen.