There they all go again. Let's turn to God's word, Acts chapter two, and let's give our attention As it is God's Word, to Acts chapter 2, the account of the events in the beginning of the day of Pentecost, the first four verses. Acts chapter 2 verses 1 to 4. When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire. That separated and came to rest on each of them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues As the Spirit enabled them. So far, God's own word. Now let's give our attention to seek to understand it. In the celebration of Pentecost next Sunday, we're looking at three pictures of the Holy Spirit for these three weeks. The picture of wind, verse two here. Picture of fire, verse three, the picture of other tongues in verse four next week. We're doing this so that we can learn something more about that mysterious member of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, something about his person and something about his work in our own lives. Last week we looked at the picture of wind. You remember there we saw that the word spirit, wind, and breath are all the same word in the Hebrew and the Greek language. And so the references to spirit, wind, or breath are all the same, and they're all mixed together through the Bible. And we see that in this particular verse, when the Spirit comes as the sound of a violent wind This is speaking to us of the fact that the Spirit is the mighty wind breath of God who comes to change the landscapes of our lives. through the gospel. Sometimes in the overnight storm that radically alters a person's life. More usually Through the slow seasonal changes of the gentle wind blowing and moving to change a person's life in the process we call conversion from anti-Christian idols to that which centers upon Jesus Christ. Now today we want to look at the second picture, that of fire. We see that in verse 3. Let's take a look at that again now. They were s they saw, now after the sound of the violent wind, they saw what seemed to be tongues of fire. Tones of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. Now, you know, people have a very hazy picture of this But let me describe to you what I think is going on here. Nobody really knows for sure. But I think the key word in that verse is the word separated. It literally is the word distributed. It's the same word used in Hebrews talking about the distribution of the gifts of the Spirit. Yeah, Hebrews, that's where you find that. And uh this word distributed or separated, I think, pictures to us that what's happening is after they hear this violent wind that's coming through, and they don't see anything, they just hear the sound of a wind, they look, and all of a sudden there's great sheets of fire that come down out of heaven or from the ceiling where they are. But it just comes from above them. Great sheets or one commentator says jets of fire. And this sheet or wall of flame, as it comes down, divides and it separates into little tongues of flame that rest over the head of each disciple. Hundred and twenty of them there. And so picture that for a moment in your mind's eye. Great sheets of fire coming from heaven and then breaking up into little flames And the picture, the image is absolutely clear. It's unmistakable. But it's also unheard of. This is nothing less than the fire of God. coming to rest on all his people. Now you see, the Jews might have been able to understand that that could have happened to Moses or to some great prophet of the Old Testament, that the fire of God would come to rest upon that man. for a particular purpose or project. But to think of 120 disciples, most of whom we have no idea what their names are, totally lost to us, to history, common disciples like you and me. And the very fire of God has come to rest with no difference. Peter didn't get a bigger flame than the person we never heard of. All come to receive the fire of God in their lives. Now what does that mean? Tus talked about baptism. What does that signify? What does this signify? And as I've looked at this, I I almost despaired in being overwhelmed with the imagery in how to communicate that. You know, I I came home to Kathy one day this week and I said, I I just can't get a handle on this thing and I said, you know, because the Bible talks about this and it talks about that. There's dozens and dozens of references to the fire of God in the Old Testament. And I said, you know, it means this and it talks about that. I can't either, but I gotta preach it, you know. How do you get a handle on such a rich image? Well, what I've tried to do is you see in your bulletin outline I'm trying to point to seven things that I think that this speaks to us about. And I want to divide those into three things it says to us about God and four things it says to us about ourselves. And I've chosen these. I've had to be very selective because it's such an overwhelming image that appears just so many times through the pages of Scripture. to try and reduce it to those that are particularly relevant to what I think Acts 2 is trying to teach us. Seven truths then That the flame coming to rest upon the disciples on the day of Pentecost teaches us three things about God, four things about ourselves. What does it say about God? First of all, it teaches us about his presence. That's the first word to fill in. His presence. You see, the fire of God speaks of the presence of God. That's absolutely clear in Scripture. Do you remember when Abraham met with God? And God took Abraham on that very special occasion when he wanted to reaffirm his covenant. And he wanted to promise to Abraham, after Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. God took Abraham to a kind of a spooky place, and we read that Abraham entered into a deep sleep. And there was an awesome darkness there. And Genesis tells us that God appeared to Abraham as a burning torch. and promised to him the land of Canaan. Do you remember that when Moses, a refugee in Midian, was out on the slopes of Midian tending the flocks and God wanted to call him to lead his people, how did he appear to him? It was in the form of a burning bush, a bush that burned but was never consumed. God appeared to his own people Israel shortly after that when he brought them out of Egypt, you remember, in a pillar of fire to lead them. And then when he brings them to Sinai, how does he appear to them? Exodus nineteen tells us that the mountain was like a furnace. The whole mountain quaked and shook with lightning, and it says that God's presence came down upon the mountain in the form of fire. God's presence is again and again in the scriptures revealed by means of fire. One of the most graphic pictures, and yet one of the least known, is in Ezekiel chapter 1. Commend that for you to look at sometime later on. Not now. You won't listen to me if you look at it now, so look at it later. But Ezekiel chapter 1, verses 4 to 14. Ezekiel there pictures God as wind and fire. And he pictures him in this tremendous windstorm. And he says within this windstorm there were just bolts of lightning coming again and again. And then Ezekiel says, Hey, the lightning wasn't even the center of it. The very center of this vision was white, hot, glowing metal. And there were these creatures that were like flashes of lightning back and forth, and this whole thing is this blazing, flaming image of the very presence of God, a very striking picture there of God's glory and his awesome majesty. But again and again God uses the image of fire to represent that to us. Hebrews tells us that in our own age our God is a consuming fire So the very first thing that's absolutely unmistakable here is that what Acts 2 is telling us is that this is the presence of God now. by his spirit coming into the lives of his people. The second thing that we see about God in this is that it speaks of his power. B is his power Not only his presence, but his power. And there's two main things that this teaches us about the power of God. Fire has two ideas when it refers to the power of God. First of all, fire purifies. That's the first word. Fire purifies, and that refers to salvation. You see, when God told his people to bring sacrifices to him Do you remember that they were to take the lamb or the ram or the goat or whatever it was, and they were to bring that and they were to lay it upon an altar? And how did God receive that? It was by fire, do you remember? Upon the altar it would be burned, and that which was burned was God's portion, because he received it in the fire. And you have again and again that notion in 1 Kings 18, when Elijah, to demonstrate the power of God, comes and challenges the false prophets of Baal. Elijah takes his sacrifice. Remember what he did on that day? He took the sacrifice and he took barrels of water and just poured water, water, which was very precious in the drought. And he poured all this water upon the sacrifice. And then he said, Now The God who answers by fire, let him be God. And God sent supernatural fire from heaven to consume the sacrifice. And so again and again, the picture of God's salvation is by his consuming the sacrifice of his people in fire He receives the sacrifices in fire. But there also is in this idea of salvation and fire the element of cleansing. That which I say, the idea of purifying, cleansing, that's still that idea there of the sacrifices. Remember that Isaiah when he had his vision of God in the temple He said, Lord, I'm a man with a dirty mouth. I love among a bunch of people with dirty mouths. And the angel came, and how did he indicate God's salvation and forgiveness? Do you remember he took a burning coal from off the altar? A white, hot, glowing coal. And it was a supernatural call, and he touched Isaiah's lips and he says, Your sin is forgiven. You're cleansed, you see. And the fire was the symbol of the purifying of that You have that again and again in Zechariah 13, God tells us that He refines his people in fire Like silver or gold. It just so happens that I have a little rock here that I picked up when I was out in the Rockies a number of years ago And you know, that's one of those things you get from Central City, you know, all these tourists, you know, get you with this. But you know what this thing is? That's gold. You don't believe me, it really is. If you look real close, if anybody wants to take a look, you kids want to look at it afterwards, you'll see that there's little flecks of gold. But I'll tell you, even though it's things a couple of ounces, they it's not worth a couple of ounces of gold. Why? Well, because the gold's embedded in iron and other kinds of minerals. And the only thing that's going to get that gold out, the only thing that got it out in Old Testament times and the thing that's still used today is fire. You've got to apply fire to this relatively worthless rock in order to get the gold separated from the common, from that which is worthless. And so God tells us that He refines us by His fire, the fire of affliction and the fire of His work of His Spirit in our lives to separate the gold in us. From that which is dross or the common minerals. Fire then is a symbol of salvation, both in the sacrifice and the cleansing process. But fire not only purifies, fire purges. And that's the second word there. Fire purges, which is a sign of judgment. Again and again and again, pages of references to the picture of the fire of God consuming his enemies Again and again you have this in the Old Testament. You have, uh, for instance, in Isaiah, or excuse me, in Psalm 97, the picture of the fire of God going out to consume his enemies. In Isaiah 524 is a particularly relevant passage because it speaks of tongues of fire consuming God's enemies. In Isaiah 30, you have the combination of wind and fire consuming God's enemies in judgment. In 2 Thessalonians in chapter 1, verse 7 and 8 The Lord Jesus is pictured coming at the last day with the fire coming from his mouth, the fire that comes to punish, it says, those who do not believe God or obey the gospel. And so fire is the picture of God's judgment. But the Bible also often combines these pictures of purifying and purging, of salvation and judgment. You have, for instance, in Isaiah chapter 4, God's promise to cleanse Israel, both by purging Israel from all that which is worthless. And then purifying Israel, God's own people, so that he says, He himself as a glowing warm fire will dwell in their midst. Or you have in Malachi, that passage that we know through the Messiah, that God will come like a refiner's fire to purify as well as to judge. Luke records and Matthew also remember that John the Baptist, when he came in the first New Testament reference to the Holy Spirit, what was it that John promised that the Messiah was going to do? He said, I am not worthy even to tie your shoes. But there's one coming after me, the Messiah. And he is going to baptize you with what? The Holy Spirit and fire. And he speaks there of that coming event of Pentecost when the Holy Spirit in fire would come upon his people. But then he goes on to also speak of that fire of judgment, for in the very next verse in Luke three, sixteen and seventeen, he talks about the fact that he is going to gather his people as precious wheat into his barn. And those that are outside of Jesus Christ, who didn't care for his salvation, who said they don't need a Savior, He said they're going to be like chaff, which he's going to burn up with unquenchable fire. And so you see, there's this picture that where there's salvation, there's also judgment. And you see this, of course, most in the Lord Jesus Himself, who he himself bore the judgment of God's fire upon him. So that you and I would receive the salvation. And the sacrifice of Jesus would be consumed by God's fire, so that you and I would receive the burning coal of forgiveness and cleansing upon our lives. Now this is what it speaks about God. The third thing that it says about God, I think it's the most relevant, of course, of all to this particular passage. The third is that it speaks of his prophetic word. through his people. His prophetic word through his people. The Jeremiah particular has this theme. If you read in Jeremiah again and again, you read there about the fact that Jeremiah, God says to Jeremiah that his word is like a fire in Jeremiah's mouth. His word to speak comfort and to speak judgment is a word of fire. Psalm 104, verse 4, says, He makes winds his messengers. Flames of fire to be his servants. That's a very interesting passage because you see it it combines in that one verse again the idea of wind as his messenger and fire as his messenger. A direct reference, I believe, to Pentecost. But what's even more interesting is how Hebrews 1. 7 quotes that verse. Because in Hebrews 1. 7, you have a reference to Psalm 104-4 with the word order changed. And what does that do? Because when Hebrews 1 7 quotes it, it says, He makes his angels winds, his servants flames of fire. And do you see how this is the very fulfillment in Pentecost, where God made his angels, the same word angel as the word messenger, he made his messengers to be winds the wind of the Spirit and His servants to be flames of fire, the flames of fire that come through his people in the power of God's own word To change, to speak judgment, and to speak salvation, and to speak with power. Now, what does this mean then for you and for me? Four things I think flow out of this image that are of relevance to us. Number one, of what this says about you It says different things to different of us depending on how we have come here this morning. And so, first of all, if you've come here this morning without Jesus Christ As your own personal Savior and Lord. If you've come here this morning knowing about Jesus Christ, but without any personal relationship with him, Then the message to you in the flame of fire of Acts 2. 3 is simply the one that's given to us in Hebrews chapter 10. For in Hebrews chapter 10, we read in verse 26 and 27: if we deliberately keep on sinning, after we have received the knowledge of the truth. Now I imagine it'd be very few people to be here this morning who have not received some knowledge of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so if you're here this morning And you've heard something about the gospel of Christ. You've heard it on radio, TV, you've grown up with it, you've heard it in many other churches, you've heard it many times. But you've never come to that place where you have bowed your knee and said, Lord Jesus, I give up my life to you. I'm not just going to be interested in you. I'm not going to play with this any longer. I am going to now come and I'm going to give up myself, give up my rights. Give up my hope of ever earning my way into heaven, and I come now to give my life to you. If you've never come to that place, then you fit this verse. We deliberately keep on sinning. Now, what does Hebrew say is the result of that? He said if we keep on sinning after we've received the knowledge of the truth, then Hebrew says there's no sacrifice for sins left. Nothing left. You don't have any alternative. You don't have any other hope. But only a fearful expectation of judgment. And of raging fire. Judgment and raging fire that will consume the enemies of God. You have more chance of standing in the middle of a forest fire and escaping with your hair unsinged than standing before the throne of Jesus Christ. Hoping that somehow you've done enough to balance the scales of good and bad in your life, if Jesus Christ is not your Savior. And the message of Acts to you is that God is a consuming fire. And the way he came upon his people, he came as fire because he is fire, either unto salvation or unto judgment. And there's no other alternative for any one of us here in this room. And so I call upon you, any of you who have not come to Jesus Christ personally to come today and to flee the fire, the raging fire that we don't like to hear about today. We make fire of hellfire and brimstone preaching Now realizing that while there's a great deal of caricature and often what is represented in that, that there is some truth, our God. Will judge with raging fire, because nothing escapes fire. And the only escape is to hide inside Jesus Christ. For there you will be secure from the flames. The flames shall not hurt you. And you will be secure in him. I'm not kidding. You know, this isn't just sort of uh pastoral rhetoric. I mean it right from my heart to any of you who don't know Jesus Christ. I plead with you to flee from that fire of his anger. in the person of Jesus Christ today. Trust him and what he has done for your sin. But now having said that, and leaving those of you who are in that position to think about that. There are others of us today who have come, and perhaps you've come with Jesus Christ as your Savior, but you're discouraged by certain trials in your life. You're confused by them. You're confused because it seems to you that they don't make sense. There's relationships that are all disrupted. circumstances that have gone all askew and things are all messed up in your life and perhaps it's a matter of health or something in your job or whatever it is But you're saying, Lord, this doesn't make sense. I belong to you. You say you love me. You say you hear prayer. I have prayed for this. Nothing seems to happen as a result of it. Things just go from bad to worse. Lord, what is it? I don't understand it. The message of Acts 2. 3 to you is that while you realize that you have the hope of eternal life in Jesus Christ, in this you greatly rejoice, Peter says to you. A very special word in 1 Peter chapter 1. For Peter says in 1 Peter 1, in verse 6 and 7, he says, Now in this salvation you're greatly rejoicing, although he says Now for a little while, you may have to suffer grief in all kinds of trials Then he says, Now, you know, fees have come, so that your faith, your faith which is of greater worth than Cold. Remember that little rock I had here? Then gold. Greater worth than gold. that it would which perishes even though it's refined by fire. Peter's saying, you take this, and he says you you refine it, you apply the the heat to it, and out comes the gold and it separates and it seems absolutely indestructible. Peter says one day that's going to perish. But he said, your faith, your trust, that precious trust that you have in spite of your feelings, in spite of the circumstances. The fact that you will hang on to Jesus Christ and believe his word, Peter says that's more precious than gold. And he says, God wants to refine that. And Peter says he refines it By fire. He refines it by those very things that you don't understand That don't seem to make any sense to you. That your faith might be proven, refined as genuine, and result in praise and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. And perhaps for some of you, that's the most important message of Acts 2. 3 this morning. That the Spirit who came in tongues of fire upon his people comes to cleanse his people. And if you have that fire in you this morning, one of the things he wants to do with that fire of the Spirit in your life is to cleanse your life. And that's going to bring heat. You know, many of us pray that we'll be long-suffering, forget that that means that there's got to be somebody to suffer in our lives. And if you're going to be long-suffering, you've got to learn to suffer that person that God's going to give you. Or that circumstance. Or that setback, that unanswered prayer, whatever it is Because the fire intends to cleanse you. Thirdly, perhaps you're here this morning with Jesus, but you're feeling weak and you're feeling cold. You're believing that uh things have happened in your life and and you you you look at that fire and you say, uh it doesn't seem to me that there's any such fire in my life. I haven't tended the fires. And there's only a few glowing coals among a bunch of ashes left. My love for Jesus is cold. I haven't had a quiet time for weeks I don't run to the scriptures. I don't praise God. I seem to live day after day in my own strength. There's no praise on my lips. Yet everything in my life just seems absolutely cold. The message to you this morning, stop believing the lies. Perhaps you've become cynical. Perhaps you've come to think that Christianity can really be explained through psychological terms. There's nothing supernatural about it. You see in Acts 2 We read that the Spirit of God came in tongues of flame, a supernatural fire. And the message to you and to me, brother and sister, is the fire of God is in you. There is something supernatural. It is in your life if you belong to Jesus Christ. The fire of God is in you. And that fire may need to be fanned to flame And that's one of the main reasons that we have an extraordinary week of prayer. So that you and I, as coals that are growing cold, can gather together, just like I gather the coals and my uh uh charcoal burner, you know, and I go for a cookout and I put 'em all together and you spread them all out and they get cool, but you put them all together and they heat one another. And the draft comes through that and the coals get hot And so the fire of God in us may need to be fanned to flame by gathering together this week for us to pray that God will revive that heat and that warmth and that zeal of the glowing coal of his spirit, the flame of his. Spirit in our lives. For the fire of God is spoken of as a burning zeal within his people. In Zechariah 4, you have a picture of a lampstand And that lampstand is a fire that is fed by the oil of God. And then two verses later Zachariah says, Because this is a picture of the fact that it's not by might nor by power, but it's by my spirit, says the Lord. And then you go over to Revelation 4 and you have that same picture of the lampstand. And that same picture of the lampstand has seven channels going to it. And those seven channels, Revelation 4:5 tells us, are the picture of the sevenfold Spirit of God. And of the lamp that glows within his people. And so you and I are the lamps that we might have the fire of God burning in us. Don't believe the lie that Christianity can be explained by psychological explanations. It's a supernatural thing. And that's what God wants us to see in the flame. And finally, the last thing is that we would understand perhaps most to the point of anything in this That if you're here without Christ, but you haven't shared him for some weeks, you've been timid and you've been intimidated. You've been intimidated into silence You don't talk about Jesus Christ at work. You don't talk about him among your neighbors. People bring up ethical issues and you find yourself backing off. You don't say anything about him. You find yourself ashamed of the gospel. Take heart. In Acts 2. 3, there were a bunch of cowards just like you and me. And just a few weeks before that, one of these who is the biggest mouth of all Had denied that he even knew Jesus before a servant girl. And he's one of the big shots in the group. And all these people are gathered together, huddled together And then Acts tells us the fire of God. Sheets of fire came down and distributed the flame of God in the individual lives of each of these believers. And that former coward comes and stands up before a crowd of thousands of Jews just minutes later, and he declares a very simple message It doesn't have any homiletical excellence. It's not filled with scintillating illustrations. It doesn't have any brilliant testimonies to it. It's a very simple message. Jesus is alive. He's died that your sins can be forgiven. And he's alive. And 3,000 people give their lives to Jesus Christ that day. And in Acts chapter 4, those same people are praying. And as they pray, they realize that they need the boldness and the power of the Spirit. And after they prayed, we read in Acts 4. 31 The place where they were meeting was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God boldly. You know, I think one of the biggest problems that you and I have in identifying with this passage, in believing that the Spirit of God in his tongues of flame in our lives, can cause you and me to speak the Word of God boldly. is our current understanding of boldness. We view spiritual boldness as a charismatic preacher, a TV evangelist Who is full of a scintillating dramatic testimony of how God had rescued him from the pit is glib with his speech and is able to impress people by the stories that he tells and by the emotions that he can conjure up in his hearers. And we say, I don't have any of that ability. My testimony isn't particularly dramatic. Yeah, my life was messed up, and I turned to Jesus, and gradually he's putting it back together again. You know, and people wouldn't be very interested in hearing me tell all the gory details about what God's done in my life. You know, and sometimes I wonder how much he's working in my life. You know, I just don't seem to have anything tremendously powerful to tell. And we forget the fact that the Apostle Paul described himself as weak and trembling and in much fear before the Corinthians. That he was described as one who was very weak in his appearance and contemptible in his speech So that the point of the New Testament is that the power of God is not to be seen in making us powerful. But it's to be demonstrated by scruffy vessels showing the power of God. By the very fact that people can say, if that guy led somebody to Christ, there must be a Holy Spirit that works in people. So that we look at people and what God does in our lives, and there's no way you can account for it by the person's natural talents. That's when God's glorified. That's when God gets the honor. When people like us who feel like we don't have anything that we can do in our own strength Are willing for the Spirit of God to remove that timidity and to speak a word for Jesus. I think of a fellow who I had as a seminary professor back when I was at Westminster And I must say with all due love and respect for this fellow that it was the driest course that I had ever had, I think, in both my college as well as my seminary career. In fact, I must honestly say to you that I don't remember a single thing that that man taught in that course. He was a wonderful man, but he was not a very persuasive speaker. We used to doodle in the class, you know, you know, you played battleships, you know, anything else you could think of to do. I mean, it was a course that we sort of felt like we needed, and he was given it, and that was it. And we got through it Some years after he taught that course, six years to be exact, God began to get a hold of him. In his timidity, he became disgusted with his lack of power for Jesus Christ. He began to study the promises of God, and he began to say, These promises are for today. They're not relegated to the first century. Jesus wants to have streams of living water flow through me out of my life. And he began to talk to anybody that would listen about Jesus. After God began to get a hold of his life in a dramatic new way, giving him a whole new understanding of the gospel and its power He used to hang around as a seminary professor and pastor around a fast food drive-in among the wildest bunch of teenagers he had ever met in his life. Just to see the power of God work in his life. He met with those kids for three months every week at that drive-in And he would tell them about Jesus. Anybody would listen. He would tell them about Jesus. Now I tell you, this guy was not a persuasive speaker. After three months, one of the wildest kids in that group, Bob Heppy, gave his life to Jesus Christ. He was an alcoholic, he was a drug addict, and God delivered him from both. He went back to high school, he finished high school, he graduated, he went on to Temple University, and he graduated with high honors. This pastor, Jack Miller, began to disciple him, and in 1981, Bob Heppy went as a missionary to Uganda. And Uganda sort of suited his personality, you know, because there's wars all over Uganda at that time. Things were kind of unrestful. And so this guy from a teenage gang came in now with the Spirit of God Before he went into Uganda, he had led another fellow, John, to Jesus Christ. And so Jack Miller began to meet with John and he discipled John. And now John went over to Uganda to join Bob as a missionary there, and they formed a painting company, and he began to trained Ugandans in being uh painters restoring Kampala, which was devastated by Idi Amin at that time. And they restored that and they used to do street preaching among the thugs and the gangs in Kampala. Why? Because these guys were so powerful and articulate? No, because the Spirit of God has power within sinners. And dozens, hundreds came to Jesus Christ. Churches were planted. They turned in two years that painting company over to the Agondons themselves. As an evangelistic painting company. Meantime, a third fellow, a bartender, came to Christ through John's ministry and Jack's ministry. This fellow was a bartender, a drug dealer, and a big-time operator in Philadelphia. He came to Jesus Christ and became a leader in the church. All of them evangelists. And the final blow was that Bob Heppy and the former bartender eventually became Jack Miller's sons-in-law. That's the power of God. Let's pray. Lord our God, some of us here are really wondering, where is your power? Lord, help us to read your word here and to see. You tell us, you can believe it or you cannot believe it. My spirit has come, as wind and as fire in my people. Help us, Lord, to believe you. Help us to believe you and what it means to come to you for forgiveness of sins for the first time. Or whether it means to cooperate with what your Spirit is doing in cleansing us through trials, whether it means to come for revival and renewal in our own hearts By seeing that fire renewed in coming before you with our brothers and sisters this week, or whether it means Lord stepping out in faith and saying, We're tired of being intimidated. The Spirit of God is in us. We're going to speak to somebody who will listen this week about the power of Jesus Christ to see what you will do. Lord, we give ourselves to you. And we want to believe what this says. Help us. In Jesus' name. Amen.