Let's give our attention to God's Word from Acts chapter two, verses one to four. When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. Suddenly a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came down from heaven. and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. This portion of God's Word is what we want to consider this morning. As you've already heard many times over. Today is Pentecost. Somebody who is thinking notice that and put the uh banner up on the wall with the dove to symbolize the Holy Spirit and are rejoicing, are celebrating today the fact that the Holy Spirit came to fill the church with new power on that feast of Pentecost, fifty days after the Lord Jesus himself was crucified. And do you recall, those of you who have been around, that for the last three weeks we have been looking at three pictures of the Holy Spirit in anticipation of this. The three pictures that we see in Acts chapter 2, verses 2 to 4. Verse 2, the Spirit as wind. Verse 3, the Spirit as fire, and now this morning, verse 4, the controversial one. The one that says that the Spirit is known in other tongues. Now, why is this verse so controversial? Why is there such a big deal about this? Well, it's simply because in our century there are a number of Pentecostal and charismatic churches that teach That this verse is a normative pattern for the receiving of the Holy Spirit in our lives today. That in fact, this is the pattern for every believer today. That if you are baptized with the Spirit and are filled with the Spirit, then inevitably the sign that will be universally given Is speaking in tongues. I mean that's what verse 4 says, isn't it? All of them were filled with the Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave utterance It's as simple as that. That's the pattern. As one Pentecostal denomination has within its creed. Quote, the baptism in the Holy Spirit must be accompanied by the same evidence which the apostles received as their sign. To speak in other tongues as the Spirit gives evidence, utterance, excuse me. End of the quote. This doctrine, of course as many of us know has divided many churches. On the one hand you'll have Christians that are saying, if you're filled with the Spirit, if in fact you're baptized in the Holy Spirit, then you will speak in tongues, and everybody will and should. And on the other hand, there's the Christians that say, no, no, no, tongues were only for the first century. It does not continue today. Any tongue speaking today is of the devil. And so what do you have? You got a split church, which is ironic because the spirit of unity seems to bring the division. And how that must grieve the Holy Spirit. Now, why in the world then, since this is not a particular raging issue as far as I'm can aware of at all at Columbia Presbyterian Church, why am I going to take the trouble to speak on this issue and uh you know risk all kinds of repercussions. So you sort of smile and say, yeah, I'm wondering why you're gonna do that too. Well the simple reason is That recently I was struck by the three beautiful pictures that we have in this passage about the Holy Spirit, which helps us to understand something about his person and his work. And then you come to verse 4, and that's the third picture. He's known in the speaking in other tongues. And I'm not going to avoid it, it's right there in scripture. So there it is. We'll come to it. We're not going to back off from it. Let's see what it says. And so what I want to do is that I want to look this morning to help us to see the significance of this, because I think if we see this, it can get us really excited about what God is doing in the church today. But in order to do that, we've got to look at a first point. And so the message this morning is divided into two points. First one, you see it on your bulletin outline, the uniqueness of other tongues in Acts And then secondly, the significance of other tongues, as we see it in Acts here. First of all, then the uniqueness. Now There's many things that I could say about tongues, but I want to remind you, those of you who may come with all your questions at the end of this service, this is not a lecture on tongue speaking. Alright? So uh you know, don't come afterwards and say but you didn't hit on that and you didn't cover this and you didn't touch that and all that kind of thing. This is not a lecture on tongue speaking. I'm gonna severely restrict myself here What I want to do therefore is I want to just point out three evidences that I see in this passage of the fact That in f that this tongue speaking referred to here is unique. It is not a pattern for the church today, but in fact was unique A unique uh incident not to be repeated, and in fact was quite distinct from the tongue speaking in 1 Corinthians 12 and 14. Now, what are the three things? Just very briefly three evidences that I see in the text to help us to understand this. Number one that the tongue speaking that we have here in Acts 2 was initially and irresistibly on all the disciples. Notice that. Verse 4 says, all of them were filled with the Spirit and began to speak in other tongues. Now you contrast that, for instance, with what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 12. 30 when he says concerning tongue speaking, do all speak in tongues? Do all prophesy? Do all do this and that? And obviously what he's implying there is that not all do. The Spirit, as he says earlier, distributes to different people different gifts. And so what Paul's talking about in 1 Corinthians 12 and 14 is not irresistibly on all believers. That's distinct from this. In fact, uh in verses In chapter fourteen and verse thirty two, he speaks even among those who speak in tongues, he says the spirit of the prophet is under the control of the prophet. It's not something that just is irresistible. That's not the case here. The Spirit came irresistibly, initially, upon all the believers, and all spoke in tongues. And so today, we're told that Many people do not speak in tongues at conversion or at any other point in their Christian life because they're not open. They're not receptive to it. But of course, that was not the issue here. The Spirit simply came irresistibly on all. It wasn't a matter of seeking it. It wasn't a matter of being open to it The one who is the least open of those hundred and twenty disciples spoke in tongues the same as the one who was the most open and eager. And so this is a distinct, unique kind of phenomena. And as I said before, the uh one reason that they received the tongues was because it was Pentecost. Not because of what they were doing. Alright, now that's the first thing. Uniquely, this was initially and irresistibly on all disciples. That is not true today. Nobody claims that that's true today, but that's unique here. Secondly We see that what's described here is a foreign language which was understood by unbelievers. That's very important. There's no interpretation needed for these tones. In 1 Corinthians chapter 14, Paul talks about the fact that an interpreter is needed. In fact, the tongue speaker should not speak in tongues in public unless there is an interpreter. For then nobody's going to know what he's saying. Here you have in verse eleven that the unbelievers are gathered around and they hear Them all praising God, and it says both Jews, converts to Judaism, Cretans, Arabs, we hear them declaring the wonders of God in our own tongues, and they're amazed 1 Corinthians 14 in verse 23 to 25, Paul says, an unbeliever comes into your assembly, hears you speaking in tongues, you can say, you guys are wacko. You're off your wall, you're out of off the wall, you're out of your mind. Because he says you it won't make any sense to him. It'll just be a bunch of gibberish. And same way today When someone talks about speaking in tongues as an evidence of the f fullness of the Spirit, I don't know anyone who claims that if you do that There's going to be an Arab sitting there and he's going to say, Ah, I hear him speaking perfect Arabic or somebody that speaks Urdu that says, Hi, when'd you learn Urdu? You know Nobody claims that it's going to be an unlearned foreign tongue supernaturally learned. Now some people claim that that does happen. That God can do that. I'm not dealing with that issue now. What I'm saying is the normative sign of the filling of the Spirit is not speaking in a foreign language that some unbeliever can hear without your having learned that language. That is totally distinct and unique to this occasion. That is not in anyone I know claimed to be a pattern for today. And yet, you read again and again in Christian literature today that this Acts 2. 4 is a pattern for how to receive the Spirit today. That's the way God did it then, that's the way He does it today. And yet only part of that pattern is taken because it's not a foreign language that's being spoken of today. Third thing that's unique about this is that this incident which is given here is never commanded to be sought anywhere in the New Testament. In fact, in the book of Acts, there's three, possibly four, accountings of tongue speaking. In Acts 2, 10, 19, and possibly Acts 8. On all of those occasions, or let me put it the other way, on none of those occasions Did anyone seek to speak in tongues? It in every single case came as a surprise, unexpectedly, sovereignly given. In no case did the apostles seek to speak in tongues. In fact you see here in verse 2 that they're gathered for whatever reason and then you read suddenly a sound came like the rushing of a wind. Yeah, it's sort of caught off guard. You know, whatever else they were doing, they're caught off guard with this. They don't expect it. They're not seeking for it. And so God is it sovereignly at his disposition Now that's unique, and nowhere in any of the writings of Paul or any other New Testament book do we ever have a command or a an injunction or an encouragement to seek after speaking in tongues. The whole point of this is the unique relationship that it has to Pentecost That's the whole point of this. And so that moves us on to then what is the significance. Now before I speak therefore about the significance of this, to try and encourage us in what God has done here I want to say again, this is not a lecture on tongue speaking, and I am not covering a lot of things and may some questions that were raised in your mind by what I just said then. But let me just say here that I am not addressing the question of someone speaking in tongues privately in their own devotions to worship the Lord. I'm not touching that issue. All I'm dealing with at this point is the one basic question, which seems to be very confusing to many Christians today, and that is the question, is Acts 2. 4 a pattern? To be followed today for the filling of the Spirit? Or was it something unique? And I'm saying as you read through the book of Acts and the rest of the New Testament, it's clear to me that what is described here by Luke is something that is absolutely unique. It is fixed on and associated with Pentecost. And what in fact was the new work that God was doing in his church on that day. Alright, now that's all I want to be clear. You can agree, disagree, talk about it afterwards, you know, grab my coat and take me outside or whatever you want to do. But that's what I see in the text now. Now, that leads us to the other part of the question, and that is what is the significance of it? Why did God do this? You know, we talked about two weeks ago, why did he show himself as wind? Why did he show himself as fire? to show that he was the great sovereign spirit who moves to change the landscapes of our lives by his power working in us. Now why does he reel reveal himself in other tongues? If this is unique and for this day Why was it? Why did he do it? I want to suggest three reasons, which are three meanings of what God was doing here. First of all, it's supernatural speech. That's the most obvious thing that we see about We have your supernatural speech. The simple fact is that the one who is the wind, breath, fire, who changes the landscapes of our lives, does it through tongues. That is, he does it by someone else's tongue speaking to us the gospel. And that gospel comes to us and it changes our lives, a life that was formerly self-centered. and uh grabbing and bitter becomes a life which is Christ-centered and serving and giving. A life which changes our tones, first of all So not only is it our lives changed by tongues, but the change issues forth in the tongue. The tongue which is formerly bitter becomes a tongue which is sweet. The tongue which formerly cursed now blesses. And so we have here in the picture of this work of the Spirit coming upon the church the fact that these people have changed tongues Now, not only are their tongues changed, that is, that the filling of the Spirit is evidenced not so much as someone has said today. in the fact that you speak in tongues, but in fact in the fact that the spirit controls the one tongue that you do have to speak with, then that reminds us of what we've been looking at in the past weeks on tongue control. And so I just remind you again, what's the Lord been doing in your life, in my life, in the matter of tongue control, our tongue control experiment, remember, for the past ten weeks? The number one priority of our discipleship for just this ten weeks, time's up. And what happened? You look back and say, hey boy, you know, so some of you might say that was the longest ten weeks of my life. Others of you might say that was the shortest ten weeks. I forgot about that. Yeah, you said that there. Well somehow I guess that just sort of slipped past me and the other things I was doing, huh? Well, for those that did seek the Lord and said that, look, this really is going to be a number one priority. Tonight's the opportunity. Have a brief opportunity for anybody that wants to share. Look, here's what I asked the Lord to do. Here's what he did And um I just want to glorify God and what he did through that. But now there's something a little deeper here too that I want to pass on before I go leave this first meeting. Not only is it the fact that the Holy Spirit changes our tongues, But there also is the fact that our tongues particularly, which are weak, our witness for Jesus is so weak, it's so wavering, sometimes it's so intimidated. Still that weak witness, God is saying here, is endued with a supernatural power. Paul himself, remember, 1 Corinthians chapter 2, he said, I came to you in weakness, in trembling. My knees weren't just knocking, they were bypassing each other. And I came to you in much fear. But he says, so that your faith would not stand in the wisdom of my words. Paul saying it was obvious that what I said wasn't that clever You ever do that? You know, you talk to somebody about Jesus and you go away think, Boy, did I blow it? Man, all so many things that I should have said and I didn't say, and why'd I say that? I stuck my foot in my mouth and I probably offended them all over the place and turned them off and blah blah you know on the way. beating yourself in and then you know a week or two later the person goes back and says boy I was really thinking of what you said man that really got me thinking you say hang on come on you know that's what this is about Paul says, so that your faith would not stand in my wisdom, but in the power of the Spirit. Chapter four and verse seven. We have this power, this treasure, excuse me, this treasure of the gospel in scruffy earthen jars, so that the power might be seen to be of God. And so when you and I are surprised, we need to remember God is the one who uses our weak words. Weak, intimidated words sometimes to speak to other people about life that's available in Jesus Christ. And so let me just put the question one more time. The last couple of weeks we've talked about what is who is that person that you really feel like you'd like to talk to about Jesus. But you're afraid to. Who is that? Be encouraged, brother or sister, that the Lord Jesus wants to use his spirit to make your words powerful. Not that they will seem powerful to you or to that other person. But simply so that his power will come through that halting witness by which this week you would talk to that person about life in Jesus. Who is it that you've been holding back on? Let me challenge you to make this the week to see God uses power through you in that. Now a second thing we see here, and this is really the heart of it. is that I believe that the essence of the meaning of tongues, other tongues, foreign tongues that were supernaturally learned here is that what God is communicating to us through this is that this is the reverse of the curse on Babel. Now that is absolutely unique. Do you remember the situation at Babel? Turn to Genesis chapter eleven. in your Bibles and follow along because this story is really key, I think, to the understanding of what's going on in Acts 2. Back in Genesis chapter 11, you have the story of an urban technological breakthrough. Now, what do I mean by that? Follow. Notice. Genesis chapter 11. Now, while the whole world, the whole world had one language and a common speech, as men moved eastward, they found a plain in Shinar, and they settled there. And they said to each other, Come. Let's make bricks and bake them thoroughly. They use brick instead of stone and tar for mortar. And then they said, Come, let's build ourselves a city with a tower that reaches to the heavens, so that we may make a name for ourselves and not be scattered over the face of the whole earth. But the Lord came down to see the city and the tower that the men were building. And the Lord said, If it's speaking the same language, they have begun to do this. then nothing they plan to do will be impossible for them. Come, let us go down and confuse their language, so that they will not understand each other. And so the Lord scattered them from there over all the earth and they stopped building the city That's why it was called Babel, because the Lord confused the language of the whole world, and from there the Lord scattered them over the face of the whole earth. Now, I'd like to suggest that you have in this story contrasted with Acts 3. 2 Three reverses of the curse that you see here in Babel. The first reversal is humility rather than pride. Humility rather than pride. You notice in Genesis 11 4, they say, Come, let us build ourselves a city. Let's make a name for ourselves. The whole thing is to exalt man. Now why do I say it was a technological breakthrough? Because I think that's what prompted it. If you look in verse three, it says they used brick instead of stone and tar for mortar. You see, this was the microchip of its day. You know, I mean this was the superconductor that they had just discovered. You no longer have to hew stone out of the ground and drag it with some carts and all these slaves, you know, and Kisel the thing and try to get it to fit in there. We've discovered how to make stone by taking clay and putting it in a fire and forming bricks that we can make the size we want, the shape we want, you can use tar and glue it together. And this was a technological breakthrough in the city And so as a result of this, they say, now we can build a tower that has no limit, because there's no limit to the materials. And we will make this tower that will be the greatest tower that man has ever seen. This was probably referring not to a tower that some people view as sort of going up into the clouds, you know, they thought they were actually going to get up to some uh upper story or something like that. It's referring to a Babylonian zigarette, which, though you may not know what a ziggurette is, you've probably seen one. They're those Temples, you know, that have the steps that go like this, you know, all the way to the top, and you can sort of if you had big feet, you know, you could sort of walk up the thing, but they're actually big, huge things. Well that's a ziggurat. And they said, let's build one of those things because Babylon means the gate to heaven. And they said, we're going to be the very gate to heaven to the gods. And this is going to exalt us in this demonstration of our technology. You see, it's man's autonomy lifted to its technological apex in that day. Jacques Alu, writing recently in his book, The Meaning of the City, says, the city is man's greatest work. It is his great attempt to attain autonomy, to exercise will and intelligence. You see, it's the same spirit of humanism in the city today. It's the same thing as Columbia. Let's build us a city that will be a monument to what cities ought to be. You see, it's the same kind of thinking that we have in whether it's Hong Kong as a trade center or Tokyo or New York City or Columbia, it's the same autonomous human spirit. The irony of it is that when God comes and he puts a halt to it in order to humble their pride, what is known about Babylon rings through Scripture. It was not their glory that reached to heaven. It was their sin and their judgment. Jeremiah says that Babel's judgment reached unto heaven. And in Revelation 18, when God is talking about the two cities that are pitted against each other, Babylon, Babel, same city, representing all of man's autonomy versus Jerusalem, God's city. John writing it in Revelation 18, 4 and 5, says to his people, Come out, the Lord Jesus says, Come out from them. Come out. Don't partake in their sins, and he says in verse 5, because Babylon's sin has reached unto heaven, and I will remember its crimes. And so you have here the exaltation of man that God says is so foolish. All he has to do is change their language, and he stops the whole project. Yeah, all this technological breakthrough comes crashing to a halt because nobody anticipated the fact that God might change their languages. And so God humbles them. Now what do you have here? In Acts 2, now you have, you see the contrast. Where is it? The Lord Jesus said, wait for the Spirit. Very significant. Jerusalem. God's city. He says, go wait in Jerusalem. And so they wait in Jerusalem, and what are they doing? Not doing anything very startling, are they? They're sitting around waiting for God's power. I mean how humbling can you get They're not building some synagogue or they're building a cathedral or building anything that's a monument to themselves. You got 120 of them sitting around or having prayer meetings They're calling upon God. They're waiting for His power. Jesus says, My power is going to come. And all they can do is wait in obedience. And so these are people who are now humbled before God's power. They wait for him. And as they wait for him, so the Spirit comes and he speaks in other tongues. He gives to them now the reverse of the curse of Babylon As an indication that this is now the humility of man in which God is showing His power And so you see, in the book of Revelation, in chapter 21, the new Jerusalem, which has come down from heaven. Which has the very beauty of God. John says I saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed. Now here's a city you see that's truly beautiful. John says his very streets are gold. His jewels just abundantly, lavishly decorate this place. And John says, this new Jerusalem is beautifully adorned. He says, You want to see? You've never seen a city till you've seen the new Jerusalem. But who's it adorned for? The verse goes on, dressed for her husband. The bride eyes not her beauty, but she looks only at her groom, at the Lord Jesus, at his beauty. And so in this city that you and I are called through Jesus Christ to be citizens of We're not going to be looking at the beauty of the city, as exquisite as that may be, in comparison to the beauty of the Lord Jesus, before whom this city is humbled. And that is the way of the believer, to be humbled so that the Spirit might show his power through us. The second thing about this reverse of the curse is that we see here clarity rather than confusion. Clarity rather than confusion. By the way, concerning that first thing, let me just add, isn't it ironic that tongue speaking has in the Church of Christ become a source of pride? For many, rather than in the very essence of it, which is in Scripture, that it's the result of a humble spirit before the Lord. And that that is something that must so grieve the Holy Spirit when we focus upon the experience rather than upon the Lord Jesus, as the one who gave it because his disciples were humbled before him. But now what about this matter of clarity versus confusion? You see here the same thing, a reverse of Abel. Genesis 11, verse 9, the Lord comes down and he says, he confuses their tongues. He scattered them all over the earth. They stopped building the city. This is why it was called Babel, because the Lord confused the language. Now why does he say this is why it was called Babel? As I said before, the word Babel in Babylonian uh means or Chaldean means the gate of heaven. But there's a play on words here because the Hebrew word Babel, which sounds very similar to it, the Semitic Hebrew word, means confusion. And so, you know, Moses sort of has a little bit of humor here, and he says, you know, this gate of God is really just confusion, because the word Babel in Hebrew means to confuse And so Moses is saying here, this which seems to be man's epitome of his autonomy and his glory is simply confusion. And the Lord showed that by confusing their tongue. So you know the guys are building on the wall. And they're talking to each other and you know, instead of saying, Hand me a another brick he says, Mm you know And the other guy says, What are you saying? you know, he says, Why don't you speak? You know, and he gets kinda mad at him, you know, instead of handing him a brick he throws him a brick, you know. Of course the other guy can't understand hit me. And everything becomes so confused everybody starts fighting because they all think everybody else is ignorant or making fun of 'em, you know, and all this kind of stuff. You know, and all everything becomes mass pandemonium till they all find somebody who's smart enough to speak in a way that they can understand. They say, Hey now you're a guy who's speaks my language, you know, let's get together and they all scatter and it's utter confusion. But now what happens at Pentecost? You see what the Lord is doing here is that he's bringing out of confusion clarity. Pentecost Because what was Pentecost like? You know, you read there in uh verses nine to eleven, you got ten different nations all represented here, all coming for the feast. So you walk down the marketplace in Jerusalem and you hear a language here and a language there and all these different languages and nobody can understand each other. And they happen to be walking past where these disciples are sitting and all of a sudden you hear a hundred and twenty different languages and it will make sense, you know, because if you're here in the one, you tune into that one, and all of a sudden all these people are drawn together. Now there's not confusion, there's clarity, supernatural clarity. Because the Lord has now reversed the curse of Babel. Whereas in Babel there was one nation that became scattered to many nations. Now the Lord Jesus is taking many nations and he's bringing them together into one people. And this one people now is a people that can understand each other in the unity that they have. Not only is there a clarity in simply hearing each other But there is also a deeper clarity of the mystery of the gospel. And that's what this I think is a sign to us for. You see, the day has come now where all the mysteries of the Old Testament are going to make sense. As Paul says in Ephesians 3 The mystery of Christ, which from long ages had been hidden, is now being revealed. As Dick reminded, is from Hebrews 1, Jesus has spoken in this last day. God's finished word to bring clarity to the confusion of your life and my life. Why is it that there's sin? And why is it that we can't get along? And why is it that I Seem to be depressed and have guilt and all the rest of this and I don't know how to live my life. And Jesus brings clarity to that confusion. And that is symbolized here in the clarity of the tongue speaking, as God brings clarity in disorder and confusion on that day, and the gospel is preached to bring clarity into people's lives. Now, I mentioned that he brings unity in that, and that's the last thing. Unity comes rather than division. In Genesis chapter 11 again, you have in verses 8 and 9 the fact that the Lord scattered One nation among to become many nations. Languages divide. It's just a simple rule. I mean you get people then they can't understand each other, they'll always associate with the people that they can understand. The Assyrians understood this was part of their strategy in conquering the world. Whenever they'd conquer a nation, they take the people of that nation, they'd scatter among others that didn't speak their language, because they knew they'd never get along with them, and therefore they could never be a threatening force to rise up against them and to rebel. You can't associate very well with people who you don't understand. And so now, out of this division by the languages, the Lord is bringing unity. by one language that we see here in Acts 2. And so it's significant that after you have the account here of the explanation about Pentecost, what do you have in verse 42 to 47? Right after the message of Pentecost. You have the description of the first community of believers. And what's the description of that community? They were all together. They shared all things in common. They met together. They worshipped together. They studied together. It says that they broke bread together. We take one loaf, you see. We'll do that tonight in celebrating the Lord's Supper to express the fact that we who are many are brought together in oneness in Jesus Christ. So I praise God that what God began here is the reverse of the curse of Babel in the scattering of the nations and God bringing one out of all people, people that don't have anything else in common, to bring a one people, a supernatural people. Formed out of allegiance to Jesus Christ. We see that right here in our own midst, don't we? I praise God for how that we see that in our own body. Right here we have blacks and whites that worship together. We have Indians and Pakistanis We have Germans and Jews and Chinese and Vietnamese. In my last newcomers class I had uh right there, I think it was five different nations represented in those that were studying to find out more about our church. We have those that like country and western that worship with those that like classical. We have engineers that can worship with artsy types, you know We even had Democrats that worship with Republicans. What else could bring such a motley crew together but the Lord Jesus? You see, and that's a supernatural work I mean you see the whole dynamic of that is that if you and I differ on something, but we both love something or someone that is more important to us than the differences which might threaten to divide us. Then that love for that thing that we have, that that common love, will transcend those differences. And so when Jesus Christ, by the power of the Spirit, becomes the most precious thing in your life and in my life. It transcends any possible difference. There is nothing, then, that can break that supernatural unity which becomes a testimony to Columbia and Howard County and the world. Jesus Christ is alive today. Jesus Christ can do what nothing else can do with all Columbia's planning, putting the mailboxes all together so people have to associate when they get their mail and all the rest of the stuff that they design. Nothing will do it but Jesus Christ. And that's why you have this whole thing at Pentecost. And that's the third and last thing, you see. The whole thing happens at Pentecost. Why? Because Pentecost is the first fruits of the wheat harvest. And Pentecost now, you see, is the first fruits of God bringing together all the nations to Jesus Christ. Pentecost is the very beginning now, and God wants to make such a dramatic statement of this first fruits. He says, I can't wait to teach you guys Arabic and Median and Roman and Latin. He says, I'm just going to do it in one snap of my fingers. I'm going to reverse the curse of Babel supernaturally. And so they go out and they preach the gospel, and you have ten different nations that hear them all together the wonderful works of Jesus Christ. And Peter comes up and he declares, after explaining briefly why the Spirit has done that. Notice verses 22 to 36, the very bulk of the message centers on Jesus. Jesus, as Dick pointed out, who's the message. Jesus who's the center and the heart of this whole thing. And people come and they bow to Jesus and he says, Therefore you have the gift of the Spirit who brings you into one family, into one nation. And that is a continuous work that God's beginning beginning, has begun then and is continuing to do now, bring the harvest of the nations in. So whatever special offerings we do, whatever else we do in the facility, let's remember, brothers and sisters, this is for the harvest of the nations. And so in the next seven weeks, we will be having seven body lifes. And you will notice that all seven of those have to do with outreach. Five of the seven will have to do with foreign missions. Because that's the work that God's doing in our midst. And if we as a church expect to be a spirit-filled church, we've got to be a missions church. Because that's the heart of what God was doing at Pentecost. Let's pray. Lord, make us a people who are excited about the fact that you are doing a supernatural work in our day. You are bringing together out of confusion clarity. Because we're a people who have humbled ourselves before you rather than seeking to simply make great careers and get credit to ourselves. In all the vanity that follows from that, we bow before Jesus and we want to see you bring together the nations to the feet of Jesus, both in our own midst and in those that go out from our midst, to speak in supernatural power the simple message of Jesus' death and resurrection for sinners. Lord, make us each a part of that and excited about what you will be doing in our midst, because Jesus has been exalted and has sent his Spirit in the church. Amen.