Good morning. As I said to the congregation in the first service, I want to say again to you guys, as I look out at you, I know that there is an awful lot going on in your lives. And that as you come here to worship, this isn't necessarily all of your life. You're not you're not living every day and every moment the way that you do when you come to worship here. There is so much more going on in your lives. And I As I preach the passage I'm going to preach this morning, really it's the book of 1 Peter, I long to see you recognize that this experience connects with the rest of your life. There are so many stories you could tell. So stories that are stories of rejoicing that you want to share because the sweetness of sharing them with somebody else makes them better. But there are also stories of difficulty, stories of pain, of sadness. And that's where this passage, the one phrase I'm going to focus on today, is so important because Peter's dealing with where we are, because God does. God is concerned for your present life as well as your future. And so I want you to be able to listen. to the message today, not merely thinking about this is church and this is the compartment where I come and I'm I'm excited by the music, I'm excited by the scripture, I'm excited by the the p pleasant contact I have with the other people who are here. And I go out from here and I enter the world again. And I live with the difficulties of my life, but for these moments, for these Seventy-five, hundred and thirty, two hundred and ten moments of the morning, I am I am enjoying the grace of God. God longs for his grace to touch every aspect of your life. And that's really what Peter's telling us in a nutshell. If you don't get anything else from the sermon today and you take that home, I will be content. But there's so much more here. And the passage that we're going to look at in just a moment as I read it and as you see it on the screen is really the completion of a section where Peter's talking about relationships. But he's talking about relationships that are both pleasant and difficult in the context of hope He's speaking to a church that faces persecution on a global scale. Nero is about to begin a major persecution of the church. He's already begun it in Rome, and Peter's writing from Rome. The churches in Cappadocia, Pontus, Bithynia, and Asia are going to experience it, and Peter knows that. But Peter's not merely writing to those who are facing global persecution because in this section of verses he's talking about those And talking to those who faith submitting to political authorities who are unrighteous, submitting to masters, both those who are righteous and those who are unrighteous. Jesus submitting to the authorities that took his life. Wives who are married to husbands who may or may not obey the word. Husbands who are married to wives who may or may not love, respect, and submit. And the calling we have in how we are to live in hope. In each of those settings. He's writing to us. He's writing to you in all the issues of your life. So I want to break the compartments. I want you to deal with this passage and these truths as if you weren't in church. I want it to be your real life that you take to these scriptures. And God wants to meet you there. God wants you to have hope, not just in Sunday morning when you come and you're with brothers and sisters in Christ and you can feel good and be encouraged because we point you to Jesus. And you can forget about the troubles that you left at the door. Bring your troubles with you. Bring your joys with you. Because what Peter's doing is he's addressing real life and present hope. So let me read the passage. Likewise, wives be subject to your own husbands. So that even if some of them do not obey the word, they may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. Do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of clothing, but let your adornment be the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves. By submitting to their husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. And you are her children if you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life. So that your prayers may not be hindered. Peter makes a foundational point in the top of this page. This is how the holy women who hoped in God. We just heard Psalm 34, and if if you think back for a moment to what John read and what David wrote, It sounded incredibly like those who are righteous are blessed, and those who are unrighteous are cursed and destroyed and condemned. And so it's easy to think that as it says in the end of the Psalm, a righteous man may have many troubles, but the Lord delivers him from them all. That if you're having troubles in your circumstances, either you're not righteous or God hasn't delivered you yet. But let me read the next phrase. He protects all his bones, not one of them will be broken. There is no one more righteous than Jesus. And as John and I were talking between the services, I wish I'd talked to him before the first service, he makes the point that Jesus is a righteous one. And so if you're thinking that God by declaring you righteous will make your life comfortable and easy, then you're not seeing the cross. Because while it's true, Jesus' bones were not broken, he was crucified. He was killed. His circumstances stank But God declared him righteous and accomplished his purposes in Jesus. And his purposes were to bring you and me to him. So as we look at this hope that we have, bring your circumstances Don't let there be a compartment that says, my circumstances deny the truth of Scripture, so either I can't acknowledge my circumstances, or I can't believe that I'm right with God. Hope deals with where you are. Before we go any further, I want to ask you a question. The question is: are you an optimist? Or perhaps you might be a pessimist. Or are you something in between? Those of us who are optimists think that people need to see the reason for hope. People need to see that God is good and they need to see that life can be sweet in the midst of difficult circumstances. Those of us who are pessimists believe that those who are optimists simply haven't tasted the reality of life yet. It has not hurt them enough to change them. And so we who understand reality know that optimists are silly. And you might find yourself somewhere in between. But as you think about what characterizes your life, I'm going to have you look at three quotes. that might help you to pick out where you where you are. The first quote is by a woman named Margaret Weiss where she says that hope is the denial of reality. In the first service, nobody was willing to raise their hand and agree that that was a sentiment with which they could identify. So they were either scared or optimists, and I couldn't figure out which. Reality is something the Christian must engage in. We do live real lives in a fallen world as fallen creatures. And there is pain, there is difficulty, there is hardship that faces us, and many of you here could stand and give testimony to that. Many of you here could stand and give testimony to how you're going through those times right now. Others could give testimony to how you have experienced those hardships, and some of you have come out of them and seen that the Lord is good. Taste and see that the Lord is good, David says. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. We're going to look at a story in the end of the sermon that is a great illustration of that. And it points us to a truth that we must cling to. But if you think that only um unknown secularists are pessimistic or some mix of optimism and pessimism. Oliver Cromwell, that great leader of the glorious revolution and a leader of the Puritan period in English history, said, put your trust in God. But keep your powder dry. There is a level that we have where we can be confident in God's care, But it is still up to us to add that oomph that carries us over. Or or you could, if if you really enjoy this quote, honestly say that there is a responsibility to be a good steward. You can't trust in God and throw your powder away. You can't trust in God and throw your powder in the river. You can't trust in God and ignore reality. But the truth of the matter is, God is our hope. And Peter points that to us as he says in chapter 5 of this very same letter that we are to be casting all our anxiety on him because he cares for you. We can't make two mistakes. The first mistake is to pretend. To deny the reality in our lives and to cover over the joys or the sorrows and pretend that Scripture defines us in a way that we can't feel. In other words, brothers and sisters, we need people with whom we can be honest. God has created us in a community. God has created us with brothers and sisters who are together his body. And God has given us issues in our lives that are too difficult or too wonderful to bear alone. Think of a time where you experienced a great joy. Think of a time where you had some wonderful experience of God's mercy. You want to share. You want others to know. You want to see that God is honored in what He does, and that brothers and sisters can rejoice with you in that. You know, for those of you who are guys and enjoy cars, think of a time you bought a great new car You want to show it off. You want others to enjoy it with you. Or a computer or a big screen TV or whatever it may be. Some joy in your life, you're designed to share it. And in the same way, when you have a sorrow, when you have a tragedy, when you have a trial or a difficulty, you want someone to bear it with you. God has created us for community. God has created us to share our joys and our sorrows and to be relating to one another on the basis of real life. But too often in Christianity we want to pretend. Or we draw a very narrow circle of whom we will relate to and share our honest feelings and lives with. And I don't believe that that's how we're created to be. We're created first and foremost to cast our anxieties upon Him But also we're commanded in Scripture to bear one another's burdens and thus fulfill the law of Christ. Peter's message to the churches battling persecution is that we are born again. We're born again, not simply to life in Christ, but Peter says to us in the beginning of his epistle to living hope. Peter deals with reality of life and he deals with it by pointing us to a reality of hope. He's not telling us that we are to face the reality of our lives and endure. He's not telling us to wait for heaven and gut it out. He's not telling us even to do that with one another and commiserate the difficulties of our life here and hope for heaven. He's calling us to a present hope. In chapter 1, verse 3, Peter tells us that God has caused us to be born again to a living hope. It's a living hope. It's alive. It's active, and it's present. In verse 13, he says, set your hope fully on the grace brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now your version will probably in the English say the grace to be brought to you, which sort of presumes a future component. There's clearly a future component. But in the Greek it's a present participle. And what he's saying is the grace being brought to you at the revelation of Christ, who has come and will yet come again. It is a present hope. In verse 21, he says, so that your faith and hope are in God. God is the source of our hope, and God is the object of our hope. In chapter 3, verse 5, in this passage, he's speaking to women who were able to adorn themselves with a gentle and quiet spirit because They hoped in God. We just saw in the past message from chapter 2 that Jesus was able to submit And was able to face the persecution he faced because he trusted himself to the one who judges justly. Jesus had hope, in spite of the cross, that he would be vindicated. And the fact that it's a present hope is even more clear when we look at chapter 3, verse 15, where in our day-to-day lives our hope is so visible that Peter says we are to be ready to make a defense for the hope that is in you. It's present and it's visible. It's so visible that as we live in Christ, in our union with Him, that people will see we are different. And they'll know that we're different because we have hope. Do you have hope? As you come to worship this morning, and as you sit with your brothers and sisters, and as you are tempted to remain disengaged and not to share your story. And to live in this moment, this time alone. Do you have hope Some of you may have difficult marriages. Some of you may have difficult families. Some of you may have difficult employment circumstances, or you may have frustrations, or you may have illnesses, or you may have any number of things that you need to trust Christ to deal with. And Peter's writing to you. Peter's written that we are to submit to authorities, that we're to be willing to suffer unjustly, and he writes in this passage, and we'll look at it more next week. that we need to be willing to deal with hope and confidence in difficult marriages. It's a difficult place for a wife to be whose husband does not obey the word and to be called to a gentle and quiet spirit. It's a difficult place for a husband to love his wife when she doesn't love him. It's a difficult place to be in Peter's teaching on marriage. And we'll look at that. But as we question whether we have hope, I want to define hope for you. Webster's dictionary says that hope is a wish or a desire accompanied by confident expectation of fulfillment. Well the first part of that is a wish or a desire. What do you wish for? What do you desire? One of the things that I found in meeting with brothers and sisters for many years is that many times when I deal with a Christian who's in a difficult place, they'll give me the right answer. Any of you here relate to the fact that you want to always give the right answer? So if I ask you to write down on your page, and you've got plenty of space, what you desire, what you wish for. What would you write down? Would you write down what you know Jesus tells you is the right thing you ought to be desiring right now? If you do, that's good, but not good enough. Because then you're living in a compartment The desires you have are the desires you need to deal with. You may have good desires that are not complete desires. You may Have a desire for a promotion. You may have a desire for a good marriage. You may have a desire for children that obey you. Those are all good desires. But God calls you to desire more. Frequently, when I will talk with people in difficult circumstances, people who are recovering from sin, from from pain. Um people who have to deal with hurt. Um And I ask them what they want God to do in their circumstances. It's frequently very difficult for them to dream. Because they're in the mindset of I have to survive. I have to endure. If I hope for more, it can be dashed. What do you dream? What do you desire? Um Christian hope focuses on God. It focuses on his character and his promises and what we sometimes also do in our dealing with difficulties. Is that we spiritualize. We want to be a better Christian. We want to pray more. We want to have a better godly attitude towards the conflict that we're in. And all those are good things. They're all good things, but like the other desires are too little. They're too little. God calls us to be redemptive. God calls us to trust Him to do the miraculous. Um When God speaks to the wives here, he says, Don't let your adornment be external only. But let your adornment be obedience and submission. To husbands who do not obey, to husbands who do not follow me. That's a God-sized dream. God calls you to die to yourself, and He calls you to trust Him. When God calls a husband to love his wife in the midst of rejection, that's a God-sized dream. When God calls you to stand firm before your employer and speak the truth and do what is right in spite of the threat of firing. That's a God-sized dream. You can't do it without seeing Jesus. There's so many things that you guys could look at and that you could see that would be God-sized dreams. And I long for all of us, myself included, to see more God-sized dreams. The way we can do that is what David tells us to do in Psalm 37:4. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. God calls us to delight in Him. And I think that we step over that to focus on, and He will give you the desires of your heart. It's so easy for us to give our hearts to something and to long for it so that we'll do whatever is absolutely necessary and nothing more in order to get it. So God calls us It's a delight in him. And we minimize that. We focus on this must be delighting in God, so now I can have what I want. But the truth of the matter is, the instant you delight in God, the desire of your heart is God. Anything else that he gives you is great, but anything without him is insufficient. And as long as you have him, it's enough. Delight yourself in the Lord. I encourage you this week to think of that phrase and only that phrase Delight yourself in the Lord. Let me move on. So what does God want for us and promise to us? Well God promises to us future. He promises to us a future hope. And he says to us that Christ is coming back and will take us home to heaven. We have a secure hope. Jesus says in John 14, let not your heart be troubled. This is the disciples who are about to be alone and see Jesus die. And he says to those disciples who are about to watch him die, let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. For I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. It's not only that we're going to be in the presence of God, but it's also that we're going to be transformed. It would be a curse to be in the presence of God and struggle with sin. It would be death. So in 1 John, we read the promise that beloved, now we are children of God, and He has not yet appeared what we shall be. We know that when he appears we shall be like him, because we shall see him just as he is. The promise is not only that we'll be with him, but that we'll be At home with him and fit with him and be glorified with him. A homecoming unlike anything you have ever anticipated. And so that's our future. And we can take joy and comfort in that. But Peter, as I said earlier, is not simply calling us to endure today in hopes of tomorrow. So let me ask, what is our present hope? What difference does Jesus make in our lives today? What is your present hope What difference does Jesus make as you leave church and go home or go to whatever meeting or responsibility or opportunity you have? When you leave here, what difference does Jesus make in your life? Do you have people asking you why you have a hope? Why your life is different than theirs? Do neighbors come over and say God is obviously doing something in your life and you're a different person than I am and I don't really understand why. Tell me What difference does Jesus make? Can you face the difficulties because he calls you and empowers you to do that? If if you wrestle with that and you want to talk more about it, let me know. Put something down on your graclift that you want to talk. I want to talk with you. Because Jesus makes a huge difference in our lives. And sometimes we get so wrapped up and consumed with the day-to-day that we just don't see it. That's again why community and fellowship is so important, because as you face those issues, you need people at times to commiserate or to rejoice. But you also need people to point you to Jesus so that you don't set your heart on the gifts that He gives, but on Him, and so that you don't focus on the sorrows you experience. But you see the Savior who saves you from and through them. What does Jesus say to us about his promises today? In Philippians 4, he says, Do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. A few verses later he says, My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. Sometimes we're tempted to simply say, God is good enough, my reality doesn't exist, and I'm hoping for heaven. I can't be feeling what I feel. I can't be sad the way that I'm sad. I can't go through the difficulties I go through because if I'm a Christian, God must be taking care of me. And so we pretend. And if we can't pretend with ourselves, we'll at least pretend with others These passages are true. Do not be anxious about anything. If you let your mind rest right now, if you just stop, close your eyes, and don't try and think of anything, where does your mind go? Might go to a new car. It might go to a big screen TV. It might go to uh a lunch date you're gonna have sometime this week with a coworker. It may go to something really wonderful. That's great. But for some of you, the instant you're not consciously thinking of something else, it hits you. And you're back to it. You're thinking of it again. It consumes you. And you have to actively think to avoid it. When you lay down at night, it's on your mind. And when you wake up having had a dream, you realize you just dreamed about it. And it's a wrestling match. And and and you struggle with it. Paul says, do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be known to God. And then he promises that the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. How? I think there's an example in the Old Testament in Daniel chapter three. that is a picture to us of how God gifts his people with hope. The story is that of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And if you want to turn there, that's fine. We'll look at a couple of particular passages in a moment. But let me just tell you the story. The story is that Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon. And in his arrogance and his pride, he has decided to create a statue of gold. And he has given a command to every person in Babylon that when they hear the musical instruments play, that they are to fall down on their faces and worship this statue. It is an idol. And Nebuchadnezzar is demonstrating his power as the emperor, the ruler of Babylon, the controller of the armies of Babylon, the one who decides who will live and who will die. The people must obey him. This is early on. This is before Daniel went to the lion's den The only experience that that the young men of Israel who came to Babylon have with God's provision is that when they ate fruits and vegetables instead of unclean foods, God protected them. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego have been raised to be governors of Babylon. They are provincial officials in the empire. They are people of note, and they can't duck under the screen, and so they have a choice to make. They have a really big problem. They will either worship the idol or die. They will worship or die. But they have hope. Listen to how they respond to Nebuchadnezzar. I took out my sheet. Okay, here we go. The setting is that Nebuchadnezzar is furious with rage, we hear in verse thirteen. And he summoned Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, so these men were brought to the king. And Nebuchadnezzar said to them, Is it true that you do not serve my gods? Or worship the image of gold I have set up. And he said, I'll give you a second chance. If when you hear the instruments you fall down and worship, fine. But if, when you hear the instruments, you do not fall down in worship, I will cast you into the fiery furnace. And they have a choice to make. But listen to their response. These are young men. They're facing the strongest political ruler they've ever met and ever will meet. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego replied to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this matter. If we are thrown into the furnace, the God we serve is able to save us. And he will rescue us from your hand, O King But even if he does not, we want you to know, O King, that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold you have set up. I don't believe this is because they were such great heroes. I don't believe that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were able to stand before the Emperor of Babylon. And before his glorious throne, and answer this because they were remarkable individuals. I think God gave them a gift. And God gave them the gift of seeing Him so clearly that they knew that life in the courts of Babylon was pointless. If it meant losing eternity in the courts of heaven, God was simply too good to doubt. He was too good to deny. And the result was that God glorified himself and he spared Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. If we look at the story, we see that Nebuchadnezzar is so infuriated by their response and their insolence that he heated the furnace seven times hotter than normal. And he commanded that the men immediately throw these three people bound into the furnace, and the furnace being so hot it immediately killed the soldiers who took them there. And as soon as Nebuchadnezzar looked to find the charred bodies of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, he saw four. He saw four men, not bound, but free, walking in the fire. God protected Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the midst of the blazing furnace and met with them. Nebuchadnezzar says I see four men walking in the fire, unbound and unharmed, and the fourth looks like a son of the gods. God was simply too good to lose. And the result was that God was glorified not only by the deliverance of Shadrach and Meshach and Abednego, but by the profession. By the Emperor of Babylon, that God was worthy of worship. Praise be to the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who has sent his angel, rescued his servants. They trusted in him and defied the king's command, and were willing to give up their lives rather than to serve or worship any God except their own God. Therefore I decree to the pe that the people of any nation or language who say anything against the god of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego be cut into pieces, and their houses be turned. into piles of rubbish, for no other God can save in this way. God was too good to doubt, he was too good to deny, and he honored himself in incredible ways. before the king of Babylon. Y you may think that this is a great story and it's a wonderful miracle and it's so encouraging and you can look and see that God can do this and completely doubt that He will for you But what he did for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego was so much more than deliver them from the fire. He gave them himself. He showed them who he is. He gave them hope by knowing him. Brothers and sisters, Jesus is too good to doubt. And if my view of him is less than that, if my view is that Jesus might help someone else but not me, if my view is that Jesus will work in some circumstances in my life, but not in this one My view of Jesus is too small. And the solution is not that I wait to see what Jesus might do or that I think about those times he's acted. and trust him to act in this circumstance because he may act differently than I want. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were willing to die. They were willing to suffer. They had nothing to lose because they had God. Jesus is too good to doubt or to deny. And he's given us his word. He's given us brothers and sisters who can point us to him. He's given us his body, the church. He's given us his Holy Spirit. He's given us himself. And we can live as he calls us to live because he has redeemed us. We have that new life in a living hope. Because he's given us his Holy Spirit, who empowers us to live in him. Because of his promises. And you can go to this word that he's given to you and see what he promises you. Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Brothers, we're united with Christ and we don't see him yet, but when we see him we will be like him. We have a future and a hope. He's going to take us home. What I want you to take from Peter as we move into looking at marriage is that Jesus gives you hope. Let's pray. Our desires are frequently too small, sometimes lord even, sinful. We ask that you, Holy Spirit, would give us that rich and free desire for Jesus, and that you will satisfy our grandest desires. In your name we pray, Jesus. Amen.