In case you're wondering what's different about them, yes, yes, I took it off. I figured, as long as I'm going to do a series on self-image, I might as well develop a new self-image And I might as well also show you that there are some things that you can change about your self-image. It's not all irrevocable, so figured it was an appropriate time to do it I didn't have to look older than my age any longer to get respect. But we are looking at self-image. What all this laughs about? Talk to you guys later. We're looking for these uh few weeks on um this matter of self-image. We're looking at what the Bible says about it. We're turning from all of the Articles that we've read and the self-help books that we've looked at in the last few years to come back to the Bible and to see what is it that God says about our self-image. To turn from all those writings, whether they be secular or whether they be Christian, and take a look at two authors in the New Testament who address this topic Paul and John. And to believe that what they say under the inspiration of God who made us just might be more helpful. than the other things that we read and all the contemporary authors who are guessing at ways to help us to feel better about ourselves We're looking at four particular self-image problems, and I'm indebted for the connection of these four ideas to the particular teachings in Scripture. to the book by Robert McGee called Search for Significance, a generally very helpful book that's in our library, if you'd like to take a look at that. But we're looking at four particular problems of self-image that McGee touches on. The problem of perfectionism. The problem of addiction to approval, the problem of blame, and the problem of shame. The first two of these have to do particularly with our efforts. The second two have particularly to do with our emotions We saw last week that trying to learn how to love ourselves as we are is a hopeless endeavor because it's simply out of touch with reality. You and I have some good reasons to not like ourselves the way we are. And you see, it's this reality that Jesus Christ dealt with. The good news of the gospel is that Jesus met us as we are, and he didn't say simply, now I want to help you to love yourself the way you are, but he transformed us. He gave us a new nature and a new identity. So that when you and I look at these problems, we see that the problem is not how to more positively focus on ourselves. But rather how we can focus on Jesus and understand that we have a new identity in Jesus Christ if we've come to faith and to give our lives to him as our as his disciples. And so with this new identity that we have, because we're joined with him, we're able to deal with these four problems. So the first one that we want to deal with this morning is the problem of perfectionism. A problem that I've heard a few people, at least in our congregation, can identify with. You know, it's amazing how many people will freely admit to being perfectionists. You know, it's kind of like being too busy We all know it's wrong, but it has a certain status to it. And so you kind of know that while it's sinful, you're kind of admired for having the problem of being too busy or being a perfectionist. But I think we need to admit that it is sin. And that it is a sin that's not only hurtful to us, but to those who are close to us. If we look at the first point now, what is the problem of perfectionism? Let me give you an example of what the problem is by this book by Richard Walters called Escape the Trap, which is on perfectionism, help for perfectionists and those who live with them. Need much help to live with him as you have when you are one. But uh he talks about a couple of examples of perfectionism might help us to identify the problem here Says the pain caused by perfectionism could be heard in Ashley's voice as she told me about her husband Brian. All he does is work, nothing else. Where are all the good times I used to look forward to? We don't have any good times anymore because all he does at home is read his stupid engineering books. Brian defended himself by saying, uh, you think I work 80 hours a week because I want to? No. But my field's changing so fast that if I don't keep up, I'm history. As viable to my company as a buggy whip on a space shuttle I asked, how much do you read compared to the other engineers at your plant? At least ten times as much, but so what? I only scratch the surface. I can easily miss the very thing I need to learn. I should be studying right now instead of talking about it. Well, what about the effect on your family? They should be happy. I'm doing it all for them. Brian and his family were trapped by his perfectionism. Clarice told her pastor that she was unsure of her salvation when she was a child. She pledged never to drink alcohol, and she had honored that pledge for many years. Then at a wedding reception, she drank some punch that contained champagne, a fact Clarice hadn't known when she drank it. For a year Clarisse felt guilty about it, confessing it many times in prayer and asking for forgiveness But she was never sure that she was forgiven. I enjoyed the punch, she said, so perhaps I'm not really sorry about drinking it. And I can't guarantee that I won't make the same mistake again. So maybe God can't forgive me I can't sleep and I can't think about anything else. Clarisse was trapped by her perfectionism. Darwin sat in my counseling office complaining about his wife. You never saw such a neat nick, growled, watched me closely, a tense grin on his mouth. She earns my socks. She keeps a newspaper under the cuckoo clock. I got up in the middle of the night for a glass of water and when I came back she made the bed He laughed, and then his tone changed. I heard in his voice a despair that could have come only from an aching heart. The thing that blows my mind is that she says she takes such good care of the house because she loves me, and I know she does. She wants everything perfect. There's only one thing perfect in my life now. She's become a perfect nuisance. He put his head in his hands and quietly sobbed. Darwin and his wife were trapped by perfectionism. What are perfectionists? Perfectionists, according to Walters, are people who believe that they must think and act without flaw, often scolding and punishing themselves when they don't meet this unattainable goal. This approach to life leaves a trail of frustration and breeds only more problems. Perfectionists remember the past with regret, they don't enjoy the present as much as they might, and they usually dread the future. Or as you see in the number one there about the problem, sum it up by saying perfectionism is the belief that I must perform To certain standards in order to feel good about myself. Now, in each of the four problems we're going to be looking at, I will take this same outline In each case, we're going to look at what is the problem, what are its consequences, how does Jesus heal us of this, and how can we laid hold of the healing. And so we'll do that in this case. First of all, then, that's the problem. Secondly, what are perfectionism's consequences? Perfectionism sets an arbitrary standard of achievement And it says, I cannot fail to attain to that standard, or else I am a failure. I am a nothing. So perfectionism gives us two ways to react. I can become either an over-achiever or be an underachiever. Now an overachiever is a person who is gifted and generally more competent than most. Many of you are overachievers, aren't you? Your perfectionists who have become overachievers by this. Overachievers are people who have usually found that they have been able to attain certain high goals and have therefore Found some approval, they have found some uh affirmation, some feelings of success through the things that they have accomplished And because of this, you feel like you need to go on to higher challenges. There has to be a a greater, a higher standard to seek to attain to the next time. In fact, uh some Research has shown that people can actually become addicted to their own adrenaline in seeking to go into a crisis mode to attain higher and higher standards and to actually come to uh finally seek to attain impossibly high standards that no one can reach uh in normal functioning The problem is further complicated by the fact that you have competing demands in your life. It's not that you just have one thing to focus on and be perfect in that. And so the demands at work compete with the demands at home or the demands at church or in other areas of your life. You try to juggle those demands, you try to balance them, and you find that Maybe if you only had one to concentrate on you could feel okay, but the balance and the com competition of them drive you crazy and so you you live under tension that you're never really doing anything to the standard that you think you ought to be doing it. And so you become miserable. Because you can't live with compromise. You can't accept the fact that you'll do it mediocre. You'll do it the best you could under the circumstances, and that's enough. And so you become an irritable person, ruthlessly efficient like Darwin's wife. And you uh Find that you alienate people. You're not a very pleasant person to live with. You're critical of others who aren't able to achieve your standards or come up to what you expect Do you identify with any of that? It's not a very pleasant picture, is it? The alternative is the person who is an underachiever. Now that, you may not realize, is just simply the flip side of perfectionism. You see, the underachiever is the person who so fears failure in their high standards that they finally simply withdraw from the race. They say, I give up, I can't attain. I can't live up to a certain standard, so I'm not going to try. And what they usually do is then just simply learn to live in the present and find some group. That's like them, a group of other underachievers, who will then say that we'll find acceptance in simply enjoying certain things that block out what we feel rotten about in the lack of what we're accomplishing. These kind of people tend to watch a lot of TV, uh perhaps listen to a lot of rock music or watch MTV or watch soaps or whatever else, but there's this this subculture that you draw withdraw into Because you're afraid that if you ever really applied yourself to something, you'd only fail at it. And so you procrastinate and you go on on all these kinds of things and it's a withdrawal kind of syndrome. Get the picture? Well, we could go on and on about that, but we don't have time, so let's come now. If we understand that, we've understood enough to identify in ourselves these tendencies. Let's move to the third point. How does Jesus heal this problem? Well, it may surprise you that the Bible does address this. It doesn't call it perfectionism, I don't think you'll find that word in a concordance, but that is what it's addressing. Paul addresses this by the healing process that the Bible calls justification. You learn about this through Paul more than any other New Testament writer And I'm picking just one place this morning where he applies this idea to the problem of perfectionism. Romans chapter 3, verses 23 and 24. Now I want to pick up the thread of his thought at verse 20 to be able to understand what Paul's saying here. So Romans chapter 3, beginning at verse 20, this is God's word. This is what God has to say, and not simply some smart psychologist who's got his PhD. And is subject to the culture and the fads and the trends of the culture, this is God Himself who made us that's speaking now. Through Paul. He says Therefore, no one will be declared righteous in his sight, that is God's sight, by observing the law. Rather, through the law, we simply become conscious of sin. But now a righteousness from God, apart from law, has been made known to which the law and the prophets testify. That is the Old Testament. This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There's no difference. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And are justified freely by His grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. Now I want you to notice just two things about these two verses. First of all, I want you to notice The bondage of performance in verse 23. First of all, notice the bondage of performance. Verse 23 says, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Now every one of us should be sober by that verse. All have sinned, every one of us here, and fall short of the glory of God. You see, what this verse is saying is that you and I all have our standards that we're trying to meet. We have our ways of building our records of achievement. All these ways that we can try to find that enable us to say that I'm okay, I've done adequately. But that way of living By all our standards of tests accomplished and all the rest of that, the Bible says has blinded us to the fact that there is one ultimate standard, the standard. Which is God's law, which reflects his glory and his perfect character, the God who is perfection, and his law reflects that perfection And the Bible says that that glory, which is reflected, for instance, in the Ten Commandments, is a glory that you and I have never measured up to. We've sinned. The word means to miss the mark. It means therefore to be imperfect. We have fallen short, the verse says, of that standard. We have fallen short of perfection, which is reflected in God's revelation, the Bible, of His character. Simply put, we have failed. Every one of us has failed. Now I can get angry about that, I can get defensive about that, I can bang my fist, I can substitute my own standards, but the fact is that it still remains that God says I have failed to keep his standard. I have failed to get his approval by the keeping of the law, and his approval is what counts infinitely more than everyone else's. I have failed, and I am guilty. Sort of reminds me of a man who bought one of those cars, you know, that had the voice warning system in it. It was a very pleasant woman's voice who would tell him when he should put on his seatbelt, close his doors and Turn off his headlights. He referred to her as the little woman. And one day he was driving down the highway and the little woman came on and said, Your fuel level is low. Well he thought that was rather nice to know. Appreciated her telling him. He figured he had about 50-60 more miles to go Five miles later, she comes on again and says your fuel level is low. Okay, I got the message. You know, five miles later she comes on again and says your fuel level is low. Well, the little woman had become a nag at that point, and so he stopped the car, searched under the dashboard for the appropriate wires, soon found them, and gave them a good yank. Off came the wires. No more voice from the little woman. About five, ten miles later, his engine begins to sputter and he finds he's out of gas. Misestimated what he thought he had left He said that when the car came to the hall on the shoulder of the road, he could have sworn that he heard a woman's voice laughing in the dashboard Now, you and I can throw away our Bibles, you can tell me to bug off, you can ignore your conscience, but the fact is that God's standard remains. That standard never changes. We can substitute our other standards in order to try and feel good about ourselves by saying, at least I've accomplished this. But the Bible and our conscience keeps coming back to us to say, but the real standard, the one that really matters, is the one that you have failed at. And the consequences of that are not light, for chapter 6, verse 23 tells us that the wages of this sin are death. Death by the very judgment and curse of God. And eternal death. For the fact that you and I are not perfect and we have failed in what is most important. Some of us as Christians come back to seek to find our approval by coming back under the law. Paul speaks to that problem in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 10. Galatians chapter 3, verse 10, he says, All who rely on observing the law are under a curse. For it is written, cursed is everyone who does not continue to do everything written in the book of the law. Paul specifically addressing Christians in this verse. You see, some of us seek to come back, even though we will say I have the perfect righteousness of Jesus, I still come back in my practical feelings. to living by certain standards and tasks that I try to keep. And Paul says the problem with this is that you have wrong priorities. Because you see the priority of what you really ought to be concerned about, whether you're perfect or not, is God's law. And if you're going to live by that law, Paul says you really need to understand, if you're going to live by a law, then you need to live perfectly. You see what he says? The law says you must keep it all the time. Cursed is the person who doesn't continue to do everything written in the book of the law all the time. The law is absolutely unrelenting. He doesn't say most of the time you don't lie. Most of the time don't be greedy. Most of the time don't gossip. But the law says, you shall not do these things. You shall not put any other gods before me. The law says that when you gossip about another person That's more important than the fact that you didn't have the house perfectly cleaned. The Bible says that when you and I seek to uh covet what someone else has and that we're greedy. And we say that if only I had 10,000 more a year, then I could be content. The Bible says that when you and I are jealous of someone else, They get a promotion or they get something and you and I smile at them and we say we're glad for them. Inside we're seething with jealousy that we weren't recognized. The Bible says that attitude is far more important than any number of promotions that you can get at work in God's sight. You see, the law says that what's more important than the task and the achievements is character, how we treat God and how we treat other people And the Bible says in that area, you and I have fallen woefully short. And so the Bible moves on in verse 24. To move from the bondage of our performance to then give us the freedom of justification, the healing that Jesus provides You see what he says? After verse 23, for all have sinned, all have come short of the mark, all have fallen short of that standard of the glory of God, and are justified freely by his grace through the redemption. That came by Christ Jesus. Now there's four key words there. Notice each one and savor them. First of all, see that word justified and are justified. The word justify doesn't refer to anything that happens in you. It's simply a legal term Talking about a verdict with respect to you. It's totally objective. It's a legal term which means to acquit someone. to pronounce them innocent by the judge that's ruling the case. And so I, who have been so guilty, so imperfect, have fallen so short In my treatment of God and other people, the Bible says that through Jesus Christ I'm justified. I am been declared perfect. Declared innocent, my record is given to me as a perfect record, justified. Nothing about subjectively what happens in me. Still fall short. But my record through my identification with Jesus Christ is a record of perfection that cannot be improved on. Now how's that given? You notice what he says. Justified freely. That word freely is an interesting word. It means without price. Freely. It's the same word that translates the Old Testament Hebrew word in 2 Samuel 24, where David comes to offer a sacrifice to God, and one of the people who uh has the field there. Says he'll give him a sacrifice to offer. And David says, I will not offer to God that which costs me nothing. That phrase there cost me nothing is translated by the Greek translation of the Old Testament by this same word freely. It's something which costs nothing. There is no price to it. But it also means without any cause. Freely here means without any cause. It's the word used in John 15, 25, where Jesus says, they hated me without any cause. Did you ever stop to think that there is just as much cause for your justification, for the perfect record that you were given in Jesus Christ, as there was cause to hate Jesus? The two have equivalent reasons to them. There's no cause to hate Jesus, and there's no cause in you for being given a perfect record. You and I didn't do anything to attain that, to earn it, to achieve it. It has nothing to do with how perfectionistic we are. It has only to do with the perfect record of Jesus. It rests simply in him and nothing about our efforts. It's freely justified. Notice the third word, by grace, you see. It's by his grace. It's given as a free gift. It's something undeserved. Because God has set his love upon you. Now, how is it that he has given to us this record? That's the fourth word there, through the redemption. that came by Christ Jesus. That redemption means that he bought you. To redeem is to buy someone And the way that he did that is that he has taken your record. Let's imagine for a moment that this book is the record of all of your deficiencies, all the ways that you and I have fallen short. But look at it personally for a moment. Let's suppose this is your record. And in this is all the things. It wouldn't be big enough book, would it? We'd have to get something that would be more like a telephone directory, at least for my case. But it would be a book that would tell all the things that you have done wrong, the ways that you have broken God's commands, the ways that you have not put him first, and the ways that you've treated others wrongly All those things that really matter in life. There's the record of it. And there's Jesus. And so redemption and justification means that God has taken that record and he's placed it on Jesus. And so all the record of all the things that you have done have been placed on him. And Jesus has now borne the curse of that. He's now taken the penalty of that. But the word also means that Jesus has a record. And this, let's say, is the record of his righteousness And that's all the credit, the perfect record of the son that the Father says I am well pleased in everything that he has ever done. Justification by his redemption means that when Jesus paid the penalty of the curse of your record, that God took that record and he's transferred it from Jesus to you. That's why Jesus had to die on the cross. He no longer had that record of righteousness. All he had now was this record of your sin. And that's what he had a die for. And so this record of his righteousness is now your record. Do you see it's something given to you? It's objective. It's not something that you do anything to get. You are justified freely by the grace through the redemption that's in Christ Jesus, objectively transferred to your account by a legal transaction. So then the final question. How do you and I lay hold of this healing? We lay hold of it, I believe, by grasping four basic truths that I've just talked about First of all, you need to see when you're stuck in that trap of perfectionism and all the rotten feelings that go f come from it. That you need to understand that that problem comes from misplaced priorities. You need to see, and I need to see, that the real problem is not your performance, but your character. What you really ought to be stewing about is not that there's some dust on the shelves, but the fact that you've gossiped. That you understand that the things that you're feeling bad about are really a substitute for For looking at the nature of your heart. And it's those things that you need to be concerned about. You need to get your priorities in line with God's priorities. And you need to need to be more concerned about his opinion than you are about other people's. And their approval. And so that moves us to the second thing. When you understand, Lord, what am I sweating all this for? Who really cares? The problem is much deeper than that. It's my attitude in this. The root problem, therefore, the second thing that you need to see is your utter failure to keep God's law. That's the thing that ought to have you upset. And when you and I see that, we need to admit it and to be able to say, yes, I am not perfect. I will never be perfect. I cannot be perfect in my own strength and in my own right. In the deeper issues as well as the superficial issues, I cannot attain to that standard. And I'm trying to do it. Because I want to establish a record from which I can be proud, a record that I can boast of. And I need to admit that I cannot do it. That takes a tremendous amount of pressure off. And so then thirdly the thing that you do is that you look to Jesus and see his substitution as the one hope that you have to secure that perfect record. That Jesus substitution not only is the possibility, but by your faith and trust in Jesus, it is the security. In your own life of having that record. So you come to him. And whether it's this morning for the first time, because you don't have that record, And you wish with all your heart that you could have that record of Jesus that I've just talked about here transferred to your account. That you wish that you could give him all those failures. And you come and you see now that what he did on the cross is the one hope you have for his substitution on your behalf. You come to him by faith, admitting your sin and your need for his work. And perhaps if you've walked with him for months or years, you need to come this morning and reaffirm But that again is your only hope. You've tried to add to his record, your own record on top of it. And you've realized only your deficiency in not being able to do that. And you need to come back again. to the basics and you need to say, Lord Jesus, it is simply your record by which I'm justified. That justification is a declaration that I have a perfect record. So the fourth thing then is that you need to realize that you have to stand on that hope on a daily basis. One of the biggest mistakes I think that we make as Christians is to think that justification is somehow the entrance into the Christian life By which I come and confess my sin and receive the forgiveness of Jesus Christ, and then the slate's wipe clean, and from then on now I've got a new record that I need to establish on top of the record of Jesus Rather than seeing that on a daily basis I come and when I get up in the morning I need to stand on that simple same original basis of my record before God that I stood on the time that I came to him in the first day that I trusted Jesus. I need to come back and return to that same record and realize that as Romans 8. 1 says, there's now therefore no condemnation. Him who is in Christ Jesus. Because of my identification with Jesus by faith, I have his record and I have to affirm that consciously I have to preach the gospel to myself. I have to stand on that beginning of the day and saying, instead of saying, Lord, here's all these things that I gotta do today and I'm already behind, I haven't got out of bed yet, and I'm already five minutes behind. And on and on and on, and it's just going to get worse, and all these impossible things that I'll never get through, to be able to stand and say, but Jesus, I stand right now in that finished record of the Lord Jesus Christ. That you have given to me, and I stand on that. It's objective. I can't mess it up. No matter what I do today. Jesus is perfect. And I'm identified with him, and you see his record in my place. And therefore I am freed from the need to pretend that I am perfect today. I don't have to be defensive when people point out that I'm not perfect Because I've started right here at the beginning of the day by acknowledging to you freely, Lord, I am not perfect. And my only hope of a clear conscience today is in the record of Jesus. I don't have to pretend that I'm perfect. And secondly, I'm free of the need to build any record that I can boast in today I don't have to do that because I have Jesus record. Now do you see the psychology of that? Do you see why when I'm talking about transferring our focus from ourselves to Jesus, that's not playing games. Some people might think Well, you know, that's a cop out. You're saying, how do you feel about yourself? Don't think about yourself. Think of Jesus. You say, Well, I gotta think about myself. I am me, and I have feelings about myself. But if you start by thinking about your identification with Jesus by faith That changes your view of yourself. You are not independent of him. You can only think of yourself as you are joined to Jesus Christ. It only makes sense to think about yourself in that light. And that's a radical new identity that changes the way you think about yourself. You are joined to Jesus. And therefore, that faith frees you. To be able to accept work that will not be perfect, and to be able to focus on pleasing Jesus, who has loved you so much, rather than establishing your own record. Let's come to him now and let's affirm where we stand, each one of us. Let's pray Lord, each one of us now are looking and thinking of the ways that we have tried to establish a record. We have tried to substitute your standard for our own puny little standards that give us Ways that we can feel good about ourselves. And we've gotten our priorities all screwed up, Lord. We want to come back now and Come to the basics of the glory of your law and see that we have in fact come so infinitely short. When we see that, Lord, we understand that we're hopeless to establish a record Whether we've ever come to Jesus before or whether we're coming to you for the first time right now, we want to see Jesus as our only hope. See his record as that hope in giving to him our record which he took and bore the consequences of on the cross, that he might give to us his record. A perfect record. A record on which we can stand every day this week. And by that stand we can identify with him And have freedom from our own bondage to our perfectionism. Lord, we pray that you would give that to us. Teach us and work in our hearts right now. That freedom. For Jesus' sake. Amen