We plan for a base of operation to carry out a greater ministry for the Lord Jesus, we need to hear from him about what kind of church pleases him And how a church can deceive itself to think that it's successful when in fact it is spiritually impoverished and impotent. It's an amazing thing, you know, Jesus spoke seven letters to seven churches back in the first century A. D. , 2,000 years ago. And we use that to hear him as the Holy Spirit takes those words To apply them to our situation and our church. Isn't that amazing? God speaks to us in our day, our situation, through what He said to them then. And my job is to bring these two worlds together for you. The world of into which Jesus spoke and the world in which you and I live. We've gone through two churches so far. We saw that in the case of Ephesus, the issue was the loss of their original devotion to Jesus as their first love above all. And how that applies to us. Secondly, in the church at Smyrna, the issue of suffering, realizing that this world will always be hostile to the gospel. We can never think that we can really be at home here and comfortable here, but there will always be a certain tension and alienation. And that the greatest danger is to be more afraid of the first death, which is separation of the soul from the body, than of the second death, which is separation of the soul from God. And that those who have no fear of the second death can be free of terror of the first death, and the greatest honor That a person can give to Jesus is to say he is more valuable than life. When you've settled that, you're free to live in this world. Now we come to Smyrna, I mean uh to Perdimum, third church. Pergamon suffered admirably for the Lord Jesus, as Smyrna did. And the basic lesson, let me just give it to you right now, the lesson for Pergamum was that a church can hold to the basic doctrines of the gospel with admirable conviction And yet, let people justify compromises in their lifestyles, in morality and purity, in ways that utterly contradict the holiness of God. In the name of peace and priorities, and then wonder why there's no spiritual power and why they're not impacting society So I see by the looks on your faces that you already have the map to see Pergamon. I can always tell, you know, when something goes up there. There it is. We've gone around from Ephesus down the southwest, 35 miles up to Smyrna, another 55 miles, go up to Pergamum, 15 miles inland. And I'll say a little bit more about Pergamum in a moment, but I want to move to that second C, the characteristics of the speaker. You see that there in verse 12 to the angel. Remember that's to the messenger, the teaching pastor of the church in Pergamum, right? These are the words of him who has the sharp double-edged sword. And that of course refers back to chapter 1, the image of Jesus, the picture of Jesus that you had in chapter 1, verses 12 to 18, is unfolded in each church. There's a piece of that where Jesus will select the appropriate description, that particular part of that, for that church. And so in this case, he takes that picture of the John portrayed of there he was with a two-edged sword coming out of his mouth. And Jesus says, that's the one that's speaking to you. And of course, that refers to the fact that he comes as the judge The sword on that culture, the sword was given to the state, to judge. The sword is the symbol of authority, the authority that can be carried out in execution even. Um you have this number of places in the scripture, but particularly in Revelation uh chapter 19, for instance You have the uh how how vivid this image is because there you have that picture of the uh one who comes conquering riding on the white horse And he has a sword coming out of his mouth. Verse 15, out of his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. And he will rule them with an iron scepter. Then in verse 21 After is judging the beast and the false prophet, it says the rest of them, those who are allied with the beast and false prophet, were killed with the sword that came out of the mouth of the rider on the horse. And all the birds gorged themselves on their flesh. Gristly scene to depict the horror of that. Perhaps the most vivid image of this is in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. You remember that passage that everybody likes to discuss and speculate on about the man of sin, who that man of sin is, the lawless one and all that? But don't forget the image that is attached to that, don't you know losing sight of who this man of sin is. In verse 8, then the lawless one will be revealed whom the Lord Jesus will overthrow. with the breath of his mouth, and destroy by the splendor of his coming. That's that same image. The the breath of his mouth, the word of his mouth is as a sword to come and slay his enemies, to judge the nations. to eliminate all who are opposed to him. It's saying that the word of Jesus Christ is like a nuclear arsenal. Nothing can stand against it. So Jesus begins this letter to the Pergamum by saying, remember, that's who I am. I come and I speak now with the power of my word to judge. And so he comes to speak both commendation and criticism. And go on to the third point, the commendation that he speaks He um he strongly encourages them. Look at verse 13. I know where you live. Now, again, let's not miss the fact that Jesus emphasizes to them, I know your situation. The fact that we don't see Jesus can sometimes make us think that he doesn't see us. Sometimes when we're going through really difficult times, we feel like victims that we're abandoned, nobody knows, nobody cares. And once again, the third time, in three letters, Jesus says, I know your situation. Said it to the Ephesians, said it to those in Smyrna, says it down to Bergam. I know What you're going through. I know you live in a difficult place. I understand that. And so he describes it. He says, I know where you live, where Satan has his throne. And yet you remain true to my name. You did not renounce your faith in me, even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was put to death in your city where Satan lives. And what does he mean there that I know where you live, where Satan has his throne and where Satan lives, beginning and end, twice he Speaks of that. You simply have to know something about the city of Pergamum to understand that. Pergamum was full of temples and altars. Like a number of Greek cities and cities in Asia, the province of Asia and the Roman Empire, Pergamum had a low city and a high city. And back then uh the high city was called the Acropolis. That's literally what Acropolis means, high city And so like many other cities it uh was down on a plain and then had this uh actually it was a thousand-foot elevation uh of a hill or small mountain And on that hill or mountain, the Acropolis, was just full of temples. There was a spectacular temple to Zeus up there. There was an elegant temple to the goddess Athena. There were a number of other temples. Perhaps the best known in the area was the temple to Askeculus or Asculupius. which was the god of healing. So Pergamon had become kind of the lords of of Asia. You know, people went there with and they claimed all kinds of healings and miraculous cures. It was a place where uh there were all kinds of gods and it was a very religious place. It was also a place that was known for its uh prominence in the cultic worship of Caesar, the Caesars, the emperors. In fact, Pergamum was the very first city to dedicate a temple to Caesar 40 years before any other city had ever done that. They were very proud of their devotion and their worship of the emperors. So it was a place where there was lots of false worship. Now you and I could read that and we'd say, well, that's too bad. They hauled all of this superstition. Um they just didn't have the gospel. But it's all just superstition, um, just simply false worship. But the Bible doesn't say that. Uh The reason that Jesus says here that this is where Satan has his throne, and it's where Satan lives, is that the Bible clearly teaches that false worship, worship of idols, is actually worship of demons. For instance, back in Deuteronomy 32, when Moses talks about how Israel had forsaken the Lord for false idols. He says in Deuteronomy thirty two, sixteen, they made him, the Lord, jealous with their foreign gods, angered him with their detestable idols, they sacrificed the demons, which are not God It wasn't just simply the idols, which nothing is behind them. The idols, you see, idol worship, worship of false gods, whether it is in India today or uh aboriginal civilizations or whether it is in New York City, Manhattan, anywhere, uh the idols are are actually demonic personages that are worshipped through that. Paul says that in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, Psalm 106 says when the people of Israel offered their children to Moloch, they were actually offering their children to a demon. And as I say, Paul emphasizes that when he says it in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 20, John says the same thing in the book of Revelation. If you go to Revelation chapter 9 We read there in verse 20, the rest of mankind were not killed by these plagues, and they still did not repent of the works of their hands. They did not stop worshipping demons and idols of gold, silver, bronze, stone, and wood, idols that cannot see or hear or walk. So John is saying, and Jesus saying through John in this, that the fact that they were up on the Acropolis with these feasts, the festivals, all the parties they were having up there to these um prostitutes and to these false idols and deities, uh was really demonic worship. It's where Satan had his throne. Satan was intimately involved in that. They were opening themselves up. to demonic influence. But he says, you, he didn't go along with that. In fact, he says That even though you looked at this, where Satan seemed to be ruling, Satan seemed to be the one in power, Christianity seemed powerless. In fact, if you looked at all those temples and idols and everything, Christianity would have seemed very implausible to you. And I would suggest that that's exactly the way it is today. There may be some of you that are sitting here this morning who have not given your life to Jesus Christ. You don't follow him as your Lord, as his disciple. Not because you have some argument that you believe can counteract the Bible, that you can show the flaws in the Bible and you can disprove the Bible or any of that. It's just simply that In your world, Christianity seems implausible. It simply doesn't fit. It doesn't fit the value systems. It doesn't fit what seems to be real and normal. And that's the way it was in Pergamon. Christianity didn't fit the commonly held values. It just simply seemed implausible. So Jesus commends them and he says And yet, in in all of this, you remain true to my name. Now notice he he talks about their faithfulness in two ways. He says, you remain true to my name That's, remember, the name of God is God as he is revealed. And so he's saying you remain true to who God is, what you know of his revelation in the gospel. Do you remember we talked about God as his name, his basic name, Yahweh Yehovah, and that name is the one who is the self-determining, self-existing totally independent God, and that He redeems us into a relationship with a reward. That's the basic summation of that name in the gospel, Exodus chapter 6 And and so Jesus is saying, you held to that name, you held to the gospel. And it wasn't just doctrines that you held to, you subscribe to them, yes, we believe these things, we believe that that there is sin and that man is born in sin and he needs Jesus as a savior and if he accepts Jesus he'll go to heaven. It's not just you ascended to it. He says, you believed in me, you held to me, you did not renounce your faith in me personally. You clung to me. You said, You, Jesus, are my refuge. You're my hope. So there was a personal relationship. Some of you may assent to the doctrines of Christianity, but you've never come into the personal relationship believing in Jesus. And if you haven't I plead with you, don't put off the transfer of your trust from yourself, whether it's in believing right things, but yourself to Jesus. is your only hope. That's what Jesus said. I commend you. You understood that. You clung to me And you did it at some cost. You didn't renounce your faith in me, even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was put to death in your city. Where Satan seemed to be in power fully. There was a man, Antibus means literally against all. He was a man who was willing to stand Against all, against the whole pressure of that culture, against the requirement that he offer incense, a few grains of incense on the coals to Caesar were to go along with the feast. He was put to death for that. Now uh Jesus is about to say some hard things to Pergamon But I want us to respect this church at Pergamon. I mean, in our 26 years, how many lives have we lost at Columbia Presbyterian for the gospel, you know? I mean anybody you know of, part of our congregation, paid with their life? I don't know if any you know I know one of our missionaries in our denomination lost her life in Kenya As a martyr for Jesus Christ. But I don't know anybody right within our congregation. Discover's class this morning, we talked about being kicked out of the meeting house. You know, that's as about as rough as we had it. We were vilified, called names, but nobody's lost their life. So you look at Perdima, respect this church. This was a church that had paid a price. Therefore, isn't it all the more startling, especially in the light of last week, that verse 14 says, Nevertheless, I have a few things against you. Jesus says, I'm not totally pleased with what I see here at Pergamon. I have a few things against you. You have people there who hold to the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to entice the Israelites to sin by eating food sacrificed. sacrificed to idols and by committing sexual immorality. Verse 15. Likewise, you also have those who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans. You've been so focused on the gospel, the grace of the gospel, the essential truths of the gospel. That you have missed the fact that there is some major compromise in lifestyles going on within your congregation. And he describes it by two teachings, Balaam and the Nicolaitans. Most scholars believe that they're either variations on one another or simply two different names for the same kind of error. The error of Balaam he described, he spells it out. He says that this was a question of idolatry and immorality Now, what does that refer to? Well, it's referring to what we see back in Numbers 22 to 25. Remember when Israel was coming up from Egypt and they were passing around uh the east of the Dead Sea to get up to the Jordan, they went through a country called Moab. And the king of Moab, Balak, had seen that the nations couldn't stand against Israel. And so he had an idea. He said, I'm going to get one of their prophets And I'll just pay them off, I'll buy them off, to get them to curse Israel, and then I'll have them in my hand. And so he went to this prophet who was a prophet of God, Balaam. And he said, Balaam, how much we charge to curse Israel? Now, you and I know that as a prophet of God, Balaam should have laughed and just, you know You crazy? I can't curse God's covenant people. What do you think it is? You just buy me off? He said, um, how much? And Baalak said, well, okay, I'll give you this much. He said, okay, so he agreed out of greed. Purely greed. And Balaam went along and he said, give me a spot where I can look at him. And he goes and he starts and because he is a prophet of God, he can't curse him. All he does is he states blessings. He talks about how God's going to bless them. And Balaam Balak says, wait a minute, I I don't think you understood. You're supposed to curse them, not bless them. Now can you try that again? So he goes up to another place and he tries again. He blesses them all over And he's coming out with more and more blessing and Baelike said, look, I'll give you one more chance before everything's off. I want you to curse them, and this time get it right. Balaam goes up to third place and he blesses Israel and talks about how God is going to be kind and prosper them and all these kind of things. And Balaam says, that's it, you're a loser. It's all off. Forget the contract. I'm not giving you a dime. I'm getting out of here. And then Balaam goes on and he prophesies even more about how God is going to raise up a Messiah and how the uh tents of Moab are going to be destroyed and you know and all the you know really disgusted at this point. But Balaam is not willing to go home without the money. So he has an idea. He says, look, I can't curse them. But I can tell you how to get God temporarily to curse them. You get your prettiest Moabitest women. Get them to dress real seductively and invite them to one of your feasts. And when they go to the feast and they say, well, you know, this is okay this time, and they justify it however they want. They'll be involved in immorality and God will have to judge them. And so you'll have them. And Balaam follows that. That's the advice of Balaam, who taught Balak to entice the Israelites. So in Numbers twenty-five, that's exactly what happens. And God brings about a plague on Israel. Now, the idea of the Nicolaitans was the same kind of idea. What was it that was going on? At the Acropolis, in these temples, they had feasts. And in these feasts, they would worship the various gods, but idolatry and immorality are very close cousins. So at all these feasts, the feast would always end up in an orgy. Now, before you and I get too harsh and say, how in the world could a church have some of its people involved in sexual orgies, going up, worshiping false gods, fornicating up on the hill, and then coming down to worship God. It doesn't make any sense Well, let's culturally translate it. It's not simply that these feasts and festivals were orgies. They were part of business at that time. In Japan today, uh if you work in a company, it is expected that after the working hours uh you will go off with a team to a sushi bar or someplace to hang out for sometimes a couple hours we we would come out of Tokyo uh on the train at eleven o'clock at night. It looked like rush hour. It was just jam packed. Because of this expectation that that's part of what you do for work is this socializing afterwards. Now, let me bring it even a little closer to home Uh in Korea, it is expected that part of business dealings is to go out and get drunk with the people that you are going to do your contracts and have your business with. In fact, I read one Korean businessman said I will consummate a contract with any man who I haven't seen drunk. Because if I haven't seen him drunk, I don't know what he's like without his guard down, without his guard up. So I gotta see him drunk before we sign. Now when we went to Seoul, uh I asked a pastor over there, what do you do in this culture Where it is expected that drunkenness and this carousing and all that goes with it, you know, this is part of doing business. What do you do? How do you handle that? The answer of the pastor in this large evangelical Presbyterian church in Seoul said We don't do anything about it. It's too big a problem. You can't touch it. Now can you understand a little bit more what was going on in Pergamum? They said we hold to the gospel, the gospel of grace, salvation through Christ, that's it. But you know, there's certain expectations and pressures of doing business in Pergamum. And man, we don't like to talk about the Acropolis. So you after work, you know, they would say, Come on, we're gonna go up to the Acropolis and you know, just have a few drinks, and he'd say, Well, you know, I'm a Christian. I I I think I ought to go home and said, Well hi, so you're holier than thou? What are you not gonna go on? You know, this is part of the team. You know, we we've got some stuff we've got to talk about, we're gonna do a little business, we're gonna have a little good time. Come on And if you don't come along, you don't get promoted, you may find yourself out of a job, you're mocked. What do you do? See, it's not just a matter of immorality, it's social pressure Now can we begin to identify a little more? So you go up and you go and you sit in this beast, you know, and they'd be doing some stuff. You say, Boy, you know, I gotta get out of here now or I'm in trouble. They're bringing on the dancing girls, they're doing all this, things are really sort of heating up, and I I I gotta go. But if you go, everybody sees this, ah, you know, and they start laughing and mocking. You know what that guy, you know what it feels like, don't you? I mean, how many of you have been in a situation with your friends? And you know there's something inside you that's saying, if I stay here, I'm going to start really compromising what I know is right, what I ought to do. And you stay. And the more you stay, the more you can't leave. Now what does Jesus say? Verse 16, it's very simple. He says, repent. Stop it. He doesn't say, I understand all this pressure. He said at the beginning, I know that you live in a hard place. I understand that. But the fact is, this is wrong. You need to stop it, and I'm not going to listen to excuses about it. You need to repent, he says. Repent. Otherwise, I will soon come to you and I will fight against them with the sword of my mouth. I'm going to come and I am going to bring discipline. Now, I said back in the summer, God doesn't punish Christians. He doesn't get angry at Christians. But I didn't say he doesn't discipline Christians. He's disciplining the church here, and you notice that he says, I will fight against them. He is speaking about those who are claiming to hold Christianity the gospel of grace in one hand and saying that they can compromise their lifestyle and it really doesn't matter that they succumb to the pressures of the culture and the immorality and all the rest of that. And he says, I will not tolerate that. I will fight against them. That could mean he brings illness, as he says in verse 22, or it could mean he even brings physical death, as he says in verse 23. We'll get into that more next week. But Jesus says, you must stop this. Now, before the final call, look what he says of the gospel promises. He holds out to them gently something to motivate them, to help them, to see why they want to get rid of this trash for the treasure that Jesus is. He says, he who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give some of the hidden manna. And I will also give him a white stone with a new name written on it, known only to him who receives it. Now what is that referring to? Two things. The hidden manna. What is the hidden manna? A number of ideas that commentators give on that. I believe that the hidden manna, taken from John 6, where Jesus says, I am the true manna, I am the true bread of life. The hidden manna is talking about feasting on Jesus, knowing him more fully, more intimately, ultimately in heaven, but even first fruits here and now. He is saying, instead of going to that feast where you experience false intimacy, I want you to experience true intimacy in feasting on me. Then he combines it with the second promise. I will also give him a white stone with a new name written on it, known only to him who receives it. Now what's that referring to? It could refer to Jesus in saying that I will give him this stone with a uh deeper revelation of my name and who I am. It goes along with the first one. I rather inclined to think that the stone with the new name on it refers to the name That you will be given when Jesus comes? I believe that what he is saying here is something breathtakingly beautiful. That what Jesus is saying here Is that when he comes, that he is going to give to you a name that will reflect your unique personality But that unique personality transformed and glorified. Do you remember that one of the common themes in Scripture is the changing of a name on a person's personality or when their their character is transformed, when Abram is changed to Abraham with the promises Sarai to Sarah, Jacob. to Israel. You have in the New Testament, you have Cephas, who is made Peter, you have Saul who is made Paul. Jesus is given a new name at his resurrection. The Bible tells us he received a new name, that name at which every knee shall bow. And so I believe that what God is saying here, now get this, is that you who are unique to him Are in that uniqueness at this point defiled. But when Jesus comes, he is going to give you a name, a new name That only you will fully understand, because it will reflect all of your uniqueness minus sin. It will be a name that is precious between you and him. And when he says that name through all eternity That name speaks to you of the fullness, of the completion, of your glorification, the transformation of your character continuous from your birth as a person and yet transformed. Does that make shivers? I mean I you know it can make the hair on your neck I mean Can you imagine that? What will your name be? What is it Jesus is going to do? And so you see, what he is saying is: He who has an ear to hear, let him hear. And what Jesus is doing here now is he is appealing to you. He is he is directing his thoughts to you. He's pleading with you Now you're saying, What are you coming down here for? And we should just stay up there. But you see, that's what Jesus does. He comes among his church. He wants to speak it, I would like to take each of you and sit down and talk to you and say, in the areas where you say I hold to the gospel N But then there's these areas of my life. And when I go into the video store, I look at the videos and I take videos and I know those videos aren't pleasing to Jesus, but I'm going to take that video and I'm going to look at it. I'm going to feed that fantasy life. that I know is is utterly in contrast to Jesus and who he is. And those things that you do, you guys and you girls, when you're together and you go out and you say, yeah, we're Christians and we hear what the Bible says, but this is what we're gonna do. This is how we're gonna live. We make exceptions for us. And we hold these contradictions, these dual Ways of having standards. And for some of you guys, you may have become addicted To internet pornography and you're saying, Yeah, I hold to the gospel of free grace, but I I have this license to do this and I'm in bondage. And God may be calling you to say, there is a ministry that we have meets every Thursday night, Ephesians 5. 3, for guys involved in in sexual addiction. Maybe you ought to get to that because you're saying, God is speaking to me now. I can't continue to just hold these two things. They don't fit. Jesus says, repent. He who has an ear to hear And you women. It doesn't mean that because you don't watch internet pornography that Jesus isn't speaking to you. There's a fantasizing of romance novels and some of the things that you see. And you know there's enough of that that we have a support group for that. And somebody told me from the first service, don't forget to invite them to every Thursday, 7 o'clock, for the women that the Celebrate Recovery Ministry downstairs here. You see, if if you mean business in saying, God is calling me this morning to put these things together, Jesus, who is the Holy One, is calling me with the sword of his mouth to say, you cannot live. Saying that this is a gospel of grace and it has no effect on how I live. Jesus is calling you to open up your life. To say for once, I mean business with him. And to do that, I need to be open. I need to talk to somebody. I need to be willing to say, I need help. I'm struggling with this Are you willing to do that? That's why I come to you. You'd rather I stay up on the platform, keep it at arm's length, let it be information. But Jesus doesn't do that He speaks to you, speaks to your heart, and he pleads with you. Come. Come this morning. Come now. And what he says is instead of feeding the fantasies of the flesh and The false intimacy promised by sexual immorality feeds the longing of intimacy with Jesus Christ. Heed that longing of the hidden manna, that longing for the transformed nature, when he will come and he will fulfill the wildest passions of your heart as he comes to receive you. Come, he who has an ear. Let him hear, let's pray. So our father, we come and we don't want to just take this as information. Teenagers, young men and young women, singles, married, Lord, we all struggle with purity. Every one of us has a struggle. And Lord, in a culture which is so sex saturated Where the standards have become so low that we see things on television that we wouldn't have ever thought possible to see on network television sexual activities and immodesty, immorality. And it's dragged us down. We We are involved in situations, Lord, where we feel prudish to simply say that we're going to be pure. And yet you say in your word, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. And Lord, our hearts are not pure. We come to Jesus now. We ask you, Lord, give us a longing, a desire for that purity. A desire to see you because you purify our hearts in Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray that those from this group right here that should be involved in the Ephesians 5. 3 sexual addiction group as men. Would not be so foolish as to continue to struggle in private, but to take advantage of that. The women who are struggling and saying, I have these fantasies and the fantasies come between me and you and I they just make me unhappy and in bondage and I'm critical of my husband or of other relationships. They don't meet the fantasies and they never can Lord, that you would give to them at longing the desire to meet with other women on Thursday evenings at seven o'clock to Begin to share these struggles and see what Jesus, this one who comes, the great power, comes to say, come and taste intimacy with me. Come and see the freedom that I can give Lord, may we be a church that experiences that so that you do not have to come in discipline. In Jesus' name. Amen.