In this church it's not enough to be sure that you preach for the appropriate amount of time, but I have to have my stopwatch running to make sure that I get it down to the second. The scripture reading this morning is from Hosea. We will read from chapter one, verses one And through three and then chapter three, verses one through three. Hear the word of God The word of the Lord that came to Hosea, son of Biri, during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. And during the reign of Jeroboam, son of Jehoash, king of Israel, when the Lord began to speak through Hosea, the Lord said to him, Go, take to yourself an adulterous wife, and children of unfaithfulness, because the land is guilty of the vilest adultery in departing from the Lord. So he married Gomer, daughter of Diblaam, and she conceived and bore him a son. And now moving to chapter three of Hosea. The Lord said to me, Go show your love to your wife again, though she is loved by another and is an adulteress. Love her as the Lord loves the Israelites, though they turned to other gods and loved the sacred raisin cakes. So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and about a homer and a lefek of barley. Then I told her, You are to live with me many days. You must not be a prostitute or be intimate with any man, and I will live with you. The Lord will bless this, the reading of His holy and inspired word. Let us pray Our Father, fill us with your spirit That the words I preach would be your truth, that the words that these people hear would be your truth. Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of our heart be acceptable in your sight, our rock and our redeemer. Several months after Catherine and I were married, Catherine's oldest brother decided to help his parents. And one Saturday he drove over to their home, which was a house out in the country, surrounded by a big yard and cornfield. It was on a rural highway where traffic moved fast. And the work that he was doing for his dad required him to be riding around on a lawn tractor. He had his four-year-old son with him. And they enjoyed their being together. They enjoyed fellowship as a father and son can. And Mark Allen, the son, rode on his father's lap and played in the yard. And he was under strict orders not to go past the front edge of the house. He was told to stay away from that highway. At one point, Catherine's brother was in the back of the yard, and his son was not with him, and little Mark Allen was so filled with energy and curiosity that he saw children playing on the other side of the road. And he went past the front edge of the house. And he ran across the road. He didn't see a car coming, hurtling down the road at 60 miles an hour And the driver of that car saw the little boy, and he knew that he had to make an instantaneous decision. He had to decide if he was going to brake and go to the left into an oncoming car. Or if he would break and go to the right, where there were three little children standing. Or if he would break and go straight, knowing that he would hit Mark Allen Lasley And he did. He went straight. And Mark Allen was hit and knocked to the side of the road. Catherine's brother heard the squeal of the brakes, and he knew something dreadful had happened. He couldn't bring himself to run to the road. He ran to the house And called for his mom, and she called the life squad. Catherine's father, a pastor of a small country church, was at that church and he heard the siren. And he got scared. So he went back to the house. And he was the first person to be able to try to care for his grandson lying on the side of that road. Mark Allen was taken to the hospital, put on life support systems, and we were called and we went up. And I remember so vividly when we went home for dinner the next day, and Catherine's father, a godly man, bowed his head to pray, to say grace for that meal. And he said, Father, and then he stopped. And he could not pray. And I finished the prayer for him Having a new appreciation of what it must be to be a father or a grandfather loving your son And wondering if your son was going to die. I did not have children at that time. So I could only begin to appreciate the love and the anguish that he felt Mark Allen died a week later, and it took years for Catherine's brother and sister-in-law to recover from Mark Allen's death. Catherine's parents finally had to move away from that house because they could not stand the daily reminder of their only grandson being killed. A father's love. There's another way to tell that true story Because I know a father who stood at the side of a road and saw people on the other side. And who saw death hurtling down toward them, knowing that someone had to die. And he took his only son. His only begotten son, whom he loved far more than we can love our own children. And he threw his son in front of that car, that the children on the other side would live. He sacrificed his son that we would live. Do you think about God's love in that way? Do you think of the sacrifice that our Heavenly Father made for us? We hear Alan, our pastor, talk of the grace of God. That is the grace of God. God, the Father, taking his only begotten Son and throwing him in front of death, it was no accident. God the Father threw his son in front of death that we would live. That is God's grace. As we contemplate that, we're filled with many emotions. But what I've been thinking of over the last few weeks is why so often in our daily lives That wondrous act of love does not have a more profound effect on us Alan preached a few weeks ago on Christian hedonism about joy in the Christian life. Why don't we have more joy? Why aren't we more deeply affected with joy when we think of God's sacrifice and his love for us? Why don't we have a deeper appreciation for our salvation? Well, I think there are several reasons, and I've put them in the bulletin here in the outline. We reject or deny the grace of God. Number one, because we don't really believe that the danger is real. Some of you who are here with us this morning do not really believe that death is approaching. You do not believe that you are sinful and deserve eternal punishment And you therefore do not believe that the sacrifice of Jesus Christ our Lord was even necessary. God forbid that you would think that. Because in thinking that you dishonor God the Father. You dishonor the creator of the universe. And you dishonor his son. You dishonor the atonement and the salvation that we do have. Now others are more insecure and have more self-doubt, and I would count myself as one of them. And others think, well, God the Father did sacrifice his son for a group of people. And I think I was fortunate enough to be in that group of people. But I think if God really knew me and knew what I'm really like, I don't think he would have done it. And so we go on in our Christian walk with that attitude, not sure how close we can get to God, not sure how much we're accepted in his sight. Because we question if he really knew us when he saved us. Others also also plagued with self-doubt Think that God may have known us when He saved us, but that He surely thought that we would become more righteous afterwards and that we would stop sinning. And they can't believe that he still accepts us, or accepts me, or accepts you, because they think he must surely be surprised at our ongoing sin And at our ongoing rebellion. This morning, I want us to focus on God's Word, which teaches us that He surely does know us. That he does know us individually and personally, and that he knew what what we were like when he saved us, and that he knows what we will be like afterwards. And he nevertheless loves us and is faithful to us. John chapter ten It's a wonderful passage about the great shepherd, the good shepherd. And you might look at a later time at John chapter 10, verses 11, and then 14. The good shepherd who laid down his life for his sheep knows his sheep. Thanks be to God that he knows Another place in God's Word Where we can understand better how well God knows us, how well God knows whom He loves, is in Hosea. And it is in the story of Hosea. The prophet to Israel and Hosea's love for an adulterous woman, Gomah. Turn now, if you haven't already, to Hosea chapter 1. Hosea was a prophet to the nation of Israel It names the kings who reigned during Hosea's lifetime. Hosea prophesied in the mid-700s BC. He prophesied at the same time as other prophets well known, Amos and Jonah. And others. He prophesied to a country that was increasingly affluent and prosperous and increasingly decadent. And increasingly going against God's will. So God provided the book of Hosea Which is primarily about God and Israel. It's God's words to Israel, his love for Israel, his rebukes to Israel. And it's a wonderful book that has many levels, and I'm going to take on more than I probably should in trying to talk about one aspect of it over three chapters. And Alan, I've been thinking I think this would be a great book to do a series on that could be equally as long as your series on Jane and equally as profitable So if all of you recognize that we're only going to skim the surface and look at one aspect of the story. Let's look now at the story of Hosea and Gomer In verse 2, it says, The Lord said to Hosea, Go take to yourself an adulterous wife and children of unfaithfulness. And so Hosea married Gomer. Now some commentators think that Hosea married Gomer knowing what she would be like, but that she had not yet been an adulteress. Others would say that when Hosea married Gomer, that she was already an adulteress, in fact a whore, and that he married her knowing full well what she was like. And knowing full well what he could anticipate in their marriage. Gomer bore three children It would appear from verse three that she bore one of them from him. She bore him a son. As you move further into chapter one, it says Gomer conceived again and gave birth to a daughter. It doesn't say that she gave birth for Hosea. And then later she gives birth again, and it would suggest that Gomer conceived two of these children in adulterous relationships. So Hosea was being confronted on a daily basis by his wife's betrayal and unfaithfulness. The names of these children warrant several more sermons, so we will not get into them, but they're a beautiful story of God's love and faithfulness. When I read chapter two, beginning with verse two in particular, it appears to me that Gomer not only engaged in adulterous relationships. But that she finally left the house and moved out, presumably in with another man. Adultery and prostitution tend to create downward spirals. Where women will seek various things, riches and love, and their promised things by men And then somehow it doesn't work out the way they expect and they go elsewhere. And their lives deteriorate and they get less and less and give up more and more. And they go into a vicious spiral. And I think maybe that's what happened to Gomer. Imagine ho Hosea coming home one day Finding that his wife was gone, that she had left their three children under his care because she couldn't take it anymore, she was going to go after worldly pursuits And we see in verses two through eight some of Hosea's reactions. In verse two He even apparently talks to the children because he can no longer communicate to his wife. We see what Hosea what Gomer's attitude apparently is in verse 5. And then we come to an interesting verse, verse 8. It's Hosea talking now. She has not acknowledged that I was the one who gave her the grain, the new wine, and oil, who lavished on her the silver and gold which they used. For Baal. I think I think we can imagine that when Gomer left the house, that she took things with her that Hosea had provided for her But maybe we can even see something more than that. We can see a faithful husband, a loving husband, who knew of his wife's whereabouts and knew how she was suffering. And felt the obligation put upon him by God to continue to love her and to provide for her. So perhaps we can imagine Hosea worrying about Gomer. Worrying that she was in need and in want, hungry, not being cared for, we can imagine Hosea taking food to the household where Gomer now lived. Think of Hosea knocking on the door and a man answering, saying, Who are you? And Hosea stands there and says, I'm Gomer's husband. And the man backs away, thinking the confrontation is finally arrived. What's he going to do? And what Hosea does is stretch out his hands with food. And say here, give these to my wife. I love her. I don't want her to be in want. The man in his surprise takes the food, closes the door. Hosea stays nearby, wondering, can he be sure that Gomer will get all of it? And then he overhears this man who sees a gold mine and takes the food in the Gomer and tells her that he is the one that has provided it for her. And Gomer thinks how wonderful her lover is, never knowing, never acknowledging that it was Hosea who gave her the grain, who gave her the new wine and the new oil. Is that not what we are like? Do we not run from God and rebel from God and then give the credit for what we have to the world and to our own efforts? Do we not take for granted or even refuse to acknowledge the blessings that God gives us even in our rebellion and in our betrayal? The story continues. Gomer continues her decline. And we will have to glance over the end of chapter 2, which again is worth studying, seeing how the Lord responds to the nation of Israel. And we come to chapter 3. Where the Lord says to Hosea, Go show your love to your wife again, though she is loved by another and is an adulteress. And Hosea says in verse 2, so I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver, and about a homer and a lefeck of barley. Now think what it means that he bought his wife. Presumably, Gomer Had gone into debt, her lovers had left her. She had no way of providing for herself. So she had no choice but to sell herself into slavery. That was one of the ways that people became slaves in those times, when they were so indebted that they had to sell themselves. And slavery was an awful, degrading thing, a terrible situation to be in, because Gomer would have inflicted it upon herself. And would have really had no way out. Once a slave, how do you ever not become a slave apart from what someone else would do? And how could she ever think that her husband, whom She had betrayed, would take her out of slavery. She must have been a broken woman. And then Hosea hears of her and is determined to buy her back. To redeem her as God has redeemed us. And think of that. Think of what it must have been like. In 19th century slavery, and even before in this country, slave auctions were terrible things. Crowds would mill around the auction block. The slaves would be stood up on the auction block and they'd be stripped naked. And from all accounts, slave auctions in the Middle East thousands of years ago were the same thing. Can you imagine the degradation? of all of these people, and then your clothes being ripped away from you so that they could admire you and appraise you. The men were appraised for their strength. Is it worth buying this man? Can he help me in my labors? The women were probably appraised for their bodies and for their attractiveness. Because they weren't hired for labor. They were hired to service the men, to act as their whores. And think of Gomer, who was presumably at one point a very attractive woman, who had gone downhill but was nevertheless still attractive And she stands on that auction block and the bidding begins. And someone says, ten shekels It moves rapidly up. Twelve shekels, thirteen shekels. Hosea bids. He looks at his wife naked in front of the other men. He says 14 shekels. Someone else says 15 shekels. Another voice says 15 and a half shekels. And finally, Hosea bids fifteen shekels, a Homer, and a lefeck of barley. And she sold to him, to her husband. And he walks up to the auction block to take her away, to cover her up in her shame. Imagine what the other people in the crowd were saying. Oh Hosea, she's an attractive one. You really have something there. And Hosea says, This woman is my wife, and I am taking her back. And the crowd laughs and mocks them as they walk away. Hosea knew Gomer. Hosea knew that she was an adulteress. He felt the hurt of her betrayal, and she knew that he was that he knew that she was likely to betray him again He could do anything that he wanted with her, now that he owned her as a slave. He could have killed her, and no one would have thought anything of it. But he didn't. He took her back as his wife, to love her, and to resume his marriage to her Again, I ask, are we not Goma? Are we not seduced by the attractions of this world, by the material pleasures and the physical pleasures that are all around us? Do we not find them more attractive than our fathers love? Consider a different image of each of us on an auction block at an auction, and the world begins bidding for us. And the world seemingly bids very high prices for us. And then the Lord says, I will pay a price. I will redeem this person. And I will pay the ultimate price, the price of the blood of my son, whom I am willing to sacrifice to redeem this person. Think again of the Heavenly Father's sacrifice of his only begotten Son. Think again of how well he knows those whom he saves. Think again of how he loves us and how wonderful the grace of God is. And now we come to God's love for us. As I said, Gomer put herself into her slavery and then had no way out. She had no escape from something that she had inflicted upon herself. And her husband loved her and saved her. And likewise, we have no way out from our sin. We have no way out from our punishment. We cannot stop the car hurtling down the highway toward us, bent on destruction. But God can save us, and He does. God loves us. Even as he knows us. God loves us right now. He loves us knowing that we will continue to sin. And believe it or not, he loves us as much now as he ever will. The Lord is not going to love us more when we become more righteous. He's not going to love us more in eternity. He loves us now as much as he is ever going to. That should fill us with joy. That should fill us with a delight that affects our daily living, that touches us deeply. And finally, that love that our Lord Jesus has for us should affect us in one other way. It gives us the freedom to approach our God, to approach Him boldly whenever we have a need. No matter what we have been, no matter how much we have sinned after we have been saved. You'll see the reference at the end of the outline to Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16. I really struggled with this verse because I was going to use this as my text to preach on it. I love the text. And I want to close with it. To close with the thought that we can approach the throne of grace with confidence. We can approach the throne of grace boldly. Not because we deserve that right, not because we are without sin. But we can approach that throne confidently because God knows us. Nothing about us is going to surprise him. None of our sin will surprise him. He knows it, and he loves us, and he calls us to himself. He calls us to that throne because he has saved us. I encourage each of you to ponder the sacrifice of the Son on your behalf. The death of the only begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, whose death saves us from an eternal punishment and saves us from death. I encourage each of you to rejoice in the love of God, to rejoice in how well He knows you. And each day, no matter what your circumstances, to approach the throne of grace with confidence, confidence of God's love for you. Lord, your grace is more than amazing. It is beyond what we can comprehend or even imagine. You created us. You know us intimately and personally. And you love us. Lord, let us rejoice in that. Let us be renewed in our confidence because of that. Let us be motivated to serve you in response to that. Let us worship you with all of our beings. We pray in the name of the only begotten Son, Jesus, our Lord. Amen.