Try again Today is the fourth annual International Day of Prayer for the Persecuted Church, which very appropriately follows our studies of the book of Revelation. Because as you may have noticed, there's a lot about persecution and about suffering in the book of Revelation Remember Jesus' words to the Church of Smyrna, do not be afraid of what you're about to suffer. I tell you the devil would put some of you in prison to test you, and you will suffer persecution for ten days. Be faithful. even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life. Do you remember in chapter six the picture of the saints who had been slain under the altar, asking, How long, O Lord, before you avenged? the blood of your people. In chapter twenty, verse four, the saints who had been beheaded Now reigning with Jesus. And again and again there's the picture from the beginning of the New Testament to the end. That you and I, if you belong to Jesus Christ Are in a spiritual war, a worldwide cosmic warfare. Christianity is not for the faint-hearted. It's not for sissies or for the soft. In spite of what our friend Governor Jesse Ventura says said recently that religion probably particularly thinking of Christianity as a crutch for weak minded people Well, only in America would that kind of indictment be leveled at Christians. In most countries, whatever you would say about Christians, it would not be that they're weak. And so we come today to look at God's Word and what He has to say to us. As those who are part of the church that suffers for walking with Jesus Christ and belonging to him. And I've chosen to call our attention to 1 Peter chapter 5. Yeah, verse five, uh chapter five, verses eight and nine. This is God's word to us Let us give attention to it. Let me read his word to you. Peter says, be self-controlled and alert. Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. Resist him! Standing firm in the faith, because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kind of sufferings. Three points I want to make. Three R's. Alliterative. Gotta watch my homiletics here this morning. We have a couple that grew up in our church. And the guy, Bob Jerkis, is now a preacher and pastor in Vermont. And so it's something, you know, a guy comes back and watches you preach after having grown up here And brings their firstborn son. So you see Bob and Carrie back there, welcome them and try to do the best job I can of preaching here. Keep the example Three points, three R's. First one is the command. Recognize your adversary. Recognize your adversary. Verse 8. Notice the beginning. Be self-controlled and alert. Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. You notice again there's that appeal to being strong-minded, be self-controlled of NAS is be uh Sober, not that it means you can't laugh, but it's saying be tough minded, be alert, look out, recognize that you've got an enemy It's always prowling around looking to eat your lunch and to eat you. In fact, uh it reminds me of how recently as the nights have grown cold, it's uh typical and Kathy and I get up in the morning to find a uh a sacrifice on our bathroom floor, half eaten mouse a couple of nights ago there were two of them there, uh done in by our quette. I think that she deposits them half eaten on the floor just to prove to us that she's earning her keep But you see, the idea here is that uh we're like the mice, you know, in our house. There's a cat that's looking around, wants to devour us We've got an enemy, someone that's looking to do us in. Satan is malicious And uh w you notice that it says that he is a roaring lion. And I I think that's significant. I never really understood that until uh some years ago we were down at the national zoo and uh I uh wandered over to the tiger cage was a Bengal tiger, beautiful Bengal tiger that was there and I was looking through the bars at some safe distance, noticing he's just oblivious to everybody, sleep, you know, just Totally ignoring everyone. And this little sparrow came hopping through the bars and into the cage, was hopping along about ten feet away from the tiger. And uh all of a sudden I saw one eye, you know, just like that. Nothing moved, not a hair, just one eye. And he just looks at the sparrow for, you know, ten, fifteen seconds. And then all of a sudden there was this roar. I would not try to imitate it. You did not just hear it, you felt it. I mean the ground shook Then there was this roar and within a fraction of a second the sparrow disappeared. I mean ten feet. And all of a sudden I realized the roar is not meant to be a warning. The roar paralyzes the victim. The sparrow could not move. It just bumped. I couldn't move. I'm standing there. I mean it was amazing the effect. You can't move And the idea I think here is that Satan is like that. He intimidates, he frightens, he roars. So that you wonder if you really want to follow Jesus as much as you thought you did before you were intimidated. And so you take a stand of some kind. A stand in which you follow Jesus and you're looking to do what is the right thing that you believe He's called you to do And you pay a cost. He intimidates you. He tries to frighten you. Uh you see Peter talked back in chapter three Verses 13 to 17 about doing the right thing, not the wrong thing, and suffering for it. Trying to walk as light, as Ephesians 5 has told us, in the darkness. And then paying a price. And maybe paying a price to your own family. I don't know if you noticed the October issue of New Horizons. The story of uh Pastor Kim Dang and his wife Twi. Pastor Dang is a Orthodox Presbyterian pastor of the church and Little Saigon in Orange County, California. Kim Dang and his wife Twi did not know each other in Vietnam. Both grew up in the early seventies there. uh suffered persecution as unbelievers from the communists at that time. Both thought sought to escape independently. At the age of ten, Thuy was on a boat small boat and out in the sea trying to escape this and saw a number of people on that boat drown. She made it safely with her family to California and Kim did. They both came to know Jesus Christ there. And then they came to know each other. And they planned their wedding for August of nineteen ninety-two. What bride doesn't look for her wedding day to be a day of great memories and treasures and happiness But they were from Buddhist families. And their families insisted that they offer incense to the grandmother's altar, a token of ancestor worship. And to bow, and they said they could not do that. And so the w ceremony went on. And after the ceremony they came back to the house, Twee's house And as they approached the house, her brother ran out of the front doors and literally began to beat her up in her wedding dress. Kim tried to intervene and was kicked in the stomach, and it was just a terrible, terrible day. Why? Because they wanted to follow Jesus and they would not bow. And we can look at that as an ideological struggle, struggle of values and a culture and all the rest of that, but Any analysis that comes short of verse 8, Tim and Twee have an enemy. The devil prowling around like a roaring lion, looking to intimidate, to frighten. So that he might devour them. Any such analysis would miss the mark. You have that same enemy, a malicious enemy. Only twice in my life have I looked into the eyes of people who wanted to destroy me. Once was in a racial incident in 1970, facing three black men with clubs. Another was in 1985 when we were going through the struggles in the meeting house about the gospel, and I was in a room with 15 pastors who were absolutely incensed That I believed that a person needed Jesus Christ to avoid hell and to get to heaven. One of the those fifteen pastors told me afterwards Those guys wanted to rip you apart in there. He didn't need to tell me that. He's just confirming what I had already said. Thank you very much As much as that maliciousness and that hatred that I felt, let me tell you, Satan far more hates you. Far more maliciously intends to destroy you in any opportunity that he can get. Or maybe he'd be on your job. You've taken some stand. You've refused to compromise. You've done something as a Christian, like Judge Roy Moore. County judge in Alabama, who for years has had the Ten Commandments posted on his wall and has opened his sessions with prayer Some years ago, the ACLU began to threaten him that he was violating separation of church and state. They threatened him for two years and finally then did bring a lawsuit. It was a tremendous emotional and financial drain on him and his family, and the court finally then simply dismissed the case. And they didn't give up. They then brought a charge of ethics codes violations. And again, more litigation, more fees, more emotional drain. Again, the court simply dismissed the case. She was not guilty. Since 1995, he's been harassed for having the Ten Commandments on his wall and beginning his sessions with prayer. You see, the difference between you and me, and most Christians who are suffering persecution in the world, is that you and I can largely choose to avoid the suffering. Whereas our brothers and sisters, just simply to be identified with Jesus Christ, don't have that option. But we can choose to avoid it. You kids can choose to avoid that kind of suffering in school. By simply becoming like the processional caterpillar. Any of you kids ever heard of the processional caterpillar? You know why the processional caterpillars called that? It's because processional caterpillars all follow the caterpillars in front of them, thinking they know where they're going. And no matter where that caterpillar is going, they'll all just kind of line up and they follow them. There was a scientist, André Fabret, a French scientist, who last century was fascinated with these things and so he got a large stone jar and he put a bunch of them on the rim of his stone jar to see what they would do. Well they began marching around the rim of the jar Around and around and around each one thinking that the caterpillar ahead knew where he was going. They kept going around for hours In fact, he wanted to see how long they would do it. You know how long they did it? Seven days. These caterpillars went around the rim of the jar, around and around and around, till I guess one poor caterpillar finally got so hungry Who practically fell off the jar, crawled down the jar, of course all the other caterpillars then followed him. But they all thought he knew where he was going You see, w we can just fit in and follow the mainstream values, follow what the other kids say and do, or as adults The tensions at the water cooler, you know. Am I going to fit in or am I going to take a distinctive stand? You see there's such pressure for people to like us and accept us, isn't there? To conform. I was looking at a um a circular it was a uh a little bit of a magazine from a very leftist orientation a little while ago, a couple weeks ago, and there were a number of pages of ads for bumper stickers. And i I was intrigued by how there was a certain party line of the values. And it was it became very predictable after the first couple of pages what the sayings were going to be about, what the basic value system that they were uh kind of really expecting the people who are gonna buy these bumper stickers were gonna line up with. And then you come to this other this page about four pages into it and there's this one bumper that sti sticker that said I think for myself, therefore I'm dangerous. Right. I mean we've just been told all the things we're going to think and put on our cars for the last four pages, and now we're going to say, but I think for myself. Listen, the person that thinks for themselves, the person that follows Jesus and says, I believe that Jesus is the truth, that's the person that's dangerous. That's the person that can't be controlled by the crowd. And there'll be opposition. Peter says, you've got an enemy, the devil, who's prowling around, looking for people who are willing to stick up so he can pound them back down. So Paul Peter says the second thing, second point here, is to resist him Resist your adversary by standing firm in the faith. That's the second R. Resist your adversary by standing firm in the faith. Verse nine. That's exactly what it says. Resist him, standing firm in the faith. Feelings at that point aren't going to do it. It's got to be convictions. You notice that it says nothing And when the Bible says the faith, that's referring not simply to the act of your faith, but to the body of the content of your beliefs based on the Bible. Those things that the Bible uniquely teaches that cut across the values and the teachings of our culture. The tolerance of anything The view of marriage and genders and all the other things that today are espoused as right thinking. If you in fact resist the party line and you resist the devil in his attempts to make you conform and to not stand for Jesus Christ, you're going to pay a price. But Peter says, resist them standing firm in the faith, those things that you believe. Know that you believe them, and stand in them by the grace of God. One of my favorite preachers, contemporary preachers, is William Willeman, who's actually a United Press Methodist preacher uh down in Duke University, and um he's a very intriguing fellow. He uh wrote, I just read this week, he wrote about um preaching a sermon a little while back, and a woman came up to him after the message, and she said, Pastor, I was offended by your sermon this morning. He said, so was I. What do you mean? You preached it. I thought you liked it He said, lady, I don't preach this stuff because I like it. I preach it because I'm told to. A Christian is under obligation not to second guess his Lord, but to simply represent him. And so you see, Peter's saying here that you and I are to stand firm in the faith because we're convinced it's true. We're convinced that God's way is the way to go. See, that's what this whole series has been about. You know? I mean, you think I've been preaching Bible prophecy and eschatology and all this stuff because I wanted to straighten out your charts. Well, all right, so that's a big issue, it's the turn of the millennium, but what my real desire and goal through this series, and we're not finished with it, we'll get back to it after the holidays, but we'll get back to it. has been that it gives us the hope that we talked about in the first message, Colossians 1, 3 to 6. You see that that hope, because our faith and our love spring from the hope That Jesus is coming and our suffering will then be put an end to that point. You see what he says back in chapter 4, verse 12? Dear friends, don't be surprised at the painful trial you're suffering. As if some something strange were happening to you. But rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. That's it is coming. That's your hope. That's my hope. So it's hope. Second thing is from that series was simply that God would help us to rearrange our priorities. We'd realize this life is short. Jesus is coming, he's coming at any point. And so let's live in the light of eternity. Let's be willing to suffer for him. He says it's a privilege. Rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed, when you pay a cost. In following Jesus Christ, you long so much more for his coming, and you're so much more overjoyed at his appearance Living in priorities that are set by the anticipation of his any moment coming. Or thirdly, my hope and desire was that it would increase your faith, that we'd be bolder as Christians. Rather than fear people who are going to stand with us at the judgment seat of Christ, we be free from the fear of people Then we would say, Why am I fearing this person? Jesus Himself said, Don't fear the person. The most they can do is kill the body. Fear him who can destroy both body and soul in hell. And so the faith ultimately has to do with the gospel, you see. That you stand firm in the faith, and that faith is then developed a little more in verse 10. You and I believe that the God of all grace, you see Not the one who has given us what we deserve by our disobedience to him, but the God of all grace who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ. By virtue of being joined with Jesus, Jesus took that sin that deserved his punishment. And Jesus, having taken that, has called you into his glory. Because you're joined to him. After you've suffered a little while, he will himself then restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. So Peter says, resist him, standing firm, you see, in his strength, in the convictions of the gospel, in the hope of the gospel. in the expectation of the soon return of Jesus, at whose appearing you will be overjoyed because all the suffering will end. No more standing against those who would persecute you or make fun of you or against that enemy who wants to devour you So, third point. When we are standing like that, we're often tempted to believe that we're alone And it's that aloneness that is so discouraging. So Peter goes on. Resist him, standing firm in the faith, because you know that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kinds of sufferings. Third point. Realize that suffering is the normal, not exceptional experience of Christians throughout the world. It's the normal, not the exceptional, experience through church history and in our own world today. Right now, as we worship here in freedom and safety, 200 million Christians are paying a price for their identification with Jesus Christ. Either mild to severe life-threatening persecution. Now praise God for what He has done in the last couple of years. This is, as I said, the fourth International Day of Prayer for the Persecuted Church. Since the first one, four years ago, Christians have prayed and taken action in our government so that in October of last year, nineteen ninety-eight, the International Religious Freedom Act was overwhelmingly passed by our Congress. And that created the International Religious Freedom Commission. A panel of independent panel of ten members to monitor worldwide persecution for religious convictions, not just Christians And the panel is certainly not just Christians. And they have, in spite of significant oppositions from President Clinton and the administration, been appointed and have begun to function this year. They produced their first report in September, over a thousand pages of honest documentation of what is going on in persecution throughout the world. They've named some of the worst countries, no great surprises. China, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq. Um Colombia. That's not here, that's the city, I mean the country of Colombia, South America. lest we play victim around here. Uh and particularly the Arabia region of Colombia. Interesting, uh where is the church growing the fastest in Colombia? The Arabia region. Many of the places where the persecution is the hottest is where the church is growing the fastest. But there's no place in the world worse than the Sudan. You know, we uh have rightly been involved in the rescue of some of the atrocities over in Kosovo. We're hundreds. were cut down and lost their lives. You know that's nothing. That's nothing compared to what has been happening in the Sudan Since nineteen eighty-five, two million people have been slaughtered in southern Sudan by the Islamic government in Kart and Khartoum. The purpose is to simply wipe out the population of southern Sudan and then to continue south establishing Islam by force. The United Nations reporter has filed five reports on the atrocities that have happened in the Sudan. He has been so disgusted at the lack of any action taken either by the United Nations or even media recognition of the atrocities, he finally quit his job and resigned in frustration. So, what would God have us to do? What is our response as we look at what Peter's saying to us here? Let me suggest three responses. That's the fourth R. Three responses for us. Number one, I believe that God would have us wherever possible to contact those who are suffering in order to encourage them. So the first thing is to contact them whenever possible to encourage them And that's exactly what this letter is that Peter has written. Peter wrote this letter to encourage those who are suffering persecution. You notice he ends the letter in verse 13. She who is in Babylon, chosen together with you, sends you her greetings, and so does my son Mark. Now, it's possible that he's talking about literal Babylon, the church that was located on the Tigers and Euphrates River. But it's much more likely that what he's talking about is figurative Babylon that we read about in Revelation seventeen. Babylon, the mother of prostitutes, who's drunk with the wine of the blood of the saints Babylon, the enemy of the heavenly Jerusalem. And so Peter here is saying, those of us who are suffering persecution with you, I want to rate you and to encourage you. And wherever it's possible for us to have contact, we need to encourage our brothers and sisters so that they know they're not alone. Now what we need to do that in our church, in our congregation, is a task force to help to lead us. And so I'm praying that God will raise up a few people who will form, reform. We had such a group and really has it no longer exists so that there would be reformed a persecuted church task force of Columbia Presbyterian Church. This could be either somehow joined together with the World Missions Task Force or it could be separate. It's up for you guys to work out. But my prayer is that a number of you would sense that God would call you to not a whole lot of involvement, but just to help us as a congregation and say, here's an issue, here's what something that we can respond to, here's people that we could encourage, here's something we could do as Christians. who recognize that our brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same kind of and far more intense sufferings than we do. So during the middle hour we sent around a sign-up sheet. For those of you who aren't here, on the back table, right there in the corner, there is a sign-up sheet. If any of you are interested, it's not a committal, it's just simply saying I'm interested in finding out more about this. Tell me about it, and we'll try to pull you together so that you can meet and decide where you want to go from there. I hope some of you will sign up and give us some leadership in this so that we as a congregation We don't all have the time to just keep checking on this. But if somebody can lead us, that would be a great help in ministry to the rest of us. The second thing would be to petition To speak on behalf of our suffering brothers and sisters to government leaders. That is not a lack of faith to try to get government relief There are three instances in the book of Acts, and you see them listed in your bulletin outline, where Paul did that for himself. He appealed to the government and his rights for justice. And so it is right for us to do that. We have biblical precedent for it. And our government is in, of course, of all governments, in a particularly strong position. to be able to bring pressure to bear on countries that violate the uh religious rights, not just of Christians, but of any people. Proverbs chapter 31, verse 8 says that we are to do this for others, not just for ourselves. It says there that we are to speak on behalf of those who cannot speak for themselves. And that's the plight of our brothers and sisters in southern Sudan or in many other cases, where they simply have no place to turn. They have no power. But you and I do. So what I've done on your bulletin outline is you see I've I've uh copied for you a paragraph from the uh National Association of Evangelical Newsletter, political newsletter that simply gives you one specific bill that is before us that we could bring our voice to bear on it. I can tell you from personal experience, I've done that. I did it this week. It took me less than 10 minutes. It's very simple. You dial the number on the last line. You will get a voice. That says, can I help you? You say, give me Senator Sarbane's office, give me Senator McCulski's office, they'll either transfer you or you can do it. Call them up twice. I called twice. They'll transfer you and directly takes Five seconds or less. Somebody then answers the phone. They say, May I help you? You say I would like to pass on a message to Senator Sarbanks. Concerning Senate Bill 1453, it's written right there, the Sudan Peace Act, I would like to urge Senator Sarbanes to become a co-sponsor of that bill which denounces the genocide of the government of Khartoum and provides for emergency relief to bypass the government to those who need it. As simple as that She says, thank you. I get it down. She writes it down. By the way, both the people I talked to had never heard of that bill. There hadn't been much response. I had to identify it. She wrote it down. I offered my email. She said no, I'd rather have your snail mail. I want to make sure that you're in Maryland. So you give your name, you give your address, and then you say, please tell the senator to respond to me of their response. And both of them assured me, you will get a letter saying whether they'll do this or not. It took a couple minutes on each person. But you know, after I did that After I did that, it it helped me to think about my brothers and sisters in southern Sudan. You know, two million have been killed, but it's far worse than that. There's been a lot of mutilation, amputation, eyes gouged out, torture, selling into slavery. I mean, the atrocities are mind-boggling. And for just a moment, there was a sense of solidarity. I mean, that's such a trivial thing. But just to do that, I thought of them And I thought of what they're going through in part of my family to stand for the Lord Jesus, who I love. And so as you and I identify with them. We're able to feel a little more, to pray for them, and to be involved, and that's the third thing, to pray. You know, the the second thing to petition is to be to speak on their behalf to government leaders, but the third matter is to speak on their behalf to God, the sovereign leader And be encouraged, brothers and sisters. Four years ago there did not exist a religious freedom commission. And it did not look very likely. The administration was opposed to it. The prayers of God's people and certain Christians taking action have established that commission, which not only makes the reports like it did, but makes recommendations. They're inviting uh Madeline Albright to come and speak to the Sudan issue in the next month and to address it. Let us pray for God to continue beyond the progress that we've already seen. But the thing that we're to pray for is not primarily for their relief and their safety. Persecution like hunger will always be with us. It is a fact of the Christian life. We should pray for their relief and for some of the gross violations of human rights to be ceased. But if you talk to the persecuted church, any of the any of the communications that I've read and gotten, the thing they ask for us to pray most of all is pray. That we will stand firm in the faith, what Peter says here. Pray for us. That we will be faithful, that we will not give up, that we will not compromise. Pray for our persecutors that they will see the witness of love and forgiveness of the Church of Christ and they will come to faith. But pray for us to be faithful. We need to be praying for them And so on Thursday mornings, over at the Potter's House Library, a group of us meet every Thursday morning, 6:30 to 730 in the morning, and we pray for a number of things, for renewal and revival, for specific things in our congregation. for our missionaries, but from time to time we will take a significant amount of time and we'll pray for the persecuted church in specifics. And so I'd ask that this Thursday particularly we spend some time praying for our brothers and sisters in the persecuted church. So if you've never come, come just this Thursday. Just come to join us in praying for our brothers and sisters. Pray That the God of all grace, who's called you and me into his eternal glory in Christ, after we have suffered a little while, will himself restore Restore us, restore you, restore me, restore them in Sudan, in China, Vietnam, in Iraq, in Iran, in Colombia. To restore them and make them strong, firm, and steadfast, just as you and I long to be. Let's pray. Lord our God, open our eyes that we might see our adversary. Lord, that that we would see that when we have those choices to make where we either deny you in subtle ways or we stand for you. That's not just a an emotional thing. That's combat with the evil one, who through his roaring wants to intimidate and frighten us, keep us in our place. Good little processional caterpillars. Lord, we pray that we might resist Him, standing firm in the faith. Remembering that we are not alone. While we can choose whether to stand out or not, our brothers and sisters throughout the world are suffering a great deal, even this day. To meet, to worship. So, Lord, we pray that you would raise up a task force to help us to be involved strategically as a congregation. That you would teach us how to pray for them. And Lord, we would stand with them. And that would strengthen our faith and the hope that we have That when you come again, Lord Jesus, we will be delivered and be overjoyed at your coming. And we will meet them together. As we reign with you forever and ever. Those who have overcome by the blood of the Lamb, make us such, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.