Last week we looked at Peter's failure, his denying three times that he knew or cared anything about his master. We ask the question, why did Peter fail so miserably? And the answer, of course, is because Of the same reasons you and I would have failed in the same kind of situation. He first of all was overly self-confident, felt superior to the other disciples. I could never do that. Somebody else might deny him, but not me. And therefore, when he had the opportunity to pray, he didn't take that opportunity. He was tired and thought that sleep was more important. And rather than pray that the Lord would deliver him from temptation, he thought he could handle it on his own The same way that you and I, every time we get up and dash off with some breakfast and head off to work or whatever we have to do without taking the time to pray as the Lord taught us, deliver us from the evil one. So we think we can handle it on our own. And so when Jesus was arrested after an immediate great bravado, he panicked with the rest of the disciples and he fled. And then he went to the courtyard, and we saw three times that Peter denied Jesus. Verse 2 involve interactions with members of the opposite sex. I wonder if it's not perhaps more intimidating to stand for Jesus in your convictions with a member of the opposite sex. Even though they may not be intimidating in themselves, there's something about wanting to maintain face And Peter three times denied the Lord, each time more vehemently than the last, until he was broken. By two things, crying of a rooster and a look from the Lord Jesus. Crying from the rooster that reminded him of Jesus' words, prophesying exactly what he would do. And the look of Jesus without malice or judgment, but compassion And so we saw that each of us, you and me, like Peter, is the only way that we will stand true for the Lord Jesus this coming week. is to realize your weakness. For me to realize my weakness, that I cannot do this on my own. But what motivates me is looking at the Lord Jesus to see His grace and His love. And that's what enables you and me to stand. Okay? May the Lord seal that to your heart. Very good. But there's more to the story. If that's all we saw of this story, we would miss a major intention of the gospel writers. And that's what I want to look at this morning. You see it uniquely in Matthew's account. Of Peter's denial. You remember when we were studying the Gospel of Matthew, that I pointed out that Matthew is a master organizer of his material. That many times he will make a point by the way he positions his material to see sections in comparison or contrast or leading to a climax It's the way he organizes his material that tells much of his story. There's several examples of that, and one of them is right here in the story of Peter. Because if you look in Matthew's account of the story of Peter's denial, you will notice that uniquely he places it in between the pretrial of Jesus and the suicide of Judas. And in that you see three trials and two contrasts. There's the pretrial of Jesus, there's the trial of Peter in the courtyard, and there's the trial of Judas in his heart, the temptation. to betray his master to the Jewish leaders and what he would do when he discovered how heinous a crime that criminal crime that was And so you have two contrasts. You have Peter's faithlessness contrasted with Judas, Peter's faithlessness contrasted with Jesus' faithfulness. And you have Peter being forgiven, contrasted with Judas being forsaken. Peter, faithless, contrast, Jesus, faithful. Peter, forgiven, contrast, Judas, forsaken. That's what I want to look at this morning. And so now, we've held this off till now. Now I want to read the scripture that gives these three trials, the two contrasts, to see with that understanding if you can pick out how Matthew shows something of these contrasts in his account. So beginning in Matthew chapter 26, in verse 57, those who had arrested Jesus took him to Caiaphas, the high priest. For the teachers of the law and the elders had assembled. But Peter followed him at a distance, right up to the courtyard of the high priest. He entered and sat down with the guards to see the outcome. The chief priest and the whole Sanhedrin were looking for false witness, false evidence against Jesus, so that they could put him to death. But they did not find any, though many false witnesses came forward. Finally, two came forward and declared, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days. Then the high priest stood up and said to Jesus, Are you not going to answer? What is this testimony that these men are bringing against you? But Jesus remained silent. The high priest said to him, I charge you under oath by the living God. Tell us if you are the Christ, the Messiah, the Son of God. Yes, it is as you say, Jesus replied. But I say to all of you, in the future you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the mighty one and coming on the clouds of heaven. And then the high priest tore his clothes and said, He has spoken blasphemy. Why do we need any more witnesses? Look, now you have heard the blasphemy. What do you think? He is worthy of death, they answered. Then they spit in his face. They struck him with their fists And others slapped him and said, Prophesy to us Christ, who hit you. Now Peter was sitting out in the courtyard And a servant girl came to him. You also were with Jesus of Nazareth, of Galilee, she said. But he denied it before them all. I don't know what you're talking about, he said. Then he went out to the gateway where another girl saw him and said to the people there, This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth. He denied it again with an oath. I don't know the man. After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, Surely you are one of them, for your accent gives you away. Then he began to call down curses on himself, and he swore to them, I don't know the man. Immediately a rooster crewed. Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken. Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times. And he went outside. And he wept bitterly early in the morning All the chief priests and the elders of the people came to the decision to put Jesus to death. They bound him and led him away and handed him over to Pilate, the governor. When Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that Jesus was condemned, he was seized with remorse and returned the thirty silver coins to the chief priests and the elders. I have sinned, he said, for I have betrayed innocent blood. What is that to us? They replied. That's your responsibility. So Judas threw the money into the temple and left. And then he went away and hanged himself We look first at the contrast between Peter and Jesus. Peter is faithless, and Jesus is faithful. You see, Peter's denial is not just about Peter. It's also about Jesus. The gospel is always about Jesus. Peter's denial is actually Part of a series of Jesus' progressive isolation and being forsaken. It's part of his suffering for you and for me. Remember that Jesus was the most relational man who ever lived. A major part of his suffering Was becoming abandoned, isolated, and rejected. It was that being forsaken That was a major part of his suffering, God's wrath for your sin and mine. You see the progress of that in all the gospel accounts. It particularly begins, though not absolutely, but particularly begins at Gethsemane when Jesus begins to realize the full horror of what is coming. And you remember he says to his three closest disciples, Peter, James, and John, come with me. Come and watch with me. Help me, support me. He seeks their companionship. He seeks their fellowship. And they fail him. They sleep at the time he needs their fellowship. And then he is betrayed by one of his own disciples for money. Remember that Jesus and Judas had been close. Judas was his friend. Judas had lived with him. They had shared intimate times. Jesus loved Judas. And Judas betrays him for money. Imagine the feeling of someone who had lived with you and known you and had benefited from your kindness, betraying you to your enemies, to sell you out. And then at the arrest, the disciples all take off. Jesus says, You want me to? Take me. Let these men go. And it's every man for himself. We're out of here. Imagine how Jesus felt as he watched all the disciples run off in every different direction. Nobody caring to stay and support him at that point. In fact, Mark tells of one young fellow, probably Mark himself, who When the soldiers grabbed him, he was so desperate he slipped out of his robe and he fled naked down the street. So desperate was he to escape. And Jesus is left to stand there alone with his enemies. They bind him and they take him to the Sanhedrin. He's brought to the high priest's palace, and there he stands in that room, all alone. Not one friendly face in the entire room. Nothing but hostility and hatred. I remember many years ago being in a pastor's meeting. I was with a group of Protestant pastors, Catholic priests, and Jewish rabbis, and I was accused. I'm holding the narrow view that you needed Jesus to get to heaven. It was 15 to 1. I was the only person in the room, the only clergy person in the room that believed you needed Jesus to get to heaven. They didn't hit me, they didn't beat me, they called me names. And I remember one fellow who was there with me. He did not like me. But he actually felt sorry for me and said afterwards, if they could have, they would have torn you apart. Jesus had no one to give any sympathy, and there was no restraint to their malice. Imagine what it was like to stand absolutely alone in the face of that hatred Meanwhile, outside in the courtyard, one of his closest friends, his closest disciples. is out there denying that he even knows Jesus or cares anything about what happens to him Never miss that that is a deep part of Jesus suffering the wrath of God for your sin and mine. The isolation and the rejection. Of course, that would matter little In comparison with the abandonment by his Heavenly Father, the one with whom he had shared the most intimate fellowship that you and I cannot begin to imagine or fathom from all eternity. Never for an instant any separation of their fellowship and love for one another. And he begins for the first time in all eternity to experience his rejection and abandonment. So see Peter's denial in its context. But now look particularly at three contrasts between Peter's Denial and his faithlessness and Jesus' faithfulness for Peter. First of all, Notice that Jesus is questioned by men with power to bring him to execution, which they will do the next morning. Remember the scene. He is in the palace of Caiaphas, the richest man outside of the Roman government in all the land. The palace would have exuded wealth and power. The Sanhedrin were experts at intimidation. And Jesus is being questioned by people who knew how to press their authority to make you quake in your sandals. In contrast, Peter is being questioned by a couple of servants who have no authority. Oh, they might intimidate him by the fact that they might report him to somebody who had authority to get him in trouble, but in themselves, they were absolutely no threat. And so they begin the intimidation by the witnesses to get him to get nervous, to see all these people that they bring, and there's the ones that twist his words about rebuilding the temple and all these kinds of things. And you see verses 62 and 63 how Caiaphas particularly seeks to intimidate. The high priest stood up and he said to Jesus, Are you not going to answer? For Jesus is majestically silent. What is this testimony that these men are bringing against you? But Jesus remained silent. The high priest said to him, I charge you under oath. Probably drawing himself right up to Jesus, face to face. I charge you under oath. Tell us. Are you the Messiah? The Son of the Living God. We're not more playing around here. I'm putting you on record. Let's have it. And then Jesus' last statement of his identity. He not only answers the question with a true oath He goes beyond to warn them. Oh yes, it's like you say, I am the Messiah, the Son of the Living God. But What's more, do you remember the implications of the Son of Man in Daniel? The next time you see me, it will be in my power and glory on the right hand of majesty, coming in the clouds of heaven to judge. He knows that he feels his death by that statement. He could have let them look foolish and have no case against him. But Jesus answers with a true oath to seal his fate in faithfulness so that he would die for Peter. And meanwhile, Peter is giving false oaths to lie in order to protect himself. Jesus is laying down his life for the disciple who's doing everything to protect his life at the expense of Jesus. So Jesus answers with a true oath and Peter with a false oath. Because Jesus thoughts are all for his people, for Peter, who he must die to save. He came to do that And he sets his face like a flint to follow through with it. He will not be deterred. He will not be intimidated. And Peter's thoughts, meanwhile, are all for himself. How do I protect myself? I'm not gonna care about what's gonna happen to Jesus if it affects me. My thought is to save me. And so Peter is faithless in his denials, while Jesus is faithful in his confession to save us. And don't miss the irony. You see, after his confession, in their self-righteousness, these teachers of the law, the Sanhedrin. In their hypocritical condemnation, turn to vulgar abuse. It's interesting. I was looking this week and noticed that some commentators say that what happens next could not have happened. You know when they come to that place where they say, Oh, so you say that you're a prophet, the son of God, and they spit at him. You ever have anybody spit in your face? I've never had that experience. Does somebody come right up to you with such disgust and disregard and spit in your face? And then they begin to beat them. They pull them with their fists. They slug them. Beat them around. And somebody invents a game. He says he's a prophet, so we'll blindfold him, and then we'll hit him and see if he can tell us who's the one that hit him. The prophet would know who hit him. So tell us, Messiah, who hit you that time? Some commentators say the Sanhedrin would never have reduced itself to such despicable behavior. And such commentators do not know the fury of hell. These guys justify it because they're saying he's a blasphemer. We don't need to treat him with any respect. And they abuse him. But don't miss the irony. The irony is that as they are mocking Jesus as the prophet, at that very moment outside Jesus' most unlikely prophecy is coming to fulfillment. Jesus said, Peter, you say you will lay down your life for me. I tell you, you're going to deny me three times tonight. And while they are mocking a prophet, huh? Exactly what he said is coming to pass. That's the majesty of Jesus. Now, contrast Peter with Judas. Again, notice three contrasts. In both cases, Judas and Peter saw and heard Jesus' compassion. The last time Judas had seen Jesus was in the garden. When in the betrayal, he went up to him to kiss him with the world's most hypocritical kiss, and Jesus called him friend. Jesus looked him in the eye with compassion and called him friend. Peter remembers at the crowing of the cock the look of Jesus and the words of Jesus. You will deny me, but I have prayed for you. That your faith will not fail, and when you return. So each of them remember Jesus, look But it had opposite effects. For Peter, the look Crushed him in his denial, in his forsaking his Lord, and brought him to his senses. For Judas, the look in the garden had hardened him to continue in his downward fall. Secondly, notice that they both remember Jesus' words Again, with opposite effect. Judas remembers Jesus' words. Woe to that man who betrays me, it would be better for him if he had never been born. And he continues in the path. Peter remembers the words: You will deny me, I have prayed for you. When you return. And the words bring him to his senses. And then finally, notice that Judas Refused the hope he could have had and took his life. Peter wept in bitter shame. Absolutely astonished that he could do such a thing. Bitter shame, remorse, regret, weakness. But he gains a hope in Jesus' look and Jesus' words that ignite his faith And I wonder if there is not somebody here like Judas who believes that you are beyond hope. You have played around with the gospel, you have played around with the call of God and of Jesus Christ in your life for so long. Because you insist on being your own master, and you wonder if you're not beyond hope. You wonder now as you look at these characters, if you're not like Judas, beyond the mercy of God. I remember many years ago dealing with a fellow in an evangelistic meeting in precisely that situation He had played with the gospel for so long. He had gone forward so many times, made so many professions of faith, that now he was under deep conviction. And he said, I can't, I just can't. And I remember we were outside and he was pounding the ground with his fist, and he said, I can't, I can't, I can't. I am lost, lost, lost. Listen, Judas could have repented even after the betrayal And found mercy and forgiveness in Jesus Christ. You say, but it was ordained from eternity that Jesus would betray him and be lost. Yes, but remember the mystery of God's sovereignty. Judas chose to take his life and forsake Christ. Through me, Jesus Christ addresses every single person in this room. Come to me, all you who are weary. All you who see your hopelessness and your shame, who see what your heart is like, who see how you have held me at arm's length, who've seen how despicably you've treated me, I invite you this morning to come. And there is not a single person in this room who is forbidden by eternal decree from coming. You choose to come as God works in you. We don't understand that. But never think I am ordained for lostness. I am simply not one of the elect. I might as well go on to hell. Because it doesn't matter. I can't do anything else. That's a lie from hell. You can repent this morning and come to Jesus Christ, and He will receive you. Peter is proof of that. Peter turned in his tears and his bitterness. And found mercy. See, Judas was absorbed in his pain Judas went from being totally self-absorbed in his materialism And thinking, if I don't get what I want through Jesus and his program, then I will get it by turning Jesus in, and I'll get the 30 pieces of silver totally self-absorbed. But when he comes to see what he had done, he becomes totally self-absorbed in his pain. He's totally self-absorbed in his self-loathing and his self-hatred, but it's still self-absorption. And I wonder if there's not someone here this morning who is in misery because you are so self-absorbed in your self-loathing and pain. It was because of that self-absorption that Judas couldn't hear the gospel. He couldn't see the promise of the mercy of Christ. And in that last act of ultimate desperation he hanged himself. He committed suicide. Let me tell you. If there's anyone here this morning Who thinks of harming yourself, cutting yourself, harming yourself in some way, out of self-loathing, out of self-hatred? Realize you are denying the mercy of God that is available to you. There is always for every single person here mercy available while there is life. Talk to me, another staff pastor, an elder, a friend Don't let yourself be deceived by the need for self-destruction. It is simply further self-absorption. Judas needed to get out of himself to see Jesus And some of us find that very hard to do. We'd rather hang on to the pain because it allows us to continue to think about ourselves and be all absorbed with ourselves and have excuses why we don't have to think about other people or anything else because it's all about me and my pain Peter was in profound pain. He wept bitterly till there were no more tears to weep But then he looked at Jesus. He saw that there was beyond his pain a Savior who in his mercy could take that pain. Could give him forgiveness and new life and new hope. So this morning, see, Peter, in his faithlessness. And Jesus, in much worse circumstances, totally faithful because his refusal to give up on Peter or you or me. And see Peter in contrast to Judas, his despicable betrayal, his self-absorption. And Peter's looking to Jesus and finding hope Peter is proof of the mercy of Christ. Do you realize Peter was not only forgiven, he was restored into leadership, became one of the leaders of the church, wrote two books of the New Testament, because when you and I finally come to the place, Where we are sick of our own self-absorption, we realize our weakness and our need for Jesus Christ, and our hearts are broken before him, and we come and we say, Jesus, You've said, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. I come, I come now. In the name of Jesus Christ, come, for then your heart is ready to receive his mercy. Let's pray. Lord, we are so self-absorbed. We are so self-deceived in our pain and self-absorption. And our self-confidence built on nothing but our own bravado. And these are profound lessons that Matthew gives us here. Lord Jesus, how can we imagine what it took for you to be faithful? Before the Sanhedrin, in a true confession that sealed your fate, because you came to die for us. Lord Jesus, we marvel at you. We don't simply admire you, we worship you. How can we love you enough for what you did for us? But Lord, let us take the warning of Judas. We who tend toward the self-introspection, the self-absorption, the self-loathing, the self-destruction. That casts out the gospel, that in its twisted way is a statement of pride and self- The the self absorption that says I am unto myself, whether I let myself down or whether I Please myself, it's all about me. Lord, let us see in this story. The example of Peter Who can finally see his heart, but then to see the mercy of Jesus Christ? And that mercy is available for every single one of us here in this room, every single person listening to my voice. We come, and we come to know the sweet, refreshing waters of your grace and your love For even people like us. Lord Jesus, Lord Jesus, come and fill us. Come and show us your love in deeper and newer ways, so that this week we would be true to you simply because we so love you. In Jesus' name. Amen