So we continue this morning in the series in the book of Acts. I was encouraged this last week. And surprise that there are three other churches that we are related to who are preaching and almost in the exact same place that we are in the book of Acts. So I don't know what the Lord is doing when four churches within the same area are preaching on the book of Acts, typically thought of as post Easter kind of book that you would do, that we all decided to start in the middle of winter. I don't know what the Lord is doing. May He use it. But it is for us an important book because it marks the beginning of the church. Last week we were together and we were looking at the outpouring of the Spirit of the Living God. We looked at how Pentecost itself is not a New Testament phenomenon, but rather a very old Jewish high holy day, a feast day, which finds its ultimate fulfillment. In the Lord Jesus promising the outpouring of the Spirit, and then that Spirit being outpoured as a harvest. As a sea of how the Lord would gather in. But that outpouring was a fulfillment in many ways of Jesus' promise that we read of in chapter one. Where he says that the Holy Spirit will come on you, and then you are to be my witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria, to the uttermost parts of the world. And so here this morning, we hear after Peter and the apostles and some hundred and twenty disciples were gathered. There, they received the Spirit. So what happened next? The screens are going to show you that the beginning of this morning's text is verse 14. But I'm going to ask the projectionist to go ahead and put up that first slide. But what I'm going to do is I'm going to begin reading two verses prior to that So that there's some continuity because it is absolutely connected to this passage. So beginning in verse 12 of chapter one, and then you'll see it picked up in verse 14 in just one moment. Hear now God's word. Amazed and perplexed, they asked one another, What does this mean? Some, however, made fun of them and said, They have had too much wine. Then Peter stood up with the eleven, raised his voice, and addressed the crowd. Fellow Jews and all who live in Jerusalem. Let me explain this to you. Listen carefully to what I say. These men are not drunk, as you suppose. It's only nine in the morning. No, this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams. Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy. I will show wonders in heaven above and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and billows of smoke. The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did among you through him as you yourselves know. This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, and you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. David said about him, I saw the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices. My body also will live in hope, because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your holy one see decay. You have made known to me the paths of life. You will fill me with joy in your presence. Brothers, I can tell you confidently that the patriarch David died and was buried in his tomb is here to this day But he was a prophet and knew that God had promised him on oath that he would place one of his descendants on his throne. Seeing what was ahead, he spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay. God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of the fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit. and has poured out what you now see and hear. For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand. until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Lord, by your Holy Spirit, may you draw each of us Into a deep, rich fellowship and relationship with you. By your spirit, may you Give us this your word, preached by your servant Peter. Give it to us that we might see rich and deep things. In this, your word, that we would see Christ, and that He would be our everlasting hope. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. My first sermon, I have no idea what text I preached on. I remember preparing for it. I remember being extremely nervous. It was not recorded, so I can't go back and listen to it. I'm somewhat very happy about that. I remember my brothers being there. Very rarely were they ever in church, still to this day. My parents had recently come back to the church because I had become a Christian and I was now preparing to finish my seminary degree. The man who had mentored me, who had uh been an important part of my life while in seminary, was my pastor in North Carolina where my parents lived. It was a small church in Albemarle, North Carolina. He was a Scottish Presbyterian. He had a still, a thick accent. He was the first graduate of my seminary. Oh, just a little bit intimidated was I that day. He had the ability to speak, and you could hear every consonant and every vowel. He had a way about him, and he sent me a letter nearly every week of my seminary education. And in those letters, he would tell me about the trials and difficulties and the celebration of ministry. He would report of the events, both big and small, at this church. And I was grateful for what I learned. And he asked me when I, in my next visit home, after finishing my first uh two semesters and getting ready to start my third semester and getting ready to move on in the preaching, he said, Would you be willing to come and to bring God's word to us? I was so intimidated. But I do remember, while I can't recite what the words were, I can't even recite the text from which I preached, but I do remember asking that the Lord would guide me by his Spirit. Can you imagine then Peter getting up to not only preach his first sermon? But to preach the very first sermon ever for the Church of Jesus Christ We have the text. We have what he said. And I think it's very important and instructive for us that we get to go back and we get to hear this first sermon, guided by the Spirit. But there is one thing that we must recognize that I said last week, that the Holy Spirit is not an independent contractor who comes into the church to draw attention to himself. The spirit of the living God is not meant for us to be a tool to find our own individual spiritual highs. The Holy Spirit was poured out on those apostles and on the disciples who were gathered there according to Acts chapter 1, verse 15, 120. And they began to speak known languages that were not their mother tongue. But that Spirit was poured out for one purpose, and this sermon, his speech on the day of Pentecost. was about one thing. And this one thing is about what the Spirit is about. So everything we're going to say about the Spirit really is about this and everything we need to know about Peter. That I'll refer to later, that we know about Paul, that we know about the writer of Hebrews, it is this. It is all about Jesus. Every letter. And it is for us to find a deep and eternal anchor. A foundation, a refuge, a hope, and a certainty. Because that Jesus As Peter will walk us through, is no longer in the grave. He is no longer walking in our midst here. Rather, he is seated at the right hand of God. And he has poured out his spirit on his people and on his church, and that spirit this morning Working with this word through the brokenness of a preacher is meant to draw all of our attention to one single place. That glorified and all powerful, all knowing all goodness of the Lord Jesus Christ. So let's see what Peter preached. I've given for you what I think are the two broad points about which Peter is concerned. First, that the last days are inaugurated. Secondly, Jesus is Lord and King. So together, let's look at the last days inaugurated. You see this in verses fourteen to twenty-one. I wanted I I by error I should have included verses twelve and following because they they really fit with what happens. They've received the Spirit. They began speaking in languages that were known, but were not their mother tongues. And those people heard this 120 people gathered speaking in their language. And what do we see? We see this. We see that there's the accusation that these men are either drunk. That's one response. The other response is one of amazement So you'll see there, drunkenness or fulfillment, which is it? Well, Peter is quite clear. Can you imagine this being your first sermon? That which you just saw happen to me and to those around me, we're not drunk. Because frankly it's just too early in the day. I mean I'm not sure the implications, but I mean it is interesting, right? I guess the old thing I remember growing up, you know, nothing good happens after dark. Well, apparently not, I guess, because it's just too early in the day to get drunk. So they appeal to common the common culture. You know, yeah, okay, it could be that, but it's nine in the morning. That's not what's happening. But he says to them, listen carefully And he then addresses them in verse 14, fellow Jews and all who live in Jerusalem, let me explain this to you. This phenomenon, which they just saw, so what we need to understand is he's building on fulfillment, but before we get there, we need to ask the question, who's gathered? Well the the primary audience is a group of first century Jews who are clearly a part of the diaspora. They are spread apart apart Far flung, okay, across the Roman Empire, but they've come to Jerusalem because it is a part of the High Holy Days. Passover, which has happened now. probably close to 50 to 70 days somewhere in that range from the time in which the crucifixion and resurrection took place. So they're gathered together, but the question is, and many scholars wonder this, how many of this audience was likely A part of that audience which heard Jesus come into Jerusalem, who were there literally at his crucifixion, or how many are likely just gathering there for these high holy days? We're not really sure. But as he's beginning to build on the fulfillment, it is highly likely that most of the people who are hearing this first sermon were not physically there at the crucifixion, but we know heard about it. Because he refers to that. But what we do see is that there are two broad responses. One is amazement. The other is Just rejection in the form of an accusation. You're just drunk. But but I I see that these two things we need to hold in tandem because we're very often Uh brought into this idea as modern people that somehow first a first century audience was not very sophisticated, were easily duped, and were given to easy belief. Nothing could be further from the truth. We're also duped into thinking that because we live in a pluralistic society, which we or which we would also call a postmodern culture where there isn't a necessary a common agreement on what is right and what is wrong. Or a holistic unity on what spirituality is, at the pursuit of the Lord. We think that because we live in this kind of culture that somehow They didn't live in that kind of culture. That also could is very far from the truth. There was a wide range of understanding about what constituted spirituality. There was a wide range of religious practices, and I will tell you, their responses demonstrate to us that there is a response of They're looking at this group of people and they're going, these people are religious nuts. They're fanatics, they're uh or they're drunk. And so they look at this and they say there's some people who are intrigued, and that intrigue nature comes out some we're going to see next week Are going to respond to this sermon, but not all do. So it's possible to be very intrigued about Christ and yet not know him. You can study him and yet not know him. The other is the case as well, that you simply write off Christians as being, well, just those religious fanatics who just they're just looking for an experience, another crutch. Both of those responses are embedded here, just as they are in our own day. So, just so you know, we do not have it easier today or worse. So with that in mind, he moves to fulfillment. We see the spectrum of response. We also see this. He says to them then, we have the prophecy of Joel. In the reading from verses 17 to 21, it's important for us to understand the prophecy of Joel because he's Rejecting either the drunkenness. He's going to, but what he is going to do is he's going to try to draw on those who are at least intrigued or amazed But to both parties, he's going to give them the prophecy of Joel. But here's what's interesting. What's interesting now is he's reading it as fulfillment. He's not just quoting an Old Testament passage. So there are a couple of things in reading the the or recalling to them the prophecy of Joel that what he is doing is he's Telling him something about what this fulfillment actually means. Because As we heard last week, it's not like the Holy Spirit suddenly showed up on the scene in the New Testament. The Holy Spirit was at work and was poured out even on the elders of Israel and on Moses. But the differences now with the inauguration of the kingdom, through Jesus' ministry, through Jesus' death. Through his resurrection, now his ascension and his pouring out of his spirit. There is something which is now being fulfilled, which he points back to Joel and he says this are a couple of things about the prophecy of Joel we need to highlight. One. That the Spirit is now being poured out, regardless of gender. It is no longer just upon men. It is being poured out regardless of age, either young or old, and everyone in between. It is being poured out regardless of class or station. Slaves and leaders alike. There's something else that is interesting that we need to note if you want to to later today, we don't have time this morning, but if you want to later today to simply go back and look at the Joel passage and then compare it to what Peter says. There are a couple of things that Peter does. We know this because of the Greek translation of the Old Testament, known as the Septuagint. And so that when Peter actually quotes a prophecy of Joel, there are a couple of things that he's doing that are simply not there in the prophecy of Joel itself. Those things first are found in verse 17, where it says, God, verse 17 he says, in the last days, God says, well, God says that phrase is not found in the original prophecy. Also, in the Greek Old Testament, we don't find the literal words in the last days. It says afterwards. There's something else that happens in verses 19 and 20, where Peter does a comparison between the low and the high. That which is above or below is also something that Peter draws out that is not necessarily there in the prophecy of Joel. As well as we see the reversal of how the genders are placed. Or the age group. So in those things, what we're learning is something that is absolutely important. And this is the third thing about the prophecy of Joel. So you have it's going to fall on reg on everyone, regardless of gender. Regardless of class, regardless of age. But also what Joel, what Peter is doing is he's doing something with that prophecy Which is unique. And that brings me to the third thing. The reason why he's doing something which is unique needs to be instructed for everyone who reads the New Testament. It's this. The Old Testament has one focus: Christ And when Peter is going back to the prophecy of Joel, he's not playing fast and loose with the Word of God. Rather, he's interpreting the Word of God, the Old Testament. And he's finding its focus, its fulfillment in Jesus Christ. So there are many churches today. And perhaps many pastors which you have heard which scarcely want to refer to the Old Testament or never preach there But I will tell you, and this is just one book that if you are really into studying, and I brought this this morning just to show you, this is a commentary on the New Testament use of the Old Testament. So if you want to know how, and this book goes through every single citation of the Old Testament found in the New Testament. And in this you will find Plenty of understanding of this reality. That the New Testament writers understood that the Old Testament wasn't just for back then. And had no agreement or attachment to the New Testament. Rather, what you will see is that when the New Testament writers go back and look at the Old Testament, they are interpreting it. Why? Because remember the 40 days? The forty days where Jesus taught them and when he taught them, he went back and he went to the historical books, he went to the prophets. And he went to the Psalms and he taught them concerning what? Everything that they taught concerning him. Let me say it, and I am not being reductionistic, if that's a word. That every book Everything found in the Old Testament either find their fulfillment in Christ. Or Christ is the anti-type. In other words, if you saw a bad husband, if you saw a bad leader, a bad prophet, a bad king in the Old Testament, well, guess what? Does that mean that God gave up on kings, gave up on husbands, gave up on families? No. We find the anti-type, the ultimate king, the ultimate husband, the ultimate father, the ultimate savior in what? In Jesus Christ. So you either find fulfillment because they directly point to Christ as his fulfillment, or they find their anti-type. in Jesus Christ. So let me tell you, friends, if there's something that we must, as the modern church, do, give the Word of God its full breath. And you will find very hard places to read, and you might find yourself struggling through them. And there are some icky, difficult portions of the Old Testament. But they're there for our edification. Why? Because Peter, in his first sermon, goes there. And so he shows the fulfillment of Jesus Christ. And so But let's look at verse 21. And this is the fourth point in the prophecy of Joel, if you're trying to take notes. God bless you. And it says this, and everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. So that's an important Summation point from the prophecy of Joel. Why? Because what we heard in the first verse. In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. This does not mean That since Pentecost, God is pouring out his Spirit on every single living human being. That's not the case. What is the case? We have to ask, who is the all? In verse 17, on all people. Those all people, all doesn't always mean all. Do you see? There's a specific all. It doesn't work in English, but it sure worked in Greek. And it's this. That all people is verse 21. And everyone, anyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. The pouring out of the Spirit is on anyone who calls on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is important because this is not Peter showing off his Old Testament understanding. Because at the same moment that he's demonstrating that this is fulfilled in Christ, he's saying something which we need to just pause, and it's this. Notice, he's not preaching about the Spirit for the Spirit's sake. He's preaching about the Spirit and it being poured out for Christ's sake. That the Spirit is poured out as a result of Christ's work. Again, Christological, finding its focus in Christ alone. But more than that, it's an invitation. He is inviting his hearers to respond to salvation through Christ alone That means when he quotes Joel in this verse 21, he's applying this to every one of us. And I've written it down, so I want to, it's better what I wrote than what I would say. Calling on the name of the Lord means this the acknowledgement in mind And in heart that Jesus was the Christ on earth, that Jesus was the Christ on the cross That Jesus was the Christ who was raised from the dead, and that Jesus is the Christ who is seated at the right hand of God the Father. Calling on that name. A name which was given to him because he will save his people from their sins. That began with the Jews. But notice here, he's also lumping in the Gentiles. On anyone who calls, have you responded to that call? Are you intrigued by Jesus? Have you studied Jesus yet? Your trust is not in him Do you look at the spiritual lives of Christians and say that's just religious spiritual handicapping? Regardless of where you are on the spectrum of response to what I'm saying or to what Peter said, the question is still to you. Do you hear the invitation that Peter gives to all of us? Anyone who calls on the name of the Lord, call on the name of the Lord today. And when you do, the promise of the Lord is that He will pour out His Spirit on you. And it will change you. It will transform you. It will take you to the end of yourself. Not because I want to repeat it, but because it was that powerful. Yesterday, Chris Norman Who was a top of the heap college football player? A defensive end for the Michigan State Spartans. Was grew up in Detroit, wanted to play basketball, but learned to play football, and he was passionate about the game. But more than that, he was a young man who was raised in the church. In his testimony, he shared that he grew up in the church. He knew and was taught to be there on Sunday mornings, Sunday evenings, Tuesday nights, Wednesday nights, and everything in between. The retreats, the mission trips. He followed what was for him, how he was to dress, how he was to act. He heard the gospel countless times, and yet he said this. To everyone who could hear, fifteen hundred people collectively, he said the following. While I looked on the outside as one who was more than intrigued, but one who trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ, actually all my obedience was really inside my heart a form of resentment. While I was in the church, I was keeping the Lord at arm's length. I thought my obedience was enough. And while I thought it was enough, I was trying to keep up. The truth is, I was angry at God. And so he went to college, became a top-tier football player, and then he was injured. And that injury almost ended his career as a football player. But it took him to a different place. Now people look at him differently. As one who had weakness, people interacted with him differently. And that was something he could not imagine because instead of the Lord being his idol, football was his idol, and the Lord allowed that injury to take that idol of football and his performance off the pedestal. But in that place of despair, someone invited him To a Christian gathering. And he heard the gospel for the first time But even though he had heard it many times, the Holy Spirit drew that young man to himself. And it changed him forever. He didn't stop becoming a football player. He continued to play for the rest of his collegiate career. And even had an opportunity to be a first-round draft pick in the NFL. But that transformation that happened to him in his sophomore year, when the Lord poured out his spirit, it changed everything for him. And for him, that change meant that he would not go on to the NFL, but would hear the Lord's call to go into full-time ministry, and he's now in seminary. I say that to us not to say that one has to go into full-time ministry to obey the Lord. That's not the point. That was what the Lord was doing in his life, but it was this point. You can live most of your life very intrigued and on the outside very much look like a Christian, but on the inside be very far. And that message which was delivered to Chris is delivered to each one of us. Have you called on that name Call on that name today. And let us put aside the real crutch. Because you notice this invitation to salvation has absolutely nothing to do with our performance. It has nothing to do with our faithfulness. It has nothing to do with our ability. It is alone a calling on the Savior, Jesus Christ, for life and for salvation. Have you called on the Lord? In this invitation, as he has looked at the last days which are now inaugurated, inaugurated through the ministry of Christ. And the pouring out of the Spirit, he then turns from this explanation of what they have just seen to declaring Jesus. is Lord and King. And so in verses 22, he says to them, There is reason for you to believe. And he says, Men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man, and here's the key word, accredited by God to you By miracles, wonders, signs, which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. See, here's the important point of what of what Peter says. There is no one who would have heard that message, who would have argued with him about whether Jesus performed miraculous things. They had witnessed it, many of them. They had heard the testimony of what Jesus had performed. That wasn't in question. It's the first part of the verse. It's the divine testimony. When he says, Men of Israel, listen to this, Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you So the issue is not whether Jesus performed miraculous things or did great things. The question is by what authority? And my friends, what took Jesus to the cross, which he's getting ready to allude to and talk about, was not his stance on Roman taxes. It was not his stance on the temple of God. The reason that Jesus was put to death both by the Jewish leaders of that day plotting with the Roman powers who literally put Jesus on the cross. was for the reason that Jesus claimed to be God and to do things only God could do. One of the most controversial acts that Jesus ever performed is when those friends drop their friend through the roof of the building. And when he lowered them, when he was lowered before Jesus among a group of people, and at the back of the room were the Jewish leaders, instead of healing the man, which is what their friends wanted to have happen, the first thing he says Your sins are forgiven. And the Jewish leader said, only God can forgive. You see, that was the point. Jesus didn't say, I am God. No, he was God, so he did what God does. Your sins are forgiven. That accreditation was the authority of God given to Christ, and it was exemplified through the pouring out of the Spirit when the dove ascended on him, descended on him, rather, at his baptism. This is my son in whom I am well pleased. He was doing everything by God's authority, which had been given to him. This is a key fact for those who would hear Peter's first sermon. Secondly. We see the rejected Christ, verses 23 and 24. This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, and you, with the help of wicked men, put to death. uh put put him to death by nailing him to the cross. Now, as I said earlier There is perhaps still among this audience who are hearing this sermon, those who were part of the audience who was there at the crucifixion of Jesus. But more likely than not, a major part of this audience was not there. So how is it that Peter can say the following: This man was handed over to you? How could that be? The reason for that is this. It answers the question how we're responsible. Not just whether you were physically there at the crucifixion. Or not because you were a Jew, because notice not only Jews were involved, so also the Romans, so were the Italians, if you will. So why is it that the Jews have always been centered focused on for persecution? Why not all Italians? See, the purpose of mentioning both the Romans and the Jews is because of this. And because we're all responsible for the death of Christ. The reason why he could say to them, He was turned over to you, whether you were there or not. We were there when they crucified my Lord. How is that possible? It's because of what he says. He says, by God's set purpose and foreknowledge. What does that mean? God's set purpose and foreknowledge was to send forth his Son. as a sacrifice to pay for our sin. So while we may not have been there at the crucifixion We may not have been there at his death on that good Friday afternoon. In reality, we were, because he was there because of our sin. And so what we see here is the interplay, the mystery between God's foreknowledge, God's purpose, but also he is not the author of sin. Rather, God had a purpose of sending forth his son as a sacrifice while recognizing that the natural inclinations of men, not just Jews but also Gentiles, are wicked. Therefore, they will reject the Christ, and he will send his son to the cross by way of their hands. And yet God is not responsible for the sin of rejecting Christ, but he is responsible for sending forth his son. But we cannot say that because we are here in 2014, we're not there, that is not the case because Jesus came to die for our sin. It was God's set purpose. But more than that, God's set purpose found its fulfillment not just at the cross. But at the resurrection. Notice what it says in verse 24. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. There we see that the purpose of God is being realized because Christ is victorious over sin and death. It isn't just about Good Friday, it is about Easter Sunday morning as well And that God's set purpose, his foreknowledge, was to send forth his son, to die for our sin, but to be raised victorious over sin and death. And it is good for us to see that indeed it is not just the Jews who were responsible, and it wasn't just those Romans. It is all living flesh, human beings, because of our sin. But that is the beauty. That all who call on that name, who was sent forth for that purpose, can find eternal life and salvation He then continues and he unpacks this Psalm 16 and Psalm 110 by continuing to do very good interpretation of the Old Testament. When he looks at verses 25 to 32 as Jesus as the greater David. And while I've already read it, let's look at verse 29. And he then unpacks as he interprets what David wrote. I will call, I will tell you confidently, the patriarch David died and was buried. He's in the tomb to this day. His body is in the tomb. Therefore, he couldn't be the one that David was writing about in that psalm, because his body is in the grave. He didn't say verse 30, but he was a prophet and knew what God had promised him on oath that he would place one on his one of his descendants on his throne. So therefore He can't still be on the throne. It would have to be one of the descendants. And then verse 31, seeing what was ahead, he spoke of the resurrection of the Christ. The key was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay. But if you go back to the Psalms, David doesn't mention this. He doesn't mention the resurrection of the Christ. Rather, this is Peter going back to David, reading the Psalms Christologically, and saying that David knew that this descendant would come, that it would not be him. who would be raised from the dead, not abandoned to the grave, who would be sitting on the throne. This is good theology. And he was saying that David, a king, was also a prophet who would find fulfillment of the ultimate prophet and the ultimate king in the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a common, common theme throughout the New Testament. For Peter, Jesus is the greater David. For Paul, you'll read in the book of Romans that Jesus was the second Adam. He was the ultimate man because he was righteous and perfect in every way that the first Adam was not. For the writer of Hebrews, Jesus is the ultimate Moses. He is the greater Moses, who is the leader of God's people, he was the mediator between God and his people. And he brings forth that which is better than the law written on stone tablets by his Spirit, Christ, as the greater Moses, writes the law of God on the hearts of the stone. Of men and women, boys and girls, young and old, poor and rich. He is the greater Moses. This is the way in which the New Testament understands the Old Testament It's not back there. It finds its fulfillment in the greater one. Jesus But friends, I recognize with time I need to hurry, and it's these final verses. The ministry of the exalted Jesus, verses 33 through 36. And he says, exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and was poured out on what you now see and hear. So Peter referring to himself and those who received the Spirit, for David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool. for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. He says to these Jewish, to his Jewish audience, and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem who were gathered to hear this first sermon. That this Jesus was not abandoned to the grave. He is the ultimate fulfillment of David's prophecies. But more than that, he is now seated at the right hand of God the Father. So that has some implications for those who would hear. That Jesus isn't just a sacrifice, he is sacrificial king. He died and now he is alive, ruling in power, carrying out the will of God by pouring out his spirit The first implication is we do not worship a dead man. We worship one who is alive. Who can move into the deadness of our lives and bring new life by his spirit? Secondly, as I said earlier with Chris Norman, so it is with you and me. He does not mean to give us his spirit. To then just give us his spirit. We've heard it quoted from this pulpit before many times by various preachers, this famous work of C. S. Lewis, when he says, When ge when God moves into your life, He's doing more than just rearranging the furniture or putting new wallpaper and paint on the walls. He's completely deconstructing the house and making it much bigger and He's transforming his people from the inside out. And maybe for you, that might mean a different call to a different career today. I have no idea. For you, it may be a life of singleness. For you, it may be a marriage where you cannot have what you had once expected and hoped, a child. It may mean for you that what you wanted in all of your life looks so completely different. The question is this, Does the transforming power of Christ have something to say to each and every one of us, regardless of our station? You bet it does. Because he means to bring the living power of Christ through his spirit to transform whatever state, whatever circumstances, whatever you are doing and wherever you live. It is a fundamental transformation of identity. We no longer belong to ourselves as we've called on his name, we belong to him. But thirdly and finally, It is this. Jesus is on the throne. He has poured out his spirit. And he will remain there until all of his enemies have been made a footstool for his feet. That means at the right time, as a metaphor, Jesus will come. And he will bring judgment, he will bring salvation, and he is coming again. I do not know the day. We've been instructed not to worry about what exactly that date is, but that it is coming. And the implication for Peter's hearers and for us. If this is what G Jesus fulfills by what God has promised long ago, and it was a long time, but they didn't know the exact time, so is the case now. The promises That Jesus is at the side of the Father, and he will come again. And the same which He ascended, He will come again and descend. And when He comes, He will bring either condemnation or salvation. Friends, we are all in the hands of the living God. And as such, what will you receive from the hand of God? What do you want to receive? John Calvin said that God wishes for everyone to be saved. And he wants everyone in this room to know him. He is calling you. What is your answer? Because today could be the day of the Lord's Return, may we all call on the name of the living God and his Christ Let's pray. Father, by your spirit Will you come into all of us that we might know the living God and call on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to make us a people for you? Father, will you this morning, by your Spirit, give us the hope and the refuge and the anger? Anchor and the transforming power of your spirit in this body, that regardless of our circumstances, you can come and transform us from the inside out. Because Christ is reigning and will come again. And so, Lord, until that day, make us your people. So that when you come, we would receive your salvation. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.