Well you could say that the uh Basic messages to the first five churches that we've looked at had to do with three ideas, three issues. Has to do with priorities, persecution, and purity. Who's first in your life Is Jesus burst in your affections? What do you do when you are intimidated or being pressed to compromise your faith? And what do you do in the seduction of this world and compromising your sexual purity? in thoughts and deeds. Those are three basic issues. Interesting how contemporary those issues are to which Jesus spoke to the church in the very first century are to our own situation today. But even more than those issues, they focus on Jesus. That beautiful picture of him in chapter one in all his majesty, that Jesus is the Lord of the church, he is the one who speaks with authority to you and to me, and that Even more than that, it speaks of the warnings and of the promises of the gospel. What happens if you compromise? What happens if you don't heed what he says? What happens if you overcome? If you do. And so at this point, after five down two to go Kinda sounds like the World Series. Only it didn't go that far, I know. All right. If you look at the first five What is it that God has been particularly speaking to you about? What are the the issues that the Holy Spirit has been whispering to you of so far? Well, now we come to church six, to Philadelphia. And uh what I want to do in this case, there is so much to cover here. I mean I I really I feel like I'm only skimming a lot of the meaning of these, but in this case what I want to do is cover the the seven C's that we've been going through, the basic outline of the seven churches I want to cover that very quickly, and then I'm going to go back and look at it in terms of three points of focus. in order to understand, I think, what we can get out of this in a half hour to the Boast Prophet. So, first C, it's to the church at Philadelphia. Back to the map again We see again that we're coming all the way around now, and uh we see that uh this church, uh Philadelphia Where is that church? Well, you know, it's about 125 miles north of Columbia, right? No, no, that's rural Philadelphia. This one's the one that's uh Western Turkey About twenty-eight miles south east-southeast of Sardis. It was uh in a very earthquake-prone area, kind of a shaky town In fact uh people would uh enjoy the climate and uh you know, it was uh right there in the in the shade of Mount Mollus Uh but I had so many earth earthquakes that people would move because they got tired of having all their pottery broken all the time. Uh but it was a it was a pretty city. Um look now at the uh characteristics of the one that speaks to it. Jesus comes and he says three things about himself. Number one, he says, I'm the Holy One. Second, I'm true, and I hold the key of David. Those are rather remarkable things when you stop to think about it. You know, who of us would write a letter and say, I'm writing you, I'm the Holy One? Um even Paul would only say that in terms of the saints written written to those that are set aside This one speaks of intrinsic holiness. He says, I am holy. And uh that is a um bald faced claim to deity. There's no way to get around it. Jesus is claiming, as he does in a number of cases in these churches, if really if you're Looking at the person of Jesus, it's some of the most exalted references to Jesus in all the New Testament, are right here in these seven churches. I am holy. Jesus is God. He is set apart, pure, without sin. And not only that, he says, I am true. I speak truth. We are so used to in watching even the news to not take things at face value because we don't believe anybody anymore, do we? You know, we're very cynical I mean, even before Dan Rather, uh even before the New York Times admitted to publishing absolutely false articles. We tend to see an anchored person and kind of pick out where they're coming from so we know what's the spin they're going to be putting on the news. And uh we can then determine what their agenda is and how much credibility we give to them. Isn't it amazing that when Jesus speaks, you don't have to wonder about his agenda You don't have to wonder what spin he's putting on things. His words are absolutely reliable. What Jesus says to you this morning through his word here, you can build your life on it. You can take it at face value, you can simply hear it, you don't have to decide, you can judge. This is what he says, this is truth. Now the question is, what am I going to do with it But he speaks to you truly. And he speaks to you with absolute authority. He goes on to say, he holds the key of David. Now We're going to come back to that in a couple of minutes, but what I'd like to do is for you to notice in the rest of these C's How Jesus does something that is so important for us, but it's very easy to miss here, a very basic part of the Christian life is understanding the interplay between God's sovereignty and our responsibility. That's just so basic. What is it that God does and what is it that I'm responsible to do? And how do those interface and connect? What's interesting is that in this case, Jesus states four times something that he sovereignly does, three times things that we are responsible to do, and one time he puts the two of them together in one sentence He makes no effort to reconcile them. He simply says this is the way it is. And if we can grasp that and live our lives like that, it would be a tremendous help to you and to me this week and in general. So look at those just real briefly. It says, first of all, I I'm the one who holds the key of David. What he opens, Jesus, what uh what he opens, no one can shut. What he shuts, no one can open it It's a an absolute uh a statement of a claim to absolute sovereign authority. If I open a door, nobody can shut it. If I shut it, nobody's gonna open it. He holds the key of David. Secondly, notice the commendations and encouragement. This is really the most positive of all the letters. It's the most encouraging of all the letters. He says, Even though you have little strength, you have been faithful At the end of verse B, uh verse uh eight. Uh so he is there talking about their faithfulness. That's their responsibility. You have been faithful. He doesn't say, well, you know, of course you've been faithful. I sovereignly determined you're going to be faithful. He didn't have any choice. He commends them for being faithful. Therefore, they had a part to play in that. They were responsible in being faithful. Don't miss that. He also says that you will be vindicated before your persecutors. I'm going to make them fall down and acknowledge that I have loved you. A statement of sovereign authority. That's what he is going to do. And um we can rest in that. You can hope in that. Come back to it later. He says, um, hold on to what you have because I'm coming soon. You're responsible to hold on to it. Hold on to the gospel. I'm coming soon. Hang in there. Hold on to it. You're responsible to do that. He doesn't say he's going to hold on to it for you. Then he says, I've set before you an open door which no one can shut, a sovereign statement. I've given you, I'll talk about what that means, but here's this open door. I have placed it before you No one can change that. And then the consequences that he talks about, and what you do with what he gives to you. He says, Since you have endured, then I'm going to keep you uh in or through or from The hour of trial. That's the sentence puts them both together. He says, You have endured, since you've endured, I'm going to keep you. I'm going to take care of you. Now the Greek there uh means um it could be either um From or through. I believe that it the probably the reference uh what best better be translated than the NIV would be through Because there's this hour of trial coming, seeing it coming on the whole world, and it's not like they're going to escape it. That's clear in the other churches. Philadelphia is not exempt from persecution. says that quite clearly. The Jews are persecuting it. I'm going to keep you through this time. Now um just a word somebody said after the first service What about the tribulation? A lot of people say in Revelation, you know, this is talking about the tribulation. I'm going to keep you from that, going to wrap you up before. Clearly it doesn't mean that. Because this is written to a local situation in Philadelphia, this one church. And so for Jesus to say, you know, 2,000 years from now uh I'm going to uh keep you from suffering uh some tribulation that's gonna come, you know, two thousand years hence. Would be ridiculous. They didn't exist. They don't exist now. So what how's that a hope to them? So he's not talking about that. He's saying I'm going to keep you through what is coming and from the ultimate final judgment trial of all the earth. Then he talks about the overcomers. He says, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to seal you three times and I'm going to make you a pillar in my temple. A sovereign statement. You're going to be a pillar. I'm going to sue you with my name, seal you with the name of my city, and sue you with the new name of Messiah fully revealed. Then he finally finishes with a call to heed it. He who has an ear, let him hear. You're responsible. You can hear this, you can write it down, you can ignore it, you can blow me off. You can't blow Jesus off He says, if you have an ear, the Spirit is coming to open your ear, there's really a statement of sovereignty in that, then you are responsible to hear it and to act on it this morning. So you see that interplay, Jesus' sovereignty, your responsibility through the church. But now what I want to do is I want to go back over it and I want to look at it. Instead of the seven C's, I want to look at it, you see there it says seven O's, I mean three O's, but um You can actually call it three ops. Because that's what I want to look at. Three ops. And the three ops are opportunity, opposition, and optimism. That's what Jesus talks about. And that's the focus of what he really is getting here. There's so much material here. I want to focus it down a little bit The opportunity, the opposition, and the reason for optimism. The opportunity is in verses 7 and 8, talking about two doors. Jesus says He's the one who holds the key of David. What he opens, no one can shut. What he shuts, no one can open. I know your deeds. Once again, he knows you. See, I have placed before you an open door that no one can shut. Now, I believe that refers to two open doors. The first one is referring to the door of the kingdom of heaven And I take that because this is a really a quote from Isaiah 22. 22. And if you want to go back to Isaiah 22, 22, don't bother doing it right now. But that's referring to this fellow, Eliakim. who was of the house of David, and he was given the key of David, which was a symbolic authority. Eliakim determined who got into the palace Eliakim was kind of like Eric Johnston. You know. I mean, you know, you want to get a room in the ministry center? You call Eric Johnston. Eric Johnston says, you can get a room, I'll put you down, you get a room. Eric Johnston says, nope, we're full, no room. or you know, you can't get in for whatever reason. You don't get in. You know, you don't appeal to me, you don't appeal to somebody else. He has the key. He has the authority for who gets in as the church administrator to use the facility. Now, um, John what John does is he takes that image He says, just as Eliakim had the key to the authority to the palace, so Jesus holds the key not to the palace, but to paradise. You see, when Matthew 20, Matthew 16, when Jesus said to his disciples, who do people say I am, and all of this, one other, who do you say that I am? Peter says, Cephas at that point, I believe that you are the Messiah. You are as the Messiah of the Living God. And Jesus responds, Well, Peter, Rock, On you as a confessing disciple, I'm going to build my church. The gates of hell are not going to be able to prevail, and I'm giving to you the keys of the kingdom. That's the the same idea. You see, a key is something unique that unlocks a door to let you in. And there's only one key for the lock. Sometimes I liken Christianity to a party. And God's people are inside having a party. You know, we had the big party here on Friday, right? I mean uh you know everybody's here you know two tons of candy I mean you know dunk the pastors I mean it was just a wild time right But now, you know, you could have been driving past 108 and you don't feel like you're invited to the party. Well let's suppose the party was all contained inside a building and there were windows And you can look in, but you're not in there. Sometimes I when I share the gospel with somebody, particularly somebody who has been kind of like, you know, on the edge, the periphery of Christianity, church activities and all this for a while, uh, I will say Do you feel like you're on the inside of the party with Christians, or that you're still on the outside with your nose pressed against the glass looking in? Yeah, you know, and I've had people be honest enough say, I'm still on the outside looking in. But you know, it's real clear. They can pick that image, you see. I haven't gotten the key that unlocks the door to let me in Jesus is that key. Jesus' death on the cross in payment of your sin is the only key that unlocks the door of paradise to let you into the party. And if you have been playing around with the knowledge about that, and you see the party, and there's some things attractive about it, but you're not ready to take that key, Jesus says there is no other way. I invite you to speak to one of us pastors, speak to somebody before you leave today. I want to talk to somebody about You know, I'm still feeling like I'm on the outside. That's all you gotta say to me. I just I just I still feel like maybe I'm on the outside. And we'll get together and talk about that So John's basic concern, Jesus is saying here that I am the key. Don't listen to what the Jews are saying, what everybody else is saying. who are trying to dissuade you from this, I hold the key to let you in. But there's also another reference in this, and I believe it's the reference to open doors as doors of opportunity for service. The New Testament uses that image a number of times. I I list some of them there. Actually, you look at Acts chapter 14, verse 27 Paul talks, uh Luke says about uh Paul and the others on arriving back there at the church, they gathered the church together, reported all that God had done through them, and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. This is saying he's opened the door of opportunity for the nations, the Gentiles to believe the gospel. Or in 1 Corinthians chapter 16. In verses eight and nine, Paul's talking about why he's going to stay at Ephesus, and he says it's because a great door of effective work has been opened to me. There's many there who oppose me. But there's a great door of opportunity here at Ephesus in establishing that church. So that's an open door. A door that Jesus opened and nobody can shut. Second Corinthians chapter 2. He says in verse 12 Now when I went to Troas to preach the gospel, I found that the Lord had opened a door for me. So, once again, there's a door of opportunity for the gospel. Colossians chapter 4 in verse 3. Paul says, pray for us too, that God may open a door for our message, so that we may proclaim the mystery of Christ for which I'm in chains. Pray that God would open the door. When Jesus Christ opens the door to a heart for faith, then that person responds. When Jesus Christ opens the door to a city, then The city is open to the gospel. When Jesus opens the door to a culture, the culture changes. The culture that was resistant to the gospel becomes suddenly open to receive the good news of Jesus Christ. We pray Thursday mornings here, 6. 30 to 7. 30, with a primary purpose in that time to pray that God would open the door to Howard County. Amen? That's what we meet for. Lord, you have got to open it. We can do all the things. We can have fall harvest festivals and upward basketball and testimonies till they come out of our ears and we'll all be able to say it in, you know, twenty-four-seven. But if you don't open the door Of faith, to the city, to the culture, where it's uh receptive rather than resistant. Then um we're we're speaking to his glory But we're speaking without effective conversion. So this is what John is talking about, what Jesus is talking about, when he speaks to them, he says, I have opened this door. I've given you opportunities. What are the opportunities you see around? Seize them. This past fall, my wife saw an opportunity, an open door in our neighborhood. um relationships that had been built. She'd had a couple studies before with Lorna Sharp. And so they had this idea of just combining women in the neighborhood with women from Columbia Presbyterian And she says, God's bringing an openness. There's an open sharing. People are sharing their hearts. It's an opportunity for the gospel. There's lots of open doors that we see before us. I list just here a few that um we see before us as a church. Um, you know, there's many others, and this is not a by any way an exhaustive list, but just think of what some of the things there are before us. First of all, uh the opportunity to vote on Tuesday You realize only a minority of the countries in the world have the opportunity to vote in free elections? I mean a m m vast majority of countries in the world do not grant that opportunity. And it is incumbent upon us as Christians to use that. You know, in the last election it is it was estimated that only half of Bible believing Christians were registered to vote and only half of those registered actually voted. So it was estimated only maybe twenty-five-thirty percent of Christians voted in the last election. Well this election's a lot more heated and a lot more people. It's probably going to be break records in the people that turn out to the polls But you know, I certainly would be ashamed to think that the every that not every person who's eligible a Columbia Presbyterian would in fact vote. In fact, not only vote Find out if there's somebody that you know who can't get to the polls, they need babysitting, need a ride, need something. We need to as Christians exercise the vote. Now that's not presuming you'll all vote for the person I'll vote for But I do ask you to do this. I ask you to pray and, you know, you probably all know who you're going to vote for, but just to be thinking Which administration is going to be more open to basic gospel principles and Christianity free in the public square? Free for us to be able to apply biblical gospel principles within our society And then to vote for that. There'll be an opportunity, an open door, I I will say to you this week, because of the tremendous hostility and the division between cover articles in U. S. News, cover article and Time this week. the tremendous hostility. You know, I um I read of one um prominent website that is calling for November 3rd to be a day of outrage If their candidates don't win. And they're calling to boycott the entire government. Now, how you do that, I'm not quite sure, especially in this area. But, you know, I mean there's that kind of hostility Now what does it mean when on November the third and the fourth, you as a Christian at the workplace and everybody's wringing their hands in there, you know, and they're smashing their coffee mugs and you know, kicking the water cooler and and you know and all and you say, you know, because they're really happy, gloating, or they're really unhappy and you say, Well, you know, um as a Christian, I'm not really captive to either party I mean, if you ask me personally, I think the the Democratic Party tends to secularize the state, and the Republican Party tends to idolize the state in terms of civil religion. So to be able to say, you know, really my life doesn't stand or fall on which candidate gets in there because I believe Jesus is still Lord of his church and he's still ruling things around here by people that what? And so you get into this discussion. But well what are we really looking for? You know, where where is the future of our nation? It's not captive to some party. And that's an opportunity, see. I've put before you an open door. You have that opportunity within this culture. You know, there you you just think of the a activities we have around here, the Fall Harvest Festival. Why it's an open door because we believe That there are people who are without Christ who look at Christians as a little strange. And I don't know why, but no, actually I do too sometimes, including me. But you know, we need to show we're not as strange as they may think. So we give opportunities for contact. And we have upward, and you know, and Sandy over there is plan to have a Bible study for people during practice. That's an opportunity, it's an open door So let's take those open doors, testimonies, sign up to give your testimonies, get the training, do what it what it takes, so that we are able to capture the open doors that Jesus has put before us. You know, this is uh why we're talking about building the final phase of our facility. Because we believe we have an open door for ministry, and there's a lot more we could be doing in worship and in ministry So on November the 21st, a couple Sundays from now, we're going to be three Sundays from now, we're going to be taking a fair amount of time. Probably the middle hour, be confirmed this week. And then the evening elder home groups to talk about well why do we need to build such a facility? What is it going to do? Why are we willing to sacrifice to do that to consider that an open door of opportunity because I believe if we don't step up in faith to do that at this point, we're probably going to plateau and regress Because when Jesus puts an open door, he sovereignly places it, and then we're responsible to take that opportunity and to walk through it. Presbytery is considering the opportunity of planting a church in D. C. right now. Right now, there is no church in our Presbytery that is in Washington, D. C. That's terrible. And so we're praying for God to provide an open door and explore and pray for how we might be able to do that. Globally, we see in our missionaries all kinds of open doors Just within the last month from our own Presbytery, two men have decided to go abroad to serve the Lord and open doors. Mike McCabe going to join Sampolda in China, Communist China, right near North Korea. open doors of opportunity to minister that he sees there, taking advantage of them. Al Tracherico, pastor at Grace Vienna, resigned his pastorate to go to Uganda. in order to minister there for opportunities for the gospel. And of course our participation with the ministries that go on in Japan and Spain and Russia, Dick Barnes, our local resident commuter to Russia, uh been doing that for many years, you know, um, to take the opportunities But now there's a general principle, and Jesus gives that here. Where there is opportunity, there's also opposition. And that's just a biblical that's just a biblical principle. Where there are opportunities and where the opportunities increase, the opposition is also going to increase. That's, you know, he talks about the resistance of those who have persecuted you here. Call themselves Jews, they're not really, they can they don't believe I'm the Messiah. And so he see you see these two things side by side. I remember in 1984 we were expelled from the meeting house because those who called themselves Jews but denied Jesus as Messiah Um we said that you need Jesus as Messiah, said there's no place for you in the Tolerant Interfaith Center. So we were out. I believe that things were are heating up And here's my own observation. And this is this really affected me this week in preparing this. You know I preached on this same text. Back in March of 1992, about 12 and a half years ago. Anybody remember that? Sandy remembers. I preached the same passage in 1992 And I said that we are seeing now unprecedented opportunities for the gospel that we would not have believed three, four, or five years ago. Let me quote from that sermon, handwritten pencil, one back this is before the days of computer. Here are a couple of things that were going on in March of 1992 as opportunities for the gospel. Eastern Europe was opening up. The former Soviet Union had opened up in unprecedented ways. Last fall I said the Russian government asked Campus Crusade for Christ to conduct 20-week training course for all public school teachers in Russia on Christianity and to show the Jesus film at all 65,000 Russian high schools. Bill Gothard was invited to do his seminar on Christian living with 300 trained students distributing Bibles and sharing the gospel. A committee was rewriting the laws of Russia, praying for God's wisdom to base them on biblical principles and sending drafts to Christian leaders to make sure they were in accordance with the Bible. Nineteen evangelical leaders had visited with the Russian leaders in the fall of 1991, including the KGB leaders. The vice chairman of the KVG said meeting with you here tonight is a plot twist that could not have been conceived by the wildest fiction writer. He went on to express repentance for the evil of the KGB and the need for God because we have broken his commandments. Mind-boggling scenes were going on all over Eastern Europe. The Pravda was printing Bibles and using communist trucks to ship them. Albania, where belief in God had been a capital offense, was inviting missionaries in to come and establish churches. Dick and Linda Barnes were there in January of 1992 and they saw that. And they would have been going, Dick's been going back ever since, back and forth, several times a year. He said again this morning after the first service Just what I said to the service. Where is that opportunity now? Now you talk about Russia, there's more opposition. The Orthodox Church is clamping down on missionaries and having influence from the West. Putin wants to have more centralized government and more control linked with the Orthodox Church. And uh there is now a fear of Dick says every time I go over there, I go as if this may be my last trip. There was a commission that invited whoever wanted to come to participate in evangelizing Russia back then. That no longer is an opportunity. That was a door that was opened, it's now closed When Jesus opens a door, it doesn't stay open. Cultural doors are open for a period of time. If we don't respond, whether it's Japan after World War II Russia after the downfall of the communist bloc, if we do not take the opportunities, they don't just remain for us. But you know, I believe that we're seeing more and more opposition right here in the United States. Back then, when I preached that 12 and a half years ago, I was saying, Praise God, look at all the opportunities. There's some opposition, but look at all the opportunities. Now I'm saying 12 and a half years later. There's opportunities, but you know there's a lot of opposition. And I think we'll see opposition more and more against us in two fronts, particularly One will be the whole issue of gay rights and gay marriage. As you're probably aware, just recently there has been a lawsuit filed against the state of Maryland saying that the law that says marriages between a man and a woman is Unconstitutional violates the Maryland Constitution. All these years we didn't know that. All of a sudden, oh, how about that? It's unconstitutional. That's a new view of law. It's not saying, oh, well, it's always been, you know, it's just saying, no, law changes. It's not the reflection of some absolute principle. Law is a living thing that reflects current values, and so now it is unconstitutional. And now to speak against that is to be accused of being homophobic or even using hate language. The man quoted the Bible in Romans 1 uh in one public setting and was arrested for using um hate language to um stir up the people that he was talking to. So what would happen if I come and testify on that for the other pastors in the area? The other thing we're going to see, I believe, is more and more vigorous. And uh open hostility from the American Civil Liberties Union, which clearly has as its purpose to marginalize and quiet Christianity in any public forum Give you an example of that. Just this week, somebody sent me this. Um was a picture of uh of a company of Marines who had their heads bowed praying. They were celebrating the birthday of the Corps And uh an ACLU lawyer got a hold of that. Um Lucius Traveler, spokesman for the ACLU, said, quote, these are federal employees on federal property And on federal time, for them to pray is clearly an establishment of religion. We must nip this in the bud immediately. All right, Marines, no more praying. Can't do it. Unfortunately I can't quote to you the uh colonel's response to the ACLU spokesman who said that, but um He uh suffice it to say was not in agreement and not about to be intimidated to not have his core praying. But we're gonna see this pressure, we're gonna see this opposition increasing. And um It's something that you and I have got to be prepared for. But you know, there's good news in that. Steve and I are going to be going to a conference next week when the emerging culture, where we're headed as a culture and what it is that we need to do to be able to know how best to respond to that. It's led by, it's put on by University Christian Fellowship, led by a fellow Jimmy Long Let me give you his quote on this. Jimmy Long says, quote, Many Christians see the emerging culture as a hopeless cause, but I think that the opportunity for revival is greater today than it's been in the last 50 years. People are struggling to survive the confusing changes that surround them. They feel hopeless, and are we ready to offer them God's hope? You see, the church tends to thrive more in times of opposition than it does in opportunity. We get soft in the opportunities. Like they saw in the nineties, yeah, I hope somebody goes. Times of opposition, we're called to identify ours. Are you going to stand for them or not? So we are now in a in a culture where the Christians are going to be marked and and I think it's going to be, unfortunately, it's going to be good for the church. It's what we need. But let me finish with what Jesus gives here, and that is the optimism, because he floods this brief letter with optimism, reasons for hope. First of all, he says I'm coming soon. It's not going to keep going on like this. I'm coming soon. So hold on to what you have. And when I come, I am going to vindicate you before your persecutors, all those who in your family, at work, whatever it is, you know back in 1984 when we were kicked out of the meeting house There was one meeting, was there were fifteen clergy, and it was me. I was the only person in the room who believed that you needed Jesus to go to heaven. Three rabbis, one rabbi came that close to my nose and he said, You have a gutter theology and I despise it. Now can you imagine Jesus saying one day he's gonna bow down and he's gonna say, I was wrong. Jesus is the Messiah. And he loves you. Can you imagine the people right now that Say that you are foolish, ridiculous, narrow-minded, bigot. And if you are in fact holding the gospel and not offensive bigoted views, They will one day fall down and acknowledge to the vindication of Jesus Christ, not to you and me. He loves you. He goes on. He says, you know, I'm going to keep you through this trial. Difficult as it may get, I'm going to keep you through that. And I'm going to keep you through that final judgment where all accounts will be laid bare and you will be justified. And then you'll receive the crown of life and glory. The crown is a symbol of victory. Crown of life means victory over death. You're going to come and you're going to have that crown and you're going to be in my temple and you'll never leave it If you're going to have that crown of life and the crown of glory, you're going to be glorified in your body, in all of your desires, in everything about you. There's going to be a beauty about you you couldn't conceive and imagine now. And then he says that you who are weak, I'm going to make to be a pillar. You know, I'm so weak, you're so weak. And he says, You're going to be a pillar in his temple, and you'll never leave it. You know, we're so weak. You know, isn't it wonderful that Jesus didn't criticize their weakness? He says, I know you're weak. He never criticizes your weakness. He says, I know you're weak, but you've been faithful. You've held on to my word. He says, I'm going to take you weak people and I'm going to make you pillars in my church. I'm so weak. You know, a couple weeks ago I I had I bought something from Home Depot. We're doing a bunch of projects at home, and that's this one product lied. Just lied So I took it back and I said, Do you ever sold a stay by before? He said, No, actually. I said, I'm the first customer. He said, Yeah, what this thing alives. And I gave him all the reasons So you know I didn't yell at him, I just told him all the reasons. Then afterwards he said, Thank you very much, you have a good case. But he said, Thank you for not cursing at me. He says most people come in, they just start yelling at me and cursing at me You know, you know what so I what did I do? And I says, Yeah, I you know that's I that's pretty good. I didn't curse on him, yeah. Hey, why didn't I use that as an opportunity? You know why I didn't? Because I because of Jesus in my life. That's why. But I'm weak. You know, it was another time we were at a home depot. You know we look for opportunities. Jesus says, here's open doors. That's another time I was with my wife. Yeah, Home Depot, different Home Depot. Now we do say other things besides go to Home Depot. We just got a bunch of projects going on. So we're in another Home Depot and we're looking for a range A salesman comes up and my wife says, you know, here's the range, this is adequate, it'll do the job. Very basic, bottom of the line. We go up and he says, well, you know what, you give you this feature and get that feature. And Kathy says to him, I don't need that. I'm not going to live that long. They're still looking at it. Whoa, wait a minute. And I said, hey, who cares? When we die, we're gonna go with be with the Lord. That's great. You know, that led to a conversation for over an hour with that salesman. And all the other customers came up to me and said, Yeah, go find it here. Go find it. He did one break. After the hour, he said, Would you please come back so we can continue the conversation You don't know in people that you talk to who God's working in. He opens doors. We just simply say, Lord, where is it? Where can I offer the hope that Jesus gives? And then see what he does. Where's the opportunities before you? The hope of the gospel is yours and mine. Let's seize them, brothers and sisters. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you now and we ask you to give us eyes to see the opportunities that you put before us. Because weak people like us are going to be pillars in your temple. And we will see you when we are Thrice sealed the mark of ownership with you as our God and the city that you have established for us, and the full revelation of Jesus that will be displayed before us, knowing you, Lord Jesus, as we've never known you. And age after age deepening in our knowledge of you and in our joy, inexpressible joy in the fullness of that knowledge. Lord, help us to live out of that even this week in Jesus' name. Amen.