Uh you think we've been in the names of God for a long time. That was in eighty-nine. In nineteen seventy-nine we started the series on the names of of the uh messianic prophecies. And this year we're up to the 16th one. I don't know what this means, but this year a number of people have been asking me, how many are there in this series? You think that I'm just trying to make sure that I hang around here for a while? There's actually about 50 that I've identified, so we're already a third of the way through in our first 16 years. But uh, you know, hang in there. We'll get to it. Uh, you know, and when I'm in retirement, hopefully you'll invite me back to say, finish each Christmas that series. I love the series because It's a time during these days where we're just really tempted, pressed by materialism and the rush of the holidays to be able to turn back and to refocus our gaze. upon the Lord Jesus, who is the focus of it all. And so I really look forward to this time. It's a time of real delight to me where we can just concentrate on the Lord Jesus for a few weeks. This 16th messianic prophecy is the one in Isaiah 9, of course. If you haven't gotten that yet, you haven't been paying attention very much in the first part of this service. And of course that's one that many of you can probably say right along, are you getting darker, am I getting lighter, or what's happening? You're fading out and I'm feeling like I ought to get pick up my cane again. Anyway, I'll try to notice where some of you still are back there. Make sure you're paying attention. We notice in this prophecy is one that uh particularly is familiar. I can't even see you guys over here, you know, you're behind the mic. There you go, Paul. One that's very familiar to us, we can say it, you know, for unto us a child is born, to us a son is given. It's one that we see very often on uh Christmas cards. It's probably one of the most quoted of all the Old Testament prophecies. You heard it at the beginning of the service from Handel's Messiah, one of the most popular of the pieces from that Messiah, from the Messiah production. And so it's a piece that we're very familiar with. But the interesting thing to me is that for all of that, it's actually a passage that very few Christians understand. It's really a kind of a difficult text. And I find that very few Christians understand what Isaiah 9, 6, and 7 is talking about, except somehow I know it's about a child that's born and a son that's given. That was Jesus, of course. baby in the manger and whatever else it means, it sounds very exalted and I don't understand it or how I can understand it particularly in what Isaiah was saying in the context, but it sure sounds good and so I like to use it at Christmas. In fact, there's the danger of our hearing those verses and just kind of plugging into the sound of them without actually thinking about what is that saying? I've been thinking about this text for some time because I feel like this text to enter into it is for us to tread upon holy ground. Not only is it a difficult text, it's one of the richest in the entire Old Testament to depict the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I feel this particular privilege and excitement as I try to bring you to enter into the meaning of this precious prophecy of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, as I've anticipated this over the last few years, I decided a couple of years ago that I would spend all of last Christmas holiday on Luke. The Benedictus of Zechariah. You remember we spent three weeks on that last Christmas, plus a Christmas message. Didn't do any messianic prophecy last year. I don't know how many of you got shaken up in your Christmas traditions on that, but you know, we didn't do that last year. This year we're not going to spend any time in Luke. We have four Sundays of Advent before Christmas this year. Christmas on Sunday, so that's a fifth. Get an extra. And I plan to spend all four of those on Isaiah 9. That we might enter in phrase by phrase into the riches of what this says about the Lord Jesus. And then the fifth Sunday, Christmas itself, we'll look at Luke, a message about Christmas. And so as we look at this, I want us to notice that Isaiah 9 is really a picture gallery. And I want to lead us into this gallery. It's a gallery of pictures. That depict the misery and the gloom of our lives apart from Messiah. And then the absolute sufficiency of the Messiah that God was to send to meet every need that you and I have. Let's look at the passage first of all. We're going to use our imaginations, particularly in these messages, and especially the one today. And what I want to do today is to especially focus on verses 1 to 5. The five verses that precede those famous verses 6 and 7, for us unto us a child is born and a son is given. So today we're going to look at the backdrop of it. To get the context, verses 1 to 5. But let's read all seven now so that we see it all put together. Isaiah chapter 9. This is God's word. Let's hear what he says to us. Nevertheless, there will be no more gloom for those who were in distress. In the past, he humbled the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali. But in the future he will honor Galilee of the Gentiles by the way of the sea along the Jordan. The people walking in darkness have seen a great light. On those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy. They rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest, as men rejoice when dividing the plunder. For as in the day of Midian's defeat, you have shattered the oak that burdens them. the bar across their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor. Every warrior's boot used in battle, and every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning. Will be fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born. To us a son is given. And the government will be on his shoulders. And he will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and for ever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. Notice that last name, the zeal of the Lord Almighty. Who is that? Yahweh Sabaya, the zeal of the Lord of hosts. is going to accomplish this. Now I want to focus on verses 2 to 5 with one as a kind of a background. Under three headings this morning, three kinds of pictures in this gallery that we're going to look at. First of all, to notice the pictures of life apart from Messiah. Then the pictures of Messiah's deliverance, and then the pictures of our joy in response to that deliverance. So, first of all, notice the pictures of life apart from Messiah. As we enter into this gallery, Isaiah presents to us two very grim pictures at the very beginning to depict our lives apart from Messiah. The two pictures are pictures of darkness. And of bondage. First of all, notice the picture of darkness that you see there. In verse 2, the people are walking in darkness. You notice in verse 1, it's a picture of gloom. There's not going to be any more gloom for those who are in distress. And so the picture of the people that Isaiah is speaking to is a picture who are living in darkness and in gloom. There are people who are actually living in terror. This was written sometime after 732 BC. The historical situation is that Tiglath-Kheleaser III from Assyria has swept down from the north on two invasions, one in 734 and one in 732. Now if you can picture in your mind for a moment a map of the land of Palestine, you remember there's the Dead Sea down here, and then there's Jordan, and at the top there's the Sea of Galilee. Nathalie is that whole land to the west and to the north of the Sea of Galilee. Zebulon is the land that's just south of Napthalai. They're two of the ten northern tribes of Israel. And they're kind of like states within this country. Now Naphtali and Zebulun particularly suffered under this campaign. When Tiglathaleser came through, he devastated their lands. And these people knew what invasion meant. Interesting, it's hard for us as Americans, isn't it, to understand that. We've never been invaded by a foreign power. And yet this year there's been a number of documentaries, many things calling attention to D-Day and the Normandy invasion. People in France that were invaded during World War II and saw things that they cherished being bombed and trashed. Zebulun and Mathalai had seen things that were very precious to them, destroyed, their homes destroyed and burned, their families scattered, family members killed. This was the terror, the darkness that they were living in. But when the Bible speaks about darkness, it uses that picture not generally to picture physical darkness and physical terror. But to speak of spiritual darkness. And so when the Bible speaks of darkness, we generally are to think in terms of the spiritual darkness. When verse 2 says the people walking in darkness, it isn't simply saying these were people. whose hearts were broken because of what they had seen done to their land and in terror of it happening again. But he's saying there are people who are also walking in spiritual darkness. There are people who were walking in the kind of darkness that's pictured in three things that are pictured here by darkness. You see them in the three blanks. The first one is the darkness of ignorance. Darkness pictures in the Bible, ignorance. These are people who had better things to do than to read their Bibles. There was always one more show to watch. There was always one more chore to be done. something that always clamored for their attention, so they never got around to reading their Bibles. And because of that, they were living in utter utter foolishness and ignorance of God's ways and his wisdom. They lived their lives according to priorities that were utterly temporal. And they were making a lot of foolish decisions. They were trying to find their satisfaction in temporal idols. They were living in utter ignorance of God and his ways. We can identify with that in many ways today, can't we? A survey was done some time ago. It found out that four out of five teenagers in this country believe that the Ten Commandments are valid rules for living. And yet less than three out of one hundred can name them. How many could you name? Most Americans today cannot name three of the Ten Commandments. We live in a time of biblical ignorance and darkness. That's true for many of us. And we have to admit that I really don't know very much about what the Bible teaches. I would like to, I'd like to get around to it, but somehow there never seems to be time. A time of darkness. A time in which our culture is shouting to us: lift all restrictions. All your values are simply subjectively determined. No one is ever to tell you what you are to do or how you are to live. There is to be no authority over your life. We live in a time of darkness. And that darkness needs leads to the second picture, the picture of misery. Darkness not only of ignorance but of misery. The picture of gloom and misery. Darkness pictures that too. And that's what our ignorance has led us to. We're doing the most stupid things as a culture in our value systems, both in the schools and in culture in general. And so we say that kids are not to be controlled, kids are not to have authority over them, kids are to be allowed to do what they want to do and What's the result? The teenage suicide rate in this country is up 300% in the last 40 years. Teenage homicide is up 232%. We're living in a time of misery and brokenness, darkness. And that's what Isaiah is describing. All we lack is the terror of invasion by a foreign power. And yet some people say that the situation in North Korea is much more explosive than many of us realize. We've kind of taken a sigh of relief in that. There are kinds of scenarios, not to simply alarm us, but we can never rest in our world and think that we live in a peace that can last. The darkness of misery internally from all kinds of threats. And then the third kind of darkness is the darkness of death. You see that right there in verse 2. The people walking in darkness have seen a great light, those living in the land of the shadow of death. Reminds you of Psalm 23, doesn't it? Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Death is pictured as night and darkness in the Bible many times. That idea that death is utter pitch darkness. It's like being in a cave. And Isaiah is portraying us as people who live under that shadow of death. We're in a pitch-black cave. We've gone spelunking and we got down too far, and our light went out. And we've been wandering around now for over a day. We don't know whether it's day or night. There's no distinction. We've lost all sense of the passage of time. And all we want is one thing to be able to get out, to find some light, to find a passage that will lead us to an exit And Isaiah says you're living in pitch black darkness. Chapter 59. He describes that. Chapter 59, I just thought of this. It's down there around, I don't know, verse 10 or something. Yeah, 59, 10. Like the blind, we grope along the wall Feeling our way like men without eyes. At midday we stumble as if it were twilight. Among the strong were like those who are dead. Picture of misery, darkness, and gloom. Isaiah says, this is what it's like without Messiah. The second picture that he gives us in this gallery is the picture of a yoke, bondage. You see that in verse 4. Not only are these people walking in darkness, but you see in verse 4 that as in the day of Midian's defeat, you have shattered the yoke that burdens them. He's saying that you and I live under a yoke. Now there's three pictures within this one verse, and they're a little confusing in the NIV, so bear with me. Nobody ever reads the New Berkeley anymore, but that's a great translation of this verse. But let me try to explain it line by line. He says, you've shattered the yoke that burdens them. That's the first thing. We are yoked. That's number one blank. We are yoked. And it refers to a heavy wooden bar that was placed on an animal's shoulders that trapped it and controlled it so that it had to pull or carry a heavy load. It was a bar that was a yoke. The second line, where he says, the bar across their shoulders is not referring to the yoke. That's referring to a rod that was used to beat the animal's shoulders. So that as it's under the yoke, it was driving along and it wanted to stop and rest. And you'd beat the shoulders and you'd can't rest. Got to get to the end of the field. And so the animal had no rest. It was driven, always driven. And so Isaiah is saying, that's what your life is like. You're being driven by the Assyrians. And you and I see that that picture of Assyria is just simply a picture to describe to us the ultimate oppressor, Satan. Who's driving us? Gives us no rest, no peace in your life. And if you're without Jesus Christ and the assurance of salvation in him this morning, you're a driven person. There's no rest, there's no stop, there's no peace. There's always that bar across your shoulders that says, move on, higher standard. You don't feel good about yourself. Keep on going. You've got to accomplish one more thing. And the third line focuses on the oppressor itself The bar across those shoulders, and he says, then the rod of their oppressor. Now that rod is a different picture, but the focus is on the oppressor who is beating you. And so here the first is that we are yoked, the second is that we are beaten, and the third is that we are driven The oppressor is driving you along, never giving you rest, never allowing you to stop and to pause. And this is the picture of Tiglath Pelezer. Isaiah saying, This is what you're under, Israel. Tiglath Pelezer is like a cat ready to pounce upon you a mouse. And you're helpless before him. I remember one day I was in the library over at the Potter's house and I happened to look outside the front window and I saw a cat. You can always tell when a cat's stalking something, you know? It's got that turtle look And so I looked at this thing and I couldn't see what it was after. But then I looked down closely and there in the grass was a little mouse. And my heart went out to that mouse because the mouse was fighting the cat. He was back up on his hind legs, waving his paws at this cat, twenty times its size. And the cat was standing off. He wasn't about to move in on those teeth. And the cat would just circle around and then the cat would kind of look like he was distracted. And as soon as the mouse thought that he had a chance, he would get down on all fours and he would dash through the grass to try and make escape. And as soon as that happened, the cat would pounce and he would hit him off. And he'd back up on his rear legs again and waving his paws, the cat would back off, and he would stand off there. And he played with him like this for five or seven or eight minutes. Finally, when the cat got tired of this game of running and charging and all this, the mouse made one more dash, and the cat picked it up with its jaws and flipped it up in the air and broke its neck. And I remember my heart went out to that mouse. I was hoping he'd win. But that was the way. And Isaiah says, you're being driven. There's no escape. Apart from Messiah, you're against impossible odds. There's no escape from that cat, from Satan, who had come to grasp your life. And who would destroy you. Who, when he's tired of playing with you, will simply come at the end of your life. To destroy you as he shares with you the judgment of God. You find that your life is described in these grim terms, you feeling under bondage, things that you wish that you could stop doing. You keep acting in the patterns of sin that are so deeply embedded in you, and your life seems gloom and darkness. If we really feel that, and Isaiah wants us to feel that, only then are we ready to move on and to see the good news. We're people who are too ready to leap to the good news, and we get impatient with too much bad news. You know, you've spent over 20 minutes on this grim stuff. Let's move on. But unless you feel that grimness of the hopelessness of your sin. And your utter inability to do anything about it. You'll never appreciate what Isaiah is saying in chapter 9. So look what he says now in the pictures of Messiah's deliverance. First of all, you see that in the darkness that Messiah brings light. The people walking in darkness have seen a great light, he says. To their ignorance, he's brought knowledge. That's the first thing. He's brought us away out. He's come down into that cave with a light to lead us out of that tomb of death. The Messiah has shown us that that way out is in himself, that he is the one who has come to bear our sin. The guilt that rests so heavy upon us. And he's the one who bore that sin on the cross and said, Look to me and be saved all the ends of the earth. Look to me, for there is no one else who can lead you out of that dark, black cave of death. Look to me and find light in the knowledge of God and his ways and of salvation and eternal life And not only has he given us the knowledge, of course, in our ignorance of doing anything to save ourselves, but secondly, he's brought us joy in place of our misery. He replaces our misery with joy because we see that there is hope. I am not constituted irrevocably, unalterably evil. I can't change me, but there is a Messiah who can. Jesus can transform my life. I come from a non-Christian background, and I testified to you this morning that I am an utterly different person. From what I was before I met Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ can change your life as he's changed my life Many of us in this room who have experienced his transforming power, some thankfully from Christian backgrounds who have seen a gradual progression and growth in grace. Others of us who have seen abrupt radical changes from pagan pasts, Jesus can bring joy in place of the misery Jesus brings life instead of death. It's this idea, you see, that Luke picks up on Last week, you see, I was, I mean last year I was excited about this, but I couldn't bring it in because you see in Zachariah's Benedictus, he quotes from Isaiah 9. And you know, at the end of his song, he says, when he's turning to John the Baptist, who's just been born, he says, And you, my child, will be called a prophet of the Most High. For you will learn before the Lord to prepare the way for him, to give his people the knowledge of salvation. There's that idea. Give them knowledge in place of their ignorance. through the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God, by which the rising sun will come to us from heaven. There's the light coming at the end of the darkness. This rising sun, Jesus who is coming to what? Verse 79, to shine on those living in darkness and in the shadow of death. And to guide our feet into the path of peace. A clear allusion to Isaiah 9:2: those who are living in darkness and in the shadow of death. And Luke is clearly using this as a spiritual darkness to show that Jesus has come to rescue us and to give to us life and the way of peace. That's the deliverance that Messiah has accomplished for us. Not only has he brought us out of darkness, but secondly, the picture along this gallery is of Jesus who shatters the oak, who's broken the chains, as we sang. He's the one that shatters my yoke. In verse 4, he sees the day of Midian's defeat, you've shattered the yoke that burdens them, the bar across their shoulders and the rod of their oppressor You notice that comparison, as in the day of Midian's defeat, what's that referring to? Well again, we saw that earlier this year. You remember the story of Gideon in Judges 6 to 8 Do you remember that Gideon had his group of about 300 soldiers? By the way, maybe half or more of those soldiers were from the tribes of Zebulun and Nathalai. That's why Isaiah uses this illusion. He's saying, Zebulan Nathalie, remember when you guys were there standing with Gideon? Maybe 300 or 300 of you against maybe 300,000 Midianites? And there were utterly hopeless odds. There was nothing that you could do to break the yoke of Midian, the terror of every year coming down into your harvest, to take everything that you had worked all year for, to enslave you. And to keep you in poverty and misery. And do you remember how God used Gideon? And there was that shout for the sword of the Lord and Gideon. There was the crash of the pictures, and there was the three hundred lights from the torches. That instantaneously surrounded the Midianite camp. You remember how God brought terror into their hearts and they all slaughtered one another. And they were destroyed in that. He shattered the yoke, and you were freed that night. And so Isaiah is saying, as in that day, now you're under the yoke of Assyria. And Tiglath Pelezer is gone from the scene, but now there's this fellow Sennacherid. And he's come to terrorize you. And you're living in terror of what he's going to do. And in 701 BC, Sennacherib came up against, right down through Israel, even into Jerusalem. And do you remember that story? It's told in Isaiah 37. How God used Sennacherib cursing God and Hezekiah cried out and he prayed. You remember who he prayed to? The Lord of hosts. Yahweh Sabbath, Lord, deliver us. And that night God sent the angel of his hosts, and he destroyed a hundred and eighty-five thousand Assyrians in one night. And the yoke was shattered. Their freedom was accomplished. And Isaiah is saying, that's a picture. What God is going to do in Assyria is a picture. Of what he can do in each life that's under the yoke and the bondage of Satan. For you and I are under the impossible odds. Not 300,000 Midianites, not 185,000 Assyrians, but far worse, Satan and his hosts. If you're without Jesus Christ this morning, you are in the grip of those demonic forces. And Isaiah says that those forces are like the coils of an anaconda. Wrapped around your body. The more you struggle, and every time you exhale, you only allow the coils to wrap tighter around you. And they're utterly impossible odds. You'll never fight your way free. But Isaiah says there's a Messiah who's come and he's shattered the oak. He severed that serpent's head. The coils have released about you, and you're free. In a way that you could have never accomplished for yourself. That's the picture of the yoke that's shattered, because Messiah has come. And then he gives to us finally here pictures of joy. And that peace, by the way, that he accomplishes is not a peace So that later on you're attacked again. But you notice he goes on. In verse 4, he says, as in the day of Midian's defeat, when against impossible odds, you Lord shattered the oak that burdened them, the bar across their shoulders that was beating them, the rod of their oppressor driving them. But every warrior's boot used in battle, and every garment rolled in blood, will be destined for burning, and will be fuel for the fire. There's going to be eternal peace. Never again will there be implements of war. And you and I live in a time when Jesus has accomplished that in principle. He's given that peace of his spirit because we're forgiven. Because we know we have peace with God. Because we know that He has established us as a community of peace. A people who are able to care for one another. Imperfectly. We see tension between Christians. I was at another church yesterday. Trying to deal with a situation of people who were at odds and there was backbiting and gossip and it was a difficult situation. I don't know how many of them were believers or how many of them were not believers. But it reminded me again that we live simply in the first fruits of the peace that Jesus has accomplished. But we look for that eternal peace when Messiah comes back. Back. One of the great things about Christmas is that you look for Christmas and you anticipate Christmas is coming, and it should remind you Jesus is coming. And just as there was the anticipation of his first coming, so there's the anticipation he's coming again. And maybe he'll be here before Christmas. Amen. All the hassles will be over. And so Isaiah says, in the light of that expectation of deliverance, what are the pictures of joy? He gives us two pictures. The picture of harvest time is the first one. You see that? The people there walking in darkness have seen a great light. Those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned, the rising sun has come, you've enlarged the nation, you've increased their joy, they rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest time. You know what it's like. We don't we're not agriculturalists, but you know, if you do any farming, you you realize there's the There's the fear is is the seed gonna germinate and you know then it germinates and begins to come up and you think there's gotta be some rain and but not too much rain, you know, enough rain, you know, good rain to drench the ground but not too much to rot the plants or to flood things and so, you know, not enough rain, too much rain, there's the anxiety goes in that. And if the rains are doing okay, well then there's the weeds, you know. Maybe the weeds are gonna choke it all out, and so you gotta keep after the weeds. If the weeds don't get it, then the insects and the bugs come in, you know, and they come in in hordes, and you think you're just keeping ahead of them. And then if a plague comes, it's going to wipe the whole thing out. And so you're always trying to keep ahead of the insects that are going to destroy your crops. And then if the insects don't destroy it and the rains are okay and they're not too much and they're not too little and the weeds haven't gotten it, then you come to harvest time, maybe hail's going to wipe the whole thing out. And then if hail doesn't come, finally there's that day when you say it's harvest, let's come and take the grain. And there's a tremendous sigh of relief. Do you know what's happened in our country this year? Last year In the terrible floods of the Mississippi River that wiped out so much of the farmer's crops, do you know this year they have a record, all-time record crop out there? You imagine how much those guys are rejoicing out there in Nebraska? I mean, there's a rejoicing that says, it's done, the crops are in. We're gonna eat well this year. See, we don't think about it. You know, maybe prices go up or down a giant and safe. But if you are dependent on that There is a celebration of harvest. And Isaiah says, that's the feeling of what it's like when Messiah comes into your life. And he's rescued you from the bondage and brought you out of the cave of death. Then he says the picture is also like plunder. Interesting picture. You see that there in verse 3, the end of the verse. As people rejoice at the harvest, as men rejoice when dividing the plunder. Now, why does he use that? See, that's not a very sanctified picture. Well you think about it. He's talking about Midian. And here's Midian, and these guys have been plundering you for seven years, taking everything that you have, and because they're nomads, they take everything they have with them And so there they all are down in that valley, three hundred or so thousand of them. And then there's the shout of the sword of the Lord and of Gideon, and you all come rushing down and they're all destroying each other and they head off for the east, and because they're fleeing for their lives, what have they left? They've left everything they've taken. from you and everybody else for seven years. And you come down there and you are an instant millionaire and no taxes to pay. Can you imagine the feeling? Everything that we've lost ten times over. And when the angel came to the hordes of Assyria, Oh, 185,000 were killed, and they walked into that camp and they took everything the Assyrians had taken from Zebulun and Nhtali and everybody else. And Isaiah says, that's what it's going to be like when Jesus comes. Everything that you thought you lacked, Messiah is going to restore to your life in tenfold more. Now when you think about that, does those pictures build in your heart an expectation and a joy? Even a joy enough that you'd say, this year that's even worth sharing with somebody. I'd like to find somebody that's a friend of mine in that darkness and the gloom and the bondage, and I'm going to pray that God will give me an opportunity to share the good news of Jesus, because it is good news. Amen. Let's pray. Lord our God, we want to taste of this in our souls. To rejoice in what you have done, Lord Jesus, the perfect Messiah. For all of our needs of the gloom of our lives and the bondage of our sin. Lord, we pray that you Will not only speak that to our hearts, that this week there would be shouts of joy in our soul, and maybe one or two might even usher forth from our mouths. He's saying your word so many times, shout aloud for joy to the rock of our salvation. But that you would also, Lord, even Give to us the kind of joy that wants to share that with those this season, to tell them why Christmas is so precious to us. Give to us opportunities with specific people we pray, Lord. And if there's anyone here who is without that joy, Lord, meet them. Bring Jesus into their lives before Christmas and before it's too late, we pray. In Jesus name. Amen.