Thank you again, Jen and Julie and Lydia. Kinda hate to break the moment of tranquility and meditation, but Thank you for offering that. The sweet, the deep, deep love of Jesus Well, do you remember last year at this time, the big movie that everybody was discussing? Remember? The Passion of the Christ. Everybody was talking about it, raised a good deal of interest, thankfully, in the person of Jesus Christ. Uh it also raised a good deal of interest in the uh person of Pontius Pilate. Jews were asserting that the New Testament and Mel Gibson let him off far too easily in order to put more blame on the Jews. Remember uh one inside Washington, the editor of Newsweek said uh we know that Pilate was a blank and uh would have acted very cruelly in such a situation. So the New Testament in the movie cannot be accurate, at least there. Remember we had discussions at the um Howard County Library in Columbia. I remember one discussion that I was at, Rabbi Susan Grossman made this statement. She said, Matthew writing, when the Romans were in power and the Jews were out of power Realize that he didn't want to get in trouble with the Romans, so he put the Jews in a bad light rather than the Romans. And that's why we have in Matthew 27, verse 25, let his blood be upon us and our children. uh it was um a little editing of history. And so the idea that was coming across in the media was that uh Pilate was really far worse than the New Testament and Gibson portrayed them and the Jews were really a lot better. Well that raised my interest in Pontius Pilate. And I realized I had never done a single message on Pontius Pilate in all the years that we've done messages before Easter on the trial and the death of Christ. And um so I began to look into Pilate as a person. Wanted to see what we knew about him, particularly what the New Testament data was. Found that Pilate is mentioned seven times in the New Testament. He's mentioned twice by the Jewish historian Josephus, once by Philo. And there were many other traditions and legends also about them to sort out. I was especially helped by an ancient scholar, a scholar of ancient history, Paul Mayer. Who wrote about Pilate and uh presented the thesis that Pilate has gotten a bad rap from history, that he really wasn't nearly as bad as is portrayed He's portrayed as anti-Semitic, capriciously cruel, unreasonable, inflexible. In fact, Paul Meyer says he was just a typically arrogant Roman who didn't have any particular love for the Jews, but was trying to do a decent job. The more I studied it, the more I think that Meyer had a point, and the more sympathetic I became with Pilate, seeing what a tough job he had. Kind of the wrong guy at the wrong place, at the wrong time. And I realized that my heart was very much like his. And began to ask myself, how much differently would I have acted? If I were in the same circumstances and pressure that Pontius Pilate was in, or how differently would you act if you were in Pilate's situation? So what I'd like to do, since Easter is just three weeks from today, is I'd like to present three-week series on Pontius Pilate. I would like to look at him, and I would like for us to see three contrasts. The first that I want to look at this morning is to contrast Pilate's heart with Jesus' heart. And in that, to compare Pilate's heart with your heart and my heart, and see what the gospel has to say to us. So, first of all, look at Pontius Pilate for a couple minutes. Look at a little bit of his background before he comes to the trial so you get to know who this person was. His name was actually Pontius Pilatus, and he was made the procurator of Judea In 26 A. D. , just about the time that John the Baptist was beginning his ministry, and continued for a little over 10 years till about 36 or 37 A. Pilate originally came from Seville, Spain, served in the Roman army in the wars along the Rhine, and after the peace there. He met and married one Claudia Procula, who was the youngest daughter of Julia, who was the daughter of the Emperor Augustus. Julia was a moral disgrace of such depraved and coarse habits that even decadent Rome found her to be notorious. Augustus was embarrassed by her and eventually he banished her from the empire. It said that when anyone would ever mention her name that he would exclaim, oh, would I had wifeless or childless died? And that was Pilate's mother-in-law. Give him a little slack. Through these connections, he was awarded the procuratorship of Judea, which was seen as a stepping stone to greater glory in Rome if he did well. Shortly after Pilate came into power, he marched some of his soldiers into Jerusalem, and they were carrying Roman standards with uh images of Tiberius. Since Pilate knew that this would incense the Jews, seeing the ensign image of Tiberius as idolatry. He did it at night so that nobody would see it till they got into the Fortress Antonia, and then everything would be okay. However, it was discovered that these ensigns existed within the Holy City And so thousands of Jews marched out to Caesarea on the sea where his beautiful palace was, and they um they gave him the ultimatum, the ensigns must go. Well, he said, um, no way, they're gonna stay. They had a standoff. Thousands of Jews camped in his backyard for five days. So finally the sixth day he ran out of patience, surrounded all the Jews with his army, and said, if you don't leave, we're going to attack. At that point, they laid down all their arms, they bared their necks, bowed down, and said, Go ahead and kill us. We would rather die than have our city defiled in the name of God. Well, Pilate figured that slaughtering thousands of Jews who were unarmed and defenseless wouldn't look good on his resume. So he backed down. He took away the ensigns, and peace was restored. Not long after that, he decided that Jerusalem had a pretty foul water system and it needed some fresh water, so he decided to build a very expensive aqueduct about seven miles from Bethlehem into the city. But he reasoned that since the Jews were going to drink the water, they should pay for some of it, and the only way he could get them to pay for it was out of the temple treasury, which is where the tax money was deposited. So uh history doesn't record exactly how it was arranged. He could have maybe um had some arrangement with Caiaphas the high priest to get some of the money, seemed like a reasonable thing to do. But on the day when everybody was celebrating the completion of this aqueduct and all this fresh, pure, clean water in the city. Somebody ratted and said that uh this money had been from the Temple Treasury, that Pilate had raided it, and so there was another big protest. Everybody gathered and they all said, you know, you gotta restore the money to the treasury. He said, no way, you know, it's that's the only way I could pay for it. And so they started inciting a riot So Pilate ordered a number of his men to go in dressed as citizens, not as Roman soldiers, but with clubs and swords under their robes. When he tried to quiet the riot and things were getting worse and got out of hand, he finally gave the signal. The soldiers uncovered their clubs and their swords, and they beat and cut hundreds of people to death. That was not a very good move. Certainly didn't endure him to the Jews And then shortly after that, things got worse for Pilate because he was a good friend of one fellow Sejanus, who then was convicted of treason by Tiberius, the emperor. and was executed. Now since he was Sejanus's friend, Pilate thought that he probably ought to do something to prove his loyalty to Tiberius, so he thought he had a good idea. He uh installed six votive shields in his palace in Jerusalem, didn't have any images, nothing religious, simply was to the honor of Tiberius, you know, and that's it. Uh, the Jews wouldn't buy it. So they came and they protested again and they said, You gotta get those shields out of here and he said, Nothing doing. They don't have any images. You can't complain about six shields in my palace. They said, Oh yes we can. The shields have religious significance. They must go. And Pilate said, they're not going to go. And they said they're going to go. And they said, well appeal to Tiberius if you don't take them out. And Pilate thought, yeah, right, like Tiberius is going to remove six shields in his honor from you guys. So he called their bluff and he said, Go ahead and appeal. So they did. And they won. Tiberius was famously pro-Jew. He actually had a lot of respect for the Jews, did not want to meddle in any of their affairs. And Tiberius sided with the Jews against Pilate. And Pilate had to remove the shields, humiliated by the Jews. So when you come to the trial of Jesus, there's a lot of history that's going on between the Jews and Pilate. But the thing that impresses me as I read the account of the trial of Jesus before Pilate, is that you get a picture here of a man who in judging Jesus appears determined to administrate justice fairly. He's not a guy who can be proven to have been capriciously cruel, unreasonably anti-Semitic, in fact I believe the one of the greatest reasons that we know that Pilate was not unreasonably anti-Semitic was that Tiberius, who was so pro-Jew, appointed him as procurator of Judea. And left him there for over ten years. That was an unusually long assignment for that kind of thing. There's no way Tiberius would have done that if he didn't have confidence that Pilate would do a decent job with people that he favored. Even Luke 13, 1 that talks about how Pilate mixed the blood of the Galileans with their sacrifices, doesn't necessarily mean Pilate had anything to do with that. Anything that the Roman army would have done would have been attributed to Pilate. So you come to the trial. Now the Jews, of course, had had a mock trial the night before under Caiaphas. In which they had accused Jesus of blasphemy. They had condemned him. But of course they had no power to execute him. The law at that time said that the Roman procurator had to approve and in fact carry out any executions. If Pilate hadn't been in town, they likely would have stoned Jesus just to see if they could get away with it and hope the whole thing would be done before Pilate knew about it. But he was in town because of the Passover, so they had to go to him. And that's why John 18 says that this was because Jesus had prophesied the kind of death he would die. This was in the fulfillment of prophecy. So they have their mock trial, and they come in the morning, and they need to have pilot rubber stamp what they had decided to do so that he could carry out the execution. So you read in John chapter 18, in verse 28, that when the Jews had led Jesus from Caiaphas to the palace The Roman governor, it's early morning. Pilate comes out. And verse 29, Pilate came to them and he asked this question, What charges are you bringing against this man? Now, of course, Pilate knows about Jesus. There's no way a man in his position wouldn't have known someone who was as popular as Jesus, who was being called the Messiah. That he wouldn't have known all about him. So he knows about Jesus, and he knows that the Jews want to be rid of him. He understands all those things. It's not like he's coming on the scene naive as to what's going on. So when he asks this question, what charges do you bring against this man? That's a technical question of Roman law. What Pilate is saying is, I am now going to try him by a Roman court. And that's why the Jews are so irritated in saying in verse 30, if he weren't a criminal, we wouldn't have brought him to you. We wouldn't have handed them over to you. In other words, come on, Pilate. We already had our trial. Would you just approve this thing and get on with it? And Pilate says, No way. I'm going to give this man a fair trial. What charges do you bring? Let's start the trial, gentlemen. Now, it seems to me that Pilate did that out of some sort of integrity. He wants to do the right thing. And so they bring him. And they got to come up with three reasons now, or they've got to come up with as many reasons as they can for a Roman jury, a Roman governor, to uh give him execute him by the uh give him a capital punishment So quickly they pull together three accusations, sedition, refusal to pay taxes, and claiming to be a rival king. And they scramble and they talk about this, and it becomes clear that as the trial proceeds, Pilate becomes even more and more convinced of Jesus' innocence And is aware that he is only there because of the envy of the Jewish leaders, which is what you read in Matthew 27, verse 18, for he knew that it was out of envy, that they had handed Jesus over, and the Bible tells us that. Pilate knew that. Six times Pilate officially acquits Jesus. Seven times he seeks to release him. Four times he seeks to escape responsibility. But at every point the Jewish leaders outmaneuver Pilate and trap him. And only when his career and personal safety are finally at risk does he abandon all his principles. And here, Pilate demonstrates to you and to me the delusion of secular moral righteousness. Here's a noble pagan that wants to do right. He's a secular guy, and he says, I'm going to be determined to thwart these hypocritical religious people and give Jesus a fair trial. But you and I are controlled by our idols, aren't we? We're controlled by those must-haves in our lives. The things that we say, I can't do without it, right? Can never be happy. And so for Pilot, that was his career. And when push comes to shove, he compromises. And you will always compromise when your idol is threatened That which you place is higher value for your significance, for your happiness, for your security above Jesus Christ. So the New Testament, I believe, presents Pilate as a decent guy who's trying to do the right thing, but his proud heart refuses to bow before Jesus. who clearly deserves his worship. Think about it. Few people have been up close As up close and personal to Jesus as Pontius Pilate. Few people have ever seen Jesus more uniquely display his majesty and his deity As Pilate saw him on trial for his life. And yet his pride kept him aloof to his own destruction You see, it's not your sins that keep you from Jesus Christ. It's your damnable pride. The pride that refuses to acknowledge and bow before Jesus and who He is, that desperately wants to be neutral about Jesus Christ. But you can't. The world will not let you be neutral. And Pilate's ultimate commitment was to himself. Now contrast that with Jesus. Look at Jesus' heart. See Jesus' concern for Pilate, even when his own life is at stake. How again and again Jesus seeks to reach Pilate's heart, even though his life is on trial And in a couple of hours, he is going to be crucified. His own personal safety is never an issue in the interaction between him and Pilate. Let me give you a few examples that you see in John 18 and 19. First of all, notice that after they had brought the accusations, then Pilate takes Jesus inside, and he begins to question him. And so he asks, uh, are you then the king of the Jews? Verse 33. Now notice Jesus' answer. He doesn't answer it directly. He says, Is that your own idea? Or did others talk to you about me? In other words, Jesus is trying to find out Pilate, or do you want to know if I'm king? Or is this just an official Roman trial and you're just kind of doing the official thing? You know, this is this is what you've been told. Pilate, where's your heart? You've heard about me. Do you want to know about me? Do you want to know if I'm really king? Of course, don't miss the irony of that. People had tried to force Jesus to be king, and he had refused to be king. So that's not the issue. Pilate probably knew that. But notice that Pilate doesn't answer directly. He says, Oh, am I a Jew? Well your people that your chief priest that handed you over to me, what is it you've done? So he tries to turn it. Now notice Jesus Jesus deflects it again. He doesn't answer that question. He goes back to his kingship. He says, My kingship is not of this world. If it were, my servants would fight to present prevent my arrest by the Jews, but now my kingdom is from another place. He's talking about his kingdom to once again see if Pilate's willing to discuss his kingdom and his kingship and what this means. Pilate, are you willing? Do you want to talk about this, Pilate? Just forget all the clamoring outside. I want to know where your heart is. Are you willing to talk about my kingdom? And so Pilate picks up on that, tries to keep it again at a distance. He says, well, so you are a king then. And Jesus picks up on that. He says, okay, I'm not going to dodge it. You're right. In saying that I'm a king. In fact, for this reason I was born and for this I came into the world to testify to the truth. Everyone on side of the truth listens to me. So you see what Jesus does? He acknowledges what Pilate says, then he moves it right around again to take the issue of truth and say, Pilate, do you really want to know truth? Do you want to know who I am? Everybody that wants to know truth is with me. You see, again, probing for his heart, reaching out to his heart. Seeking to make a connection with him spiritually. But again, Pilate refuses to Be connected, and he cynically says, What is truth? But then notice something very interesting. He acts as if you haven't gotten to me, Jesus. Look, I'm not gonna get personal with you. You're not gonna get to my heart. But then what happens in verse 38? With this he went out again to the Jews and he said, I find no basis for a charge against him. In other words, he's saying, this man's innocent. He's not a threat. So Jesus has had an impact on him, he's affected him, but Pilate is not about to Get personal with Jesus. Notice that Jesus is never defending himself in all of this. And so Pilate uh declares his innocence, but just in case he thinks I'll bring in another point to make sure that I can release this man, because these people are really determined to have them executed. So when a little before this the Roman government had instituted they had the only power to execute criminals They kind of threw a bone to the Jews and said, But every Passover will release one person that you can choose to escape capital punishment. Now Pilate knows that and knows that Passover is the time to do that. So because he knows that Jesus is actually popular with the people, it's only the Jewish leaders that want him executed He says, well now, um, how about I release Jesus as the Passover prisoner to be released? Okay? And he's expecting all the people, yes, yes, that's right. Reselease them to us and all the Jewish leaders will be grumbling in their beards and they'll walk away defeated. But he doesn't count on their influence, for they stir up the people and they say, no, no, no, we don't want this man. Give us Barabbas. So Pilate loses again. Then he tries another attack. He says, okay, now watch this, non-secretary. I find no basis of any charge against him, therefore I'm going to have him flogged. Here's Roman justice for you. What's he doing? He's negotiating. He says, maybe if I have him flogged and they see all the blood and they see him suffer. then their bloodlust will be satiated, and then I can have them released. So has Jesus flocked. The crown of thorns, the beating, the mocking. All of that that you perhaps saw in the movie or some other portrayal. And they bring them back, and in John, John tells us, in John 19, Pilate looks and he says, look at the man. Look at the man. Isn't that enough? This man's innocent. Will you let him go? But at that point, even in all of Jesus' majesty before these people. They say something that Pilate hadn't heard. In John 19, 5, they say, but he must die. Because he declared himself to be the Son of God. Now at that point, notice what Pilate did not do. Here's a man who's come to him bound. spat upon, ridiculed, crown of thorns on his head, bleeding profusely, a picture of helplessness And Pilate doesn't laugh. He doesn't say, He said he's the Son of God. That's a joke. John tells us he was even more afraid. Why? Because everything he has seen about Jesus points in that direction. And so Pilate's now terrified. And he brings Jesus back inside. And he asks him a number of other questions. Now this man is becoming undone. But now notice what Jesus does. Now Jesus does not answer him. Because Jesus, seeing Pilate being unnerved, realizes the best thing that he can do is to simply maintain his majesty. And let Pilate wear himself out with the questions till his heart is broken and he can come to him. And so finally Pilate says, in irritation and exasperation, don't you realize that I have the power either to free you or to crucify you? How dare you not answer me! And Jesus, even with all the suffering and torment he's gone through, with full presence of mind, says in verse 11, You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above. Here's Jesus still resting in the sovereign power of his Father. He says, therefore, the one who handed you over to me is guilty of a greater sin. Again, another startling comment. Look at the next verse. John says, you almost have to smile when you read this. From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free. From then on. That's all he's been trying to do all morning. What do you mean from then on? I think what John means is now he is desperate to set him free. I mean, this man is sweating. I have someone before me who is not merely a man. I must release him. I don't care what it takes. I'm gonna do the right thing. I'm gonna get this man out of here. The Jews are not gonna prevail. So he goes back outside And he's determined to let them free. And the Jews finally pull their trump card. They say, you know, we know a little bit about Roman politics, and we know about the execution of Sejanus. And you know, if you release this man, you're no friend of Caesar's. At that point, they probably looked at his hand because on his hand there was a ring that was called Caesar's Friend. It was the symbol of his authority. And they mock it. You're not Caesar's friend. We're going to tell him tell him that you let this pretender to be a king go. Then we'll see how much power you have with Tiberius. And they've got him. Jesus maintains his dignity. He's in Pilate is infuriated. And yet still he tries to release Jesus. Even after that, verses 13 to 16 says he makes one more attempt. Here's your king. Do you want me to crucify your king? He keeps appealing to the people. Come on, give me some support. But the leaders had the crowd all stirred up. And finally, Pilate capitulates. He says, bring me water. And he washes his hands. And he says, I am innocent of the blood of this man. Nice try, Pilate. But he is the one who says, take him out and crucify him. Now, before you think too scornfully of Pilate Before you find yourself in a position of superior criticism, let me ask you, what would you have done if you were in Pilate's place? You're already on probation with Tiberius. Your whole career Even your life may be at stake. And all you have to do is assent to the execution of this Galilean preacher. What are you going to do? You see, Pilate is the demonstration of the fragility of an unregenerated human conscience. Our idols will always prevail when push comes to show. You will compromise. You will give in. I will. I told you about a kid, Donnie Lane, who took me out as a bigger, older kid, and Had some fire, said Harris, curse or I'll burn you. And I cursed And I went home in shame and humiliation. You see, you want to be neutral. Some of you. Some of you have grown up in a Christian home and you're very familiar with Christianity, and you're certainly not against Jesus. Jesus is fine. You're willing to come here and to sing the songs and go to class and go along with this, but Jesus is inconvenient to the kind of life that you want to live. And you don't want to pay a cost. To be rejected by your friends or people at work? Because you're identified with Jesus. You want to be neutral. But you know what? The world will not let you be neutral We all find out at one point or another, sooner or later, our cowardice And it's that cowardice, that realization of that, that can drive you to Jesus Because Jesus died for cowards and compromisers, like Pilate, like you, like me, like Peter. Who had denied him the night before three times before a servant girl? You see, Jesus knows what your heart is like And he knows what my heart is like. And he knows that we're cowards. And he reaches out to you in your weakness. He's reached out to me. It may be there's some compromise that you are very ashamed of As you look back in your life, perhaps this past week, past month, past year, some point in your life and you're saying, I can't believe that I did that. I compromised my principles. I said I was going to live this way Whether it was my morals, whether it was cheating to get money, to protect myself, to save face, whatever it was, there's somewhere in your life, in my life, that we look and we say, I utterly compromised all that I said I believed in. I sold it out to protect myself. That's Pilate. And Jesus reached out to Pilate, and he reaches out to you this morning. And he says, come to me. Come abandon yourself to me. Come and see that I can change your heart. There's millions. Even on our own day, I told you last week, about a half a million a year Christians lose their lives throughout this world. Because their identification with Jesus Christ. The only way you're willing to pay a cost for Jesus is if you love Him. You believe that you have a heavenly Father and a strong Savior, and that His strength in you can enable you to stand. So let's not mock Pilate, but rather see Pilate as a way of pointing us to our weakness. And to Jesus Christ in all his sufficiency. Let's pray Oh Lord our God, we come and we bring our hearts before you now, hearts that are weak. We're ashamed. We think how much like Pilate we are. We say, I'm I'm determined to do the right thing. When the pressure's on, we break Because our idols control us. Those must-haves in our lives determine What we'll really pay the price for. And Pilate was a miserable man Lord, I pray that there'd be none as foolish as Pilate, who to his own destruction did not bow before Jesus and say, Lord, save me. Deliver me even in this situation, for you would have done it just like the thief on the cross. Well oh Lord, we come. Holy Spirit, reveal to that young person who's grown up in Christianity and has said, I hold Jesus at arm's length because he's inconvenient and I don't want to pay the cost. of what it means to be a Christian, to see what a foolish statement that is, to remain in bondage To those things that they believe will give them happiness and protect themselves to their own misery. Break the delusions, Lord. Show Christ as He really is, that we would come and run to Him. Lord, for us who are believers and still are weak, like Peter. Lord, how good to know that you died for weak people. That you forgive us our compromises and our weakness. We bring them to you now and we pray, Lord, forgive us. Forgive us, show us yourself that that Savior, while Pilate Sacrificed you to save himself. You sacrificed yourself to save people like Pilate, even like us. We come to you now. We come to you now, Jesus. To find forgiveness and peace and strength for this coming week. We come to you in Jesus' name It was an example I was going to give uh from Paul Miller.