God has really blessed us. And as I think about that, my heart goes back to a time that I've told you about so many times, that day of prayer that I had back in May of 1978. Thirteen years ago, when God revealed to me, gave to me what has become the purpose of our church from Ephesians chapter 1. I still remember that day. It was a day very much like this. Pleasant, warm spring day. And I was out praying at Clark Reservation outside Syracuse, New York. Clark Reservation is a prehistoric glacial dried-up riverbed. It was a river, a mighty glacial river that cut through channels of rock. And then plummeted over a 175-foot cliff into the valley below. And just walking along that cliff edge and back through the channeled rock. I remember being impressed again with the wonder of God's power. What a dramatic display to think of the millions of gallons of water. They said that that falls once dwarfed Niagara. As the glacial waters of upstate New York poured across that cliff. As I walked back there, I was thinking that two weeks from now, I will be moving to Columbia, Maryland. And we'll be starting a church there. And I reflected on J. O. Fraser's book, Behind the Ranges. I remember thinking about that book because Fraser, a missionary to China, had really impressed me. Because he was a man who saw prayer as his main strategy. And he had spent some time wrestling with God about a particular area of China, that he wanted to claim for Jesus Christ. And he claimed that that area would be forever changed because of the gospel. God heard his prayer. And that area was radically changed in the vast revival that broke through last century of people coming to know Jesus Christ. And I began to think about Colombia, and I was thinking, Lord, what is it that you want to do here? And I prayed. I remember God giving me a freedom in prayer. Praying that God would change Howard County because of the church that He was going to plant there by His people. As I began to pray about that, I began to think, Lord, what's that church going to look like? You know, there was no CPC. Nobody was meeting here. It was a Bible study, a women's Bible study, a prayer meeting, meeting in the Williams home. Ken just was leading the worship here. That's all there was. There had been a vacation Bible school or two. This church did not exist. Lord, what do you want this church to look like? What do you want us to be? And I remember thinking, I don't know. I don't know what's going to be our distinctive. How will we make a contribution that will be unique to change that area? And that's when I began to think, it's as if the Lord was taking my mind and turning it at that point and said, Well, you may not know what it's going to look like, but you better start with its purpose. What is the purpose of this church going to be? And that's when I began to wrestle. I still remember that area of the path, walking up and down, back and forth, saying, God, I don't want to leave here until you give me a sense of your purpose for us. And that's when He opened up to me Ephesians chapter 1. I'd never seen it in that light. It was our purpose for a church. And in the following years, we began to lay foundations. We began to carve out who we were and what we stood for. You remember that in 1984 that was tested When in the meeting house we made the statement that a person who does not receive Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord will go to a literal hell. And because of that statement, nothing that was unique to Orthodox Presbyterians, the basic teaching of the Bible The sacrifice, the finished work of Jesus is necessary to deliver us from the wrath of God. We were unanimously expelled from our place of worship. So much for Colombia liberalism. And you remember that how God took care of us at that time And that helped to define who we were and what we stood for. Now we can't claim much credit for it, but I don't know if some of you saw recently in US News and World Report they said hell's making a comeback. It was on the cover, you know. Well somebody's finally discovered, you know, maybe this thing really is there, you know, we ought to think about it some. Intrigue, you know, they're saying that there's more interest, more people are believing in hell than a few years ago. Maybe it's because of the way the world's going, you know, it's easier to believe in it. But that's been part of who we are, believing in eternal values, that God's word is real, it's trustworthy. But there's been two distinctives that I think have particularly marked us as a church uniquely as Bible-believing Christians. And the first is that We have tried, I think, very seriously to take the grace of God in the gospel to heart. We've been a people who have come to discover that just because Christians say they believe that God has forgiven them and that He's a God of love and that sovereign grace is exercised in the gospel, that doesn't necessarily mean we really believe that. You know how so many Christians are motivated by guilt and by the law and perfectionism to do the things they do. One of the hallmarks of our church has been, I believe, that we have believed that Jesus Christ's record on our behalf, totally outside of us, is sufficient to satisfy our Father. Because of that, we are a free people who serve him out of gratitude for his grace rather than cringing fear for what he may do to us if we don't walk straight. We are a free people, sinners, saved by grace. And I believe that that's made us a happy congregation. Amen? I was kind of a Baptist, Amen. Let's hear a free people. Amen. Amen? I believe that that's true. As a congregation, we've been a happy people. The second thing that I believe that's come to Marcus distinctively is that we see ourselves as a church that's part of the Second Reformation. Remember, the first reformation gave the word of God back to the people of God. The second reformation is giving the work of God back to the people of God. In the first Reformation, the priesthood of all believers was re-established. In the second reformation, the ministry of all believers is being re-established. We are breaking down that clergy-laity distinction that says that somehow I own or control the ministry, or that the elders should tell you how you serve the Lord and what is permitted in ministry around here. We believe that in fact, and I believe and am convinced, I really mean this. If you don't believe me, you haven't been hanging around me, I really believe you are more creative than I am You are more gifted, more skilled, more able, more in touch with your culture. The people that you are rubbing shoulders with, and that you know, than I or any professional person would ever be to design ministries to reach those people for Christ. And so my job is to feed you, to encourage you in your walk with Jesus Christ, for all of us as pastoral staff and elders, that we would pastor you so that God would use you. Who have been blessed to be a blessing that you might take Jesus Christ to this community. You see if The ministry centered around me, and I was the minister. Now all I'd need is an office and maybe a car phone to do the ministry, you know. But because the ministry is yours, I am not the minister. Remember, I don't like to be called that. I get on my bad side, call me the minister. I won't whap you around, but I you know it just doesn't turn me on. You can call me anything else you want, and I've probably heard it before, but don't call me the minister. You're the ministers And because of that, we need a larger facility to design for creative ministries, and that's why we're part of this campaign But because of that also, I believe that we are right now at a crossroads for our church. I really believe that we are at a strategic time. Because I believe there's been many other churches that have been at this point. That God has used them mightily. They've had a great deal of zeal. They've grown. They've come to a place where they've begun to make an impact on their community. More so, they have attracted Christians to come and to be part of them. Some people have come to know Christ through them. We've had a number of people have come to know Christ through our congregation I've lost count. I should do a count and tell you that. But it's through the 13 years, there has been a large number of people who have come to know Christ through this congregation. But at this point, I believe we're at a crossroads, because many other churches who have been at this point have then plateaued, stagnated. Become shipwrecked by divisions, distracted by petty distractions, spiritually powerless. Why? I think there's a number of reasons that could be given, but I would like to suggest to you three pitfalls. That we need to look at closely at this point in our life as a congregation, particularly on a Sunday that we call Loyalty Sunday, a Sunday of celebration for us as a congregation. At a critical juncture. And in this celebration, I'd like to remind us, not necessarily just of three things to celebrate about. There's a lot we can celebrate of God's goodness. But I want to rewarn us of three pitfalls that we must, brothers and sisters, absolutely must avoid. And I hope you take these to heart They're given to us in that psalm that we read earlier in the service, Psalm 115, from which has come the theme verse that has really built our faith in our God who is able to do the impossible. When we've taken on projects and faith ventures that have seemed totally beyond us, our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Psalm 115, 3 In Psalm 115, I believe also the Lord guides us into these three pitfalls that we have to be careful at a time like this as a congregation. The first pitfall, we've read the Psalms, so I want now to call attention to the particulars. The first pitfall is the lack of humility. The lack of humility. And that's taught us in verse 1. Look at that again. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us. But to your name be the glory, because of your love and faithfulness. Our God will not share his glory with another. He cannot The very thought is repugnant to think of our God sharing his unique glory with creatures. But I believe that pride would be to us a particular temptation now, as we look at what God has done through us as a congregation, who we are now, and what we could be in the future. Pride on two levels. First of all, pride regarding our church. Regarding our church as we look in the past, our history. As we look at what we've stood for and the cost that we've paid to stand for the gospel, as we look at the fact that we've never had a congregational split or division. There has never been scandal among the congregational leadership. We purchased a half a million dollar property debt-free by sacrificial giving and faith in what God would do. And we can look back on our history and that and many other things and say, we have quite a record. And be proud of it. Psalm 115, 1 says, Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to your name be the glory, because of your love and your faithfulness. You see, a good record is exactly what our insecure, proud, unstable hearts so desire, isn't it? We want to establish a record. We want to have a record that we can point to and say that we are superior. We have done something that we can be proud of. And until we realize that the only reason that God has ever been able to use us and protect us is because as a congregation we have had a keen, profound sense of our helplessness. of our unworthiness, of the fact that we have no claim upon God's mercy and protection. And simply the fact that we cast ourselves on his mercy as people who are helpless without it And because we've realized what a wreck we are, because CPC has always been a place for present-tense sinners. You know what present-tense sinners are? There's sinners that don't go around saying, you know, I used to be a sinner. I used to have problems, but now I got it together. And we can do that in such subtle ways. It sounds like we're a people who now basically have our lives cleaned up, that the flesh has somehow been subdued in us. And do we forget that the flesh is never subdued? It's always a beast ready to tear out of its cage. And we are capable of any kind of sin except that we cleave to Jesus Christ. He used to say when I was with inner varsity, every chapter I worked with was six months from extinction. I believe that every church is a year from extinction, apart from the grace of God. You and I could not believe the things that could happen if we begin to get proud of our record in the next months in the Spirit of God Would not be here in power because we cleave to him and recognize not to us, not to us, O Lord, but to your name be the glory that you've done anything that's worthwhile in this church. Prayer can so often for us be superstition, you know. You pray, Lord, I'm desperate, help me! And then the Lord helps. And he enables us to get through that thing that so terrorized us. And then how do we respond? We look after, God is blessed, and we say, it worked. I did it. It wasn't so bad. And and the very fact that we we kind of think, it worked. You know, what I did and and that prayer I offered and the way I did that, it worked. You ever find yourself thinking that way? Prayer becomes kind of a superstitious charm. And so we can very easily think, now what have we done in these last years? Let's just keep doing that. You know, just make it work. Keep having concerts of prayers and these other things, because it'll work, rather than the personal cleaving to Jesus and saying, Lord, we are helpless. Except you continue to show your mercy to us. That's not only true in the past, it's true in the present, in a day like this, our Loyalty Sunday. Loyalty Sunday can be a time when we say, let's feel good about our church. We're pretty good. Our hot stuff. I'm reminded by a quote, a quote by a Scotsman, James Denny, who once said, No man can at one and the same time give the impression that he is clever and that Christ is mighty to save. Could paraphrase that to say for us, no church can at one and the same time give the impression that it is great and that they have a great Savior. If you and I begin to celebrate how great we are, our eyes will immediately be turned from Jesus and the cross. And Loyalty Sunday will become to us a curse rather than a blessing. Now don't get me wrong. I love you as people. And I think this congregation's precious. I don't think we ought to just pretend now that we're crummy and that the church really is pretty bad off. A couple weeks ago, Elmer and I were part of a Presbytery visiting committee of three to a church in North Carolina. It was torn with division, party spirit, criticisms. As we sat there for 13 hours interviewing 22 people who came with all of their concerns and complaints and longings Boy, I couldn't wait to get back to Columbia. And I'll tell you, I missed you guys. I hit listen to that and I thought, yeah. Some of these people, I don't think they even know what a church is about. It's a Bible-believing Orthodox Presbyterian church. And when I'm in those kinds of situations, how I long for you. And I really do love you as people. I feel so blessed to function, minister with the elders that I minister with, and to the people in this congregation. I really feel blessed. And I love you as a people. I think when I come to those situations, I need to come back and say that. But the fact that we love each other is to be distinguished from the fact that we have arrived, that we are somehow lovable in our own right. Only Jesus Christ has given us the peace and the love that we have for one another. Do we really believe that? Let's shift our eyes from Him for a few months and we will see how true that is. And so Loyalty Sunday is a time to renew our awareness that not to us, not to us. But to your name, O Lord, be the glory, because of your love and your faithfulness to us. We can also do this in terms of the future. Miss this? Lack of humility. We can think that when we get this ministry facility up here, then we're going to be a real church. And then we'll have what every real church ought to have. And besides that, if you look around, you'll notice that only two or three churches since the history of Colombia ha since Columbia has begun have erected facilities. And so to think that, you know, we are part of the elite of churches that have erected a facility within this town that's rather hostile to church facilities. is to think we've made a major accomplishment. And to begin to think at that point that we have arrived as a people. To say that we have a unique opportunity to minister can so easily and subtly be turned to think that we have a unique property to protect. I remember a friend of mine in a church north of Albany, a church very similar to ours, a renewal-type church that was really seeking to be on the cutting edge of what God was doing and seeking to reach people for Christ. God was really using that congregation until they built their building. And when they built that, my friend said he couldn't believe how people's personalities changed. People who had been ministry-oriented all of a sudden began to protect their turf. They began to argue about whose right was whose about the kitchen and about this and about that and every other thing. And you and I need to come back and say, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name is the glory for this facility. Because your love and your faithfulness is to be displayed in it And we need a renewed sense of our own worthlessness and recognition of the sin of which our hearts are capable of, the sinful selfishness and protectiveness and demandingness. As we come to see God use this facility to honor Jesus. And that relates to the second level of pride, and that is the pride concerning our individual lives. Because you see, this all comes down to our view of ourselves as we stand before Jesus Christ. We don't like to think of ourselves as rebels on our conviction sheet that states the gospel and enables people who are becoming active in our church to identify with whether they Really believe the things that we believe as a church. We talk about our being rebels against God. Word probably most objected to in that statement. Hey, I am disobedient. But I don't think of myself as a rebel. I'm not perfect. And because I'm not perfect, I need Jesus to make up for my deficiencies. But don't tell me that I'm utterly corrupt. Don't tell me that I can't do anything good apart from the Spirit of God. I don't believe that. I think I have vestiges of goodness in me. And you see, it's when we twist our view of ourselves to say that we've got a mixture of some good and some bad, and Jesus kind of makes up for the bad. That we lose sight of what the cross is really about. The cross is the demonstration that God said that you and I were so helpless and rotten to the core in our corruption that He had to send His own Son. To establish a whole new record of a whole new human race. And that by that record of his righteousness and taking in his death on the cross your sin, your record. That vile record of your corruption and my corruption, that Jesus Christ exchanged those records. He gave to you the record of his righteousness and took from you the record of your vileness and mine. When you and I have that kind of a view of ourselves, then we humble ourselves before the cross. And then we have a proper view of God. And then verse 1 is not just pious language, but it becomes the cry of our heart. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us. But to your name be the glory, because of your love and faithfulness. In our Presbytery yesterday, we heard one of our own pastors rebuked for sin, public sin. of which he had been utterly repentant and broken before God. The first time I think in the thirteen years of Presbyter here Presbytery here in Maryland, I I don't think there was a dry eye among the men in that room. We wept as we heard our brother rebuked for his sin. He was bawling like a baby. And we wept, and every man in that room lined up and embraced him afterwards, one by one, because we all knew that our hearts were the same as his. Every one of us just as vulnerable. And you and I have to take that position for Jesus Christ to release his Spirit in us and be a church that will be a blessing. That's the first thing, a lack of humility. Now don't worry, I'm not going to take as much time on the other two. I just want to briefly touch on two other things that we need to notice, and that is the second, a lack of faith. A lack of faith. Let's just, before we look at that, pause for a moment. Believe God's moving in us, in our hearts, and let's just pause for a moment. Of quiet prayer before God that we would repent of our pride and give to Jesus his rightful place. Just a moment of silence for each of us to respond to him. But Lord, we've realized again that we are a proud people and we love something. That will tell us that we have a right to be proud, to feel superior. Lord, we celebrate this day and what you have done, but we recognize that it's not to us, but it's to you. It's the glory for whatever you have done to our congregation. And in our own hearts we realize we are capable of anything. It's only by your Spirit that you protect us, that you have even given us faith to trust Jesus. Nothing good in us. We cleave to Jesus anew, to give him the rightful place in our lives. Amen. Lack of faith. Believe that we're like missionaries among tribes in which there is what's sometimes called the contest of power between the demons and the true God. Now we represent the true God here in Howard County in the contest of power, pitting Jesus against materialism and secularism. And so the Howard County people say in verse 2, why do they, Howard Countyans and Baltimore Countyans, wherever you're from, why do they say, where is there God? Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And then there is that contest of power you see in verses 4 to 8, what they believe. They're idols, their gods. Or silver and gold made by the hands of men. They have mouths, but they can't speak. Eyes, but they can't see. They have ears, but they cannot hear. Noses, but they cannot smell. They have hands, but they cannot feel. Feet, but they cannot walk, nor can they utter a sound with their throats. And those who make them will be like them. See? Dead. So will all who trust in them. So we see in Howard County the fruits of materialism and secularism, broken marriages, broken homes. Oakland Mills High School currently, this is the latest count this week, had 18 pregnant girls from grades 10 to 12. One 15-year-old there has just had her third abortion. The fruits of Howard County's utopia. Drugs and alcohol are major, rampant problems among teenagers in this county and in this city particular. You can't jog along the bike path without fear of being molested. This week, a fourth grader raped in her own basement by a ninth grader Spousal abuse, child abuse. And we stand here as the people of God to say it does not have to be that way. Amen? Not because of us, but because we have a Savior, Jesus. But how great do we believe He is? Do we believe that our Jesus is in fact great enough to change lives here in Howard County? That our God is in heaven and he does whatever pleases him. And again, Doug McElroy always reminds us and Steve Whistler and some others that Our God is in heaven. That's where he shows how great his power is. You know, just this uh last week I was reading in Time magazine that the astronomers have discovered a new black hole. Now you know black hole is one of those things of such fantastic density and mass it's hard for us to conceive of. If you had a spoonful of black hole mass here, a spoonful of it would weigh over a billion tons. And they've discovered a black hole out there in a galaxy, not just part of our galaxy, some galaxy, NGC-6240. I mean that's how many galaxies there are. Here's this one that's just you know way out here somewhere and somebody's spotted this whole realm of billions of stars, a galaxy, and in that galaxy, which isn't even worth naming, so they just give them numbers and letters like license plates. There it is out there, and they found a black hole out there, and that black hole has the mass of, let me get it right, over a hundred billion times our sun. A hundred billion you know, again I tell you about millions, but you know a billion and a million, what's what's the difference? Hey, you know a million, if you counted to a million, it would take you twelve days. You know how long it would take you to count to a billion? 32 years. Now here's something out there that they say there's never been anything they've ever been. They can't even conceive of this thing And if you get near it, you get sucked into another universe or something, you know? Even light can't escape this thing. The energy from it is incredible, and they're saying there's something out there that God has made that we can't even begin to fathom. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Can he work in through us and bring renewal and revival in this county? You better believe it. Our God's in heaven. So he says, House of Israel, trust in the Lord. He's their help and their shield. Then verse 11, you who fear him, trust in the Lord. Build your faith. And because we can't conceive of that kind of a power, God has to bring it down to us in personal ways. And so God answers prayers for us in our own personal lives. A couple weeks ago, Max Bilke gave me permission to share this, went to the doctor. And the doctor said, Max, we've got some bad news for you. There's a golf ball size lump on your lung. We're gonna have to do a biopsy. It doesn't look too good. Last week Uh at that time then, a few of us were praying for Max, praying that God would give grace, God would provide healing, do what he wanted. Went back last week. He said, I don't understand it, but the mass is smaller. Went back again just this past Monday. The doctor says the mass has disappeared. There's nothing there. Now either you had a strange case of pneumonia, or something strange has happened here that we don't know. But you know, they think maybe it's pneumonia. Who knows? Maybe that's what it was. But the fact is That if you're Max and his family, you say, I don't know what it was, but God, I thank you that you have answered prayer. Now, God doesn't always answer prayer that way. Sometimes He gives grace to bear what we go through. But our God is in heaven. And he does whatever pleases him. And he wants for you and for me to build our faith to believe that he is able through us to do things that we have not yet guessed at. To renew our confidence at this time in the Lord. Finally, the third thing is that we beware the pitfall of a lack of vision. A lack of humility, a lack of building our faith and believing what God can do, believing that He could in fact provide through our gifts and pledges to build a facility and to work through that. But the third is the lack of vision. Verses 12 to 15. We see there are two things. What is vision? My definition of vision is seeing with the eyes of faith beyond the horizon of experience what is implied by the promises of God. That's just a simple working definition of vision. Vision is seeing with the eyes of faith beyond the horizon of experience what is implied by the promises of God. There's two things that I believe we see here. Number one is his promised covenant blessings in Christ. In verses 12 and 13, the Lord remembers us. And will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron. He will bless those who fear the Lord, small and great alike. God's going to bless our homes. We need to have a vision of homes that will be protected by our God, that we will not yield one square inch of our homes and our children. To Satan in his attempts to divert and to disrupt and to distract. But that we believe that our God is able to be our God. He remembers us, not just the big shots. Not just the super saints. He remembers us and our homes. We have a vision of our homes united in Christ and growing in Christ and our children growing up to serve Jesus Christ. Because of God's covenant blessings that He's given. Then verse 14 and 15, the second thing. He's given to us a vision of his intention to increase us, his people. May the Lord make you increase, both you and your children. May you be blessed by the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth. The one who has made black holes can change lives in Columbia Howard County. The one who is able to do all things because our God is in heaven. Do we have a vision that is so capturing us that it's worth giving our lives to? A vision of what God is doing and can do in establishing his kingdom here through us as his body, in part, linked up with other bodies in the Howard County Coalition for spiritual renewal? Do we have a vision of a changed Columbia in Howard County? Where Jesus Christ is prominent, where people are seeing the bankruptcy of their lives and the spiritual vacuum and they're turning. In not just single numbers, but they're turning in families and in tens and twenties to Jesus Christ. Do we see that with our eyes of faith? If we do, it'll shake us from the danger of stagnation. There's some evidence that going to two services in the fall would help us to do that better. Are we willing to consider that? Going to two services this fall? It's an idea for us to think about, to consider. We're considering that now. We're thinking of planting a daughter church in the next year or so. It's going to cost us going to be a lot of inconvenience. Do we have a vision that motivates us to do that? We send people out, our best leaders we send out to the mission field. Always that ambivalence. I'd love to see them growing up, but you know I hate to the losing them left and right. Do we have a vision that says God will raise up others? Keep sending them out. A vision for this facility, $1. 7 million, a vision for all the things that are going to cause us to have to change and be uncomfortable because we believe that Jesus Christ is worth it. Do you believe that? Let's pray. Lord, we want to pause now. I want to pause and we want to just stop and say again that we believe that you are God as in heaven. You're able to do whatever pleases you. Build our faith, Lord. Forgive us of our doubts and our shaky faith and our unbelief. Build our vision that we might be willing to be shaken from our comfort zones In order to see you use us as a congregation to reach this part of the vineyard for Jesus Christ, because, Lord Jesus, you are so worth it.