Sometime those of you who normally sit in the back should sit up toward the front just to hear that kind of singing so that you hear it all behind you. It's it's beautiful. It's very moving to hear that. Well uh it was back in nineteen eighty-six that we made a half a million dollar offer for this unique piece of property that we're worshiping on now. But we added an unusual wrinkle to the offer at that time Glenn Mitzel convinced us that uh we shouldn't go into debt because we didn't have any collateral, we'd be in bondage uh to our creditor, and um we should trust God and do it debt-free. So we took a step of faith and offered to the Lewises who owned the property a unique kind of deal. We said let's hold off settlement for I think it was a year and a half or so And um we'll put the money into an escrow fund. And now why would uh somebody selling a property be willing to wait for a year and a half to collect their money? We said, well We'll put it in this escrow fund. We're going to pay you cash. We're not going to borrow. But if we don't make the half million dollars, you get to keep what's in the escrow fund and the property. But if we, of course, get it all together, then we get the property and you get your half a million dollars. Well, um God moved and they accepted that offer And uh that was a rather daunting task because uh to put it in perspective, that was in 1986, our 1985 budget for the whole year, everything was $175,000. And on faith, we nearly doubled that budget in 1986 to $328,000 And now on top of that to have to come up with another $500,000. So it was on February the 1st of 1987 that I preached on Psalm 115, the text. before you and I preached the sermon called Have We Bitten Off More Than We Can Chew? Looking at the realities of what was before us. And uh those of you who've been around for a while, you see we're here, God provided. 328,000 plus the 500,000 And we paid off this property debt-free. I remember just uh going to the closing, the realtor said, Wow, your people are really amazing. Which kind of thrust us back to verse 1 of Psalm 115. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to your name be the glory, because of your love and your faithfulness It's so tempting, isn't it? Your back's to the wall. I know there's no way we can do this. Lord, help. And then it happens and it's kind of like, oh, I pulled that off. So subtle, isn't it? So then we come up to 1991. Now we want to build on that property. And so we had a campaign called Vision 91. Three year pledges as we're doing now. Again, um we took on a a sizable challenge And again, God provided for what we needed. In fact, if you go on the out the front door there and look just to the left on the wall, you'll see on the Stone that's actually a time capsule. Psalm 115, verse 3, engraved on there to remind us. Of what we claimed at that time, our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Now it was in April of 1991 that I preached on Psalm 115 again, and I preached at that time three pitfalls. And God's promises from this psalm for us to look and to see what are warnings from this psalm about that step that we were taking. And I I want to return this morning back to that psalm again, and I want to look at those same pitfalls. Because now we're entering a time when we who identify with Columbia Presbyterian and love Jesus Christ and his church are going to be praying, if you haven't already begun in these next few weeks, about what pledge the Lord would have for us to give, to be able to privately give in on May the 22nd. And we will hear the results of that, what we have pledged at the end of the service. We are planning to have a celebration picnic in faith at the end of that service, so I have a plan for that. Uh the total to complete the full facility is about seven million dollars. And then we will be finished. That's all we'll do on this piece of property. It will be the final phase. It will be the um attempt to make best use of every square foot of this nearly seven acres as a quality but not opulent base of ministry for the gospel to our community. We're calling this the capstone campaign because it's the capstone of the facility to finish the project, but it's also Building on the Rock Jesus Christ. So that's it, the Capstone Campaign. Up over 40 families met here a week ago Saturday. And this morning are finishing the last of them putting in their three-year pledges These are people who are in leadership in this campaign, the elders, the deacons, the trustees, and people who are in various committees of the facility. And we want to do that to encourage you. You'll hear, you'll get a letter on the results of that this week, and you'll hear it next Sunday if you're not one of those that gets the letter. to see what God did. And we want for you to hear through that that we are committed and serious about this. We're not just saying you guys give. But join us in sacrifice and faith because we believe that God is calling us to do this and to let you know that we're serious about that. So back in 1991, we claimed God's character and his promises from this psalm, and we need to do it again. So I returned to that Psalm 115. I can do a whole series on this psalm, but uh have to limit it to a few observations. But there are three warnings, three pitfalls, I think, as we enter something like this. pitfalls spiritually that um we pray that God will by his grace enable us to avoid. The first of them Now you know these are from 1991. Does anybody remember the first one? First one is the uh lack of humility. Lack of humility, and that's from verse one Not to us, O Lord, not to us. But to your name be the glory because of your love and your faithfulness. This psalm was most likely written for the dedication of the construction, for the finish, the completion of the second temple after the exile. The psalmist is very concerned that the people don't think that they pulled it off. You know, we got back here in the land and Haggai nagged us and we coughed it up and we produced this thing and so uh here it is, we did it. You notice the repetition of not to us. I think that repetition indicates some emotion. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us. You see there's a there's some feeling there, but to your name be the glory. It's it's the kind of thing where, you know, if um you say something that you did and it worked out well and you say, well, you know, God did that. And you're saying it because you don't want to be cocky. It could be either be superstitious, you want to give them glory, or you just say, you know, I don't want to be proud because I know what happens to proud people, you know, kinda like knockwood or something. You know, God did that. But then there's times when you say, God did that. And it it there's nothing constrained. It is just your heart says, I know I couldn't do that. You ever been there? You know the difference when you're saying that somebody? Yeah, just this week I was uh talking to somebody on the phone and um they were finding out about uh a stunning act of mercy of God to them, totally unexpected, and they shouted on the phone, God did that! I'm going to record that in my book of mercy, so I remember to his glory. Do you have a book of mercies? You know, a book of miracles, a book, you know, see what it says? To your name be the glory, because of your love and your faithfulness. Now, a number of us keep journals. I keep a journal, but when I heard that, I was thinking, you know, probably it's good to keep a separate book. of God's unique covenant mercies and his faithfulness. So that in times when you're down, your faith is low, you can go back and you can look and you say, but remember here where things seemed hopeless and look what God did. Remember his mercies, remember his covenant faithfulness. Just a thought. You might want to think about whether to keep a separate book so that You don't get tempted like I am so many times to think, I pulled that off. Yeah, I was able to do that. You go back and you read what it was really like and it's a reality check. God did that. God worked his faithfulness. And so as we enter this campaign, I know I must watch myself in my own heart, and I suspect that you need to do that too. In two ways, you see um four ways that are listed there, but think about, you know, one danger is just to think um Hey, it's another project. We pulled it off in eighty seven and pulled it off in ninety one, so guess we can pull it off again. You know, we might be tempted to think that when we originally saw this project and thought it would be about four million dollars. But as we began to consider what it was really needed to do the facility that would not be a compromise that we would regret, look back and say, well, I wish we had done it right And we said, now here's what it will take. It looked like seven million dollars. You look at seven million dollars and you realize this is too daunting And if you really look at it, you can just clinically look at it, I don't know, they figured it out, I guess they'll do it. No, no, no, no, no. We don't know how we're gonna do it. It's it's too daunting. The cost of the project. Back in nineteen ninety one, Vision 91 was for one point eight million dollars. That was astronomical to us back then. Now we're talking about $7 million. Gee, you know, we need more than that in the pledge, we need more than the 1. 8 million in pledges just to begin to talk about maintaining the debt for the bonds that will come after that. So the amount of debt that can be serviced. Even if it was $2 million that we got in the three-year pledges, that still leaves $5 million to service in debt. You figure out how much that is per month? I don't know how much that is per month, but I'll tell you it's more than I want to think about our having to carry. So we need to think not just in terms of what we can do But what's needed? What is God calling us to do? Lord, you got us into this predicament. You called us to do this. What can you provide? You see, the the whole point of this psalm is getting our eyes off of ourselves. unto him. Lord, you've got to provide. To you will be the glory because it'll be obvious to us that we were trying to follow you the best we could and this is what you called us to do, so this is you know what you will need to provide for it to happen. Remember back in Vision 91, the three-year pledge goal was $650,000. I still remember the day that those pledges were brought in. We prayed that God would provide at least $650,000 and we were going to announce just like this time, if people gave it early in the service, we were going to come back again to the service and say this is the total. And people counted it all up and it came to a couple thousand short of six hundred and fifty thousand dollars. A couple thousand short You know, I've got to dig it in my pocket or something, you know. But I mean, you know, what would you you say, that's close, that's really neat, you know. And then somebody came with an envelope. This was just before we tour announced the results I mean, uh, talk about the kind of thing you read in a book. Somebody came with an envelope, and there was an additional pledge for $5,000. Somebody in the nursery Was convicted in the nursery to add $5,000 to their former pledge. And that put us over the $650,000. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us. But to your name be the glory because of your covenant love and your faithfulness. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. You think of how I really respect our financial subcommittee. You look at point four about the matter of the consultant. I didn't know this was such a major industry. I mean, boy, you you want to go into a building project, you'll find out how many people are ready to help you out. Man, eh, you know, there are loads of people. And they went through and examined a lot of people and then invited three or four here to come and meet with them and to talk about and pray about which one would have God do. And what I really appreciated about our subcommittee, and this was unanimous, was they did not pick the most expensive, the most thorough. The one that said, we can guarantee, you know, if you do this, looking at your record, you know, just follow this and here's what you'll come up with. They pick somebody who's so low-key you will never see them He's here to help us to simply communicate what God's message is to believe that he'll do it. So the moment come to the end of the campaign, we don't say Praise be to Funbusters Incorporated. You know, they helped us to pull it off and we got what they guaranteed. They said, you just follow our plan and you'll do it. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us. But to your name be the glory for your covenant love and your faithfulness. So our eyes are on him, and that's the first thing, the lack of humility. That's my first concern. It's the concern of this psalm So that you and I will look and we'll be able to look back that like Henry V after Agincourt, where the English were outnumbered three or four to one by the French and the It looked like they were walking into a slaughter of a battle. Winston Churchill said it was the most spectacular battle the English ever fought God brought an amazing rain the night before the battle that bogged down the French cavalry And the French lost thousands, not only of soldiers, but their noblemen. And the English lost never could ever pin down the numbers, maybe a couple of hundred. And after that battle, Henry V used Psalm 115. 1 to lead his soldiers. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us. But to your name. Be the glory for your covenant love and faithfulness. This was the verse that William Wilberforce used before Parliament. When after years of struggling in what seemed like a hopeless battle to eliminate, to abolish slavery in the British Empire, finally Parliament passed a law to abolish it. And William Wilberforce stood up using this verse, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name. Be the praise, be the glory, for your covenant love and your faithfulness. The situation of this psalm is that these are exiles that have been brought back from Babylon. They were slaves, they were helpless And God who is in the heavens who does whatever he pleases, put an end to the Babylonian Empire, brought in Cyrus through the water sources of Babylon. Overthrew the Babylonians, and Cyrus said, Go home, you Jews. And even though Isaiah 48. 20 says that all of them should have gone home, they didn't. Only 50,000 did. The vast majority stayed in Babylon. When those that went back, God used his prophets Haggai and others to say, Build my house. This place for me to reveal myself to you and to worship, we're not building a temple. The We're building a base of operation for ministry. You guys are the temple. But as they came back, God spoke to them in Isaiah 48, prophetically, about what that day would be. His concern for his own glory, he says in Isaiah 48 and verse 9, For my own name's sake I delay my wrath. For the sake of my praise I hold it back from you to not cut you off. See, I've refined you, though not as silver. I've tested you in the furnace of affliction for my own sake. For my own sake, I do this. How can I let myself be defamed? I will not yield my glory to another. God is doing this for his glory. We want a campaign that glorifies him, that becomes a spiritual benefit to us, and we don't get through it Our prayer and desire is that we each come through this stronger spiritually. Our faith is refined and tested. We trust him more and we love him more because we've seen how he works through people who are willing to trust him and to sacrifice and what they believe is what God is calling us to do. So that's the first problem. The first problem is a problem of arrogance. The second problem is a problem of anxiety. The second pitfall is a lack of faith. A lack of faith. You see that in verses 2 to 11? Here's a despised and defeated people with no land, no visible God. And the pop culture of that time simply couldn't fathom. They couldn't imagine an invisible God. All the gods of that day were visible. You could point to them. This is our God. This is what he looks like. This is the one who rescues us. And so verse 2, why do the nation say, where is their God? Not only where is their God, you know, we took the ark We took the temple, there was no God that was represented there. Where is their God? They don't have a God. Their God's invisible. It's a figment of their imagination. Here's our gods, but where's their God? And the ringing cry, the statement of faith, verse 3. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever he pleases. That's a bold statement of faith, isn't it? Particularly when your back's to the wall. And so when we look at what is before us, we need to remind ourselves that the invisible God fulfills his promises. And when we're in line with his vision, we have access to his resources. I'm tempted to say when I look at something like this that it's too big a project. We need got to come up with a plan B. You know, we gotta defer. We gotta do something else. You know, we maybe gotta think about those guys that guaranteed big success and go hire them. I don't know. But you know, uh this week I sat down and I figured out some of the some of the numbers. And um that was a good reality check. I'll tell you, helped my prayer life. I don't know how we're going to do it. I mean, frankly, this is more than I can imagine our congregation being able to come up with and to be able to pay. So as we look at it, do we say we should scale back? Well, I mean, that's a serious question. What is God calling us to do? And it helped me to remind myself if we were thinking of doing this in Japan, To reach the Japanese to our missionaries, we say, oh, it costs seven million dollars to do it right. Cost $7 million. Let's trust God to do it. It's up to Him You see, we need to think like missionaries. If God has called us to do this as a base of operation for his glory and his ministry, Then we trust what needs to be done, not what we can do. You see the difference? Now you're you're realistic, you don't say well let's build a $20 million project. No, you believe this is what he's called us to do. This is what it'll cost. Think like missionaries, not trusting it worked before, like the nations. We are so determined to trust only what we can see. That's a real struggle. I mean, I don't know how much in your prayer, but I really struggle. You ever think it's so hard to trust God alone, isn't it? It's always God plus a plan. God plus I got this thing, I can do it. We used blue pledge cards that had little frames on it. Okay, we'll use those same kinds of pledge cards. It worked. This is what we followed in the last campaign. You know, we have some it worked before. Let's pray it'll work again. And it's so subtle. You're not trusting God, you're trusting what you do to say This is what the psychologists and the consultants and all these people say. This will work. You know, it's interesting. We're doing almost nothing in this campaign like we did in the last campaign. Not because that was a failure. It wasn't. God used it We're doing what we believe he's calling us to do at this point. And I'll tell you, when you come to what God would have you to give The only way that I know that you'll be able to trust God and not the mechanism or whatever else is to get alone with Him. Wrestle with him in prayer. God, here's your word. Psalm 115, other passages. Lord, I believe you. We're trusting you. We're not calling a special prayer meeting at this point. I don't know if God will lead us to do that between now and May 22nd, but we will be taking a part of every Thursday concert of prayer That we normally meet to pray specifically for God to work through these weeks to provide what He wants for us to have to build. So that our eyes are on him. This is what we need to do. After that, the psalmist goes on to describe the idols. You see them there described in sarcasm. In fact, Augustine commenting on this passage talked about how animals and birds make their nests in the idols. And it takes the worshiper to deliver the idol from the reptiles that make their homes in it, and he mocks them. The psalmist says they can't see, they can't hear, they can't speak, and so are those that become like them who worship them. You become like what you worship. You know that Whether you worship Jesus Christ, you become more like him. If you worship an idol, you become degraded by that idol. They made their idols. We simply adopt ours and place our affections on them. And so after that You see that threefold call to the true God as our help and our shield He's the one. Verse 9, oh house of Israel, trust in the Lord. He's their help and their shield. House of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He's their help and their shield. You who fear him, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. Jesus is your shield from God's wrath. Because he took it upon himself. That's why we love him. He's your help. Not only at the cross for you to be reconciled with God and made new, forgiven But day by day, he is your help and your shield in every circumstance. I can never read those words without thinking of the experience I had back many years ago when I was praying it was wintertime along the Potomac River. And I was meditating on Psalm 115 and I was particularly meditating on those verses. Trust in the Lord. He's their help and their shield. As I was doing that, I was walking along the river and it was a rise, a sharp hill And just down the path, I saw it was it was snow on the ground and I saw a beautiful red fox come right up on the path. fifty, sixty yards down the trail. And he didn't see me because there were three dogs that were chasing him. He could hear him in the distance. Woo woo woo woo you know, barking down, coming through the woods. And a fox just came up and plopped down. He was absolutely exhausted. And I slowly approached him and he finally turned around and looked at me and it was just kind of like, oh no, not you two And he kind of dragged his body up and got up and kind of looped on down the and I my heart went out to him and I I'd just been reading this and thought, you know, I'm gonna be your help and your shield And so the dogs came up and I looked at them down there and, you know, one looked like a mastiff. There was a German shepherd of St. Bernard, and they had three huge things coming You know, and so you know, they don't bark, they go, woo, woo, you know. They're coming up this hill, and I thought, my only chance I don't have anything on me is just surprise. So I just kind of stayed down there along the hill. It was a sharp rise. And so just as they came up the sharp rise, I came out from behind this bush. They went, Bah the the first dog jumped straight up in the air and shrieked, turned around and ran over the second dog. The third dog was a few people Paces behind. He didn't know his door. He just saw his friends coming down, so he just turned around and went back down the hill after that fifth. And I thought, Lord, how many times You're my help and my shield. That fox never knew it. He just on down there. He's thinking I'm after. He doesn't, you know. Never knew. And I thought, Lord, that's so like you You're constantly taking care of me, protecting me. The invisible God who is in heaven, who does whatever he pleases. It's up to you and to me to have our eyes fixed on him, to determine to give him the glory. The last thing that we that I'm concerned that we not have, and by the way, I forgot this in the first two. I wanted to give you one more illustration of how God has been our help and our shield He's always provided a place for us to worship and uh whether it was the meeting house where we started and then moving on to the stone house and I remember when we were in the stone house we we really needed uh we had outgrown it we needed another place And uh we were looking at all the various options there were, and it was uh spring of 1987 and Grace Greenslit approached uh Howard Community College, and they said, we have a policy we don't rent to churches, so that was the end of that. And then uh we looked at all the other options and there weren't very many, and so Chuck, her husband, went back in the summer and approached them again and said, you know, are you sure you wouldn't want to rethink that? And they said, uh, okay. we'll we'll consider renting to you. And they named a very high price and they wouldn't give us rooms. And you could tell they were kind of like, we want you to go away, but you know, we'll we'll look like we're going to try and work with you. And we finally gave up and said, this just isn't going to work. It was between two or three days, I'm not sure, but it was either two or three days after that. The president of uh Howard Community College went to the director of Smith Theater and said, uh, we need more revenue in the college. What are you doing with Smith Theater on Sundays? And the director said, I'm not doing anything with it. He said, I want you to rent it I want this used every Sunday. Well guess who came to mind? She thought of Chuck and called him up and said, Would you like to still rent our place? greatly reduced the price, gave us every classroom in the college. You could have the whole thing. And it was such a good deal we thought we would be there until we built the full phase of this facility. decided not to, but to use this in the interim. He is their help and their shield. Just one detail on that. Just as we were going in, we had everything covered except we had three weeks to go and we didn't have the classroom space. We didn't want to delay classes and so we prayed that God would provide us classroom space. We needed three more adult classrooms. We even tried, we were meeting at the Stonehouse and Long Reach Village Center. We tried to rent above the safeway and they just ignored us. We prayed about it and the Thursday before those last three classes they called up and they said you guys wanted rooms. Yeah, we did. They said, you take three offices up there for free. We won't even charge you. He's their help and their shield. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to your name. Be the glory. The third and final thing is the concern that we would lack vision. The lack of vision. You see, if we think we're doing this so that we can be more comfortable, then uh we're not in line with God's purpose. And it's kind of risky at that point to claim his resources. But he claims here three things for us. He claims he's going to bless us. He's going to increase us and he's going to use our praise before the nations. You notice he's going to bless us, verses 12 and 13. He'll bless us, bless us, bless us four times, bless us. And then verse 15, again, he's going to bless us. Verse, yeah, may you be blessed. He's going to bless us so that we can be a blessing. He's going to bless us so that uh The nations who look don't say, oh, well, you know, gee, their God is really the God because look at that, they built this seven million dollar facility. Yeah, well, you know Mormons build big facilities too and they'll outdo us any day. Buildings don't prove that our God is the true and living God. It's changed lives that demonstrate that. It's simply a base of operation. But the blessing is that there will be changed lives, that we will be able to do more ministries And as God blesses us, the blessing being pr bringing us out of curse to blessing, blessing us and then secondly increasing us, be increasing numerically, number, you know, our children, he's saying, bigger family. Yeah, he's doing that. He's blessed our families. Also spiritually, he's bringing more people into the kingdom, he's blessing us that way. You see, there's this there's this vision of God. pouring out his blessing upon his people whose eyes are upon him. And then finally he kind of pulls the whole thing back in a full circle to say that, you know, it's God who is in heaven has given the earth to us. So that we will extol him on earth. The dead don't extol him on earth. They don't, they can't speak of his praise and his wonders. But the nations see us, those nations who ask, where is their God? The nations who are in bondage to their idols. And when they see us, extol him, bless, lives changed. So that we can be a blessing, so that we can dream of more ministries that we're able to do. People coming in to worship and so that you can hear the gospel. more fully, clearly, numbers of ministries multitasking through the week, then the nations look and they see, you know what, evangelicalism isn't simply a sociological phenomenon. I think one of the biggest, most alarming problems before the Church of Christ currently is that the secular world thinks they can explain us sociologically. If I wasn't out of time, I'd give you a good quote on that, and I'll hope to give it to you next week. They are explaining us away, saying, you can explain away evangelicalism. It don't have it doesn't take a supernatural God to do it. What you can explain away are churches like Bible Fellowship Church in Little Rock, Arkansas, where changed lives are changing that community. By the power of Jesus Christ, so that the mayor and the community leaders come to the church and they say, You guys have changed our community. We are glad you're here. Tell us more about this, Jesus. That's our vision for God, who is in heaven, to do whatever he pleases for his glory. Amen. Let's pray. And so our God, our eyes are upon you. We enter this campaign and not as something to endure, but something that we look forward to. What you will do to honor yourself and what you will do in our lives. To build our faith, to show that our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And just Lord, as we claimed that in the 80s and the 90s, so we claim it now in this 21st century. To see what you will do, not according to our resources, but according to your resources. Not with what we can plan or imagine. Or guarantee or look to, but Father, simply to be able to say, this is what's needed. Now let's see what God will do as we simply commit ourselves to Him. Lord, would you declare your glory so that in that day in May and June we'll be able to look back and say, we can record this to the glory of our God in our Psalm 115, Book of Miracles, our God is in heaven. And he has shown his mercy, his covenant mercy, and his faithfulness. And so Lord, we commit to you this whole project. We commit ourselves to you. You who are our help and our shield. The shield of Dave and Gina Chandler as they pray for Gina after her surgery and hear the great report of her nodes clear from cancer. You who provide for us and take care of us and are our health and our shield in so many different ways. You we come to now in Jesus' name. Amen.