But of course, the most enjoyable part was the opportunity that we had to be messengers bringing good news. There are many people there to whom we had the opportunity to provide their first exposure to the Word of God. And many of those people read and discussed God's Word with us weekly as a part of their English classes. I'd like to tell you the story of one of those people, a man named Yoshi. Yoshi called me one Saturday afternoon to ask if he could come and observe my English class that evening. He wanted to strengthen his English to help him at work. Up to that point, there had been only one student in that class for the entire three months that the class had been in existence. So I was delighted at the possibility of having another student, if just to lessen the intensity of the class. And so Yoshi came that night and he participated in the English portion of the class which lasted for the first hour. When it came time for the Bible Bible time, I announced that it was now time for Bible time, and Yoshi looked a little surprised. Our advertising explained about the Bible time and why we did it, but Yoshi hadn't read the advertising very carefully. And so he endured that Bible time. He said as little as possible, and he was out the door at the first gracious opportunity afterward. Yoshi didn't come to class the next week, and it seemed that he had decided not to join the class. But the week after he did come again, and he did join the class, And soon others joined also, and the class grew to about five students. Bible times continued to be the same for Yoshi, same grim face. Same distaste for participating, same hasty exit at the end. And not only that, but Yoshi seemed to glory in his shame. Often talking about his distant relationship with his wife and openly flirting with one of the young working women who had also joined the class. Truthfully, I began to dislike him. But as the weeks went by, a spirit of camaraderie began to build between the students in the class And our Saturday evening class became something that we really all began to look forward to. On Yoshi's birthday, I made a cake that we shared with that class, and that really seemed to mean a lot to him. Then, one night it happened. Yoshi asked a question during Bible time. It was the first indication that he had been doing anything more than enduring the Bible time, the first indication that he was processing what he was hearing. Gradually Yoshi began to participate more and more in Bible time. And on the night of the last class, before we returned to America, Yoshi said that at first he hadn't been too thrilled that Bible time was part of his English class. But as he was repeatedly exposed to the God's Word, he began to be interested to see what the Bible said for himself. And he began to enjoy the Bible time portion of the class as well. I don't know how Yoshi's story will end. I wish I could say that he became a Christian and that his life was transformed. We pray that that will happen, but it hasn't happened yet. But Yoshi is planning to continue in the English class, and so he and the others will continue to be exposed to God's word And God's word is living and active and will not return empty. So we continue to hope and to pray that it will bear fruit in Yoshi's life This story gives you a little bit of an idea of what we were doing in Japan, meeting people, making friends, exposing them to God's Word. planting seeds and watering. It was an exciting opportunity and a privilege, and we look forward to the opportunity to do it again. Re and I do want to thank you at CPC for the part that you've had in encouraging our work. We thank you for your financial support that you've given so that we could be in Japan. We've been encouraged to hear how many of you have been praying for us. And we can tell by your questions and your comments that some of you have followed the work closely and have prayed for it frequently. We thank you for sending us letters to help us stay in touch with your lives so that we wouldn't be strangers when we came back. We thank you for sending packages of surprises. And we thank you for the many ways that you've welcomed us and helped us since we've returned to Japan. Your love and your partnership in our work have truly been an encouragement to us, and we thank you. Someone once told us that with a first-term missionary, God often does more in you than he does through you. And it was certainly true with our limited Japanese that our conversations with our friends and our contacts could only go so deep. God did teach us many things during our time in Japan, and I'd like to share one of those things with you this morning. So let's go now to God in prayer and then hear from his word. Father in heaven, we thank you that you have made yourself known to us in your word. We know that we could not know you if you did not reveal yourself to us. We thank you that you've revealed yourself through a word which is living and active. Sharper than any double-edged sword, which penetrates even to the thoughts and attitudes of the heart. We thank you that your word will not return to you empty but will accomplish what you desire and achieve the purpose for which you send it. We pray, as we meet you through your word this morning, that you will make us receptive to the purpose for which you are sending it to us today. Enable us to grow in our knowledge of you and accomplish your purpose in us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, please turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. We're going to look at two passages in 1 Corinthians this morning. The first begins in chapter 1, verse 20, and continues to chapter 2, verse 5, and then we'll continue in chapter 3. So let's begin in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 20. Where is the wise man? Where is the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For since in the wisdom of God the world, through its wisdom, did not know him, God was pleased through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who believed. Jews demand miraculous signs, and Greeks look for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews, and foolishness to Gentiles But to those whom God has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than man's wisdom, and the weakness of God is stronger than man's strength. Brothers, think of what you were when you were called. Not many of you were wise by human standards. Not many were influential. Not many were of noble birth. But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. God chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong. He chose the lowly things of this world, and the despised things, and the things that are not, to nullify the things that are, so that no one may boast before him. It is because of him that you are in Christ Jesus, who has become for us wisdom from God, that is our righteousness, holiness, and redemption. Therefore, as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord When I came to you, brothers, I did not come with eloquence or superior wisdom as I proclaimed to you the testimony about God. For I resolved to know nothing while I was with you, except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. I came to you in weakness and fear and with much trembling. My message and my preaching were not with wise and persuasive words, but with a demonstration of the Spirit's power, so that your faith might not rest on men's wisdom, but on God's power. Now let's continue in chapter 3, verse 1. Brothers, I could not address you as spiritual, but as worldly, mere infants in Christ. I gave you milk, not solid food, for you were not yet ready for it. Indeed, you were still not ready. You are still worldly. For since there is jealousy and quarreling among you, are you not worldly? Are you not acting like mere men? For when one says, I follow Paul, and another, I follow Apollos, Are you not mere men? What, after all, is Apollos? And what is Paul? Only servants through whom you came to believe, as the Lord has assigned to each his task I planted the seed. Apollos watered it, but God made it grow. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who makes things grow. God uses many things in the process of bringing people to know him. Our team leader Dan Iverson likes to quote Paul in 1 Thessalonians saying, We were delighted to share with you not only the gospel of God, but our very lives as well, because you had become so dear to us. Dan calls that combination of God's word and the love of God's people the one-two punch of the gospel. And in Thessalonica, and in many places since, the result has been that people have turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. My wife Re had the opportunity to deliver that one-to-punch to a woman named Shinkiro who attended a seeker's Bible study in English that Ree led. We first met Shihiro at a dinner that our team put on as a special event to make contacts. And at that dinner there was a talk by an American doctor who was in Japan as part of a summer missions team. Gikero had been a dentist and had lived in America for 18 years. Her English was excellent, and she had even attended a Christian church a few times in America with a man that she dated briefly. As we got to know her over dinner that night, it was clear that Shihiro was interested in what the doctor had to say about medicine in America, but that she was not interested in what the doctor had to say about Christianity. And so when recalled to invite her to the Bible study later, Chihiro declined. However, Chihiro was also a new mother. She had returned from America, gotten married, stopped her dental practice, and had her first child. Like many other Japanese women, her husband works very long hours, and so Shihiro bears the bulk of caring for her son alone. Chi hero was very lonely. And eventually her loneliness became stronger than her distaste for things Christian. And so a month later she called Rhee and she asked if that Bible study was still going on. She came to the next study, and she stayed for lunch afterward. Initially, she continued to come to the study, I think, primarily for companionship. As each of the other women in the study was also a young mother. And as the group continued to meet together, the women grew closer as they shared in the struggle of being the mother of a young child. Shikiro's previous exposure to Christianity through the church in America meant that she had some familiarity with some of the things that they talked about in the Bible study. And as the study went on, gradually the women began to interact with the Bible at a deeper and more personal level, and rehad a number of opportunities to clearly explain significant aspects of the gospel. None of those women has become a Christian yet, either. But it's clear that God did use the exposure to his word and the love of his people to open their hearts. And to free them to talk about biblical truth at a deeper and more personal level. Jihiro has said that at some point in her life she would like to believe. And so we pray that those women will continue in that Bible study with the person who is replacing us at that location. This morning you've heard the stories of two Japanese women, our two Japanese people, and our relationships with them. Seeds were planted in Yoshi's life And seeds were watered in Shikiro's life, which had been planted many years before. What will cause those seeds to grow and to bear fruit? In both cases, gestures of friendship and the clear explanation of biblical truth were very significant. But will the seeds that were sown in their lives produce the fruit of faith? I don't know. Was our friendship strong enough? Were our explanations clear enough? It was here that God reminded us of a very important truth. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 6, that he planted the seed. That Apollos watered it, but that God made it grow. Only God can produce the fruit of faith Now, we knew in our heads that our friendship and our explanations couldn't bring people to faith. We knew that only God could change hearts. But sometimes what we knew in our heads was not reflected in our lives. If only we could get Jihiro to see the sincerity of our friendship. Then she would know that Christianity was true. If only I could explain this truth more clearly, then Yoshi would understand his need for God Sometimes we lived as if those were the things that would cause the seeds that had been planted in their hearts to grow. Now, I don't mean to minimize the part of sincere friendship or the clear explanation of the gospel in the process of people coming to faith. Those are exactly the types of things that God uses in the process. And what's more, God gives each of us gifts and talents and strengths, and he intends for us to use those in the task he's given us of being his witnesses. But the power is not in those things. The power is not in our ability to be a friend or to clearly explain truth. The power is not in a magnetic personality or the planning of every detail perfectly. The power is not in the ability to speak persuasively or to speak Japanese well. The power is from God's Spirit, regenerating a dead heart, bringing conviction of sin, granting repentance, and giving the gift of faith in the Savior He has sent. Paul reminds us in 1 Corinthians 2, verse 5, that we don't want people's faith to depend on our wisdom, but on God's power. We don't want Shihiro to believe because we were her friends. Maybe someday a better friend will come along. We don't want Yoshi to believe because we explain something clearly enough. Maybe someday an issue will come up that we can't explain clearly enough. We want them to believe because God reveals Himself to them in such a way that they will never forget the encounter. In 1 Corinthians 1, verse 25, Paul says that the foolishness of God is wiser than man's wisdom, and the weakness of God is stronger than man's strength. Why would we want to put our hope in what we can do? During our time in Japan, God began to reveal to us ways in which, even though we knew that only He could produce the growth, We were acting as if what we would do was the important thing. Sometimes we could see it in the pressure we put on ourselves to be just the right person or to do something just right. Sometimes we could see it in our disappointment with other people when they didn't do something just right. But God showed us that we could be the perfect friend. Give a clear and persuasive explanation. Plan every detail of an event perfectly, and people could be no closer to knowing him as a result. He reminded us that the most important thing is whether his spirit was at work in the hearts of the people in whose lives we were sowing seeds. And so the result in our lives was a greater emphasis in prayer for the people that God had given us to minister to. And so most nights after our kids went to bed, Re and I spent time praying together for God to pour out his power on the people And the ministries that we were involved with. Now, of course, we'd been praying before, but now we prayed more regularly for ourselves and our kids. And our non Christian contacts for our work and the work of others What God was teaching us was a greater dependence on Him to produce fruit, not just in theory, but in practice. Each time we joined to pray, we were acknowledging our weakness, that what we would do couldn't change their hearts. And we were reminded each night that the source of the growth of the seeds that we were sowing was not in what we would do, but in what God would do. And we were doing the one thing that we could do that would make a difference. We were calling on God to release his power in the lives of our context It's still a struggle to keep praying regularly, and we get sidetracked from time to time And we still do try to plan things thoroughly, to be good friends, and to give clear explanations. But we thank God that He continues to remind us Where the power for change comes from in our lives and in the lives of others. My hope this morning is that God will remind you as He has reminded us. In each of the different areas of our lives, it's God who brings the growth. Our efforts are important, and God uses them in the process. But the results will not come through our efforts. Only God can bring the growth. And so where is it that you want to see fruit and growth in your life? Is it in your devotional life for greater consistency or greater depth in your times with God? Is it an obedience in an area of ongoing struggle in your life Is it in a relationship with a parent or a child, a spouse or a sibling, a roommate or a coworker Is it in a ministry that God has given you? Is it in the lives of people that He's brought into your contact? I want to encourage you this morning to recognize your limitations and to call on the unlimited one who alone can bring fruit and growth in our lives. and the lives of others. Finally, I want to encourage you to continue praying for us and for our team. I can remember one night praying for a new student who had joined one of our classes and wondering, could this be the first time that anyone has ever prayed for this person? Because we know our weakness and we know the weakness of our efforts, we long to have many voices calling on God to pour out his power on those who are so far from him. And so pray for Yoshi, Y O S H I. Pray for Chihiro, C H I H I R O Pray that they would continue in contact with God's people and his word. And pray that the seeds that have been sown in their hearts would bring forth new life. Only God is able to cause them to do so. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we know that you are the author of life. You alone have life in yourself. We thank you that you made each of us and give life to each of us. We thank you that when we were dead in transgressions and sins, you gave us new life, making us alive in Christ. And we thank you that you have given each of us a part to play in your work of giving new life to others. We know that only you can bring fruit and growth in our lives and the lives of others. Help us to acknowledge that fact, not only with our lips. But also with our attitudes, our actions, and our prayers. And as we see you work in response to our prayers, we pray that you would reveal your glory to us and to others in new ways. We pray in Jesus' name and for his glory. Amen.