Good morning. The only little thing I would add to that introduction, thank you, Wayne, would be I also work full-time as a counselor. So for those of you who don't know me or are unfamiliar with me online, I work full-time as a counselor, so that'll get integrated a little bit in our time this morning. But welcome to your last Sunday of 2023, your last Sunday in December. And this is quite a year, I know, for many of us. And it's a time this morning that we're going to spend where we are thinking about 2023. We're thinking about a myriad of things that are good for us to ponder and attend to and to consider with respect to the love of God, the goodness of God, His mercy, His mercies toward us this year. and uh either on an individual level and certainly here as a congregation. So we're going to look at Psalm 107. So if you want to open up your Bible there to Psalm 107, it'll also be on the screen. I'm going to read the first three verses though and then the last verse, which I didn't cue up the slide team for that, so I apologize. But we're going to read those three few verses first. I'm going to give you a quick explanation and then we'll uh we'll read the rest of some of the Psalms here. So we'll read in the ESV translation, but picking up in Psalm 107, verse 1 through 3, says this. O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so whom he has redeemed from trouble, and gathered in from the lands, from the east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south. And then forty-three. Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things. Let him consider the steadfast love of the Lord Well, what are we uh uh wise to attend to? It's the things that we're going to read here in just a few minutes, but I I bring this out because I want to kind of front load, I guess you can say, our application today. Which is going to be to ponder and to consider the steadfast love of God. That will be your our ultimate takeaway today when we when we leave our time this morning. And so Psalm 107, as we'll get to in just a second, it's a long testimony. of story after story after story. There's five main storylines that you'll see in this text, which is really, it's a perfect primer for us to have us consider the story that God is working out in our lives, but to ponder and to consider his steadfast love. And pondering is a sort of an activity that we do, usually kind of on our own. We're busy about some task. changing diapers or mowing the lawn or doing dishes or even as we're getting ready to go to sleep, where our thoughts go and ponder. And we're we're wise though. The text is saying that we're we're wise if we ponder the steadfast love of God Not to do things that I'm I'm inclined to do in not a good way, which is I ruminate. I can be inclined to ruminate on things that someone has said to me or someone has done to me, an offense in some way. But the text says, whoever is wise, and this is sort of another way I want to pull out here that this is applying to not just those who are Christians. This is anybody. And as verse 3 mentioned, where he is gathered in the east, in the west, and the north, and the south. This text very clearly applies to every single person in the world. That's a beautiful, beautiful thing. And so in a not so small way, really, this text is a kind of evangelistic text in a way. So for those of us who are Christians here worshiping today. I hope that we'll walk away discovering anew how you will be able to see this text as a way to point your non-Christian friend or maybe a friend who's considering becoming a Christian, that how you can point them to Christ through this text. So we're going to go back to the text here. We're going to read only through verse 32, though, because it's a long text. And so I hope that we'll start here, but you finish off and carrying on in meditating and considering the text for yourself later on today. So pick up in uh picking up at verse 4 it says this. Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no way to a city to dwell in. Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He led them by a straight way till they reached a city to dwell in. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. For his wondrous works to the children of man, for he satisfies the longing soul and the hungry soul he fills with good things. Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and in irons, for they had rebelled against the words of God and spurned the counsel of the Most High. So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor. They fell down with none to help. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He brought them out of darkness in the shadow of death and burst their bonds apart. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love. For his wondrous works to the children of man. For he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts in two the bars of iron. Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction. They loathed any kind of food, and they drew near the gates of death. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. He sent out his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man. Let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving and tell of his deeds and songs of joy. Some went down to ships, some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters. They saw the deeds of the Lord for his wondrous works in the deep. For he commanded and raised the stormy wind which lifted up the waves of the sea. They mounted up to heaven, they went down to the depths. Their courage melted away in their evil plight, they reeled and staggered like drunken men, and were at their wit's end. Then they cried to the Lord in their distress, and he delivered them from their trouble. He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed. Then they were glad that the waters were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man. Let them extol him in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders. Let me pray for our text as we're reading this text this morning, real quickly, and we'll go into the text. Gracious Father, thank you so much for your word. I pray that as we study it more this morning, would you be merciful to us to help us walk away with greater clarity of what it is to give thanks to you? For your steadfast love. Help us to be faithful to that. We love you, and in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So Tiffany and I recently went to a Titanic exhibition down near D. C. And if you're ever if you're familiar with that or seen the documentary, of course you know it's a very, very sad story. And we're wearing these little headphone pieces that is giving us a narration of the whole storyline. And at the end of the exhibition, there's just kind of three panels of walls of hundreds and hundreds of names. And the narrator said this about the names. He said, behind every name is a life to remember and a story to be told. In the NIV translation of verse 2 here in our text, it says, Let the redeemed of the Lord tell their story. And this is what Psalm 107 is ultimately about. It's a rendition of the psalmists telling a story of God's steadfast love and the myriad of circumstances where that love has been put on display. And so we do well. Let the redeemed tell their story. But I would like to clarify. See the stories that we tell, though, we are not the main character. God is the main character in the stories that we tell. So if you're a Christian, I would like to ask, what is the story that God is writing and how you are able to see his steadfast love? Or perhaps if you're visiting and you're not really sure about Christianity, I pray that you do walk away from the service this morning, hearing in a new way. That the God of the universe, He has a steadfast love that is available for us in Christ, and we're going to get to Christ here in just a few minutes. But all of us, whether you're a Christian or not, We are wise to attend to these things. So let's let's dive in right now. But I want to give some instruction though or some construction of the text. This is the first book of first chapter of book five of the Psalms. You might know the Psalms are broken up into five mini books. And I've kind of created this construction of the entire of Psalm 107. So there's introduction one through three. There's story one, verse four through nine, some wandered in deserts. Story two, verse ten through sixteen, they sat in darkness. Story three, some were fools in their sin, that's verse 23, and some did business at sea. That's story four, verse 23. Story five, God's miraculous power and display. So there's story after story after story. And if you think about this from a sort of dynamic standpoint, There's this distress of man, there's the cry of man, there's this discipline or deliverance of God, and then there's this power of God on display, and it's all pointing to A proclamation of the steadfast love of God. And so there's this cycle that repeats over and over again. The psalmist is emphasizing God's power, his might, his ability to demonstrate control and authority. His sovereign reign over creation, over our problems, and over our sin ultimately. So from a 10,000-foot view, though, there are two kinds of people. Here in this text. The one kind of person are those who are crying and suffering. They're reeling in darkness. They're in danger. They're afflicted. Maybe they're under the rod of God's discipline. These are folks without a home, without a root, without freedom, without peace, satisfaction, and maybe even without a savior. And then the other kind are those who have in fact seen God's deliverance, they've been delivered. We've seen God at work And they're able to give thanks for his steadfast love. These are people who have who have undergone pain and hardship. But like 42, kind of, verse 42 kind of points us to. The upright see it and are glad, there's a kind of way in which we see with spiritual eyes that even in our hardship we can see God is still at work. In in reality, we are never really alone. He's always near. And and so maybe I don't need to convince you of that fact. We all kind of know in our head that God is near, He is loving. Um but perhaps if we sat down for some coffee and you and you invited me to say, hey Edward, I don't disagree with what you're saying, but I've been struggling with anger for the better part of my life. And I pray and I pray and people admonish me. But I'm not delivered from this. What's up with that? Or maybe there's some other physical pain or or or ailment in some way, emotional struggles, and your heart seems bereft for years, and you wonder where where's God's deliverance there? Well, let me say that that's that's real. And by my no stretch of the imagination do I attempt to minimize that But as you know, as a counselor, if if I would say that if there's one bottom of the barrel kind of thing that occurs in our lives of why folks end up in counseling or would decide counseling in the first place, is because they refuse To give up hope. Hope does nag at us. And so we know, especially for those who are in Christ, ultimately deliverance is possible. So the question will invariably become when? When will it occur? I don't know for all of our individual stories here. But I know that he has come. In the life of Christ and in his ministry, he has come. And he's delivered us from the greatest peril that beset us all, which is our sin and death. And so in the end, God never, ever leaves his children ultimately alone. So now let's go to our bulletin. I've tried to break up our our sermon this morning into four sections. The first story, that section there is really the first story I want to highlight, is about Going from desert wastes to soul satisfaction. We're picking up back again in verse four. Some wandered in desert wastes, finding no place to finding no city t to dwell in, hungry and thirsty their soul fainted within them. So who are these some that did this, and who are the some in all of these different storylines that we see? Well some commentators will uh commentate that it's it could be Israel going through the trek of of out of Egypt and that's very well likely um but given the the regular storylines that are going on this is still a picture in some other commentators view. of God's general providential care to humanity, to the children of man. So that's everybody. And so in view of that Interpretation, I think we can fairly say that all of us still today are in a kind of desert waste of sorts, right? This life on earth, on this side of heaven. is a desert waste. And what I mean by that and why I say that is because everything still is moving toward death and decay. As we just read in Romans 8, the creation itself will be set free. So it hasn't been quite set free yet from its corruption to decay. And so that is to say, until the Lord Jesus comes. Our money's going to run out. Our health is going to give way. And there's going to be a day when we have all of us will have a last breath. But during this trek, you're like me, I know that as we eagerly await, sometimes we do find respite. Sometimes our hearts and our lives do experience good things. But in this journey, if you're like me, you know that that stuff can happen in our lives still, that in the deepest parts of us, that even the best provisions of this life still don't quite satisfy. We're made for heaven, really. So I want to answer the question: how do we go from desert wastes to a satisfied soul? How does that actually happen? Is that even possible? When the psalmist says that he is going about satisfying the soul of others, it is good for us to say, hey, I'd like my soul satisfied. I want some of that. And if you're a Christian or not, if your soul is thirsty this morning, then my question is this: how are you going about satisfying that thirst in your soul today? If your soul is thirsty, I want to encourage you to consider at least this first thing that you can do, which is to be honest about it. That is what we see played out in each of these other stories. I'm going to highlight it here for us in verse 6. What did they do? What does honesty look like with the thirsty soul? They cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress. At the end of the day, When we're hungry and our souls are thirsty, this is what we have left to do, is to cry to the Lord in our distress. So we go from a fainted soul. To a satisfied soul when we appeal to God in our distress, when we cry out to Him. Now, of course, I'm not trying to sell you a bag of goods here. I know that this is an instant. Right, it's not like a light switch, but it is a promise. And I want to highlight why it is a promise. John records for us in John 7, he says this. At the at the there was a feast of foods going on. And on the last day, this is what he says. In verse 37, he says, On the last day, in the greatest day of the festival, Jesus stood and said in a loud voice, Let everyone, let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me. As the scriptures had said, rivers of living water will flow from within him. And then he says, Jesus says in Matthew 11, he says, come to me. All who are weary and burdened and what? I'll give you rest That has been a promise that I've been able to hold on to personally for me, and I wonder if it is for you as well. But these things are true. Jesus isn't lying. This is true. What Jesus said is true. He will give you rest. And so whether you're a Christian or whether you're not a Christian, if your heart is distressed, may you cry out to him today, go to Jesus. If you believe in him, your soul will be satisfied. See, part of a little bit of a disillusionment that I think we all struggle with at various times and in various ways. in our lives is that we believe now that once we have this living water flowing from within us, that our circumstances will instantly change. Right? That maybe maybe some depression will be instantly gone, or maybe the conflict that we have with someone in our lives will will suddenly dissipate. But We need to realize that it is quite possible for us to have this flow of living water within us in the middle of our pain and our distress and our heartset. And if we're familiar with what Paul referred to, you might say that thorn in the flesh storyline, which many of us I'm sure have. What did Paul ultimately need to resolve in his heart? That God's grace was sufficient. And so, to answer the question, how do we go from a dissatisfied soul to a satisfied soul? A meaningful transition comes when we have tasted and seen for ourselves and come to know the meaning of that phrase, my grace is sufficient. So I want to now move a little bit to story two and story three. I'm going to, because there's so many similarities between all of these stories, I'm going to try to treat these two a little bit more tightly together. So bear with me as we go back and forth into each of these stories. But so I want to highlight some similarities to these two stories. In story two, which we see in verse, well I'll pick up in verse 10, he says, Some sat in darkness and in the shadows of shadows of death. Prisoners in affliction and in irons, for they had rebelled against the words of God and spurned the counsel of the Most High. Another word for spurned would be despised. And so that part is similar to what we see in verse 17, which is in story 3, so to speak. Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction. So the core similarity that I want to quickly draw out is just simply disobedience and disdain for the word of God and the things of God. That is what's what is similar in how the distress came about is through a disregard of God. Now what are some differences though in these two storylines? One core difference that I think we can identify, so we'll we'll compare here now verse 12 and verse 17. Verse twelve says, So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor, and they fell down with none to help. And then in verse seventeen, some were fools to their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction. So, in one instance, it appears God is quite actively involved in disciplining his people in their sin or for their sin and in their disobedience. Well, in another, it appears he is quite letting the natural consequences of our sin take its course. And what are some more consequences of sin when it takes its course? Well, we'll pick up that that here in verse 14. He says, He brought them out of darkness. Out of the shadow of death, he burst their bonds apart, for he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts into the bars of iron You see, when sin is not properly dealt with in our lives, it will inevitably lead to darkness. And sometimes the darkness can feel so dark that it's like we're on the verge of death. And so this psalmist is giving us a picture of how death and darkness, it's like a bond, or really like shackles or handcuffs. Okay? It's a restraint that confines and we cannot move. We have no freedom. And this is what sin does. This is what a disregard for the Word of God does. It binds you to a life of darkness and death. And so whether God is letting sin take its course or whether he's disciplining us, what is another consequence I want to pull out? We see it again in verse 18. He they loathed any kind of food. And they drew near the gates of death. You see, this is a dissatisfaction and a rejection not just of food, but any kind of food. Really, this becomes a rejection of even the things that would be good for you in your circumstances. This reminds me of what the psalmist says in Psalm 19:3. He says, When a man's folly brings him ruin, His heart rages against the Lord. So let's go back to story two in your bulletin from discipline and darkness to deliverance and light. How do we how do we go from discipline and darkness? to deliverance in the light. Well, we're going to do the same exact thing that we saw play out in verse 6. We see here in verse 13. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble and he delivered them. You cry out to God if you're stuck in your sin. So if you are right now maybe under the stress of discipline or under the consequences of sin, Let me urge you just to cry out to the Lord that will that will move your heart toward finding the steadfast love of God. A striking verse that I think is when we were looking at verse 16, it says, He shatters the doors of bronze and he cuts in two these bars of iron. Now, I don't know every single one of yours personal story. I don't know every single one of us here on an individual level, but I do know that for all of us who are in Christ, that That there is a, that you share this storyline that we see playing out. And what I mean by that is that we've sinned, and God has disciplined us. And we've cried out, and God's delivered us. So that has played out. Maybe maybe you're witnesses to this. If you're if you if you can identify with this in your life. that maybe you were at a place where you thought there was no way way God no way out that but God has set you free. If you've ever seen this play out, then what is the psalmist doing as we keep as the flow of the text keeps winning us? We need to tell the story of God's steadfast love. Now, moving on to the section three here, story three, from sinning to singing. And so for those of us who have been foolish, where God let the consequences of our sin and our life take its course, how did God deliver us? How did God use the word of God to deliver us? Which is this is where we see in verse 3 how the deliverance came about was through the word. Verse 20. He sent out his word and he healed them. So as a as a counselor, one of the things that is invariably true is we we come and we're we're looking for a good word from the counselor. We're looking for something wise for them to say, something practical. Some strategy of sorts, and those are good things. And sometimes as a counselor I squeak out something, but there's two things that my words, even my best words, will never do, which we see here in verse 20. He says he sent out the word, his word, and healed them and delivered them. You can only be healed and delivered by the word of God. And what is the penultimate manifestation of the word being sent out? Well, it's Jesus Christ Himself. John 1. Let us read for us this morning in verse 14. He says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of truth and grace. But John says so much more. Where there's some imagery here in the in some of this text, I want to share it with Psalm 107. He says, in verse 4, he says, In him was life and the light, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. When God delivers his people from darkness to light, he does so in the person of Christ. And in and what is particularly striking about Verse 22, and this is where we're going to talk about from sinning to singing. He says, let them offer their sacrifices of thanksgiving and tell of his deeds and songs of joy. That section there began with people sinning and then it ended with people singing. And so if you are in Christ, this is how you share that storyline in a way. This is how you've gone from carrying on in your sin, from being delivered in Christ, and how you can go from sinning to sinning is by being found in Christ. And all of us who do profess Christ here today, we share this storyline that we're reading about in the Psalm. And there was a day. There was a day when you were first stunned by your sin. I wonder if you remember that day. I wonder if you remember for the first time with clarity like never before how you had been playing the fool by disdaining God. Or you saw with more clarity that your life apart from Christ will end in a very miserable death But but because God demonstrated his own love for us in Christ, what did he do? He sent Christ to die. Not when you and I figured out that we were sinners. He did it while we were sinners. And so that is how a person goes from sinning to singing. We see the life that has been given to us. We see Christ. And so really we are talking about the gospel here. In order to be delivered from sin, from darkness, from death It's not enough to just be delivered from our pain and our difficult circumstances in and of itself. And certainly with respect to sin, sin still needs to be dealt with. And the one thing that makes it possible for you and I to sing is because God sent his son Jesus to die for us. And because Jesus rose from the dead, we will actually be able to sing forever and ever and ever. And some of us who have loved ones, who have gone to be with the Lord, they are right now singing like they've never sang before. Praise God for that And you and I, one day, when the Lord takes us home or when he comes, we will sing like we've never sang before. So we are rounding up our time this morning, but If you feel open to it, please. Just close your eyes for just a half a moment here. I want you to consider and ponder right now the steadfast love of God for you in Christ. I want you to consider all the ways, maybe through this year or through your life, how you've come to know and grow acquainted with this love. How in the overflow of God's love for you, how you've been transformed in some way. Maybe where you've seen his power. on display maybe where you've been spared from the deeper consequences of your sin, where you're thankful even for his gracious discipline in your life. And maybe it hurt for a time, but you realize in the end it was good. You you can open your eyes now if you'd like if you had your eyes close. See, we could spend a thousand years Meditating and pondering the steadfast love of God nonstop and still not plumb the depths of the riches of God's love for you in Christ. And this is what I yearn for for myself, because I am really poor at doing this, but I yearn for this for us as a congregation. I want so badly. For us as a congregation to have the kind of acquaintance with the love of God in Jesus that we can't help but tell the story of what he's doing. I mean imagine, so today's the last day of the year. Imagine what the last day of next year would look like as a congregation if We didn't just take our sins seriously, though we need to do that, but we sang deeply of the deliverances of God. We sang deeply in the riches of the grace of God, where we delighted to tell the story of his steadfast love. See, one thing that I think is true is that a congregation full of people who are doing this well, it's going to come out, and we are going to be different people as a result. And so I do pray that as a congregation, that this becomes true for us, that this becomes our story for 2024. So here's the application as we get ready to end our time this morning. There's just two walkaways. As I said in the beginning, there's a story to tell. The first part, the first application would be to share it with someone this week if you have an opportunity to do so. Maybe tell a story of God's steadfast love to you in your suffering in some way. Maybe where you've been disciplined in some way where or otherwise you've seen his power at work in some way. Share that story. And maybe I'll give an opportunity here since we have the children with us. Children, let me encourage you, ask your mom and dad about the stories in their lives. But parents share these stories with your kids. But maybe if you're not quite there, maybe you're still in the distress. Maybe you're still in some sort of affliction. And here's the other application you might consider. Practice crying out to the Lord, to your Heavenly Father. A famous, I guess semi-famous counselor who's now deceased, wrote in a book called Becoming True Spiritual Community. His name is Larry Crabbe. I'm going to read a quote and then I'll pray for our time together. But he says this. He says, imagine for a moment what it would look like to spend an hour on your knees with another Christian. Weeping over your incomplete obedience, and weeping louder still, with great joy, that dissolves your pride over the realization that the Lord still wants you. And God has proven that He wants you by sending His Son Jesus to die for us. Let me pray for us and we'll turn it back over to Wayne. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word, for your living word, that we were able to feed upon just a little bit this morning in Psalm 107. We know that we have barely scratched the surface of all that is available to know in this psalm, but how much more so in terms of what the psalm points us to? Your love, your steadfast love in Christ. Father, we confess our failures in this regard, where we not only don't attend to these things as we ought, but in many ways and in many times we actively avoid them. O Lord, forgive us. Deliver us from our malaise, from our laziness, from our apathy, from our fears and our pride. And Father, for those of us who know you personally and know your son, give us the grace to tell the story that you are writing. To tell it boldly, to sing it loudly, to share it faithfully, and to do so with eagerness and joy to our friends, our family, our neighbors. And Father, for those of us who do not know you personally, but wisely attended to these things this morning, may you, by a supernatural work of your grace, spare them in Christ. Would you spare them from darkness and death and cause them to see you with new spiritual eyes, that you are a great deliverer from death and destruction and sin? Father, give us the grace to avoid every temptation to make us the main character of any story that we would decide to tell and share, but to make you the central character. We love you, and in Jesus' name we pray, Amen