Well last week we looked at um Psalm sixty-one, in fact the last three weeks, a prayer for painful situations And before we go on, I want to remind you that we are going to be practicing the pattern of Psalm 61 next Sunday. We'll do it together. That's a very precious opportunity. For us to be able to practice that pattern of pleading and praising jointly about our needs, individually and corporately, to ask the power of God to come upon us. And to see him show himself among us. Um we've had some precious times in the past, and don't cheat yourself of the experience of coming and praying with the rest of the body. That is a distinct, unique privilege And um you don't want to miss out on that. It's that we've seen God do some amazing things in the past. I was sharing with the Discoverers class just last hour So don't miss that. If you can't make the whole time from 1230 to 3. 30, stay as long as you can or come back as soon as you can and get as much of it you can out of it. Now we begin the Easter meditations. And today I would like to look with you at the person of Pontius Pilate. For most of us, Pilate is a rather shadowy figure who is remembered only when we say the apostles' creed together suffered under Pontius Pilate, as we'll be doing a little later on. So we simply remember every time we say that, ah yeah, he's the villain in the story of Jesus' death and of his uh trial But I wonder if Pilate could speak if he might not call out to us. That's unfair. He might even appeal to the words of Scripture. For his case, he would say, Look at John 19, verse 12. From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free. He said, See, I really tried to set him free. Well, last Easter in my times of meditation, I found myself attracted to looking at the person of Pilate more in depth than I had ever done before. And I was actually somewhat surprised, even amazed to see how much Pilate tried to set Jesus free. In fact, I listed ten different occasions, instances Where Pilate tried to set Jesus free. You see those in your bulletin outline. But before we look at those, to be able to trace that and understanding a little bit of what was going on there. and some of its application for you and for me, first of all, consider the man and the little that we know of him His name was actually Pontius Pilatus. He was an upper middle class military man of Rome. He was the fifth procurator of Judea in charge of the Roman garrison there at Fort Antonia, which was set up right next to the temple where they expected if trouble ever started probably start there. So right next to the temple there is a large Roman fort During times of the festivals, such as Passover here, he would have had 5,000 or more men under his charge. He um was a fellow who didn't understand the Jews, and he didn't understand their religion, nor did he particularly want to. In fact, he was rather irritated by the Jews and on various occasions went out of his way to antagonize them. Such as the one time when, distinct from any of the other Roman procurators, uh Pilate decided to uh have Roman standards with the imperial signia and the um mark of the Caesar, the Emperor, sta uh those standards uh placed all around Jerusalem He didn't count on what kind of opposition that that would draw. Even Pilate was surprised at the commitment, the determination of these Jews to stand against those things they opposed. There was a bloody confrontation and standoff for six days. And Pilate finally backed down. And the humiliation and the shame of that burned in him. He's referred to in Luke chapter 13, you know, in verse 1, it talks about the time that Pilate mixed the blood of the Jews with their sacrifices. We're not absolutely certain what that refers to, but very likely it refers to the time that Pilate decided to build an aqueduct. 25 miles long from springs to bring fresh water into Jerusalem, and he decided to fund it out of the temple treasury. The Jews so violently opposed that, but the tension was so great that Pilate, during that time, sent in his troops disguised. When the Jews were at worship, they mingled among them and then threw off their disguises and slaughtered hundreds of them. This was the guy who was at the wrong place in the wrong time, and therefore has been known forever as the one who crucified Jesus so unjustly. But in fact, Pilate didn't give a rip about Jesus. He didn't probably know who he was or care very much. Why is it that Pilate was the one who crucified Jesus? Simply because of the political situation at that time. Do you remember that the Judean government was allowed to exist with semi-autonomy underneath the Roman government as a puppet state? But one of the provisions was that the Jews could not execute anyone, could not carry out capital punishment without ratification from the Roman procurator. And therefore, they had to appeal to Pilate in order to have Jesus executed I want to look at these ten instances of Pilate seeking to free Jesus. And rather than you're looking at that with some sense perhaps of slightly superior self-righteousness at what a villain he is and how terrible a guy this was I would challenge you to use your imagination as I tell you this story in order for you to ask yourself What would I have done in such a situation? How would I have responded, had I been in Pilate's place? What would I have done differently from him? So let's go back to that sunny spring morning when the Jews, after having, by the Sanhedrin, had their own trial for Jesus in the nighttime. And having determined that he was guilty of blasphemy and deserving death They now have to go to Pilate to have that ratified. And so you read from Matthew 27 and Luke. Uh and and Luke twenty-three and John eighteen. By the way, don't try to follow all these. One person did try to do it uh last time, but I I'd suggest you don't try to follow, you know, from Matthew, Luke, and Pine. Just sit back, relax, listen to the story, get the drift of it, understand the flow of it, use your imagination to be in it and to think about what you would have done. They bound him and they led him away, and they handed him over to Pilate, the governor. By now it was early morning, and to avoid ceremonial uncleanness, the Jews did not enter the palace. They wanted to be able to eat the Passover. So Pilate came out to them and he asked, What charges are you bringing against this man? They love this answer. Well, if he weren't a criminal, we wouldn't have handed him over to you. That's a big help. And then they think I think we've got to do better than that. So they began to accuse him, saying, Well, we have found this man subverting our nation He opposes payment of taxes to Caesar, and he claims to be a Messiah, the king. They thought, well, that'll get him in trouble. And Pilate sort of yawns and says Take them yourselves and judge them by your own law. Get him out of here. I don't have any interest in this. That's his first attempt. Just get rid of it. No interest in it. It's your matter That's when he finds out how serious the situation is. Ah! We have no right to execute anyone, the Jews objected. And that happened so that the words of Jesus would be fulfilled, indicating the kind of death that he would die, because only the Romans practiced execution by crucifixion. So Pilate went back inside the palace and he summoned Jesus and he said, Are you the king of the Jews? Is that your own idea? Jesus asked. Or did others talk to you about me? Am I a Jew? Imagine how he said that with such scorn. It was your people, your chief priest who handed you over to me. What is it that you've done? Jesus said, My kingdom is not of this world. If it were my servants would fight to present prevent my arrest by the Jews, but now my kingdom is from another place. Huh, you are a king then. You're right in saying I'm a king. In fact, for this reason I was born, and for this I came into the world to testify to the truth. Everyone on the side of truth listens to me. What is truth? And with this he went out to the Jews, and he said, Notice, I find no basis for a charge against him. Official declaration. Should be the end of the matter. He's not guilty. There's no basis for a charge here. That's a second attempt. To set Jesus free. An official declaration. When he was accused then by the chief priests They're furious, and so they begin to throw and hurl all these accusations at Jesus. Jesus gave no answer. And then Pilate asked him, Don't you hear the testimony that they're bringing against you? But Jesus made no reply, not even to a single charge, to the great amazement. Of the governor. Now he's beginning to get wrapped up in this something. But then they insisted he stirs up the people all over Judea by his teaching. He started in Galilee and has come all the way here. Ah Pilate says, so he's a Galilean? Well yeah. He says, okay. That's Herod's jurisdiction. Get him out of here. Take him to Herod. Third attempt, you see. I don't want anything to do with this. Let Herod deal with it. And so you remember how they took him to Herod, and Herod wanted to see some miracles and tricks, and Jesus stood in dignified silence. Then they brought him back to Pilate. Pilate thought he was done with it. Here he comes again. And so the third attempt didn't work. During this time, Pilate's wife comes to him and says, Don't have anything to do with that innocent man, because I've suffered greatly in a dream because of him today. Now Pilate's getting even a little more anxious. I want this guy out of here. I don't want to deal with this. And so you come to the fourth attempt. But they insisted. Excuse me. So Pilate called together the chief priests, the rulers of the people. And he said to them, You brought me this man as one who was inciting the people to rebellion. I have examined them in your presence, and I have found, notice, second statement, official declaration, I have found No basis for your charges against him. And neither has Herod. For he sent him back to us. As you can see, he's done nothing to deserve death. Therefore, now get this. The logical deduction, therefore I will punish him, and then release him. It's at that point that Pilate's begun to compromise He knows he has no basis to do that. It's purely appeasement. Maybe if they see some blood, we can come to a compromise here, okay? He has done nothing worthy of death. I am not going to execute this man. But how about I just beat him? Will that satisfy you? Then I can let him go? But it's not so simple. And so he moves to another attempt. Turns out that at the feast it was a custom to release a prisoner, whoever the people wanted. Now, Pilate, the Bible says, knows that it was out of envy that the chief priest delivered him over, that in fact Jesus was popular among the people. So he figures I'll set the people against the chief priests. And that would give him a little extra joy because it would humiliate the chief priest, who he hates. And so he says, Well, who do you want me to release to you? And they say, and the chief priests move in real quick and they say, Ask for Barabbas. And so they incite the people, and the people listen to the priests, and they say, Gibis Maratus, an insurrectionist who's in there for murder. And Pilate says, well, oh, wait a minute. Well, what do you want me to do with this Jesus who is your king? And again the chief priests move in and incite the people to say, Crucify Him! Crucify Him And so Jesus, and so Barabbas says, Well, what then shall I do with this Jesus who is called to Christ? Crucify him, they say, Why, he says? What crime has he done? And so his fifth attempt has failed. And things move on. They shout all the louder, crucify him! Wanting to release Jesus, Pilate appealed to them again. But they kept shouting, Crucify Him, crucify him. For the third time he spoke to them. Why? What crime has this man committed? And again, the third statement: I have found in him no grounds for the death penalty. Therefore, I will have him punished and then release him. He's still trying to appease them, still trying to bargain. He's getting a little desperate now. Things are beginning to build. The tension is growing. And so Pilate took Jesus and had him flogged. Then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorian, Roman hardened soldiers, and he gathered a whole company of soldiers around him. You can imagine what kind of a scene that is as these guys get stirred up and want to torture him. They strip him of his of his own clothes and put a scarlet robe on him, twisted together a crown of thorns, set it on his head, put a staff in his right hand, and knelt in front of him and mocked him. Hail, king of the Jews And then they spit on him. He took the staff and they struck him on the head again and again. Here he is, flogged with this crown of thorns, with the blood streaming down his face. Pilate brings him out. Once more he comes out and he says, Look, I'm bringing him out to you to let you know I find no basis for a charge against him. The fourth official declaration. But it still doesn't work. And so he tries to appeal to some sense of human compassion in the eighth attempt. He says to them, Look at the man. Look at the crown of thorns on him, pressed into his scalp. Look at the blood streaming down his face. Look at his back ripped open by the cat of nine-tails. Look at the bloody robe on him. Look at the spittle. Look how he's been bruised and beaten. He's half dead already. Why don't you guys have some pity? Look at him. What do you want to do? And they continued to cry out, crucify him. And so Pilate says, you take him and crucify him. And here's a hardened Roman soldier, and he says I don't have any stomach for this. You take him and crucify him. As for me, fifth statement, I find no basis for a charge against him. And it looks like they've won. They're about to take them out. But somebody opens their big mouth And they say, We are the law, and according to that law, he must die because he claimed to be the Son of God. Now this is very significant. Notice, when Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid. And can you imagine? Here's a man in the most degrading of circumstances. Humiliated, half dead, and when he hears this man claims to be the Son of God, he doesn't laugh and say, that must look like the Son of God to me. But the Bible says he was even more afraid. And so he goes back inside the palace and takes Jesus Where do you come from? asked Pilate. But Jesus gave him no answer. Do you refuse to speak today? Pilate said. Don't you realize that I have power either to free you or to crucify you? Jesus answered, You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above. Therefore, the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin. Now notice, from then on, John says, Pilate tried to set Jesus free. Like he hasn't already? I mean, you know, like eight attempts desperately? Well what John's saying is Now he really tried to set him free. He redoubled his efforts. He is now a desperate man. That's the impression. That Jesus created on him. Fear, respect, terror. But the Jews kept on shouting. And at this point, they pull out their trump card. If you let this man go, then you're no friend of Caesar. Anyone who claims to be a king opposes Caesar. And Pilate probably felt at that moment, I hate you guys. Because what they have done is hit him in his most vulnerable spot. We're going to get you in trouble with Caesar. Your career is going to be on the line. Who knows what will happen to you if Caesar turns against you? And so just at the point when Pilate is absolutely determined to let Jesus go free, out of pure self-interest, he backs down. When Pilate heard this, he brought Jesus out. And he sat down on the judges' seat at a place known as the stone pavement, which in Aramaic is Gabbatha. It was the day of preparation of Passover week, about the sixth hour. One last feeble attempt. Here is your king. But they shouted, Take him away! Take him away! Crucify him! Shall I crucify your king? We have no king but Caesar, the chief priest answered. He probably thought, You hypocrites, I hope you choke on your words. But when Pilate saw that he was getting nowhere, but instead an uproar was starting, in his last final attempt. He has a bowl of water brought to him, and he ceremonially washes his hands in the bowl of water, and he says, I am innocent of this man's blood. It is your responsibility. Hoping that that will scare them a bit. But their response is: let his blood be on us and on our children. And so it closes with these last terrible words. He released Barabbas and surrendered Jesus to their will. Consider the impression that Jesus made upon Pilate, and that in the most degrading circumstances. I mean, Pilate acquits him. Five times he has said, I find no basis for a charge against him. And so he has acquitted him. He declares him innocent. Secondly, you notice that he admires Jesus as superior to his accusers. Here's a strange scene. The accusers are more agitated than the accused. Pilate looks at Jesus and says, here is a man facing death, and not simply death. But death by the most exquisite torture ever devised by depraved imagination. And he's calm. In fact, he's eerily serene. And so he provokes not only admiration, but awe in Pilate. Awe for him is the one who claims to be the unique Son of God. That was no laughing matter. Pilate never mocked that. He sees in him a majesty that he cannot comprehend. Consider if Pilate stood in fear and awe. Before Jesus, after having been beaten and spat upon, and having been mocked with a crown of thorns bashed down on his head. What will be your response when you see him as the Lord of glory? What impression will he make on you? But for all of that, Pilate did not adore Jesus. He acquitted him, he admired him, he stood in awe of him. But he would not adore him. He always remained aloof, even when Jesus reached out to him in the interchange on his kingdom and about truth and about guilt. Still, Pilate kept Jesus at arm's length. And I wonder this morning if maybe that's not like some of you I wonder if there's not some of you here this morning who acknowledge that Jesus was innocent. What's your impression of him? I'm intrigued by the fact that I've never read from even the most ardent secularist criticism of Jesus. They always respect Jesus. They may distort his words, but they never accuse him of being evil or deceptive. And so you acknowledge that he was innocent and didn't deserve to die And you may admire him as the finest of men. You may say he's a wonderful example, he's a hero, he's someone to go to in trouble, he's an inspiration. He's a help to you. You like to think of him as being near. He's very attractive to you, as long as he doesn't make any demands upon you. Maybe even you'd say that you're in awe of him as unique. It's amazing to read of the honors that unbelievers will heap upon Jesus. What kinds of adulation for him? As long as he doesn't usurp the place of being the only way to God. As long as he's an option As long as I can choose what it is that I want to do and where I decide that he fits into my life. But as soon as you begin to talk about Jesus as being necessary for me, then you've crossed the line. So do you adore him? If you've never asked him to save you from your sins And from the terror of judgment day, you do not adore him. You still see him as an option. As someone who fits into your scheme of comfort, as someone who you can carry along with you, kind of like in your back pocket. To pull out at times when for your convenience you'd like a little comfort or inspiration, but you've never admitted That you need him to take your place in the wrath that you deserve But that he received. If you don't admit that you absolutely need Jesus, you will never adore him. Until that point, you're like pilot. You want to do the right thing. But you're ready to compromise. Do you know the areas of compromise in your own life? Do you know those areas where you've known what the right thing was to do? And you decided by whatever rationalization, by whatever peer pressure, They just simply couldn't do it. Kids, listen to me for a minute. I remember a time when I was about ten years old There was a kid that lived across the street from me. His name was Donnie Lane. I haven't seen that kid for about 45 years. Probably not a kid any longer. He was a little older than me, and I'm sure he's still older than me. And he was also bigger than me And I had this idea that if I saw Donnie Lane again, he'd still be bigger than me. Don't know. But one day, Donnie Lane and one of his friends cornered me and they got me off somewhere. And they said, Harris, we're going to burn you unless you say this curse word. I didn't curse at that point, but they thought that it'd be fun to hear Harris curse. So of course I refused. And then I felt the flame get a little closer. He said, Brumin! You don't curse? We're going to burn you. And out of terror, I mumbled a curse word. And they said, Louder! And so I said it louder until they finally let me go. And as I went running home, I remember thinking. The shame of a compromised conscience is worse than any burning or beating We're all compromisers, aren't we? You kids have compromised from other kids to do things you know you shouldn't. You adults and me, we've all compromised And our only hope is in a Savior who never compromised. And Jesus, who bore good testimony before Pilate, who went without a single thought or action of sin to the cross. And at that cross, he bore the shame and the penalty of every compromiser, like you and like me. Who admits our need of his sacrifice and is willing to come and receive him. You know, there's two traditions about Pilate's end. It's a historical fact that Pilate later on got in trouble with the Roman government One tradition says that he was forced to commit suicide. The other tradition says that he became a Christian when he realized who it was that he had condemned to death. We don't know which of those is true, but the question is open before you. What are you going to do with Jesus Christ? If you've never received him, now's the time. If you're toying with compromise Now's the time to recognize that, to come to him in repentance as a refuge. To come to him who forgives and can strengthen weak compromisers like you and me. Let's pray. And so Lord, if there is one person here this morning who is saying, Yes, I have been holding Jesus at arm's length. I admire him. I am sometimes in awe of him, but I don't adore him. I don't see him as absolutely necessary. I've never admitted I need a savior for my sins. For my compromises against my own conscience, let alone against your pure law that you've given And Lord, we pray that right now at this moment you would grant grace of repentance and faith for that person to say, Lord Jesus, I need you to take my sin, forgive me all my compromises. Forgive me for wanting to please people, my friends at school or work, or in my family, or wherever. Rather than to simply stand for you and Lord forgive that person, you can forgive them because of Jesus' death, and you'd still be just But in your mercy grant forgiveness. Lord, I pray for each one of us who's toying with compromises in our lives right now who rationalize, who are under peer pressure, whatever kinds of pressure. And we look with such disgust at Pilate, and in our hearts right now, Lord, we realize we have the same heart. We're made of the same stuff. Lord, would you come now? Would you cause us to hate that compromise, to see you as a refuge from temptation? And to give ourselves anew to you. Oh Lord Jesus, how we adore you, because you have died for compromisers who have no claim on your mercy. You have been so good to weak people like us. And we thank you for the gospel of forgiveness. And pray that you would strengthen us in this week, that we might serve you without compromise by the power of your Spirit in Jesus' name.