Last March um one of our two major political parties don't bother to mention which one, but they made a uh a uh an announcement, a greeting, an Easter greeting to the citizens of the United States of America, and it went like this Easter Sunday is a joyful celebration. The holiday represents peace, redemption, and renewal, a theme which brings hope to people of all faiths. Kind of moves you, doesn't it? There's no mention of Jesus, no mention of the resurrection It's peace, redemption, renewal, hope for all faiths Brothers and sisters, I'm here to tell you that the very essence of Easter is what sets it apart, what sets Christianity apart from every other faith. That it is Jesus who said again and again, I will rise three days after my death, and that the overwhelming evidence is that he did rise. Jesus is risen. Amen. And that's why we're here. Because of that message, which is unique Again and again, Jesus said, I have authority over death. You remember this this message is really kind of a climax of a message that I began back in January. The message of the Good Shepherd that he talks about from John chapter 10, verses 14 to 18. Do you remember where Jesus talked to us about how he knows us? He knows you. And he laid down his life for you. And then he makes a claim. In verses 17 and 18, that is so astounding that even his disciples dismissed the idea that he could deliver on it. He says, the reason that my Father loves me is that I lay down my life, only to take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. This command I received from my father Again and again, Jesus reiterated that he was going to rise from the dead. It went through his entire ministry. He said it to his disciples on a number of occasions. Let me give you a couple. In Matthew chapter 16. From that time on, Jesus began to explain to his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things at the hands of the elders, the chief priests. And the teachers of the law, and that he must be killed, and on the third day be raised to life. I have authority to take it up again. Matthew 17, they will kill him, and on the third day he will be raised to life. The disciples were filled with grief. All they focus on is they're going to kill him. Matthew 20. And he says that the Son of Man will be turned over to the Gentiles, to be mocked and flogged and crucified, and on the third day he will be raised to life. He said it to the crowds, including his enemies who were there in the crowds. For instance, in Matthew chapter 12, when he talks about Jonah. And he says, for as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the big huge fish, so the Son of Man will be three days and three nights. in the heart of the earth, the implication being as Jonah came out of the huge fish, so I will come out of the earth. This was a central focus at his trial Um you know I I was looking to see this week how many other people claimed that they were ever going to rise from the dead. Googled it, looked at all the different references I could find. How many people? Zero. Could not find one other person who was sane who said that after I die I am going to rise from the dead. Disciples sometimes said years after that their master had risen or these, but nothing of any kind of compelling nature whatsoever. This is unique. It's at the heart of his trial. Do you remember when the Jews tried to get false witnesses to build a case against Jesus? They found all kinds of uh chaotic confusion, nobody was making any case and finally they come up with two guys that say in Matthew chapter twenty six Sixty one, finally two came forward and they declared this fellow said, I'm able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days. This is referring to when Jesus cleansed the temple back in John two we have the record of it. Si And they said, by what authority do you do that? And Jesus said there, destroy this temple, and I will raise it again in three days. And the Jews, thinking he's talking about the physical temple, said, It's taken forty-six years to build this temple. You're going to raise it in three days. And John says, but the temple he had spoken of was his body. It became apparent to them. That they began to understand that that was really the nature of what he was talking about was his own resurrection. Even on the cross, they taunted him with this saying. You who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, save yourself. Come down from the cross if you're the Son of God Now how do we know that the enemies of Jesus did not take this and his other references simply to refer to building the physical temple in Jerusalem? We know it because of the passage in Matthew chapter 27. In Matthew chapter 27, in verse 62, Jesus has been crucified. He has died. His disciples are hiding in fear. They have no hope that he will rise again. But in chapter 27, in verse 62 The Jewish leaders, who've already irritated Pilate to the limit, get together and they say, we've got to talk to him one more time. One more thing we need to ask him to do. No matter what it takes, let's go. And so verse sixty two says the next day, that is the one after the day Jesus was crucified, the one after preparation day, the chief priests, the Pharisees, went to Pilate. Probably in some fear and trembling. Sir, they said, We remember that while he was still alive, that deceiver said, After three days, I will rise again. Very interesting. Disciples don't remember it. They're not thinking about it. His enemies say, we remember that he said, do you know that if you check the Gospels, there are 21 references To either third day or three days after my death that Jesus claimed he was going to write 21 references The disciples didn't know. But his enemies say, we remember. And so they asked Pilate to do something. Verse 64. So, give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day. End of the third day. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead, and this last deception will be worse than the first. What's very interesting to me is Pilate's response. You would think he might say For goodness sake, the guy's dead. What more do we need to do? He's in a tomb. The tomb has a rock in front of it that nobody can move. And you want to guard it? What's interesting to me is that Pilate does not mock them. Look at verse 65. Pilate says, take a guard. See, Pilate has seen Jesus. He knew when he was dealing with Jesus, he was not dealing with an ordinary man. So Pilate said, ugh, that's not what I wanted to hear. That he said he was going to rise from the dead. Take a guard. Go. Make the tomb as secure as you know how. Do a good job of it. So they went and they made the tomb secure by putting a seal. Now the seal was the sign of Rome's authority There was a wax on a piece of rope that was stretched across the stone. And that seal meant no trespassing. It meant the Empire of Rome will execute anybody who tampers with this seal. It is the symbol of the authority of Rome. Put a seal on the stone and posting the guard The guard is an indication of the power of Rome. It is Roman soldiers saying anybody who tries to trespass or mess with that seal is going to have to deal with us. And we are trained killers. This is the power of Rome. So they are asking for all of the authority and the power of Rome to keep Jesus in the tomb. A lot of trouble to go guard a dead man, isn't it? But they have reason to fear Jesus. They know something of what he's like You see, on a number of occasions, these same leaders tried to kill Jesus or arrest him and were totally unsuccessful. For instance, in John chapter 7, Jesus said, You don't really know God, but I know him, and in fact, he has sent me to you. And they thought that was pre-arrogant. And so they tried to seize him, to arrest him. And John 7 tells us he just walked away. And so then they get together and they say, well let's get some guards, temple guards, and we'll go have them arrested. So you guys go get Jesus and bring him back under arrest. The guards take off. They hear Jesus speak. They come back. They don't have Jesus. Then the guards say, We thought we told you to c I mean the the leader say, we thought we told you to come back and bring Jesus with you. Well you did. Why don't you have them? Remember their answer? No one ever spoke like this man. We weren't about to lay our hands on him John chapter eight, Jesus says, before Abraham was born, I am. using the exalted name of the eternal God. And they were so offended they picked up stones to stone him and they couldn't do it. John tells us he escaped and walked away. John chapter 10. Jesus says, I am uniquely the Son of God. And again, they try to seize him because of saying that's blasphemy. But they couldn't do it. Again and again, Jesus has shown his majesty and his power over them. Do you remember even when he was arrested in the garden by three, four hundred Roman soldiers? He says, Who are you looking for? They say, Jesus of Nazareth. He says, I am he. And they fall back down to the ground before his majesty. Twice before they finally put him into bonds. And so they have reason to fear this Jesus. They feared him while he was alive, and they still fear him while he's dead. And they have good reason. Because on the third day Jesus did exactly what he said. He rose from the dead And he did it by demonstrating his power and his authority. Those are the two blanks. The only two blanks you got today. All right? He broke the Roman seal. That was on the stone in front of the tomb. That was the breaking of Rome's authority. He was saying that beyond the authority of Rome is the ultimate authority of Jesus. Secondly, he moved the stone. The stone was moved not so he could get out, but so that people could get in. That is displaying the power of Jesus over the Roman army. Matthew 28 makes this very clear. Those words that are so precious to Christians to be read on the Easter morning. After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. And there was a violent, there had been really a violent earthquake For an angel of the Lord had come down from heaven, and going to the tomb rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were as white as snow The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men. Do you see it? Jesus over their authority and over their power. And so when Jesus uh states uh after this before he ascends back into heaven His words to his disciples are all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. His resurrection is the demonstration of his authority. This is the authority that Daniel, remember we look back in uh Christmas time in Daniel chapter 2, the the image, the the vision that Daniel had of the four beasts that depicted the four earthly kingdoms. And then Daniel 2, verse 44, in those time of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed, nor will it be left to another people. It will crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end, but it will itself endure forever. This is the meaning of the vision of the rock cut out of a mountain, but not by human hands. a rock that broke the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold to pieces. Jesus is that rock. He is the authority, he is the power that sets up a kingdom, establishes his kingdom over the nations forever and forever. And he says, this one is with you this morning. In that same passage in Matthew 28, after verse 18, all authority is given to me in heaven and on earth, he says in verse 20, and surely I am with you always. even to the very end of the age. I am with you. He is with you not just for your comfort, though he is that as of the good shepherd He is also with you to give you a commission. That's what he says between verses 18 and 20. Go make disciples of all the nations. Baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. So this morning, every one of you in this room or in one of two groups Either you are the objects of that commission, that is, Jesus comes to declare to you his authority and his power that he has laid down his life So that if you this morning confess that you need Jesus, your life Is out of control. You are not able to be the person that God created you to be. And in your shame and in your guilt, you recognize that only Jesus' sacrifice is sufficient to take away your sin. to provide forgiveness that you need, to give you new life, to be a person that is able to enter into his kingdom, to enjoy new life with Jesus under his authority. You are either in that position as an object of his commission, or you are the subject of his commission to take that message To those in your family, on your street, in your office, people that you know, work with, care for, to bring that message to them You are either an object of that commission to receive it or the subject to bring it. Which are you? Which are you this morning? Remember those Jewish leaders when they came to Pilate, they said, This imposter, this deceiver, said he was going to rise from the dead. So let's make sure that that doesn't happen. Give the seal. Post the guard. And when Jesus rose from the dead, what did they do? Did they then say, Oh, we were wrong? He really is who he says he is. No. Unbelief refuses to kneel. The Bible tells us in Matthew 28, the next chapter, that they go to the guards whose lives are all but forfeit. Because they have allowed someone to break the seal and move the stone, and they say, we'll pay off the authorities And we're going to pay you too to tell people that the disciples came and they stole the body, even though we know that didn't happen. What will it be like on the day when they stand before the throne of King Jesus? And he says, Why did you lie about my resurrection? What answer? What answer can they give? What will it be like when you stand before the throne of King Jesus? And he says, You came to church and you heard the message of my resurrection. You heard that I had all authority and power You heard that it is my sacrifice alone that could take away your sin and bring you into a right relationship with the God who made you. What will you say if you don't have him in your life, if you've never yielded to him? What will you say is your answer for why you didn't do that? I bring to you Jesus Christ this morning right here. That you would come. There is no better day than Easter morning for you to come and say, I am tired of considering it and talking about it and hearing what One more message. I don't need to hear anything more. All I need to do now is to ask you, Jesus, save me. Right now, or as we pray at the end of the message at the latest. You will not put that off. Either you are the object Of that commission who needs to yield your life to Jesus Christ. Or you're the subject of that commission. To bring that good news and to remember that in John 10, Jesus it said, There are other sheep that are not of the sheep hen, those I must bring also. And some will listen. Because I have all authority and power, I will bring some people sovereignly, like some perhaps here in this room this morning, to hear my My voice and respond in faith. And you say, Yeah, I know, I hear and I try and don't seem to get much of a hearing around here But some will listen. The interesting thing is that in the nation of America where We're supposed to have some association, enough association with Christianity that a major party of our political system brings Easter greetings to the nation, that there is so much resistance. And yet in places like Algeria and other Muslim nations like Iran, people are turning in great numbers to trust in Jesus out of Islam. I was just reading yesterday that in Algeria they're strengthening the laws against Converting from Islam or anybody who seeks to convert someone from Islam because they are concerned with the number of people who are coming to faith in Jesus Christ. Let me give you one story that I read recently about a woman in Algeria who grew up as a Muslim, but there was a hunger in her heart, and when she was fifteen She was asking God, show yourself to me. I don't feel like I know you. Islam is not showing me who you are. Show me. One night she says she had a dream. She said, I saw heaven open and rays of light, writing the words, I am the way, the truth, and the life. She had never heard those words. She didn't know where they were from. She had never read the Bible. But sometime shortly after that, a woman gave her a New Testament. She read the New Testament. She came to John 14 and she read the words of Jesus: I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. And she said, Those are the words that I saw. Convicted of that, she gave her life to Jesus Christ. You know what happened? See, in America we're supposed to say, and then she got rich and prosperous. In Algeria, her family turned her into the authorities under the charge of blasphemy and defaming Islam. She goes to court. Let me tell you what happened in her own words. She says, They took me to the court. The judge was sitting at his desk between two advisors. He leaned over and he asked me, Are you a Christian? I said yes. He asked, What did you find in Islam that you didn't like? I replied, I was looking for God in Islam and I didn't find him Then I told him about my night vision and the words that I found in the New Testament. I don't know if he was curious or he wanted to trap me. But the judge asked, How do Christians pray? What do they say? I tried to explain to him what we say. He still didn't understand how we talk to God. He asked, where do you pray? What do you pray? I replied, we can pray anytime, anywhere. He leaned forward and he asked, Can you pray here? Can you pray now Yes, he I said. So he sat back and he said, Okay, pray. I stood before him and I raised my hands and I started to pray. I knew that in my prayer this would be an opportunity to give a message of salvation, so I began, thank you, Jesus, because we are sinners and you died for us. I took ten minutes to finish this prayer. I prayed for the president of Algeria that God would bless him. I prayed for those in this court to see the salvation of Christ. When I said amen, the officials in the court turned to look at each other. The room was quiet. They were speechless. The judge said to me, This case is dismissed. Go home. I turned to walk down the long aisle to the door. I heard someone running behind me. I turned and I saw the judge. He caught up with me and he said, Woman, when you pray to Jesus, pray for me. Although it is against the law, she closes, for Muslims like me to convert. I continue to have Christian meetings in my home. We close the shades. The authority and the power of Jesus Christ displayed in a Muslim court. Displayed also here in Howard County. Because he has risen and he is Lord. And he has given you that message. All authority is given to me, therefore you go make disciples. Either you are a disciple Well, you need to become a disciple. You are a disciple to bring the message, or you're here this morning to receive and to believe on that message. But the problem is that you and I tend to separate this room from the rest of our life. We look at this room and we see this And we say this is the place where we sing about Jesus rising from the dead, and we all cheer and, you know, and we celebrate And then we get back in the car and resume the fight we were having and the fretting and the complaining and all the other things and seems to be no connection. Between the good shepherd who has authority to take his life up again, and who knows us and knows our need and cares for us intimately at every point of our lives. Brothers and sisters, you remember weeks ago I had said to you a number of times, the solution to so many of our problems is to be more aware of Jesus, not just in the worship service. In your day-to-day living, in my day-to-day living, to know that because He has all authority, He has authority to tell you how to live Because he has all power, he has power to enable you to live the way he tells you to with joy. And to live that way with increasing success, the sense of his presence to enable you to conquer sin. Do you believe this morning? Do you believe that Jesus rose with all power and authority? Then what difference will it make to you when you get in a car and go home One of the things that I find helps me to see where the connection between what I say I believe about Jesus rising from the dead and How I live day to day, from Sunday to Sunday, to see where that connection breaks down is to notice where I complain. Where I complain is where I'm saying life is out of sorts, and there's nothing I can do about it except to complain. I don't really have a good shepherd who is able to take my needs And so there are things that you pray, and you said, I've been praying for this, and I don't see God answering. And so I give up praying and I start complaining more. More and more the connection between Jesus' resurrection and my daily living is broken down. Now let me give you a trivial example of this in my own life to see what I'm talking about For some reason, over the last few months, I've been having a lot of trouble, frustrating experiences with poor service from a number of businesses. If I just go by my own experience, I feel like American business is crumbling. The service that I've been getting has been terrible. And it was in that context of being frustrated with a number of people that I was checking my visa statement recently, and I noticed on there that there was a $50 charge for a service that I had canceled And I thought they would never be able to get me because I had the card had expired, but sure enough they found it and they charged me even though I had canceled the service. And I was frustrated, so I called Visa and I said, this is not authorized. They shouldn't have been charging this. What do I do? And she said, no problem. Here's an 800 number. You just call this number and they'll take it off and we'll take care of it. Great. Call the 800 number, you know how it goes. You go through five sets of menus and you dial all the different things in there. Finally get to the final one that I need, that this is the person I need to talk to and they say before we connect you Be aware that it will cost you nine dollars a minute to talk to this person. I thought nine dollars a minute, all you've got to do is talk to them for six minutes. I've already lost money Now my blood pressure is really starting to rise. So I hung up and I thought I'll do it by the internet. Get on, try to check and find all the I finally find a way that I can do this on the internet. And it says now all you need to do is to enter in your serial number. And I think, my serial number. This whole thing was done by the internet. When I canceled the service, I canceled the serial number. So now I'm in an endless loop. I can't tell them about my frustration until I give them the serial number that I no longer have because they took it out At this point, you know, my blood pressure is really rising. I'm frustrated, and I'm just ready to go up and really start complaining to my wife Because I realize right now I've got two choices. I can either complain or I can pray. And I thought about that for a minute, and I decided I would rather complain. I mean really, to be honest, there are times you would prefer complaining. That's the way I felt The only thing that stopped me was I was getting sick and tired of complaining about all these guys, and my wife was getting sick and tired of hearing it. So I decided for plan B, Lord, I need to pray I believe that you've risen. I believe that you have all authority and power. This is so trivial. But Lord, it's got me separated from you and joy. So I said, Lord, what do I do? How do I solve this thing? And as soon as I prayed that, it occurred to me, look at the visa statement. I looked at the visa statement Under the service, there was a number. So I thought, what the heck? So I typed in the number where it said the serial number. And up came accepted. I got through. Let me tell you, I got my next statement yesterday. The $50 is deleted. Now that is so trivial, but here's what happened. Here's what I want you to hear. When that happened, when I then when that was accepted Immediately in my heart there was a sense of being a son, a child. God hears me. That is so trivial. But he heard me. My shepherd is here with me. It mattered to him. That affects the way I look at other things in my life. He is there for me in the big things, the big things that I'm not seeing him answer. But the assurance of that little item said, I can trust you. I can trust you with my life. We had a great discussion in the middle hour, you know, where we discussed these sermons. You ever want to stop in? Coming back to the Sermon on the Mount next week is stopping and we have and we shared in the last hour ways that people said that believing this either has made a difference or ways that they wish it would make a difference. There were tears praying for each other. Brothers and sisters, this is what the body of Christ is about, for us to make those connections. That Jesus has risen. That Jesus is your shepherd, my shepherd. He is with us for our comfort and with a commission. And this morning you are able to say, I believe it, and here's the difference it will make. Now, I'm going to leave you with two challenges. Number one If you are saying this is new to me and I don't understand it, I'll give you our annual CPC Gospel Challenge. Four Gospels tell the account of Jesus, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. The next four weeks in the middle hour, we will have discussions of each of those gospels. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. If you've never read them. Read for next week the Gospel of Matthew. Won't take you that long. In the light of eternity, what's an hour or two? Read the Gospel of Matthew. Come next week, middle hour, we'll have one of our church leaders there just lead a discussion on what's Matthew about. How do we see Jesus? What's it tell us about him? To help you to understand who we're asking you to place your faith and your trust in. Then Mark, then Luke, then John. If you are one who is a disciple of Jesus. But you want to make these connections better. Gospel in the Heart seminar coming up this Saturday. You have to register by tomorrow. But in registering for that, you will get the best opportunity I know of to be able to make the connections between the Jesus who laid down his life for you and took it up again with authority and power and how that connects with your day-to-day. Living. Don't miss that opportunity. The Jewish leaders feared Jesus When you and I learn to take his authority and his power seriously in our lives, we learn to love him. Because Jesus has indeed risen. And you say, What difference will that make? Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we come and we ask you to see the difference that it should make. We will come and we will ask you, Lord. As we go from here, as we go into the car, we pray that you will make the connections. That we will realize that there is a shepherd with all authority and power. Who is here for us. That you will give us a new boldness. As one person in the class said, I want to be bolder in in talking about Jesus. I want to do that. Lord, give us that heart that wants to do that on opportunities. We pray most basically, Lord, for anybody here this morning that has never made that commitment to you. That right now, Lord, you would draw them to see, I need Jesus. Now, right now, I want to confess my sin. I want to confess my need of a Savior to lay down his life, to take that sin, to grant me forgiveness and new life. To enter into his kingdom, to become his child, and to live forevermore. So Lord, we pray that you'll be speaking to any who have not done that Speak to their hearts right now. Speak to them of that need and of Jesus who stands before them as the shepherd before he stands in that last day as the judge. Lord, speak to those hearts. I hadn't planned this when I was preparing this, but This is the first service. I'm going to give an opportunity. Everybody with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. If there's anybody who is saying, I want to follow Jesus, I'm going to give my life. I want for the first time this morning. To give my life to Jesus Christ, to trust him and to serve him. I'm going to ask you to slip up your hand just so I see it, so we can talk. And then afterwards we can, if you want, make a time to be to talk about it more. Is there anybody who is saying, I I believe God's calling me to give my life to Him now Slip up your hand briefly and we'll go on. I'll pray. Lord, we continue. To ask for your work, to show yourself, to display yourself to us. These are life and death issues. And so, Lord, you've heard us. You know our hearts. And I ask that you will meet us. Meet us in those things that we have asked you to do, that only you can do. For Jesus' sake. Amen.