Please turn to Psalm 117. It's printed in your bulletin outline. I am very, very tempted to tell George Walgrove stories, but I will refrain. Psalm one seventeen, the shortest chapter in the Bible, Spurgeon says Uh yet in this shortest chapter in the Bible we have the theme, the the central portion of all of Scripture is today at our missions Emphasis months, beginning of that. We think about the whole world, that greatest ongoing endeavor of history, the taking of the gospel to every tongue and tribe And yet, you know, we need God to help us because it's hard. We're so busy. We're caught up in what we're doing, our lives, kids, work, uh, struggle, sickness, all kinds of things. Uh let's pray that God will help us. uh to see this passage in a new light and that his spirit would work in our hearts. Hear God's word, Psalm 117 Praise the Lord, all you nations, extol him, all you peoples, for great is his love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, we just need to pray again. I was just thinking this morning, I prayed for you to help me. Lord, but Really need to pray, Lord, would you just come through your word and work by your spirit? I'm so prone coming back to uh a church that means so much to us to be care what they think of me instead of what they care instead instead of what they think of you. And uh for those sitting here listening, so many other thoughts, distractions. struggles. Lord, help us to see your glory that you would be exalted above the whole earth. Would you come, Holy Spirit, and just work during this time? We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Many people have asked us, and I've told some of you before, what's the most exciting event in Japan during your 15 years? We made a 15-year commitment. We finished December 6th. Uh Uh fifteen years ago we went to Japan. There have been many exciting things. You know, we went the first three and a half years, didn't see anyone come to pr Christ. It was so And when Mrs. Takimura professed her faith in Christ, what a joy that was, that first person uh to come to Christ. Uh when Mr. Suiyoshi, the uh first man to come to Christ, and to stand publicly and baptize him and And coming to Christ and professing his faith over the opposition of his wife who is hostile to the gospel and family against him, uh, is the is the uh Elder sons, children have to continue the worship of the ancestors. Oh, what a joy to to stand publicly and and baptize a new believer. And and then to see him go on in faith and and our son Joel's having a struggle, didn't like Japan, bitter, angry, going back after our first home assignment and and Mr. Suyoshi is a new Christian beginning to show the fruit of the Spirit, took an interest in Joel. We prayed about that at the men's cell and he And he took Joel hiking up Mount Fuji and and uh and and God used into my kids' lives and just so many things. See See w the rest of our team coming to join us in Japan, uh preaching that first sermon. I was a career marine, used to jump out of perfectly good airplanes and But that first sermon in Japanese, been there almost two years and knees shaking more than jumping out of that perfectly good airplane, you know, uh trying to preach that first ten minutes twelve minute sermon, had to read every word. I was a thrill to to share God's good news of the gospel in Japanese that first time in public worship. Um at a at a church uh near the language school and and on a soon had a whole list of things here of all these exciting things that these first years But none of them are the most exciting. The most exciting is what's rooted here, what we see here in Psalm one hundred seventeen. All those others are connected to it. But it's here in Psalm one seventeen The psalmist tells, praise the Lord, all you nations, extol him, all you peoples. If I had to pick an event that was just this event was A highlight of the sixteen years, it was the day in Oyumino, Japan, where you sent us to start a church. Where God was worshiped for the first time. That first worship service. Now to you that's worship? Wow, what a uh letdown. All this uh in that uh aren't there a lot more exciting things than that? You know, driving here even this morning and You know, past churches driving up from Waynesboro, Virginia yesterday, churches all over the place in America. But to think that in this in this city, Tokyo area, thirty-two million people But in our part of that, a bedtown of Tokyo, uh an area growing to 130,000 people, there were there was not one church. In all of history as we know, God had never been worshiped. What the command of Psalm 117-1, praise the Lord, all you nations, extol him, all you peoples, that hadn't happened there before. And to stand and to stand there getting ready to preach the the thrill of of God being worshipped, of hymns being sung, of of praises being sung sung to God, what a great joy and thrill that was. There's there's plenty of worship in our town. Our house. There's about a hundred yards that way. There's a Buddhist uh temple. uh lots of idols. Uh a hundred yards that way there's a Shinto shrine and every morning at six we can hear the gong as the as the Shinto priest is waking up the gods to to to worshi that they can be worshipped. Uh the true and living God doesn't need to be woken up to be worshipped There's lots of idolatry emperors still worshipped by some. Uh our son Danny, as those of you in the middle hour heard the end of the story, the beginning of the story is he was uh came home from a baseball team he said, Dad, they're making me worship the ground. What do you mean? Well we all bow to the coach. That's okay. We line up and bow to the coach. That's like a handshake in Japan. Then we turn around and we all bow to the ground. Dad, it's like we're worshiping the ground. I called a Japanese pastor and he said, Yeah, sure enough, that's what they do and, you know, worship not just the creation, but the or the not the creator, but the creation And uh there was uh Mount Fuji's worshipped, you know, and uh so Daniel, uh we we were reading family devotions and family devotions, the book of Daniel jumped ahead to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego uh yeah they didn't bow to the idol and we prayed for him, sent him back and he he came home that night said, Dad, I think I did wrong. What did you do? So, Well, we all bowed to the coach. That's just a handshake, that's okay. When it's time to bow to the ground, you know, it's hard for a sixth grader. So he finally has friends. He's the only foreigner. He he tip he said he tipped off his baseball cap and when everybody reached over to b or went over to bow, he reached over to pick up his baseball cap and every so he um I don't think I did right dad. I said I don't think you did either. Danny and those of you middle hour heard the rest of that story. He went back and God helped him not to bow. Uh but you know that's Japan. All this false worship everywhere, but the day that God was worshipped for the first time in Oyumino, what what a thrill that it was all through the Old Testament. We see this is the motive of missions, more than the command More than the that that lost people would come to have eternal life as thrilling as that is. Our country there's so many suicides and And the sadness of a country that knows no gospel, that knows no created creator God, that doesn't know your value is that you're created in the image of God. Uh oh what a all the pain. It it's thrilling to see people come to Christ for those reasons, but to see God worship, that's this motive of missions We see over and over in the Old Testament. Here Psalm 117, Psalm 108 that we sang, Be exalted, O God, throughout the whole earth. But you know, we learn that song, Carol and I here at CPC in 1986. We s we kind of made that our theme song, getting ready to go to the mission field, our prayer. And you, you you know, um I will give thanks to thee among the peoples people groups, the S is on the end of it, you know. Uh I will sing praise to thee among the nations. You know, how do you do that? You do that in one sense by through us sending us to the nations so that God would be worshiped. Be exalted, O God, above the whole earth. You know that that prayer was answered that day in Oyemina, Japan, for the first time What a thrill. Psalm one thirteen. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same. The name of the Lord is to be praised all through the Bible. Psalm 60 verse 5, we see the only place the word thrill is used. in the in the Bible. And it's used in the ne in ASB. The NIV uh uses the heart throbbing. Why? As we see these different people groups bringing their offerings to the true and living God to worship him. Now that that's so that that may be hard for you to get uh excited about maybe. I remember Jennifer Calvert on our on from CPC, she came to Japan at eighteen to work with our team and this might help. She came back uh from going this is Iguchi, one of the people that living there, Japanese lady, took her to see all these shrines and temples, you know. Uh that you've seen pictures of them, the big famous ones. And Jennifer uh came back with Mrs. Igucchi. Mrs. Igucchi came to me and said, Dans son, she said, uh Jennifer was just crying uncontrollably, weeping when as an eighteen year old when she saw uh all of the the people bringing their children away Uh you brought your children today. They're bringing their children, teaching them to offer incense to false gods and and uh and and uh buying superstitious these these charms uh and offering them that you'd you know you wouldn't get sick and all this superstition and and jennifer why did she just start in crying? Why was she crying But she was crying, even though she had heard this sermon or read John Piper's Let the Nations Be Glad that talks about this. She just knew intuitively That there's something wrong here. They that this worship of false God, it hurt Jennifer's heart. Because we who know The true living God and experiences love. The next point in verse two, we you know we we long that he would be worshipped. You cannot commend what you don't do not cherish The day of missions will cease, but the day of worship will never cease. Our brother read about it a few minutes ago from Revelation 7. All of history is marching toward that day When we gather with every tongue and tribe to worship the elect from every tongue and tribe to worship the true and living God. Well my testimony and Carol's testimony is that somehow we miss this Growing up. Uh I I was raised in a Christian home. My father, uh PCA pastor, he my mother and dad loved us and love people had family devotions every day, people always in our home, poor people, people with it had needs would just come over and stay with us and Uh they would feed people, my dad would bring people home without warning. I tried that once after we got married, you know. Uh uh She says, I still do. I don't think I do, do I? Hey, I call now. You know, uh that kind of a home my father would share the good news of price with the mechanic under the hood of the car, and I'd be hoping he didn't do that with my high school friends, you know. But uh With that kind of a a home and yet I missed this about all nations, every tongue, every tribe. Uh it was just kind of oh yeah, missions over there on the side. We went to seminary uh from uh under care of our Presbytery here and we were gonna come back to Maryland and start a church. That was what we thought God was leading us to do. And very early in seminary at a missions conference, like the emphasis you're having this this uh this month. And the speaker at the first meeting over over a couple days took probably four hours and he marched through the Bible from Genesis to Revelation. talking about the nations, every tongue, every child. Starting at Genesis twelve, you know, where God tells Abraham, Abraham, through through your seed All the peoples of the earth are going to be blessed. All the families is the word he used here. Small tribes. And then on, it's three times he repeats it to Abraham. And then he to Isaac and then to Jacob All tongues, every tribe. Carol and I felt our heels digging in a little bit. We have our plans, God, you know? And uh and he marched on through the Bible, the Psalms over and over, these kinds of passages like we read today, Psalm 67. All the nations, every tongue, every tribe. We began to see you we've missed this. New Testament. Many will come from the east as well as the west, and will feast with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. and Romans and and Revelation and and wow by the end of that we're saying, Lord, uh if we go back to Maryland to start a church, wow, what kind of a church does it need to be? As God you've given us these children as we raise these children. How do we need to raise them that they would be world Christians that we hold them loosely? We don't raise them to be ingrown. We raise them to be a part of of this greatest endeavor of history that the nations would worship. That indeed this command of Psalm 117-1 would be obeyed. Laud him, all peoples, praise the Lord, all nations At a meeting they gave me a little card, uh little orangish-yellow card, a after a prayer meeting, uh missions prayer meeting. And God been working in my heart, Carol's heart. We were beginning our heels were beginning to be less dug in. You know, okay, Lord, your will, not ours. And this little little card said, uh, Afghanistan 30-some known Christians, Afghanistan, in the news a lot. This was 18 years ago. 37, I think it was, might have been 39 or 35. known Christians, indigenous Christians in Afghanistan. Just one of those moments, you know, that the Spirit had been working, been seeing this in the Bible. The message of the Bible isn't just redemption, it's redemption of God's people from every tongue and tribe, from all nations. And and it was like, wow, what am I going to do with this information? What am I going to do about Afghanistan, about Japan, about the nations Where God is not worshipped. About those other thousand people groups in the world still today Where God is not worshiped. You know, there's Afghanistan, the nation, but we read in the paper every day about the nations within Afghanistan. Now don't we? We have lots of names to pray for at family devotions. And in our prayer groups and small groups, the Pashtuns and the Uzbeks, many most of those groups, there are three thousand uh known Christians in Afghanistan today. Believe that's going to change. God's at work Didn't he? But uh but wow, uh so many people groups in the world where God is not worshiped. Today in Japan a thousand five hundred towns in cities where there's no church of any kind, and God uh will not be worshipped there. We long that he would be lauded and praised. The implication of this is missions Another place in Psalms, tell of his glory among the nations, his wonderful deeds among all peoples, for great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. Now friend, can I you know I pray that God would help us to think of new steps with our in in terms of missions. Maybe missions is new for a lot of you, but John Piper put it this way, in light of the Bible's message Uh there are three options. Go, send, or disobey. Now that's pretty John Piper. Just, you know, beat around the bush, you know, uh, you know, he he is so straight and and and we'll talk more about that in the motive for that. shortly, but you know, a that's true. T because of all this and th this message of the Bible and and Carol and I began to see it in maybe we're supposed to go back to Maryland and start a church, but in light of this Yeah, this church is going to have to be a part of God being worshipped in every tongue and tribe. Our our money and the resources He's given us, this may affect how we use it And what we give priority to in the in the world uh and the places that he sends us to go. When I was uh in the Marine Corps, I um we were out on the front lines one time during an exercise and they Um and they passed the word do cold weather training, freezing, miserable. I was infantry. And they passed the word hot suit tonight And uh and everybody's excited to see grown men get excited about hot soup, you know, because of the little cans we were eating out of back then and and uh and the word came down, no hot soup and everybody's, you know, complaining and and uh I I had a fever and I had to go back to Sick Bay back in the rear, uh two thousand meters back and And I went back there, I was a platoon commander and swallowed my marine pride and went back to get something for my fever, had a high fever and and uh guess what I saw back with the tents and all the pe not in not we're sleeping in foxholes or back in tents and everything. Guess what I saw back there? Hot soup, you know. And I got so mad, you know, and and I remember the colonel he had told us None of this bantering between the infantry and the people in the rear. You know, it's uh it's one mission. And all the resources are given. for the mission. And uh, you know, we would always call the air farce, you know, we call them in the you know, the the squids and the artillery, you know, they're not real Marines and all that. But uh, you know Yeah, I thought in terms of missions and this what we're talking about this month, that we're all part of it. Some of us go, most of us stay. And we say, Lord, you've given me my children, my time to be a part of this greatest endeavor of history through my prayers, through the giving. A church like CPC has so much, we've been given so much knowledge and so much ability to help reach the world. How would God call us to be a part of the nations worshiping? But where does the motivation for this? This is hard. Maybe you're even feeling yourself pushed a little bit. you know, uh uh s scary to think about it like it was for Carol and me. Maybe you feel your heels digging in a little bit yourself. Where's the motivation for something like this? Where would the motivations those missionaries last century that would go to the coffin corner they called it in Africa uh or I'm sorry in the eighteen hundreds. Uh they knew that such a high percentage of them would die and their wives would die and the children would die, that they would pack their belongings in boxes, in in uh coffins, uh to to go to Africa because so many of them came back in those boxes. You know, what would motivate and send people to do such a thing? And and the answer is in this verse two of of Psalm 117, for his loving kindness is great toward us. This great Love of God for you and me. I said the greatest most thrilling event these years has been that first worship service, but you know something even more uh thrilling and uh powerful in my life this last fifteen years being in Japan has been coming to know more about this great love of God. I was a s seminary graduate when I was here, but these last years in Japan, I've come to see more of my sin, my great sin. and my my great need of the great love of God. As uh as John Newton said when asked at the end of his life, he wrote Amazing Grace, you know, and he b wrote books and lots of hymns at the end of his life. The he was asked, What do you, you know, what have you learned? And he said a very simple thing. He said, I I've learned that I am a great sinner. And Christ is a great savior of sinners. And that's my testimony to you today as well. That is that this this loving kindness of God that is great. We see that all through the Bible and it's the propeller for this missions thing, for this this longing and working and giving and going and raising our children that yes Lord if you want them take them to be a part of this Because we see how much he's loved us. We see that like Paul in Ephesians three, the end of Ephesians three when he talks about uh the great uh love of God, that love that is so high and wide and deep and long. And the effect of that is giving us strength in the inner man to obey and to obey the hard things and to change because it it becomes a propeller to to be to do what God wants us to do. We can imagine less and less you know not doing what he wants us to do because we're captivated by his love and what he's done for us in Christ Psalm 108 that we sang talks about his love being higher than the sky, Psalm 103, that his forgiveness and his love is so great, further than the east is from the west. Uh over and over we seen this see this scene in the Bible. And and it's it gives us strength. It makes us strong. It it helps us to take new steps of obedience. It's a prevailing love. The word here, the nuance in in Psalm 117, is it's a prevailing love. And I thought about why does uh this word prev well why does that this nuance need to be here in the Hebrew? A love that's prevailing. You know, it's it's a s it's a word that's used uh when there's battles in the Old Testament, you know, and one side prevails over the other. Well, why is that? And uh Thought about that it but it we we need a prevailing love I do that prevails over my sin and my hardness of heart. I think going to be a missionary in Japan has helped me these fifteen years to see so much more of my sin and my need of Christ, those early years when there was n No fruit. It was so hard. It was so slow. Uh maybe some of you men are like me. I I'm so prone to find my significance in my work and that there's accomplishment from my work. and there was nothing to show for uh virtually for all these years of work and it was and I found myself lusting for fruit. Then when God gave fruit and there was so-called success in the work. Uh one I'm sad to say that you're a missionary you sent to Japan. One night I found myself after worship when things were starting to happen and the church was growing I w I locked the door after everyone left and I was in the room there reading something in the dark that I shouldn't have been reading or doing. And you know what that was? I was reading the numbers of worship. I was adding up the numbers. of worship attendance that day, and I wish I could tell you I was doing it because of point one, that today more people worship God More people are coming to Christ and their families are being changed and they're becoming worshipers that laud him and honor him and extol him. But the r the reason it it was so some of that was there, but so much of it was just me. I'm so self-centered, I'm so caught up in what I i in me wanting to impress in fear of man that that somebody somebody prayed earlier. And even as I preach to you today that that you would think well of me and in my family, so uh I I find so much significance in this when my kids are doing well prone to pride when they're struggling. We have nine kids, someone's always doing well, someone's always struggling, you know. Uh I'm so prone to to care so much what others think instead of them all I am a great sinner in need of a great Savior. And I just praise the Lord that He's showing me more of that these years, how much I need Him. in my marriage with Carol, well we have a pretty good marriage. And last weekend, just uh as we're traveling and seeing my critical spirit, my my proneness to to shallow love instead of great love the way Christ has loved me, that perseveres, that you know it's like caving. The more you go into the caves, the more you find different different runes you haven't seen yet, as I see more of those in my heart and subtleties. And Christ's blood covers all that. I have a high priest today whose love and forgiveness is greater than my sin. That is such good news. And we get used to it, don't we? I get used to it. But it's a propeller for this missions thing. It's a It's it's powerful as we read missions history and we see the effect this has on people. The love of God is powerful to help us in the difficult areas of obedience. My son Danny, the one I told about that didn't bow, ultimately. Uh he uh when he was in high school, senior in high school got a c uh I called home after a pastor's meeting and um said, Carol, uh I'm getting on the train on my way home and sh and she said, uh Danny just got suspended from school for three days. And I uh I said, What? And I again have to confess my his school for missionary kids. Some of my first thoughts were, Any you parents, can you guess? What are they gonna think of me? My son got suspended, I'm sad to say, but God got me past that and I uh you know, I she doesn't remember this. Maybe I'm wrong. I think she said, Here, talk to your son, you know. And he he said, uh I said, D Dan, what did you do? He said, uh, Dad, I'd rather tell you face to face. And uh and I And I was, you know, angry and he can you know mixed with what did he do? You know, and uh and and before I hung up I remembered uh when I was in high school and I had done something very wrong and my father uh who modeled God's love for me, not perfect his gr his great love, but not perfect love like the Father. But he did love me and he showed me God's love, taught me God's love. He said at that he said, Dan, what you did was wrong, but I love you and my love for you cannot change. And I I just remember the effect of that on my life, you know, and and and and helping me to come know more of God's love and and beginning to be able to repent and follow him and and I I remember that and I told Danny, I said Danny, I want you to know I I I don't know what you did, but I but I love you And my love for you uh can't change. Well that's an overstatement. My love isn't perfect. And but I I got home and he told me and and uh what he'd done and it was very wrong And not as bad as I imagined and uh and I had him memorizing Ephesians five, verses one through ten the next uh three days. He had lots of time on his hands, you know, and some of you kids will be, Hmm, Ephesians five, wonder what he did, you know. Uh and um And he and and a couple weeks later that was really a great time in his life. God was working in his heart. He was beginning to grow more. Uh and he came to me, he said, Dad That was very powerful in my life when you told me on the phone that you loved me just like. In spite of what I did. Yeah, and isn't that true with us? When as we come to sing these songs and we hear the messages, we take the Lord's Supper tonight Yeah. If we really know more of it, it doesn't say, well, I go live the way I want, I can just spend my money the way I want. I can just, you know, accumulate more. It it causes us is Psalm 67, he he read, blessed, the end of Psalm 67, that God blesses us that we can do what we want, that we can accumulate more and just live. No, God blesses us that the ends of the earth may fear him. We enjoy those blessings and especially of his great love and we say, Lord, how can I serve you and use it for your glory? And the last point here in this passage as well, we see, and it's in your outline, another great source of strength is here. Our confidence in missions. It says that the the Lord's at the end of verse 2, the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. I put in your outline there, I put the New American Standard, says the truth of the Lord endures forever. New American Standard, uh the truth of the Lord, the NIV, the faithfulness of the Lord. And I always wondering about those two words. And and because always that it's the word emet, one of those important Old Testament words. It means the true, certain faithfulness of the Lord. His covenant promises are true. He is faithful. You can count on it more than you can count on anything, whether you feel like you can count on it or not. They're true. That all the promises are certain. They're rooted in the veracity of God. That's what this means. Friends, that has been such a strength to us being in a hard place like Japan. There have been times it's been hard to believe, like those first years. But I do I put a little feed on this. I I r remember that uh early on, uh the first term, we finally Rented a little apartment in Oyumi, you know. Couldn't find no church, no Christians, been there four months, no cr one problem after another, thought we're gonna have to rent two apartments, you know, side by side. No one would rent this big foreign family a house. So two apartments and the older kids in one apartment and and we'd be in the one next door. Just just so many obstacles, so discouraging. We had our first five people come to English Glass And uh and uh and after the English class, no short termers, I taught it, and they said afterwards these uh very nice, polite Japanese people said, Well Mr. Iverson, uh Iba Sonsan, that's my name in Japanese, uh, why did you come to our city? And uh and they and I said, Well we're here to start a church. They said, A church and uh you mean Mike No. Yeah, kinda like that, you know, and uh and uh said, Oh, there's no church here you know, you mean no And I said, Yes, that's why we're here to start a church, you know. Uh they wouldn't understand a thing about missions, typical Japanese, never opened a Bible, never been in a church in their life And uh and they said, Well how are you gonna start a church if there are no Christians here? And it was like uh it was sarcastic, almost like, You crazy gyging. You know, gyging means alien. I have an alien registration in my wallet here, okay? I'm an alien in Japan. You crazy Gaiji, how would you ever, how do you think you're going to start a church if there are no Christians? The certainty of God's faithfulness and his promises. You know, I wonder who was praying for us that day because the Spirit helped me believe the promises. I just remember such a sense, another one of those chirotic moments you never forget. And I answered them, oh yes, there'll be a church here someday. And I didn't go into the theology of it, they wouldn't have understood, but I was thinking Matthew 16, 18, Jesus promised, I will build your church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. The hymns we sang today, you know, everyone quoting Psalm 46 after 9-11, you know, although even the mountains fall in the sea. You know, that God is our refuge and our strength. Nobody got down to Psalm 4610. The first part they did, be still and know that I am God. But the next part, be, for Psalm 46. 10, B, I will be exalted among the nations. He will be. No doubt about it. His kingdom cannot fail. He rules over earth and heaven. It was just such a sense that, oh, it looks dark and it's slow. But God's promises, He they are the the veracity of God, they are certain, they are true, and we don't see it w as we go through sickness and pain and struggle with children and life and and job and all of the things we go through. Sometimes it doesn't feel like he's faithful. On the mission field sometime it doesn't feel like it's like the that Gulf War platoon read about ten years ago in the Gulf War, you know, they're they're they went into Iraq as a Marine platoon, went in right up the uh at the worst part there and and they're hearing over the handset, over the radio, it's a route And they're getting killed, you know. People dying, they they're losing, and they're hearing over the rail, it's a route? Well it was a route. It just didn't feel like a route where they were. And sometimes what we're going through, it doesn't feel like a route. And yet God is faithful. We look at as we think about missions, we look at church history And we do see that history is his story. I've been to Korea, I've been to a Japanese church with eight non-Christian worshipers, uh not baptized yet, didn't know the Lord, but a new church planned in the morning and one of those big flu to Korea in the afternoon. You know you see the steeples as you fly into Korea, churches everywhere. Fifty years ago Korea was the same as Japan. Today the biggest churches in the world. We see China, the Soviet Union, eighteen years ago. When we're getting ready to leave for Japan, if we s if I preach this, I said, you know what's gonna happen in the Soviet Union? It's gonna collapse and they're gonna invite missionaries from America to come and and show the Jesus film in their schools and the Soviet Union is gonna have all of this revival and renewal throughout the Soviet Union, you know That would have been very hard for any of us to believe and it happened during our first term in Japan over such a brief period of time. I remember as a kid at family devotions praying for Russia I remember my cousin praying for Russia, family devotions where he said, Lord, bless everybody except Khrushchev. He prayed. I remember that, you know? God answered well he didn't know not all of that prayer. He but he answered those prayers we see. The kingdom advancing. I mentioned there's a thousand people groups in the world today where there's no worship of God. Friends, there are now 12,000 people groups, nations, biblical nations. in the world today where there's a church worshiping or a team of missionaries who have targeted that people group to go into it to start a church. That's exciting. God's his his kingdom cannot fail. He rules over earth and heaven, friends. You want to be a part of the greatest ongoing endeavor of history? You know, somebody asked me, I mentioned that we finished our 15 years Uh they came and said, Well are you going back? Anybody want to guess? You know. I can't imagine doing anything else. With anybody else, anywhere else. It's a thrill to be where God wants you to be, whether you're here as a sender or whether you're there as a goer. What new steps might God call you to with your giving this month? With your the way you raise your children to not raise them as, you know, all ingrown. But but Lord, we've given them deep roots that their branches would be out to go to the nations, to be senders to the nations. What new steps in family devotions, Sunday school teachers, worship leaders to help CPC even more be a church than you are. that the nations would laud him, honor him, extol him because of this marvelous gospel, this great love of Christ. Eddie, uh just in closing, uh, my mom uh before she died. We were back on our first furlough and we were all sitting, I think we had maybe six or seven children then Six children, we were sitting on a row in worship and she came and we sang that missionary hymn, you know, Ozion haste. The last verse is give up your sons to spread the message glorious, give up your wealth To speed them on their way, pour out your soul for them in prayer victorious, and all thou spendest Jesus will repay. And uh she after we sang that after worship she said, Dan, I used to sing that when you were a little kid. And uh and you say, Lord, you know, don't want to send them but willing to And she looked at me half serious with that fire of a grandmother and said, But I didn't sing give up your grandson. She said I told that at a church uh at a missions conference, but I didn't mention this you'd gone to heaven. And they came up and someone a guy came up to me afterwards said, Yeah, this mission stuff it is hard, especially going. And and how how does your mother feel about it now? And I smiled at him and I said, She's really for it now. You know. But let's pray together. Lord, we thank you That somebody crossed a cultural barrier and brought the gospel to us or our ancestors. More than that, we thank you that for God, that God so loved the world. That great love of the Father for the world that he gave his only son to go to Bethlehem, to die on that cross for our sin, and even today, as our great high priest To forgive us and cleanse us and intercede over and over again for my great sin, our great sin. Lord, we thank you for the great privilege of being a part of taking this gospel to our neighbors and to the nations. That they would worship, that they would know you and worship you. Thank you, Lord, that you've enlisted us in this great partnership to be a part of this great work. In Jesus' name, amen.