God's word to us today is from James chapter five, verse seventeen and eighteen. Let me pick up what James is saying to us from verse 13. James chapter 5. Is any one of you in trouble? You should pray. Is anyone happy? Let them sing songs of praise. Is any one of you sick? You should call the elders of the church to pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. The Lord will raise him up. If he has sinned, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. Elijah was a man just like us. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three and a half years. Again he prayed. And the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops. It's significant That James uses Elijah of all the Old Testament characters as an example of faith in prayer for you and for me. Elijah is the person he chooses to illustrate what he says at the end of verse 16. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. How is it that Elijah is an example of faith to you and to me when we pray? What is curious about this is that James did not use the obvious examples in Elijah's life. If I was thinking about Elijah as an example of faith in prayer, I might have chosen the example that we just heard read, about his calling on God to bring fire from heaven. on a water-drenched sacrifice. And how God did that. Or I might have chosen the time when you remember Elijah living with the widow of Zarephath, her young son died. And Elijah went to that young son and he stretched himself out on the corpse three times and he prayed, Oh Lord, let this boy's life return to him. I don't know about your prayer life and your faith, but that goes beyond mine. To pray for a corpse to come back to life. And yet that's exactly what God did. And the life of that little boy returned to him, and he lived. But James doesn't choose that example as the example of faith in Elijah's life. What's most curious to me is that James chooses an example of faith in Elijah's life in prayer. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective in a text that does not even say that Elijah prayed. 1 Kings 17:1 So I would like for you please to turn to 1 Kings 17:1 if you haven't already while it was being read. Because uh In fact, uh you may want to keep your finger in James and 1 Kings seventeen, because I'll be going back and forth a bit But in 1 Kings chapter 17, verse 1, we read now Elijah the Tishbite. From Tishbe in Gilead said to Ahab, As Yahweh, the Lord, the God of Israel, lives, whom I serve, there will be neither dew nor rain in the next few years. Now you see, if it wasn't for what James five says, if you read that text, you would think that God told Elijah to say that, wouldn't you? I mean you would think that Elijah was simply a prophet who had been sent by God with this message to Ahab. But the Bible is clear in James 5, 17 and 18 that this came as an answer to prayer. Did Elijah prayed concerning this matter, that there would not be rain on the land. That the the fact that there was not rain on the land for three and a half years was a direct result of Elijah's praying. Now, why did he do that? And what does that say to you and to me as Americans in 1998? I believe quite a bit. But to understand that, we need to look at the historical situation during the rule of Ahab, during that period that he reigned, 874 to 853 BC. 22 years, I'm glad that Wayne read that so that you got a picture of what kind of a rain it was. They were a terrible twenty-two years for Israel. Ahab called himself a believer, and yet he did all that he could to undermine biblical religion. He and his wife Jezebel, notorious reputation, established Baal as the state religion Baal was a fertility god. It's significant that Baal's function was to send rain in order that the crops would grow and the economy would be healthy. And so what you have here is a nation that is giving superficial allegiance to the Bible, but in fact they are ignoring everything about the Bible and the worship of God. Elijah, whose name means my God is Yahweh, is not a professional prophet. He is not a priest, he's not a preacher. He's a layperson. He is in fact first mentioned in 1 Kings 17:1. We know nothing about him before that verse. He just kind of bursts on the scene, this guy from Gilead. You know, kind of a modern paraphrase would be Elijah the guy from somewhere in Gilead. We don't even know where Tishbe is. There's some speculation about it. So here's this guy just kind of appears out of nowhere, and he's got this message from the king. Now, where did that all come from? I believe that Elijah saw the nation going downhill. He was disturbed and is Being disturbed, turned to alarm as he saw Ahab aggressively leading the nation away from the Lord. He seeks to warn people. He no doubt speaks about this, but nobody's interested. Why is nobody interested? Because the economy is good Things are going well. Everything's functioning. So Elijah's written off as one of those right-wing evangelicals that's always trying to impose their views and their religion on the rest of us. And nobody pays much attention. But Elijah knows his Bible. And as he reads what happens in these kinds of situations where the nation departs from the Lord, He reads passages like Leviticus chapter 26 in verse 18, where God says, if after all this you will not listen to me, I will punish you for your sins seven times over. I will break down your stubborn pride. This is spoken to the nation. And I will make the sky above you like iron, and the ground beneath you like bronze. Your strength will be spent in vain, because your soil will not yield its crops, nor will the trees of the land yield their fruit. Or he reads in Deuteronomy 11, verse 16: Be careful, or you will be enticed to turn away and worship other gods and bow down to them. And then the Lord's anger will burn against you, and he will shut the heavens so that it will not rain, and the ground will yield no produce. And you will soon perish from the good land that the Lord is giving you. Solomon prayed the same kind of thing at the dedication of the temple, just a little over 200 years before Elijah. And what I believe that Elijah did as he saw those passages and he saw what was happening in the apathy of the nation was that he claimed those promises for his day. Now those aren't the kind of promises that you and I frame and put on our bedroom walls, are they? But Elijah had a different perspective from those people. Elijah could see the big picture beyond his own comfort. Elijah could see beyond the blessing of a good economy. He could see beyond the blessing of stability. And he could see a nation that was going to hell. And Elijah said, I can't simply sit by. And not claim the promise that God Himself has given to get the attention of the nation. And so Elijah prays. And I believe that as he prayed, there was a growing conviction that God was going to answer his prayer. Twenty years ago, this month, God established Columbia Presbyterian as a church that would worship him here in this place. And would have a heart to reach this community for Jesus Christ. It's very easy after twenty years to be more concerned with our own comfort. To be concerned that our programs are running okay and that the community doesn't go downhill so bad that it's not safe for us or a good place to raise our kids. But that our concerns become very much centered on ourselves and our comforts. I find it true in my own life, Very difficult, isn't it, to get beyond what is good for me and to think about what is good for the community and how we can reach a lost community. at any cost. And what strikes me about Elijah is that James says, here's a man who prayed with faith that it would not reign. And when Elijah prayed that, Elijah was praying full well, knowing, I will suffer along with the rest of the nation if there's drought. It's not going to just affect them. Drought's not just going to be on the unbelievers. Drought's going to be on me too. But Elijah had enough concern, enough passion for people who were going to hell. Who were without God and not honoring Him, that He prayed that prayer anyway. And He prayed it in faith. He didn't just pray, Lord. If you want that, now Lord, you know I'm not real big on this, but Lord is, you know, that's what your words say. If you want to do it, mm-hmm, okay. James says he was an example of faith. He prayed this, seeking, claiming the promise. God, do it! And so as he prays this, he comes to the conviction, perhaps God speaks to him, but there is a settled conviction that God is going to hear and answer this prayer. And so he says in 1 Kings 17, in verse 1, As the Lord the God of Israel lives, whom I serve, there will neither be dew nor rain. in the next few years, except at my word. You notice, he doesn't just say no rain. He adds no dew. That's significant. I mean I don't know if you notice we haven't had much rain around here for the last couple of months, but the dew that comes down every night, tons of water come down Every evening on Howard County in the form of dew to freshen things up. Imagine not only no rain, but no dew That's why God said the ground would become like bronze, would become like iron. And what Elijah is doing is now he is declaring a contest. He is saying, as the Lord Yahweh lives, who made this promise in Leviticus and Deuteronomy and 1 Kings and other places, at my word, there's not going to be any rain or dew. Until he gets your attention. See, he doesn't say three and a half years, he says the next few years, as long as it takes. You notice he doesn't say, you know, this season. Elijah knows this is going to take some time. He knows there's going to be suffering. And he knows that when the people begin to suffer, what will they do? They'll call upon Baal. Oh, Baal, send rain. Baal's their trust. And Baal won't answer. And they will continue to cry out, and things will turn brown, and things will shrivel up, and there will be no harvest this year. And all the crops will die in the fields. And then the next year comes, and they plant again in hopes, and they make the sacrifices to Baal. And they say, Oh, Baal, hear us and send the rain. And they have the orgies, and they do what is necessary to appease him. And no rain comes the second year And now not only are the plants dying, the animals are beginning to die. There's dead cattle, dead sheep. Dead animals and the stench begins to fill the air of rotted carcasses. And then the young and the old. And the weak begin to die from lack of water. The nation becomes obsessed with water It's hot and it's dry, day after day, week after week, month after month, no cloud in the sky, unremitting heat and drought. And they become desperate. By the kind time they come to the third year, not having received harvest year after year before that. The people are absolutely desperate. I read this brief article concerning North Korea in the drought that has been occurring there in the last few years. North Korean refugees fleeing the famine in their country are facing a deep spiritual crisis in addition to the physical hardships caused by the famine. One 25-year-old North Korean man said, God must hate us to allow us to watch our children die. These refugees are painting a much bleaker picture of the famine that was previously reported. Many aid agencies claim mass starvation has not occurred, but according to a BBB BBC investigative broadcast, In April of this year, over three million people have died since 1994. It is not known how many Christians are in North Korea. But some estimate the number to be 100,000. The Christians are suffering along with the rest of North Korea. Elijah suffering. The believers, the 7,000 who had not bowed their knee to Baal, were suffering, along with the rest of the nation, as God was getting their attention. And after three and a half years, Elijah comes back to Ahab and he declares a second contest. Out of the context of these three and a half years, Elijah says, Now let's have a contest between the prophets of Baal and me Ms. Wayne described they laid out the two sacrifices and the prophets of Baal shouted and screamed and cut themselves. And then Elijah says, Now go get water. Now I used to read that and I think Now if there's been a drought for three and a half years, where in the world they get all this water? I mean he's got And He says, go get three large jars. They pour that four large jars. They go pour that. He says, Do it again, do it again. Twelve large jars of water. That douses this. I mean you'd think they wouldn't know the water wouldn't even get to the sacrifice. People would be ripping the jars out of the people's hands. How'd they do it? I think the answer is simply if you look where Mount Carmel is, it's right along the Mediterranean Sea. So what they did is they sent people down for seawater that they put on that sacrifice. And no matter how thirsty you are, you're not about to go scrabbling for seawater. And so then Elijah prays. And as we see in James chapter 5, in verse 18, again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops. If you remember just after this contest with Baal, he goes up on the hill and he prays. There's a cloud like a man's hand, and then there is a downpour and a deluge, and the drought is ended Now, what does that have to do with you and me? Our gods are not the Baals. What is the bale of our culture? I believe that you could make a good argument for the fact that the bale of our culture is technology. Technology is that which we seek to solve all the problems, whether it is pain or as in the news in the last week, the ability now to choose the sex of the child you want to have. Whatever it is, technology is what we seek for the answer. What is the incarnation? Of the God of technology. I believe a good argument could be made for the fact that the incarnation of this God is the computer. Without computers there would be no modern technology in the way that we know it and the advances that have occurred. And now you ask yourself, if God were to do in the United States, in our world, what he did in Israel, What would be the contemporary counterpart of sending no rain? He could send no rain. He could send a drought that would bring us to our knees. But what also might he do He might show the computer as a false god that can't deliver. Enter the Y2K problem Now, I don't know what's going to happen with Y2K, but I've read some stuff. In fact, this is material that I've collected on it in just the last couple months, and this was the stuff worth keeping. When I first started preparing this message, I thought I would give some quotes about the thing, but I, you know, you've all read enough on it. You all have your own statistics, your quotes, your alarmist statements. Here's one lip smackin' bed. Uh, you know, I mean there's just all kinds of stuff on here. Mother Anvil, the Y2K thing. There's all kinds of articles, some that seek to assuage our fears, many that are alarmist. Um what's going to happen? Some people say Y2K is going to bring utter chaos. Within our culture, other people say, actually, Y2K is just going to be at a bump in the road. There's a lot worse stuff coming along we're not even thinking about, like DJ 10K or other things. If you're interested in what these things are. If you're interested in getting a handout on some things that you can do, we're having the meeting tonight. I wasn't going to tell you about that until today when I first was going to do this, but I thought I'd have a bunch of people mad at me because they couldn't schedule it in on such short notice. And that's why I told you about it last Sunday. But if you're interested in coming and hearing a couple of people speak on this and then having a discussion on it, right here tonight, 6. 30 We will be talking about Y2K from a Christian perspective. Y2K in our response. Well, again, I don't know how big the problem is going to be, and I'm not telling you that it's going to be a catastrophe. I don't know. Larry Burkett doesn't know. Larry Burquette has been asked again and again, and he has a fellow working on his staff full time to do the research because he is wisely concerned that what he says could either create panic or If he's wrong and says it's not going to be a big deal, there'll be a lot of people angry at him in January of 2000. So he's cautiously looking to say something, and even after several weeks, he's still not ready to say what he thinks will happen. But what I do know is that for the last nearly generation, last 15-20 years, there has been an unprecedented Movement of prayer within our nation for God to bring revival. The concerts of prayers, the prayer summit movement. has been unprecedented, certainly within the 20th century and perhaps in the history of our nation. People who are praying, God Bring revival. Whatever it takes, bring revival to our nation. Get our attention, Lord. Show us our arrogance. And I simply, in thinking about that, have to ask the question. Could it be that God's sovereign answer to that prayer will be to show the computer is a false God? And out of that chaos, whatever, however, maybe Y2K, maybe something else, To simply bring revival from that. You know, in the 20th century, most of the revivals that we see have come out of chaos. Major, major revival going on in Argentina right now. Hundreds of thousands of people coming to Jesus Christ. It came out of chaos and a breakdown of that society. The revivals in Eastern Europe came out of the breakdown in those societies and the chaos there. The revival in Nicaragua. From an earthquake. Again and again, where God brings a hunger for a people who are humbled from their arrogance, it usually comes when something breaks down and people's attention has been captured. And so it's a possibility. Maybe God will do that. I'm not prophesying that He will. So why am I preaching this? Because as I began to think about this and look at Elijah's life and think about our own situation, I had to ask myself an extremely troubling and searching question. And it was simply this. If I knew that God would hear my prayer and answer it. If I pray for a breakdown within the computer system in the United States in the next couple of years, knowing that from that there would come revival But also great disruption to my life and my family and suffering. Would I pray? Would I pray that prayer? Would you pray that? If you knew that God would get the attention of Howard County and that your neighbors who now could care less about the fact that you go to church, that you name the name of Jesus Christ in your life, and they write you off as that's nice for you. That's kinda interesting. But it's really not particularly relevant to my life. In my self-satisfaction, would you be willing to pray? God, bring the breakdown so that you'll get their attention I'll tell you, I don't know about you, but that's been a very searching question in my own life. It's one thing for us to pray that God will make the unbeliever miserable in his sin. But am I willing to pray that God will disrupt my life and bring suffering and inconvenience in order that He might send revival? When you read Revelation, don't turn to this now, but you can look at it later. In chapter eleven, there are two witnesses sent in the last days. And when you read what those two witnesses' ministry is, anybody remember what it is? They come with power to shut up the heavens from rain. And to turn the waters to blood. In other words, they come with the ministry of Elijah and Moses. And do you remember how the people turn against them and they kill them? Because this ministry is calling them to see their sin. But the ministry that they come in is the ministry of Elijah. James said the prayer of a righteous man or woman, is powerful and effective. Elijah was a man just like us. And he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the land for three and a half years in answer to this prayer of a person who could see beyond his own comfort. To the big picture of what God was doing in the nation. And again he prayed, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth produced its crops. Nine hundred years after Elijah, another prophet came to the same area To a woman who was descended from the same people who lived under Ahab's reign, who were now called Samaritans. And he came significantly to a woman who was what? Thirsty. Where? At a well. And what did he offer? Living water. And what did he do to show her her need for the living water? He demonstrated to her, by searching questions, her spiritual thirst. Jesus is the living water. Maybe you're here this morning and you're thirsty. You're here this morning, and in your own life there's that need, that longing for your life to be made new. That God could forgive you, that God could turn your life around. God could come in your life and dwell in you and give you a purpose and a reason to live and a new hope and longing. If you have that kind of thirst Jesus is here to meet you and to satisfy that thirst. He's irrelevant to you until you feel that thirst. Brother and sister, if you feel that thirst, come to Jesus Christ, and he will satisfy it to the full. But again, I leave you with a question that I've been asking myself. Are you willing for God to do whatever it takes With whatever indications there are now that he may be bringing the God of the computer and technology to be seen by this country as a false God and the chaos that might ensue. In order to bring about the spiritual thirst, the awareness of our own frailness, our own inadequacy For a whole new hunger and thirst for Jesus Christ in the gospel, to show the spiritual bankruptcy That exists in this nation. How we hover between the arrogance and the sense of despair. Even the political events that we're seeing in these days demonstrate how shaky is the sense of security. What God might do. But are we as His people willing to pray for that? One of the things that most disturbs me about the Y2K problem It's the things that I read by and for Christians that are all centered on protecting yourself in fleeing and taking care of yourself and guarding your stuff and doing whatever it takes Because you've got the inside information and you're going to take care of you. Thank God Elijah was not that kind of person. May God raise up in our own culture, in Columbia Presbyterian, and of the other churches in this county, and we are talking about it as pastors. A people who would see if God intends to use this, he intends to use it with his people as servants to be able to demonstrate to this culture what it means to live in that chaos as those who can be salt and light. In a place where he intends to bring the gospel. Let's pray. Well Lord, as we come now, we want to We want to come to simply offer ourselves to you, to search our hearts. Lord, so many of us have prayed for revival. We've prayed for renewal. We've prayed glibly. We've prayed, in many cases, naively. Not recognizing that revival usually comes in the wake of some major disturbance that has brought that culture, that nation, to its knees. And so, Lord, we pray that you would make us a people of faith who believe that when we pray and claim your promises That you do hear us. Lord, it's exciting to think that what has been prayed these last 15, 20 years, in gatherings of prayer, you may be ready to answer The Lord, that answer may be shaking us out of our convenience, out of our security There could be disruptions in the years ahead that we would tremble to think about right now. And yet, Lord, it could be the very best thing that could possibly happen to us. Lord, make us open and ready. And a people who are ready to serve and not just protect ourselves. A people who are ready with Elijah to pray for disaster. That revival would come. Lord, help us tonight as we come together and think about these things. Examine ourselves in terms of what we can do and what could be coming, and how you would have us to think about that, that we be a people prepared and evil, eager and available to you, useful to you. For the great thing that you might do in this county, in this nation. Lord, we look to you to commit ourselves to you with eagerness And yet with trembling, in Jesus' name. Amen.