Last two messages have been on prayer because prayer centers on God's name. Last week we looked at the first point about prayer that we plead his name for our pardon. Because his name is on me, I am safe. That was the point. I don't depend on what I've done. It's not a matter of how much I've sinned or what amends I've sought to make. It only depends on Jesus. God will not reject me because He uh has set His name upon me and be for the sake of His great name. He cannot reject me, both because of the revelation of that name that we looked at last week. His name means that he has redeemed me into a relationship with himself with a reward of heaven. And because that's what his name means, that's how he reveals himself, he's pleased to draw sinners like you and me to himself and to be honored by showing his mercy and salvation to us. And then the second way that we saw that was that his revelation, excuse me, not only the revelation of his name, but the revering of his name, guarantees that he cannot reject us. Because his name is at stake in what happens to us. He's bound us to his name. And therefore he can never let us go. Because his name would be compromised if he did. And all the nations must see that he's a God who is faithful, and a God who calls his people to himself and will never let them go. So you and I are safe. We are secure. Because of the name of our God, not because of anything that we've done. I was just uh thinking as I I was talking about how long the series has seen Ron and Becky Schumacher back there. I think we've been going through this series almost since you guys left. It was nineteen eighty-nine. You left a little before that, I think, but It'd be kind of a funny feeling, you know, leave, go away six years, you come back, guys still on the same series, you know nothing changes around here. It's like like a soap opera in the afternoon, you know, you tune in two years later, they're still doing the same thing, you know But we are moving on. Second thing we go to today to wrap it all up is in pleading his name for our petitions. I plead his name for my petitions. Because I pray in his name I am heard. One thing that we all have in common here is that we pray. Now, we probably all have in common too that we don't feel like we pray enough. We wish we could pray more effectively, but we all do pray. If we want to learn more about how to pray, then I suggest we follow the model that the Lord Jesus, our Master, gave to us to pray, which we call commonly the Lord's Prayer. That's his model. He says, You want to learn how to pray? Here. Use this as your model. So as we look at that, why don't we begin by praying that prayer together? Let's do it. Our Father. Who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen Interesting, isn't it, how no matter how much we use the modern translations, when we go back to something like that, we revert back to the King James because that's what you know draws us all together. But if you look at the NIV, the translation of that is slightly different. And so if you have your Bibles, turn to Matthew chapter 6. I want to call attention to this petition for which we end the series. Jesus, teaching his disciples to pray, Matthew 6, verse 9, said, This then is how you should pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread, forgive us our debts. As we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. Now there's some modern updates of language that are minor that you may notice there. Probably the thing most people notice is the ending's different It's the King James that ends with, For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. And the most ancient manuscripts don't have that, and so the modern translators have left that part out. Most people consider, however, it's an entirely appropriate ending to the Lord's Prayer, and in fact some ancient manuscripts do have it. It may be part of the original, though not so very likely. But our attention this morning is not on the ending of that prayer, but rather the beginning. Do you notice that the way the Lord teaches us to pray is very significant in the light of the series that we've just been going through? He begins with one of the most significant names of God. He could have said, begin Yahweh. He could have said begin Jesus. He could have begun a number of ways. But you notice the way he begins is to begin with this single word, Father. It's uh in the Greek pater, but in the Aramaic uh Abba, which means daddy, a very familiar term. Uh daddy Hallowed be your name. Daddy who is in heaven. Hallowed be your name That's the very first petition. After addressing God, the very first thing that you and I are taught to pray. Is may you hallow, lift up, sanctify, exalt your name. This is very practical This is not just some theological exercise. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name. Go on now. Let's get down to the meaty stuff. Give us our daily bread and stuff we need and rest. Now, actually, this first petition is the petition out of which all of the rest of the prayer flows. Uh how many of you ever been to Longwood Gardens? Anybody ever y if you've doesn't never never been there, you really ought to get it's a real treat. I've gone there ever since well I'll tell you, I've been going to Longwood Gardens so long ago. It's ten dollars to get in now was free when I used to go back as a kid with my parents. It was a DuPont estate. One of the things they changed over the years was that at the top of the falls and the stream there. used to just be some water that came out of some rocks and they've converted into this thing that they call the Eye of Waters. And you go in there, it's a little pavilion and uh there's maybe a it's a circle about uh maybe twelve, fifteen feet in diameter. and vast amounts of water, uh, I don't know how many hundreds or thousands of gallons per minute come out through that thing, but it all comes up and then flows evenly over the rims and then down through the streams and the rivers and the falls in the park. Well, everything from that part, from that stream, comes from that eye of waters. And the Lord's Prayer is like that, in that this petition is the eye of waters of the Lord's Prayer. Everything in the Lord's Prayer flows out of this source, the fountainhead. Hallowed be your name. That's what shapes and controls the rest of the prayer. And so, in order to learn how to pray, we need to learn what that means. Two things. First of all, that his name is the basis. For all my praying, and secondly, that his name is the goal for all my praying. So the two points are: first of all, his name is the grounds for my approach to his throne of grace. That's the first word, first blank. His name is the grounds for my approach. The very first word, as I said, is this word pater, Abba, father. And that's given because Jesus wants to emphasize that we are in a relationship with God because of himself. In John chapter 14, in verse 6, the Lord Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. So if you're going to pray, Father. The only way you do it is to come through Jesus. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you really knew me, You'd know my father as well. From now on you do know him and have seen him. Why? Because of me, because of the work I've done. And it's in that context a few verses later he says in verse thirteen And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it. Now some of us get real confused about that and think that that means, well, as long as I tackle on in Jesus' name, why doesn't he give me whatever I ask? That's what he promised. Give me anything, I'll give you anything that you ask in my name. You need to understand what he means. First of all, the context of that. is that my name is what gives you approach. It is my name by which you come to the Father because my purpose is to bring glory to him and you don't come in your own name. You don't come based on how much you deserve to be heard by God. I think of, suppose I was coming to a great and mighty king and I sought entrance and And the porter at the door said, Well, who is it that wants to see the king? And I said, Jalen Harris. He'd look at me and he'd say, Who? But if I say, But I come in the name of Jesus. You see, it's whose name you come in that gains you the entrance. It's not your own name. And so you and I come in the name of Jesus. And when we do that, we are saying, I am coming. in the character and in the completion of all that he has done to gain the entrance to the throne of grace. Therefore, you see, prayer is the fulfillment of what we talked about, of the meaning of God's name Yahweh, in Exodus chapter 6. Remember in Exodus 6 we saw that he redeems us to a relationship with himself with a reward of an inheritance. And so prayer means that I come to the Father. Prayer is addressed to the Father. That doesn't mean you can't pray to Jesus, you can't pray to the Spirit. But primarily, when you and I pray, we are addressing the Father. That's the relationship. through the Son, Jesus, in His name, exalting His name, hallowing His name by the entrance that He gives us That's the redemption. He's redeemed us, therefore he's taken away our sin. He's removed the barriers from coming to God. You come to God without Jesus Christ as your Savior and Lord, you will not be heard. He may be gracious to do something in your life to draw you to repentance, but you have no right to be heard. It is the redemption that gives us that right, and then it is by the Spirit. The Spirit who is the first fruits of all the promises of God, of his inheritance. And so in Romans chapter 8, we're told we're not given the spirit of slavery to fear, but the spirit of sonship by which we cry. Abba Daddy. Through Jesus. And what is it that we cry? We cry Ava Daddy as heirs of Christ, co-heirs with him. You see? And the Spirit, he goes on then to say in verse 26, teaches us how to pray, how to lay hold of those promises. So I can help you if when you're praying, you're thinking, what I'm doing now is I'm coming in this new relationship with the Father that I've been granted through Jesus because He's redeemed me. Therefore I plead His name And I come to God the Father as the Spirit teaches me how to lay hold of his promises. Prayer is in one sense simply enforcing the victory that Jesus gained at the cross and the empty tomb. It's simply enforcing that victory and the extension of his kingdom. Hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. So you see, when I'm coming to pray, what I'm doing is I'm laying hold of God's promises. I'm calling home to the Father who's in heaven for my needs here while I'm still away from home on earth. Now it's very important that we realize that when Jesus says that we're to pray in his name, he doesn't say, say, in Jesus' name. There's a tremendous temptation for you and me to be superstitious about that, isn't it? We pray something and what do we do You know, we we kind of finish at the end and we say, Well, you know, I gotta pray I gotta say in Jesus' name. That makes it a prayer. I mean if it wasn't in Jesus' name, it's like you know, missing putting a stamp on the envelope. You know, maybe it won't get delivered. And so I got to say in Jesus' name, get the stamp on the envelope so it'll go to heaven and God will hear it. And then he'll do it because he said, pray anything in my name, I'll do it, you see. So you've got to say in Jesus' name. Jesus never said, say in my name. He said, pray in my name. And that praying in his name is closely joined to what he taught us to pray. Hallowed be your name. I lift up your name in my approach. I'm coming through the work of Jesus. And as I come through him, And bring this before you. I am now coming in order to praise the character of Jesus. My prayer is shaped by Jesus. My prayer is shaped by the desire to honor your name. And that's the second thing, even more the focus of this. Prayer in Jesus' name, praying this, hallowed be your name, also means his name shapes my requests. It shapes my request. Look at the first petition again. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. It's just four words. Look at three of those four words with me to understand a little more closely what it is we're praying when we pray this. First of all, you notice that what we're doing is we're praying for his name. Hallowed be your name. His name, again, what is God's name? It is God as he is what? A little louder. Be bold. God as he is revealed. Thank you. Always count on Lisa to come through here. Somebody in the back there does it. God as he is revealed. That's what God's name is. And so God as he is revealed also means God as he is perceived. Whether by those that read the Bible or those that could care less about the Bible. What I am praying is for God as He is perceived. I am longing, in all that I'm praying, Lord, my main concern is how you're going to be perceived in this. How your name is going to be affected. I come through your name. I am safe and secure in your name. I am brought to the throne of grace by your name. Now my whole concern is for that name. May your name, your character be perceived the way it ought to be. In general, in all that I'm praying here now, all the requests I lay out. Whatever you pray, stop occasionally saying now is this being shaped by Hallowed be your name in this Or particularly in my own life, as I pray things, Lord, for this, this is what I want. Here's a longing that I have. Here's a need that I have in my life. Is that need being shaped by, Lord, hallowed be your name in my life? My concern is not so much for my comfort. My concern is how you're going to be perceived in this. Hallowed be your name. And you notice that that is very significant because the word your distinguishes my needs from God's glory. Hallowed be your name. You see, you and I are part of such a blatantly self-centered generation. It's very difficult for us to get very enthusiastic. About the fact that God is not a means simply to my recovery or to provide for me what I think that I need, to name it and claim it, or my self-enhancement. Or anything else that focuses on me. We so often in our culture are taught, even by Christians, that God is really not much more than the means to what you want to get in life. But this prayer reverses that whole emphasis. My prayer is shaped by hallowed be your name, not just what's going to be my agenda. Hallowed be your name. It doesn't center on me. It centers on you, Father. My concern is not how the name of Alan Harris looks My concern is how the name of Jesus Christ appears in all of this. Even in our worship That's really where it's got to begin, isn't it? In our worship, it's so easy for us to evaluate it by what makes me feel good. How energizing the music is. Feeling part of something that's successful, competent, professional. Instead of going away and saying, that was great, it really ministered to me. But my first question is, was God's name lifted up in my worship as I went? Was his name hallowed in the way my heart's attitude came into that, the offering of worship that I gave to him? You see, if we begin in our worship thinking about how does it affect me, how do we expect to pray any other way? But Jesus is teaching us here that his name is so wonderful, it is so great, it is so majestic, that his name is the most wonderful thing in all of reality. The names that we've gone through and read and reminded ourselves of. as we were reading those before. This is what our God is like. And so there's a passion in us that says, Lord, in one sense, what does it matter? About what happens to me in comparison to what happens to your name. The real question is, is your name getting its right place? Whether it's in my worship or my praying That may be in my career. You know, I pray, Lord, uh give me a promotion. Lord, help me to advance. But if I'm praying, that's shaped by Lord. hallowed be your name, it may mean that for the sake of integrity, I won't get the promotion. I'm consciously going to relinquish it. I know I won't get it if I take this stand. Or I may even lose my job if I am committed to the integrity that will hallow the name of Jesus Christ. Or I may lose my job and not even know why. But my concern is not simply ultimately, certainly we're concerned. There is in the prayer, give us our daily bread. It is right, proper to pray, Lord, take care of my needs and my family's needs. But That's shaped in the way you'll do it, by the way that will most hallow your name, most lift up and honor your name. Or in my marriage. The ultimate purpose isn't that I have a happy marriage. Lord, hallow your name. That may mean that I'm willing to pray, saying, Lord, I am willing to live in a difficult marriage. In order to show this world what it means to keep one's vows and love someone, even when I don't think I'm getting a whole lot of love back. That I am willing to hallow your name by showing what agape is, showing the kind of mercy and compassion you have to someone who doesn't return it and meet my needs the way I think I deserve to have them met. Lord, hallow your name in my marriage. That's what shapes my longings even more than what I want in my own comfort. Or it could be in my health. Or in any kind of suffering. Again, remember what suffering is. I I always like the definition that Elizabeth Elliott gives of suffering. She says suffering is basically not getting what you do want. We're getting what you don't want. You know, sometimes we glamorize suffering. We think of some missionary about to be roasted and eaten or something. Now, you know, they're suffering. But what I do, you know, no, that's not suffering. We all have degrees of suffering. Suffering is basically simply not getting what you do want and getting what you don't want. And when that happens, what's your response? Is it, Lord, you've told me that I can ask anything in your name and hey, I'm going to claim it and The guy on the radio or on the TV said, if I name it and I claim it with enough faith in Jesus, I'm supposed to get it. Come on, Lord, get moving on this. Or is it shaped, my Lord? Hallowed be your name. And you are so much wiser than I in how you want to do that. This life is so brief. And Lord Jesus, when you come again and your name is lifted up and every knee shall bow and every tongue confess at the name of Jesus. He's given him a name which is above every name. Then I'm going to say, would it really matter all that much if my life was centered on hallowing your name? If that's what controlled my thoughts and my purpose and my passions, it's your name. And then finally notice that word, hallow. Hallow be your name. What does that mean? The word hallow is not one we use very much. Think of Halloween, you know. And it's the same word. It means to lift up something, set something apart, to honor it, to cause it to be held sacred. God's name is so wonderful, our very existence is to lift up his name. He's made us. In order to show the glory of his name. Consider David. David was chased by Saul, hunted, a refugee, couldn't go home, couldn't see his folks, couldn't see his family. was being hunted for his life, living always in fear and out in the wilderness and caves. Why? Because God anointed him. Boy, thanks a lot, Lord. Why don't you choose somebody else for this honor, you know? Here I am, I'm anointed as the king. I'm the one that you've chosen for this special privilege of being chased around the wilderness of Judea. One time he was so scared that he ran off to the Philistines to hide. He figured Saul's not going to chase me over here, but he's in enemy territory. And so the Philistines, if they know this is David, the mighty warrior who's killed Goliath and the rest of them, what do you think they're going to do to him? So David pretends that he's insane because the Philistines fear insanity. They think that there are spirits involved in that, and they kind of don't want to touch somebody that's insane. So he drools and pretends he's insane. I always love the response that King Abimelech of the Philistines gives, you know what he says to his court when they bring him in, they say, What are we gonna do with this guy David? You know, he's going around here, he looks like he's sort of, you know Losing, nothing I got it all upstairs. What are we supposed to do with this guy? And Abumalik says, Don't I have enough madman in my court that you gotta bring this guy into? Well heart sort of goes out to him, you know, what there's a real politician. Don't I got enough mad men around here in this cabinet that you gotta bring this guy in here too? And David is delivered by the Lord. W He's freed. They let him go. Now what does he say? Lord, okay, that's a good start, but you know, come on, this is really miserable living like this. This is not the way someone that you anoint and show your favor on is to live. But what does he say in Psalm 34, written on that occasion? In Psalm 34, David Calls upon us, says, I will extol the Lord at all times. His praise will always be on my lips. My soul will boast in the Lord. Let the afflicted hear and rejoice. Glorify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together. Glorify the Lord with me. And let us exalt his name together. The Lord's been good, he says. Verse 8: Taste and see, the Lord is good. Blessed is the one who takes refuge in him. David says, I'm still here. I'm a testimony to the fact that God does deliver. My life isn't what I would choose it to be now. But my longings are shaped by hallowed be your name. Come, exalt the name of the Lord with me. You could look at the others, Joshua, Daniel, Nehemiah, on your own in the meditation this week. But finally consider with me Jesus that taught us to pray. Hallowed be your name. You know, Jesus didn't just teach us to pray that, He modeled it. When did he do that? Turn to John chapter twelve. In John chapter twelve Jesus, 33 years of age, knows that the Pharisees have planned to kill him. They're looking for the first opportunity at Passover when they're going to be able to move in for the kill. Things are getting rather tense. And it's at this time that we read in John chapter 12, in verse 20, that there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the feast. They came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, with a request. Sir, they said, we would like to see Jesus. Philip went up to tell Andrew, and Andrew and Philip in turn told Jesus. Jesus replied, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. I tell you the truth that unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. But if it dies, it produces many seeds. The man who loves his life will lose it, while the man who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. Whoever serves me must follow me. And where I am, my servant also will be. My father will honor the one who serves me. A lot of very rich principles there boils it down to basically saying like a seed, if you just try to hang on to your life and are not willing to give it up, you'll die alone. The only way a seed brings forth fruit is to die to itself as it's buried and then sprouts. And so Jesus says, if you want to follow me, you must be ready to give up your life. But as you give up your life, the Father honors you. But then he follows it with these words. Now my heart is troubled. He doesn't say, okay, let's charge on to Jerusalem to die. Faith is the victory. No problem. Now my heart is troubled. Jesus is struggling. What shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? I've just said we need to be willing to give up our lives. Why have I come? Jesus has come. so that you might have life. And he knows that in order to do that, he's got to die in your place for your sin. But he's struggling. Father, what shall I say? Save me from this hour? No, it was for this very reason that I came to this hour. And then the beginning of verse 28. Father. Glorify your name. Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. That's what Jesus is praying. And he's saying, that longing shapes all the rest of my desires. All the other things I'd like to live. There's so much to live for. There are many things I'd like to do. It'd be great to go beyond this Passover and back up to home and to continue to live and to Smell the flowers and hear the birds and enjoy the good food and music. And Father, hallowed be your name. Means that I'm ready to submit to the way that you choose to do that. And for Jesus, that meant death. For Jesus that meant that he offered himself to be crucified on your behalf and for me. But notice how the Father answers. The end of verse 28. Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. I'm going to glorify it through what you're going to do. Brothers and sisters, when you're struggling, and it's a matter of Lord, you know this is what I want. I'm trying, I'm struggling, my heart is troubled I want to pray, hallowed be your name. I want to think about that name and how worthwhile it is to hallow it, but Lord, I'm struggling. Then when I'm able to say, Lord, by your grace, hallowed be your name, imagine the Father answering you. In your mind, think of those words coming to you as they came to Jesus. Alan, my son, my daughter, I have hallowed it. I have glorified it in my son Jesus, in his death and his resurrection. And I will hallow it again. I will glorify it again when he comes. But I will also glorify it in your life offered to me. I will glorify it in your taking yourself as a living sacrifice and placing yourself trustingly in my hands. I'm going to glorify it again in what you're asking right now. We're just reading this week about the missionaries that first went to Zaire in Africa. When they went there, of course there was no witness for Jesus Christ. And they were seen as strange. Pioneers. Sometimes you read about those missionaries, and it's hard to believe they're the same stuff as we are, isn't it? You say, how could I ever have the kind of attitude that those people had? They went out to Africa with no insurance, no hospitals, no easy way out if they got sick. And they went in there praying, Lord, hallowed be your name. We're going here in order to lift up the name of Jesus. Some years ago they had the hundredth anniversary of missionaries entering into Zaire. And the story is told, it's in print, that uh one of the people who was there said that toward the end of the celebrations, an old man from Zaire stood up and said that he had to address the missionaries He was soon going to die, and if he didn't tell them what he knew, the knowledge of it would die with him in his grave. So they let him speak. He said, what you don't know is that when you missionaries came here a hundred years ago, the elders in Zaire held council. And they said, these people are strange and their message was strange. Let's test it. And so without your knowing, they slowly poisoned your children. And as you watched one after the other die, we watched how you responded. And when we saw you lose your children, and continue to praise this Jesus through your tears and through your loss, say, hallowed be your name. He said, we want that, Jesus. And that was the beginning of the gospel's breakthrough in Zaire. And so a Columbia Presbyterian, we want to be a people with a passion for Jesus. We want to be a people who live Colossians 3. 17. Whatever you do in word or deed, do it all in the name of Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father by Him. We want to be a people who together are able to sing Psalm 115, not just our God is in heaven, he does whatever pleases him, but the first verse of that, not unto us, O Lord. Not unto us, but to your name be the glory, because of your love and your faithfulness. We want to show the nations who say, where is their God? And we say our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. We want to show them the name Yahweh. We want to show them there is a God who redeems sinners out of bondage into a relationship with Himself with a reward of heaven. Beginning in Columbia, throughout Howard County, and to the nations to the end of the earth. And next week, we're going to begin to talk about our strategy. For how to do that. Are you with us in that? If so, say amen. Amen. Let's pray. Lord our God, how majestic is your name in all the earth. And Lord, we realize and confess to you that we do not see your name. As the angels see it, who fall down and worship. As the saints in glory see it who understand the worth of that name, Lord, we want to see your name more. We want to see you, Lord Jesus, lifted up before us. We want our prayers and our longings to be shaped by hallowed be your name. We want to have a passion for that name. We want to let you choose in our lives how you're going to honor and glorify your name. We want to be living sacrifices that are open to the good ways that you will do that. Our God, hear us now as we offer ourselves to you afresh. In the name of Jesus Amen.