This is God's holy word. Let's give it our proper attention. Joshua chapter eleven, verses sixteen. to the end of the chapter and then chapter twenty-one verses forty-three to forty-five. So Joshua took this entire land The hill country, Balbanegad, the whole region of Jil Gersh, the western foothills, the Arabah, the mountains of Israel with their foothills, from Mount Hanak, which rises towards Seir. To Baalgad in the valley of Lebanon below Mount Hermon. He captured all their kings and struck them down, putting them to death. Joshua waged war against all these kings for a long time. Except for the Hivites living in Gideon, not one city made a treaty of peace with the Israelites, who took them all in battle. For it was the Lord Himself who hardened their hearts to wage war against Israel, so that he might destroy them totally, exterminating them without mercy, as the Lord had commanded Moses. At that time, Joshua went and destroyed the Anakites from the hill country, from Hebron, Hebu, Anash, from all the hill country of Judah. And from all the hill country of Israel. Joshua totally destroyed them and their towns. No Anakites were left in the Israelite territory. Only in Gaza, Gaz, and Ashton did any survive. So Joshua took the entire land, just as the Lord had directed Moses, and he gave it as an inheritance to Israel, according to their tribal divisions. And the land had rest from war. Chapters after that talk about the dividing up of the land. And then you come to a conclusion, statement of chapter 21, verses 43 to 45 And so the Lord gave Israel all the land that he had sworn to give their forefathers. And they took possession of it and settled there. The Lord gave them rest on every side, just as he had sworn to their forefathers. Not one of their enemies withstood them The Lord handed all their enemies over to them. Not one of all the Lord's good promises to the house of Israel failed. Every one was fulfilled. So far, God's word was considered for our lives now. The last couple of weeks, beginning of the year, we've talked about the matter of time, the brevity of time. We've talked about our purpose in life and our particular concern to invest our lives in 1984 to live for Jesus Christ. For me, to live is Christ. Didious gain, considering that as a motto for the years. Before we go on to other matters, I believe it's appropriate now that we consider for a week the matter of prayer. We've made these aspirations, set these goals. We have to remind ourselves in whose strength we fulfill them But it's not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord, that any of the things that we have talked about, any of the goals that you have set, your desires for 1984 will be fulfilled And yet there's a problem, I think, with a number of us as we think about prayer. When we think about prayer, we're simply aware of our inadequacy in so many cases, aren't we? We're aware of the purposelessness and powerlessness of our prayer lives. We're discouraged, and we feel in many cases that our prayer lives are very shallow because they lack purpose and power. We're not sure what to pray for many times. And so our prayers are vague, generally, hem and hall before the Lord until we wonder what we're really after. And then we wonder that if we did really know what we were praying for, if the Lord would really answer, if we have that conviction and assurance that He would hear us and answer. And so we lack power. We lack purpose and we lack power. Well, much to your surprise, perhaps The Bible has an immense amount of help to give us on precisely these two points. And it's not the kind of help That we often think that the Bible would direct us to become hermits so that we can spend three hours or more a day in prayer, simply learning to be in touch with the Spirit, some sensitive sort of way. But the help that the Bible gives us to praying with purpose and power is extremely practical and down to earth, so much so. That as we talk about it, every single one of you here in this room could practice this method that we're going to suggest. And I suggest that if you need business with God in practicing what the Bible teaches us, About praying with purpose and power, you will see a noticeable difference in your prayer life in the next two weeks. Now that's quite a claim to make, isn't it? Yet let's follow along to see what the Bible has to say and what kind of help it gives us in this area. The Bible gives us a principle And we see that principle here in Joshua 21, 45. A principle that will unlock Peng with purpose and with power. And I want, first of all, to see the principle stated, then secondly, I want to apply that principle to prayer. You see it there in verse 45. Not one of all the Lord's good promises to the house of Israel failed. Every one was fulfilled. Joshua and his last words to Israel in chapter 23, verse 14, picks up the same theme. Where he says, There, now I am about to bave the way of all the earth. And you know with all your heart and soul that not one of all the good promises of the Lord your God has failed. Simply put, God has fulfilled all his promises. You remember back in Genesis chapter 13 God first gave the promise in detail to Abraham, as he told me in Genesis 13, verses 14 and 15. The Lord said to Abraham after Lot had parted from him, Lift up your eyes, Abraham, from where you are, and look north, and look south, look east, and look west. All the land that you see, I will give to you and to your offspring forever. God says, see the whole land stretched out before you. This I promise to give to you. And the Bible, of course, tells us that Abraham didn't own one square foot of that land. He even had a bide, a grave for his wife. And then Abraham's descendants after Isaac and Jacob, Joseph goes down into Egypt, and the rest of the people are taken down and they're made slaves in Egypt. A great fulfillment of the promise. 300 years later, the Lord says to Moses in Exodus chapter 3, I'm going to bring my people out of Egypt. I'm going to fulfill that promise that I have given to Abraham. And I'm going to take them back into the land of the Canaanites and the Hivites and the rest, the Jebusites, and I'm going to give them that land flowing with milk and with honey And so God brings the people up with a mighty arm out of Egypt, slaves, he rescues them from the mightiest nation on earth. And they go through the wilderness and you remember the story of how they came up to Kadesh Barnea. Ready to claim that promise. And what happens? Their hearts failed them. They said there's giants in the land. There's no way that we can take it. But God was faithful and determined yet to fulfill that promise. But he said he couldn't do it through that generation. So that generation wandered for 40 years in the wilderness, and God raised up a new generation. A generation that was ready to claim the promise and take it, and that generation be brought across Jordan. And you remember how he encouraged their hearts When Rahab, the harlot, saw the overcoming, and she said, The people here are scared to death because we know that God is with you and He's promised you this land. And God will fulfill his promise. And Rahad believes and becomes part of that covenant community. You remember how they went in and they took Jericho without a single drop of blood being shed in battle. They simply march around and God himself brings down Jericho and then they take Ai. Then they move to the south. And remember how five kings assemble together at Gibeon in order to overtake Israel. But Israel defeated them, and the battle was so s so decisive that God Himself had to stop the sun in the sky so that they could continue the slaughter and fulfill his promise in the taking of the land. And they clean up all the southern cities and then they begin to move north. They move on north and all of the northern cities have now formed a Confederacy to take Israel. But all of the northern cities fall to them also because God will fulfill his promise. And they take all the northern cities as well. They've taken 40 miles wide, 180 miles long, and all of that real estate has fallen into their hands. You know that's something like saying to this group of people. who say, God, we need a home. And God would say to you and to me, home, I'm going to give you all of Columbia. And all those neighborhoods and all the villages are armed fortresses, you know And God says, I'm going to give you the whole thing. And say, we don't even know how to fight. How are we going to take that? But God Himself goes before us. And we find out that, you know, in a year or two from now, we've taken all the plumbing, it's all in our possession. And so this is the this is the sole idea of the mighty work that God did. That kind of a scale, vastly outnumbered. With no training in battle. But God fulfilled his promise. And so he sums it up in chapter 21, in verse 45, of that statement that we read, not one Of all the Lord's good promises to the house of Israel failed. Every one that God had given to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob, to Moses, particularly in the book of Deuteronomy, strings of promises. God says every single one was fulfilled. Is there anyone who can show me one promise that I didn't fulfill? Joshua says, I testify as one who's followed the Lord all my life. Every single promise he's fulfilled. And now it's 400 years later. And we see a king, Solomon by name. And he stands before a beautiful, magnificent altar. And there is a wonderful temple that has just been erected. And it's the dedication day of that temple. And Solomon's father David, a mighty warrior, has brought about peace in the land, and all the enemies of God's people have been subdued Not only now are they living in the land, have they prospered in the land, but now there's not even a threat to their security, and they live in peace. No battles going on anywhere. And a temple has been erected to God in his faithfulness. And so Solomon, as he dedicated that temple in 1 Kings chapter 8, and verse 56, the very first thing that he says. Is praise be to the Lord who has given rest to his people Israel, just as he promised. Not one word has failed of all the good promises that he gave to his servant Moses. Not one word, 400 more years. The Solomon says there's not one promise that God has ever made that has failed. And now we move down another thousand years. And here's a man called Peter. And towards the end of this life, he's reviewing his life. He's writing a letter to a congregation of people. And as he reviews his life, he thinks of how he has walked with the promised Messiah. The one that God has given as the new king, the king not simply over an earthly kingdom, but the one who is promised as a king over a heavenly kingdom A cosmic universal kingdom of peace and justice of God's people. A kingdom so wonderful that sinners can't even have a part in it But those who sin and those who do any iniquity, God says, must be purged from that kingdom, the kingdom that is so great that the king himself must buy as a substitutionary sacrifice for all those who are citizens in his kingdom. He must give his own life as a ransom so that everyone in this kingdom is without sin, is forgiven, and comes in clean before him. And God has fulfilled his promises that he had given from the very beginning in the garden to Adam and to Eve, when he said, I'm going to send on a hero who's going to crush the serpent. And God says, I have sent that one now, Jesus. Peter looks at Jesus, the king that God has sent. And he thinks of all the promises that have been fulfilled in Jesus. And he writes in 2 Peter chapter 1. Grace and peace be yours in abundance through the knowledge of God and Jesus our Lord. His divine power has given us everything we need. for life and godliness, to our knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and goodness. Through these He has given us His very great and precious promises. So that through them you might participate in the divine nature and escape the corruption in the world caused by evil desires These promises, then, are not only promises that God has fulfilled, but the second part of that principle is that God will fulfill all these promises. He has fulfilled his promises and given Jesus. But there are many of these promises yet still to be claimed and fulfilled. Well we are not yet part of that consummated kingdom in which all the promises have been realized in our experience. Many of them we possess only in down payment, and we possess them by faith. So God will fulfill his promises is yet a promise to us. Just as the statement is that he has fulfilled them all. And Peter's giving us both that. He says, He has provided for you, Jesus. And that's for you in this life now. See, to claim that promise, he's given these promises so that you will escape the corruption of the world right now, in the life that you live. Then one day it will all be realized that you and I escape fully the effects of sin. And what does all this have to do with prayer? Simply this. God's promises, I would suggest, are the key to praying with purpose and power. Whatever God has promised in His Word is His purpose. And therefore, when you pray his promises, you are praying his purposes for your life and for other people's lives that you're praying for. When you pray God's purposes, you know that you're praying in Jesus' name. That's what it means. Part of what it means to pray in Jesus' name is to pray God's purposes. And the Bible assures us that if we pray in Jesus' name, if we pray his promises, if we pray his purposes, we know that we're answering. And do we have our request? It's the key to praying in power. Because God delights in demonstrating his power by fulfilling his promises. He delighted in Israel coming and saying, Not one word has failed of all the Lord's good promises. But God was glorified when Solomon said before the assembled people, not one word has failed of all of God's promises to his people. God is glorified when Peter can write. God has fulfilled all his promises in Jesus Christ. They are the center, the heart, and the focus of his promises. And these promises you and I have In our possession to live in this life as well as to gain that kingdom of which he's the king. Well now, what I'm suggesting, you see, is simply that you and I learn to pray the promise of the scripture. As Charles Sturgeon once put it, that we learn to argue God's promises before his throne of grace. You see this exemplified in Scripture. For example, you remember Jacob, who we considered last year in our discussion of prayer, last January. You remember Jacob as he's going back to face his brother Esau. And Jacob going back there, his panaeon there at the stream Jabbit is scared to death that night. His brother Esau coming with four hundred men, and he doesn't know what awaits him the next day. And you remember what Jacob did in his prayer? He didn't pray some vague thing Jacob said to God in Genesis chapter 32 in verse 12 basically this: He says, God, you said that I'm going to prosper. You said I'll prosper you and I'm going to make your descendants like the sand of the sea which can't be counted. Now God got to promise, and if I'm dead tomorrow, then you failed in that promise. So God, well, you know, whether my life counts or not, your honor does, and I'm going to argue that promise. And God heard that prayer and fulfilled his promise. Somebody that's not quite as well known in scripture is a fellow by the name of Ethan. Now the only thing we know about Ethan was that he read the Bible and that he lived several hundred or a few hundred years after David. And Ethan read his Bible, and he read it at a time when the people of God were being crushed. Terrible circumstances. God was alienated from his people. They were perhaps in exile. We're not quite sure of the circumstances, but whatever it is, the people of God are in desperate situations. There's no victory. There's no power of the sea. And Ethan looks back and he reads in 2 Samuel chapter 7, God, you made a promise to David. You made a promise that David would have an heir on the throne and that there would be a kingdom over your people forever. He even looked around and says, God, I don't see anything of that coming to pass. And Psalm 89 is simply a prayer in the struggle of a man who is claiming the promises of God. Claiming the covenant promises applied to his own circumstance and situation. Ethan never did see that promise fulfilled. He didn't have any clue in his own understanding of how gloriously God would fulfill that promise in Jesus Christ. But you and I know that God did fulfill that promise. Well you take Daniel. Daniel's living at the end of the exile. And Daniel says that one day as I was studying the scripture in my quiet time, he says, I was reading in the book of Jeremiah. Daniel 9 tells us that Daniel says it was the first year of this fellow Darius's reign, and I was having my quiet time in the book of Jeremiah, the prophet. And I read there that the desolation of Jerusalem would last 70 years. That's Daniel 9, too. And it's Daniel 9. 2 that's the thrust of all of the plea that follows in that prayer, because he says, it was, because I read this, verse 3, so I saw a promise in Scripture. So I've said in Jeremiah, the exile is going to be seven years, and then I'm going to rescue my people. I promised that. Daniel said, I saw that promise So I turned to the Lord and I pleaded with him in prayer and petition, in fasting, in sackcloth and in ashes. And you read the strong prayer of Daniel, verses 16 to 19, particularly, the force of those pleas. Lord, in keeping with all your righteous acts, turn away your anger and your wrath. Why? Because you promised to do it. What's Daniel doing? He's simply praying the promises of God. He's pleading. He's arguing God's promises. And that's what gave him purpose, force, and power in his praying. So the same thing is true of you and me. You want to know how to pray? You want to know how to pray this year and grow in purpose and power to pray? I suggest you pray scripture. You begin to learn to pray the promises of God. Now you see that's nothing mystical. There's nothing in that that is beyond any of us. It simply requires getting to know the Scripture and learning the promises that are at our disposal. It's something that any of us can do. And I've given you an example just so you can see a bit how it can be done. Now you see that you have in your bulletin a blank form This is a chart. And this chart is simply designed to help you to work this method out. You put the name of the person you're praying for in the left column, whether it's yourself, somebody in your family, or anyone else. You put down their need as you understand it in that second column Then in the third column, the middle one, it says promises and commands of scripture that pertain. I like the promises best they direct. I love to claim and pray the promises of scripture. But you realize that statements of fact of our identity in Jesus Christ, commands, are also implications of promises. If it's a statement of who we are, that's a promise that that's what God intends to make us. If it's a command, that's a statement of what God intends to fulfill in us by His Holy Spirit. So you can take all of those things that bear on that heed and you jot down the scriptures, put down the references here. And maybe you want to put down a brief phrase that reminds you of what that reference is about. And then in the fourth column, you simply ask yourself, how can I argue that promise in this situation? And so you apply it. You apply it to that need and you write down how you can do it. And then don't forget the last column. To watch what God does, to encourage your heart over the next days, weeks, months, perhaps years. But to watch and see what God does in fulfilling his promise. Now, in order to help you to understand a little how this works, on the back of your book and outline, I've given five examples. Just to help you to see what this means, how practically we can do this kind of a thing in our prayer. So just briefly take a look at these examples to see some uh practical ways of how that could be done. Let's suppose in the first these are all from real-life situations, but obviously I'm not going to put the names. In first case, here's the person who called A And this person is in an overwhelming temptation. Perhaps in some job situation, it's a temptation in some self-discipline manner, maybe it's with eating, maybe it's With sex, maybe something, you know, all kinds of things it could be. But this person just was overwhelmed by this temptation. And you know about their situation and and they've asked you to pray with them. Well you could just pray God help them, deliver them from that, you know, and God would hear that. But I find it personally much more forceful and effective and biblical to argue the promises of God. And so I'll write down 1 Corinthians 10, 13, no temptation is taken, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will provide a way of escape. So that you'll be able to bear it. And I'll argue that promise before God on behalf of that person. I'll say, Lord, you said in 2 Peter 2. 9 that you know how to deliver the godly from temptation. And so Lord, here it is. And then I'll remember Matthew 4, the example of Jesus as he faced temptation by answering Satan with a word, and I'll say, Lord, I pray that you will fill that person, now I'm applying it, with your word and with your power when they're tempted in this particular situation And that strengthened me because I know I'm praying in Jesus' name. I don't have to tag that on, you see, with some little phrase at the end of my prayer, in Jesus' name, Amen. I am praying in Jesus' name. I'm claiming his blood for God to hear me, and I'm claiming his purpose and his power. And then I see what God does. And I persist in that. Another example, suppose a person that you're praying for just finds it very difficult to do evangelism, or they would like to talk to their neighbor, but they're just scared to death to do it. They say, well, you know, I really want to do it this week. Pray for me that I'll be able to do it. Say, I'm going to pray with you. Well you could pray, Lord, help them to do that and get out there, you know, and sort of to go around us for a while and hope that uh God will understand what you're after. But I find it personally helpful to claim the promise of Acts 1. Well 8. Word you've said yourself that when the Spirit would come, If your church would receive powerful witness, that we would receive the power of the Spirit so that we would be able to witness in boldness But that you have said that all authority is given to you, and therefore that we're to go and make disciples. And Lord, that's a promise that you would be with us always with that authority to do that You've said in 2 Timothy 2, chapter 1, verse 7, that we're not given the spirit of timidity, but of boldness and power. Lord, give thee that power as they go talk to their neighbors this week. And I know I'm praying the purposes of God'll hear me. But take C. Here's a person who thinks that they can live alone as a Christian. They don't really need to be in any significant fellowship with other people, you know. Let's just sort of be a spectator on the edge. And I'm praying that God would lay a hold of that person. What do I do? I pray for them. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verses 14 to 27. gives two kinds of cases. It's a statement of what the church is. Either the person saying, I don't belong to the church because I don't really fit, or they're saying, I don't need the church because they don't meet my standards. Either of those two cases is mentioned. And I'll wrestle with God praying that statement, Lord, here's what your word says. Incarnate that attitude into this person by the power of your spirit. Or maybe in D, the person who's worrying and fretting over particular situations. And so I remind myself of Psalm 37, which is a psalm about the saint who worries and frets as he looks about the world, prospering in its way, and thinks That's the only way to handle it. In your own strength. And it's a psalm, interestingly enough, in the context of Joshua, about how God's people will inherit the land. And that that land is so much more important than anything that the world has to offer. And how to have peace in that situation. And so I'll remind myself of certain verses, Psalm 37. But Lord, you've said that we're not to fret, but to trust in you, to rest and wait patiently for you, and not to fret as we look at the evil and prospering in his way. And I'll pray that promise. I'll pray Philippians 4, verses 4 to 9, that you said, Lord, that the person who's worrying should bring their prayers and petitions to Thanksgiving with you, and you promise to garrison about their hearts and their minds with Christ. But you also say, Lord, in that word in that passage, that the person has a choice what they're going to set their mind on. And you tell us there to set our mind on what's good and right and pure and what's edifying. And Lord, I pray that you will enable this person, this is D, that you will enable D to set their mind on those good things. You shall deliver them from threatening. As you fill their heart with peace, you'll give them that choice or the will to do it. Retake them ease. Person hadn't even begun to spend regular time in scripture. If you're praying that God will give them the Sense of the realization for that, to spend a little bit of time daily in his word and in prayer. So I'll look at Psalm 1 and I'll see what God promises there For the man who meditates in his word day and night, that he'll be blessed and he'll be like a tree planted by streams of water that yields a fruit in its season, and I pray Lord made Psalm one characteristic of his life Help them to see the blessing that comes from that. Make them like that tree by the streams of water. Fulfill the promise that you gave to Joshua in chapter 1, verse 7 and 8, when you said, if you want to succeed Then meditate in my word day and night and don't turn to the right or to the left but walk straight in it. Lord, give them that kind of an attitude. Lord, fulfill in their mind the attitude of David in Psalm 119, and I may just pick a number of verses and pray that the Lord will fulfill that kind of a love for God and His Word in that. T And you see, as I do that, my own heart's lifted up. Well, what am I doing? That's been simply praying Christ. And Christ is the focus of the promises. And you see, as you and I learn to pray Scripture, we learn to pray Christ. We learn to pray in His name and we learn to pray with a confidence that God is going to hear us if we persist in laying those needs before Him. And so I suggest that you take this. You think of your own needs, your own concerns, and that you lay it before the Lord. The one final thing. We also learn to do this as a church. Relus is people together to ask what are the promises of God that pertain to us as a congregation, as a whole people of God? And so to enable us to do this more effectively together, you'll see that in your report there concerning the congregational meeting, that the session has determined to try for two months A two-month trial period, a weekly time of one hour for us to get together to claim the promises of God. You know, our situation is a conjugation. And we've said Wednesday evening, 7. 15 to 8. 15, for the convenience of those who bring daughters to Pioneer Mills. To have that time one hour, one hour not as a Bible study, but one hour to get to know as we own as each of us has studied the Word of God and bring the promises of God to bear upon our needs. A congregation, to argue in the name of Jesus Christ, the purposes and the power of God in doing what he intends to do in us individually and as a body of his people. May God fulfill it in us each one. Let's pray. Oh Lord, as we think of how clear and and in a sense how simple and straightforward your word is, we're just amazed that we muddy up prayer so much. Lord, we just go around thinking only of the needs and not relating those needs to your clear promises. Oh Lord, help us to see that all of your promises have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And as Peter has said, that we have those great and precious promises. To be worked out in our own experience, to claim them, and to see them fulfilled. Oh Lord, give us Give us that desire, that heart that will get to know your word, that will dig into it, that will use cross-references, whatever other means at our disposal, we might be able to get to know your word and to see. What your word says about our concerns, about our confusions, about our longings. Lord, we pray for each one of us here. We each have things that we feel stuck on in our prayers. Lord, we pray that this year you teach us how to pray your word in those particular areas. Lord, we pray that even this week you'll begin to give us a victory that we haven't known before as we learn to pray your promises. We pray that in the name of Jesus Christ, who is to guarantee the fulfillment of all of your promises. Amen.