Time in Wales in seventeen thirty-five This time, a most ordinary school teacher by the name of Howell Harris, no relation, came under the sound of the gospel, and under very deep conviction. He came to Jesus Christ for forgiveness of sin. He rejoiced in the fact that Jesus Christ would forgive such a person as even him. About three weeks later, Howell Harris was reading the scripture and meditating and praying in the tower of a church. When as he recorded afterwards, God began to come upon me, and to pour out his Holy Spirit upon me in wave after wave. until I scarce could contain it physically. And it became filled with the love of God shed abroad in my heart. The immediate result of this in Harris's life was to become concerned for his neighbors without Jesus Christ. He felt that he had no ability to speak. He couldn't form a message with any coherence. And so what he would do is read to people. He would simply take books. That talked about Jesus Christ and he would read them to the sick. But it said that the Spirit attended those readings with such power That people would come under conviction and give themselves to Jesus Christ from the reading of his books. Gradually he began to give some of his own thoughts along with those books, and more people came to Jesus Christ until finally even though he thought himself unworthy and relatively without any great gifts himself, began to talk about Jesus Christ publicly. And great crowds gathered, and numbers of people cried out for mercy and gave themselves to Jesus Christ. They're in public squares and in the streets, wherever he spoke of Jesus Christ. He began to preach in the hillsides and through the towns. And the result of this was that Powell Harris became the pioneer of a movement that shook all of Wales And led to the founding of the present-day Presbyterian Church of Wales. In the years for the rest of his life, this amazing and unusual power and anointing of the Spirit would sometimes come, he would sometimes leave. But it came and it went with unusual manifestations of power in bringing people to Jesus Christ until he died in 1773. I don't know about you, but God has been bringing me recently to a desperate realization of my need for the power of the Spirit in my life For the power of the Spirit in my preaching, to attend the feeble words in life-changing effect For the power of the Spirit in my life and ministry personally, with my family, with my neighbors. God has been showing me just how very weak and unable I am to do anything to help anyone, apart from the work of his Spirit. And I believe that the Bible teaches that there is that unusual work of the Spirit that comes from time to time that is beyond The everyday experience of the Christian, even the yielded Christian. And so on this day of prayer, the eve of the crusade I would like to call you, brothers and sisters, in Jesus Christ, to pray for six things. Six things that you see listed in your bulletin outline. Three things concerning the crusade and three things concerning our own church. I would like to call upon you in the name of Jesus Christ to pray for Billy Graham as he comes here. A man who is like any other man. A man who, though he is world famous, has no power to persuade one sinner to come to Jesus Christ any more than you or I. Apart from the working of the Holy Spirit, I call upon you to pray for Him. I call upon each one of us to pray for the counselors who are in that crusade. Who will do the work of actually leading untold numbers of people to Jesus Christ. And I pray for us, I call upon us to pray for ourselves. As we attend that crusade and as we bring friends, that God would use us in a way that we might not even be able to guess at right now. Isn't that exciting? You never can guess what God's going to do The God of surprises. And he may even surprise you more than anyone else in what ways he'll use you during this time of the proclamation of the gospel. I call upon you to pray for our church. I call upon you first of all to pray for me. Now, there's no comparison with Billy Graham intended by putting my name there under the church as his is under the crusade, but the point is That I've thought about the fact that I don't usually ask you to pray for me. And, you know, because maybe that seems a little proud, I mean, why should I ask you to pray for me? Well, I'll tell you why I should ask you to pray for me. For your own benefit. That's why you should pray for me. If God's going to use me to feed you Sunday by Sunday from His Word Then if you pray for me that the power of the Spirit will come upon my life and my ministry, it will benefit you. And I need that desperately. I'm asking you, on the basis of Scripture. To pray for me, for the power of the Spirit, to come upon me in my ministry, in a way that God will be honored richly and usually in our midst. Pray for our session. Pray for the Under Shepherd Group leaders. Pray for our congregation. That we will be filled with the Spirit. Pray for yourself. That God will fill you with the Spirit. Praise you see there, that one thing, that we will be filled with the Holy Spirit of power for the special anointing in declaring Jesus Christ. So, on what basis in Scripture do I ask us to pray for this? I'd like to take you briefly through a number of scriptures that give us examples. Of the unusual work of the Holy Spirit coming upon us. The fact that the filling of the Spirit, that special anointing of the Spirit, Was something that marked God's unusual working again and again throughout the scripture. So follow with me in these scriptures as we take a look at them briefly. to see what it is that we should be praying for as God's people on the eve of this crusade. I've chosen these from the New Testament, which speaks explicitly of the filling of the Spirit in the ministry of God's people. Begin with Luke chapter 1. Here you have the declaration of the A promise for John the Baptist who is to have an unusual ministry. And what is the promise of the angel there when he comes and announces John's coming? In Luke chapter 1, verse 15, we read That this one, this John who's going to be born, will be great in the sight of the Lord. He's never to take wine or other fermented drink, and he'll be filled with the Spirit even from birth. The result of that is that many of the people of Israel will he bring back to the Lord their God. He will go on before the Lord in the spirit and the power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children. And be obedient to the wisdom of the righteous and to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. He's going to restore families. He's going to prepare a people ready to receive the gospel. That's the work of the Spirit. And only the filling of the Spirit can accomplish that. And so you have in Luke chapter 4, Jesus Himself comes on the scene. And how does he announce to the people what is to characterize his ministry? Jesus, the very Son of God, said that for him to have an effective ministry in Luke 4. 18 Did it how to characterize him, quote, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners and recovery of sight for the blind, to release the oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Jesus Christ, the Son of God Himself, needed the power and the anointing of the Holy Spirit to make his words effective in the lives of those that heard him. And so when Jesus comes to the end of his ministry in Luke chapter 24, he takes these men who have been with him for three years, men who have seen him, who have watched him. And he says to them in Luke 24, verse 45, after he had opened their minds so they could understand the scriptures Here's some men who have understood now what the scriptures say. They've been taught by Jesus himself. What better teacher could anyone have than Jesus to open up the scriptures? And he told them what is written. The Christ will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day. And repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And you are witnesses of these things. What group of men could have been better prepared, qualified, and ready to preach Jesus Christ so that people would come to him and turn to him? And yet Jesus says here, you're not qualified yet. Don't do it yet. You can't do it. Because he goes on to say there in verse 49, I am going to send you what my father has promised. Stay in the city. Don't go out preaching yet until you've been clothed with power from on high. Jesus says if you're going to expect any kind of results Then it can't be something that you'll do in your own strength. It can't be something that you'll do just because you know the Bible thoroughly. Just because you know all about me and have seen me and have walked with me, Jesus said you must have the power of the Spirit from on high before you're going to accomplish anything. In Acts chapter 1, Jesus then said to them, just as he was leaving, You shall receive this power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem. Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. So that power was to come to enable them to be witnesses. You notice the power of the Spirit here, that special power that he's giving is a power that's associated with their being effective witnesses. And so in chapter two in verse four We read that all of them then were filled with the Holy Spirit, began to speak in other tongues, other languages, as the Spirit enabled them on that occasion to do. And Peter stood up and preached a message, and 3,000 people said, we need Jesus Christ, and they gave their lives to him on the spot. Did you ever wonder what sort of a sermon that was? I mean, we have the highlights of it here in Acts 2. But did you ever wonder what that must have been like To hear that sermon preached and what the sermon in its fullness and all of the time it probably took, what that sermon sounded like, what a sermon that must have been, right? Wrong. I think we often have this idea that the words must have been of themselves so eloquent, so expressive, that the people were struck to the heart and cut as we read. You see, what actually happened is it was an ordinary sermon. They were just words. Words which took Jesus out of the scriptures. Words which only live because the Holy Spirit made them live in the lives of the people that heard them. Charles Bridges once wrote, I used to wonder in my foolishness what kind of sermon that was that Peter preached that brought three thousand to himself. Until I realized that it was a sermon like any other sermon, except it was clothed with the power of the Spirit. And so my words, like any other words Will produce nothing, and it's not eloquence I seek for. It's simply the attendance of the power of the Spirit, so that God will enable you to receive in a life-changing way his truth. The simple truth of the cross of Jesus, in the way that shapes and molds your lives. You know, that September evening in 1959, As far as I can tell, was the time that I gave my life to Jesus Christ. I don't remember a single thing of the message. I don't remember a single point. I don't even remember the text of the message. Furthermore, I don't even remember the name of the guy that preached the message. All that I remember is that evening God got a hold of my life. Through the scriptures laid open, and he showed me that I had to stop fooling around with trying to play a Christian and walk in the world. And God got a hold of my life in a supernatural way and he changed me. No, this wasn't any special message. It's the power of the Spirit that makes the difference. One of the things that is always so amazing when you hear Billy Graham preach is a simple reference. The Bible says. The Bible says. But what we as people who are attending that need to remember is that we have got to pray. That God's Spirit will make what the Bible says effective in the lives of those who hear. That as we talk to our neighbors, We don't quake and look for some clever thing to say that'll bring them to the crusade or something that will cause them to be interested in talking about the gospel. We simply go on our weakness. And we pray for the power of the Spirit to work in them for a response. But this didn't happen just as once. You look over again in chapter 4, and you find that this filling of the Spirit was not a once-for-all event. It's not something that now we're in the age of the Spirit, and so they were filled with the Spirit, and that's the same for all Christians at all times from then on. But you look in chapter 4, in verse 7 and 8, where Peter and John, who had been brought before the leaders Because of their preaching, Jesus, and they were warned. And they were, Peter and John were brought before them, and they began to question them: by what power, what name did you do this? This miracle? And then Peter filled with the Spirit, you see. Peter filled with the Holy Spirit. Now he's already been filled with the Spirit. And yet Luke tells us that there's a fresh anointing. Here he comes again, filled with the spirit, Peter says to them, rulers and elders of the people. We're being called to account today for an act of kindness shown to a crippling. Or asked how he was healed. Then know this, you and everyone else in Israel, by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucify, but God raised from the dead, that this man stands before you completely healed. No, what is it? I submit. What is it? It would take Peter, who just a few days before, quaked before a servant girl when she said, Aren't you identified with that Jesus who saw me? He began to curse and to swear, swear, and to deny that he even knew Jesus. And now before the whole Sanhedrin, Peter stands up and he says, It's in the name of Jesus of Nazareth we did this. We want you to furthermore know that you need him too. What did that? The power of the Spirit. Peter was filled with the Spirit. The same spirit that filled Howell Harris back in 1735. The same spirit that abides with us as a congregation of his people today. He made a lion out of one who was so meek and afraid just a few days before. And you go on, and the whole disciples are Recognize their need for this. So in verse uh verse 23 and 24 they go back and all the people began to pray, raising their voices in prayer, asking God for a boldness, a holy boldness in their own evangelism. We read then that in verse 31, verse 29, they asked the Lord, consider their threats, enable your servants to speak your word with great boldness. They don't ask for safety, they don't ask for traveling mercies, they ask for boldness. And then in verse 31, you read that after they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were all filled with the Spirit, filled with the Holy Spirit, and spoke the word of God boldly. Again, you see the effect of that filling, that renewed filling of the Spirit is a boldness in declaring Jesus Christ. Chapter 6. The apostles see that there's a problem in the church. Problem of people not getting served uh the widows. And so they need to set us set apart a group of men, the first uh diaconate. And how do they do this We read that they don't look for people who had simply good administrative gifts, people who liked widows, liked to go around and serve because they didn't speak too well And so they thought, well, we'll give them something like this, get them involved, get them into the core of the church, you know, give them something to do. Well we read that in verse three, chapter six, brothers, choose seven men among you who are known to be full of the Spirit and wisdom. And we'll turn this responsibility over to them. Give it to them. So verse 5, this proposal pleased the whole group, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit. Philip Proctorus, McCain, or Timothy, Parmaeus, and others. You see, the idea is that they're not just Christians. They're men who are, in a particular way, controlled by the Holy Spirit to serve And submit themselves to his control. Chapter 7, verse 54, you have Stephen who's declaring before the Sanhedrin. This Jesus that they're called in to account for. And he gives them the whole Old Testament, talking to them about the temple and about the land and about how Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of all these things. And all these people then in verse 54 are furious and gnashed at him with their teeth. Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, you see, here it is. Again, full of the Holy Spirit, looked up to heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. With that fullness of the Spirit, with a gentleness and a sweetness. He's able fearlessly to declare Jesus Christ because the Spirit is enabling him to do it. Acts chapter 13, verse 9. Paul, who's been persecuting the church, who's now in love with Jesus Christ and a man transformed, is in his ministry. And during this ministry they're at Paphos, and you have this fellow Elimus, the sorcerer, who's stirring up some trouble. And so you read in Acts chapter 13 verse 9, that this Saul, who was also called Paul, filled with the Spirit, looked straight at Elimas and said, You are a child of the devil and an eminent enemy. of everything that is right. Talk about eloquence. I can't even speak. You are an enemy of everything that is right. You are full of all kinds of deceit and trickery. You see, there he is again, Paul full of the spirit He's enabled to speak to the heart of that one in a way that God alone can use So there's a holy boldness that comes from this anointing, this filling of the Spirit. The kind of effect that Paul wrote about when he said to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 3: I came to you in weakness, fear. With much trembling myself. That's the same Paul that just said to Elamas, you child of the devil. Doesn't sound too fearful to me. Paul says, of myself in my own strength, that's what I'm like. But I came to you in weakness and fear with much trembling, and my message and my preaching were not with wise and persuasive words, but with a demonstration of the Spirit's power. So that your faith might not rest on men's wisdom, but on God's power. Chapter 4, verse 20 The kingdom of God is not a matter of talk, of words, but a matter of power. Beware that in our evangelism, we think we bring people to Christ by trapping them in the inconsistency with their presuppositions. I think that somehow by a clever manipulation of their own arguments we can show them that the Christian position is not simply tenable, it is the only thing that makes sense. True as that is, it never converted anyone. We cannot think that by words we will bring people to Jesus Christ, words alone. Words and content are needed, are necessary The kingdom of God is not simply words, it's power. That power of the Holy Spirit, anointing those words to transform a life. Colossians chapter 1 and verse 28 and 29 Paul said that His goal was that we proclaim him Jesus, admonishing and teaching everyone with all wisdom. Don't despise using God's wisdom. I don't despise training my mind and thinking and using the words that he has given to try and understand fully what it is that he's saying. I don't just I presume that if I just pray enough and I can stand up here on Sunday morning and not prepare and that God will somehow fill me with something worth saying. And so we admonish and teach with all wisdom. So that we may present everyone perfect in Christ, to this end I labor, struggling with all his energy, though. It's with his energy, his power, which so powerfully works in me. That combination, God's Word and God's Spirit, it changes lives. Either one apart from the other accomplishes nothing. But that joining of the two together is like dynamite and fire. There produces then that power that can transform this entire Columbia-Baltimore area. And so Paul said, looking back on that tremendous work that God did in transforming the Christians at Thessalonica, transforming those people that he had come to to minister there. He looks back on that and he says, Brothers beloved by God, we know that he's chosen you because our gospel came to you not simply with words, but also with power, with the Holy Spirit and deep conviction. Peter, it said, looking back on his ministry, that in 1 Peter 1. 12, it was revealed to them the gospel of the That they were not serving themselves but you when they spoke of the things that have now been told you by those who have preached the gospel to you, by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. That unusual, that anointing, that coming upon in power by the Holy Spirit of simple words, uneducated words But words that are simply designed out of a heart wanting to please Jesus, to speak with a holy boldness. And is that unusual kind of coming by the Holy Spirit something simply for that time? Is it something restricted? To the New Testament? Or is it something even restricted, not only to the New Testament, perhaps, but to the time of the Reformations and the Revivals and England and Scotland and Wales of previous centuries? And is there no possibility of that same spirit coming upon us in our day? Should we seek for this kind of filling of the Spirit Most clearly, I say to you, yes, we should. And I say that not out of simply the scriptures that I have given to you, but because we are commanded to do it. Commanded in Ephesians 5. 18. Take a look. In Ephesians chapter 5, in verse 18, we are given one simple command. Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. But instead be filled with the Spirit. Now that's a command that's to every one of us. A command for you in whatever position, whatever situation you're in, whether you're a child, whether you're a housewife, a homemaker, whether you're a business person, whether you're a teacher, in whatever position you're in. God gives you that command. Be filled with the Spirit. You notice there are two contrasts here in this The first one is the contrast of the cause. There are two causes here, two sources of satisfaction. Wine and the Holy Spirit. Do not get drunk on wine or seek satisfaction from it, but rather instead be filled with the Spirit. And the word there be filled with the Spirit is a word which could be translated, be satisfied with. It's a word which speaks of the kind of word you'd use when you've had a really good meal, you know, and you're sitting back and you just can't get another thing in, and you say I was filled with that meal. That's the kind of word you use. I was satisfied. Boy, did that feel good. Totally satisfied. Paul saying here, don't seek after wine or things of the world as a source of satisfaction, but rather be satisfied, be filled with the Holy Spirit. There's a contrast of effect too. A wine, when you're filled with it, makes you drunk. The Holy Spirit, when he fills you, makes you like Christ. The effect of the one is to lose control and to become like an animal. The effect of the other is to gain control, controlled by the spirit. And to become like Jesus Christ. Now you know, if a person is drunk, they don't need to tell you that they're drunk They don't need to have a bumper sticker on their car saying, if you're drunk too, honk the horn, or uh wear a sign saying try drunkenness, or I'm a drunk. You can tell by the way they talk. Sort of a slurred speech. You can tell by the way they walk. Can't negotiate a straight line. You can tell by the way they act the effect of the wine upon them that they don't. And so it is with the Holy Spirit. If you are filled with the Spirit, you and I don't need to go around trying to generate spiritual conversations by ten ways to start a spiritual conversation on the Lord. We don't need to advertise in some way because we're afraid nobody will notice that we're Christians, that we are. It'll be evident by the way we talk. By the way that we walk, by the way that we look at the world and the way that we act. Paul says, don't get drunk with wine. But be filled with the Spirit and let Him control you in your actions. He goes on in verse 19 and 20 to talk about the kinds of things that were produced, speaking to one another, the psalms and hymns and spiritual psalms. Singing and making music in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. What does it mean to be filled with the Spirit? It means simply to be filled with Christ. Why do I say that? Because to be filled with the Spirit is to be filled with the Spirit of Christ. Do you remember in the beginning of the book of Acts, where Luke had written all of the things, the preface to all of these passages, we talked about the Christians being filled with the Spirit? How does he start that book? Remember, he starts by saying the former things I wrote to you about what Jesus began to do and to teach. And now I'm going to write to you about the things that Jesus continued to do and to teach. The former things he did by the power of the Spirit when he was walking the earth. The Spirit is upon me to preach the gospel, Luke 4. The things he does now, he continues to do by the power of the Spirit through his body, the church. And so to be filled with the Spirit is to be filled with the Spirit of Christ. To be filled with Jesus and what he's continuing to do through the Spirit in us. But more than that. Notice how Paul makes this abundantly clear in Ephesians itself. In Ephesians chapter 1, what is Paul's prayer? Ephesians 1, 18 and 19, I pray the heart, the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you'll know the hope to which he's called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints' incomparably great power for us to believe. Now how is where is that power? Well you see that power is like the working his mighty strength which exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet, under Jesus' feet. And appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. It's the same word. The church is the fullness of Christ. When Paul says, be filled with the Spirit, he's saying, be full of Christ that fills you in every way. In case you missed the point there, take a look at chapter three where he develops it further. In chapter three you remember his prayer there was in uh In verse 16, I pray for out of his glorious riches that he, Christ, may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being. Now, to what end? So, verse 18, so that you will know, you'll be able to grasp how wide and how long and how the high and how deep is the love of Christ, and to know his love that surpasses knowledge. That you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. It's the same word again. That you'll be filled with the love of Christ. So Howell Harris said in that church tower as he was being filled with the Spirit, he didn't say, I had some really neat experiences that turned me on. He said I was full of the love of Christ. And I saw the love of Christ in a magnitude and dimension I had never understood before. And it filled me my being with love for Jesus. But it Jesus himself said. Remember the Feast of Lights, that last great day of the feast, John tells us that Jesus stood up and he said, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. But I will give him myself, so that out of his innermost being will flow rivers of water. John tells us this, he spoke of the Holy Spirit that he was about to give. To be filled with the Spirit is to come to Jesus. To come thirsty, to come empty, to come weak, to come as you are, to come not to generate some sort of a dramatic experience, but to come hungry for Christ. Come and say this morning, Lord, I am empty in myself. Oh Lord. Lord Jesus, fill me with yourself. Lord Jesus, come and take my life and show me your sufficiency. Show me that you are the one who loved me so much, that you came out of heaven and walked this earth, and that you fulfilled all of the requirements of the Father. That you loved sinners, that you called sinners to yourself, that you died for sinners, that you took my sin, that I deserve to pay the penalty for, and you took that upon yourself. Lord Jesus, fill me with the knowledge of your love and of your forgiveness and of your grace and of all the riches that there are in Jesus Christ. You and I need to pray that Billy Graham will come to Baltimore empty, thirsty to be filled with Jesus Christ. That everyone who counsels in that crusade will come to that crusade with a keen sense of their own weakness, longing to be filled with the Spirit of Christ. Seeing Jesus as we go, and not simply looking for the effects of decisions. We need to come hungry and thirsty Vance Habner once wrote in a book on the Christians' experience with Christ It's quite true that God puts no special value on tears and all night or all afternoon prayers and fastings. But he does reward a thirst so intense that time and food are forgotten and tears are not repressed. Very few Christians rejoice today with the deep joy of salvation because they've never been deeply conscious of sin and consequently have no profound sense of deliverance. And it's just as true that few rejoice in the fullness of the Spirit because, feeling self-sufficient, they have never known desperate thirst. And one must thirst deeply to drink deeply. I will pour water upon him that is thirsty. Deep desire is followed by deep delight. I remember one of you coming to me just recently, and you talked about how something I had said and done had really set you free. Had ministered to you deeply in your own soul and spirit about what God had done. I was interested to find out what that was. Well, that's something to remember. And as we talked, the person who mentioned this couldn't even remember what I said. All they remembered was that God's Spirit touched them at that time. And that God used something of His word in a way that began a chain of events that drew them to Jesus. And again, it was a reminder to me. It's not words alone. But the kingdom is in power. The power of the Spirit upon us. Pray that we'll be satisfied with Jesus Christ and draw to him, long for him. So look for him so that we as a people will be filled with his spirit and have a supernatural holy boldness in talking to our neighbors. To our friends, to those who we care for and long for, to come to Jesus Christ, even as we long to use the crusade to that end. God has taught me again this week by another example with which I'll close of the importance of that longing to be satisfied with Jesus. And thus filled with his spirit. As you know, Kathy and I have prayed for our neighborhood ever since we've come here Prayed off and on, sometimes with great encouragement is when our next door neighbors profess Christ, and other times with discouragement. For God to do a mighty work in our neighborhood, in opening up the neighborhood spiritually and bringing people to Christ. And yet I find that along with that There was an inconsistent, very oftentimes, lack of desire for me to be interrupted or to talk to the neighbors And so, on the one hand, I'm praying for God to do a work and to fill us with His Spirit to reach the neighborhood, when I myself am not willing to be an instrument used to that end. Last week, you know, the week before last, I had a week of vacation, and that was designed for me to build a deck on the back of our house. Uh that deck didn't get finished. I had to give up a day of vacation because of the Grace Church Commission. And so a few days later I decided when one appointment canceled and I had one free hour Then I'm going to rush home and I'm going to try and see if I can get in an hour of building the deck. You know, squeeze in an hour between appointments, maybe try to reclaim some of the time. So I went home with one single thing in mind. One hour on the deck. Well, just at that time, one of the neighbors who we'd been praying for came over. Just at the time I came home for this, middle of the day, says, uh A water pipe burst in my house. Could you come over and give me a hand? Well, what are you gonna say? So I go over there and right over there is this other fellow he's been praying for whose wife recently left him And so uh we're over there working on the water, you know, and we get the things put together a little bit. And I have one thing in mind. I'm gonna get back and I'm gonna get the rest of the time on the deck. And so I got back and I got about a half hour of hammering some boards. And all of a sudden I was rebuked. Lord, now I'm praying for these people, and I wonder why there's no power. I wonder why it is that you're not opening me up with them. And here you you provide an opportunity, and I don't take it. Because I'm not seeking you. I haven't let that area of my time be used by you. I haven't been satisfied with Christ enough that they mean more to me than getting my hour on my project. And so I determined that the Lord was trying to get through to me with this with a few other interruptions. And finally then by this week decided, Lord, it's your deck, it's your time. If you want to just, if you want that thing to go on for weeks, then make me willing. But in that there was a satisfaction with Christ. So that the Lord, as he often does, immediately tested it. I go out to try and work on it again, and one neighbor comes over, we talk for a while, do a few things. Get right back onto it. The next other neighbor comes on over. We talk a little bit more about a few other things. But God gave me a piece in that. And it was at that point then that somebody who's never talked about the Lord came over from the back and just started coming up the steps and sat down and talked about Christ for an hour. And God gave me a boldness to be able to talk to him, to be able to talk directly and to confront him fully with the claims of Christ. Why? Because the Spirit was filling me in controlling me. God had finally got a hold of my life enough to satisfy me with Christ, that that was more important. Well no sooner had I finished with him going into lunch, I came out, and here comes another neighbor over. And he starts talking about some problems he's got in his family. And the next thing I know we're into it again. And there goes another Allen Well, needless to say, I didn't get much done on the deck. But there was a much deeper satisfaction and joy in talking to him about the gospel, and a boldness, a freedom in proclaiming Christ. Because of God getting a hold of my life. Oh brothers and sisters, let's seek the Lord. Seek Him to be available to Him. God can with usable vessels fill us with his spirit, even in these next couple weeks, even today. As we seek you, Jesus. Let's pray. Lord Forgive me for so many times when I pray for the power of your spirit, but don't mean what I pray. Because I want to grasp on to my life. I want to hang on to my schedule. I want to hang on to things so that I'm in control. And Lord, your word is so clear. To be filled with the Spirit is for Him to be in control. Control of our schedules. Control of our time and our things and all that we are in hand. Lord God, help us to not make the mistake of seeking that in some artificial way as an end in itself. But rather to realize that this Spirit is the Spirit of Christ who wants to control us. Lord, draw us to yourself that we might be satisfied with Jesus And being satisfied with Him, be filled with His Spirit. Help us, Lord, to seek for that, to long for it. Give to us that deep thirst for yourself. Even today. Lord, hear us now in this quiet moment As each one of us brings our hearts to you and comes to you. Let's keep praying, keep talking to the Lord There's anything the Lord's been putting his finger on in your life. And you've been holding back. Pray now for that freedom to give it up to him that he might have control of you. If you're holding back your life from the Lord Jesus. Come to it. Lord God, we bring ourselves to you. And we know you hear us. We know that we do not have to batter down the gates of heaven in order to get your attention. You delight to hear your children. And so we come to you trustingly. As children, wives, singles, fathers, husbands, grandparents, all of us, Father. We come to you where we are and ask for you to fill us with your spirit. We ask for you to fill Billy Grant with your spirit. And all who are involved in this crusade, we come to you for that. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.