We're looking at Psalm sixty-one. My suggestion to you is a very useful prayer in painful situations In a situation where you may feel like there's nobody else in the congregation that understands what you're going through, nobody that you can identify with. Those times it's it's helpful to go to the psalms, to use a psalm to Focus your scattered thoughts. Sometimes in pain our thoughts are like beads that are scattered all over the floor And the psalm can be like a string to gather them together and to lead us to the Lord. And so last week we saw in Psalm 61, let's have it on the overhead here now. We saw that prayer is called a cry. Hear my cry, O God. We saw that a cry is something very simple. It's not eloquent. A cry is what a baby can do. A cry is effective. Not because it is articulate, but simply because the mother is attuned to the cry of her child. And so if you belong to God and are his child through the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, God's heart is attuned to your cries. He listens to you. He listens for that which is causing you pain. He pays attention to you. And we saw that a cry is focused. A cry is full of emotion. A cry is desperate. Hear my cry, O God. Pay attention to my prayer. David, as we saw, was Undoubtedly in a lot of pain, but I think possibly the situation was that he was writing this in Mahanayam Out there in the desert east of uh the Jordan, fleeing from his own son, Absalom The relationship with his son had deteriorated to the point because of David's neglect and his weakness as a father, a lot of things that he had to be ashamed about. A lot of things that Absalom had done wrong, he was strong-willed, he was undisciplined, things had deteriorated in their relationship so that Absalom had come to despise his father. Absalom decided he would take over the kingdom, that he would even hunt his father and kill him, so that he would have no rival as king. So David is writing this psalm. In a place where he has lost his career, he's lost his family, he's in danger of losing his life And you and I read some of the Psalms and we think, yeah, but you know, Dave, it's easy for you to talk so spiritually. You're not going through what I'm going through. This is a psalm for all sadness. But David did not despair. He believed that he had a refuge to turn to That idea of refuge is very prominent. You notice there in verse 3, you have been my refuge. I take refuge in the shelter of your wings. The idea of refuge is very prominent in the Psalms, and particularly in this Psalm, and there are three specific pictures. Did you see that are given here of refuge? Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer. From the ends of the earth, way out from Jerusalem, where your presence is revealed, in the ends of the earth I call to you. I call as my heart grows faint. Lead me, see, first of all, to the rock that is higher than I. You've been my refuge. Secondly, a strong tower against the foe. I long to dwell in your tent forever and take refuge into the third image, the shelter of your wings. And I want to look at those. Because those images appear again and again in the scriptures. And if we understand what is meant by them, it can help us to find meaning in our own pain as we use the Psalms. So three P's this morning. The first is the problems that require a refuge. This idea of refuge is used again and again. It's used as a refuge from various kinds of problems. First of all, it's used of a refuge against interpersonal conflict. See an example of that in the very next Psalm, Psalm 62. Where David says, My soul finds rest in God alone. My salvation comes from him. He alone. Distress again. is my rock and my salvation. He is my fortress. I will never be shaken. What's the problem? Verse 3 How long will you assault a man? Would all of you throw him down this leaning wall, this tottering fence? You look at me like I'm a leaning wall, I'm a pushover, I'm a tottering fence, all you gotta do is one good shove and you've got me down. They fully intend to topple him from his lofty place. They take delight in lies. For their mouths they bless, but in their hearts they curse And then he talks to himself. Find rest, O my soul, in God alone. Sometimes you and I need to talk to ourselves. What's my problem? Why is it that I'm feeling so alone? I've got the scriptures, I've got God. Find rest, O my soul, in God alone. My hope comes from Him. He alone is my rock and my salvation. He's my fortress. I will not be shaken. My salvation and my honor depend on God. He is my mighty rock, my refuge. Trust in him at all times, you people. Pour out your hearts to him. For God is our refuge. He is your refuge. Maybe you don't even feel safe with your spouse, or with your closest friend, or with someone in your family. And you come to Jesus Christ and you know that he understands what it's like to be betrayed. No one better than him knows what it's like to be alone. And there's no one that you can count on Twice in Psalm 62, God alone, He alone is my rock. Jesus Christ alone is the one who you can count on to never leave you nor forsake you. To understand and stand with you. And so he is a refuge in interpersonal conflict when other people have let you down or there's tension and people are trying to take you down or do you in or wish you ill. He's also the refuge when there are times of distress and disaster The word is used in Jeremiah 16 in verse 19: O Lord, my strength and my fortress, my refuge in time of distress. To you the nations will come from the ends of the earth and say, our fathers possessed nothing but false gods, worthless idols that did them no good. Then chapter 17 and verse 17, Do not be a terror to me. You are my refuge in the day of disaster. I heard just this week about five people who on Monday afternoon heard at 4. 30 that that was their last day of work Five people laid off. They had worked in that company for as long as 18 years and heard on Monday, this is your last day A little disorienting, wouldn't it be? Day of disaster. I can recall many years ago when we worked with Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, and it was back in the early days when You didn't get paid on time. You got paid when the money came in. And sometimes we go a week or two, and we hadn't gotten paid for the last month. Imagine uh with your bills now, uh if you were expecting to get paid on April first. You didn't get paid till April fifteenth. And one point my wife was saying, Boy It'd be nice to have a job like Art, you know, he's got such a secure job with a government. That's really be nice. And six months later, Art had no job And I was still getting paid late, but I just at least had a job. What do you do in the day of disaster when bad news comes? If you turn to your idols, the things you trust in, your degree, your skills, but at least I can fall back on. And we always got plan B and Plan C and these other things You see what he says, Jeremiah? Our fathers possessed nothing but false gods, worthless idols, that did them no good. You, O Lord, are my strength and my fortress, my refuge in time of distress. Jesus Christ alone is the one that you can count on in all of his promises and provisions, not necessarily to do the things that you want. But to search his word in those times of distress, what can I actually count on you to do? You see, as David says, my soul will never be shaken, Psalm 62. He'll take care of you in his way. Maybe even that your whole world is falling apart in chaos The point of Psalms 46, I believe, is that the extreme language that's used there is to depict one's world falling apart. God is our refuge, Psalm 46 says, and our strength, in ever-present help and trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth give way, and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea. Though waters roar and foam and the mountains quake with their surging. There's times when you may feel like that's what's happening in your world. The very foundations of your world seem to be crumbling and falling apart. But God is your refuge, He's your strength. He's your ever-present help in trouble. And so he says in verse 10, be still and know. Quiet yourself. Get away, get quiet from all the things that are falling apart, from all the thoughts that are like scattered beads across the floor. Come, be still, and know. But I'm still God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. I'm still on my throne. And so, verse eleven, the Lord Almighty is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. And so the idea of refuge is a very precious image in the Psalms, as well as in other parts of Scripture. But in this psalm, David gives three particular pictures. So the second P here is the pictures of a refuge. He gives three particular pictures of a refuge. The first is that of a rock that is higher than I. Verse 2, you see. The ends of the earth I call to you, I call as my heart grows faint. Lead me to the rock That is higher than I. Do you know twenty times in the Psalms God is called a rock? Three times He's called a rock in the next Psalm alone. There's a good reason why David uses this image of rock and why that's so precious to him. Think of where he was fleeing when he was chased by Saul, chased by Absalom. He was in the Judean wilderness. Pretty barren place. The only place of refuge were in the rocks. Many caves, many high hills, and places that you could hide in the rocks. Those were the only shelters. In 1 Samuel 22, you read of David and his men hiding in a cave, and they use that as a stronghold. It's easy to guard the entrance to the cave. It's a relatively safe place. Well you think of the next chapter, 1 Samuel 23, when they're in the desert of Mayan. And they come to this large hill or small mountain. It's called the rock. It must have been this large thing that's just kind of stuck out of the wilderness. And the David is going around the one side and Saul's armies are going around the other side and they're kind of going back and forth, you know, like you kids when you play around the furniture, you know, you kinda keep out of sight of mom or dad. Well, in this case it was a life and death struggle. Trying to kick around to the other side of the mountain and David Saul divides his forces And David's hope is just about gone. He's on the one side of the mountain. Saul's coming around both sides. And when all hope seems like it's lost. Messenger comes to Saul riding up through the desert and says, quickly, let off the chase, come home, the Philistines have invaded the land. And Saul reluctantly has got to stop just when he's about to get David in the grasp of his hand. He's got to go home. So the rock has rescued David again. As a result, he goes down and hides in the caves of Engedi, means goat springs along the Dead Sea. whole series of limestone cliffs and caves. And this idea of rock has become to David a very precious picture. of shelter from the enemy, a place to hide, a place of safety. Now when I thought about this in my own life, I'm thinking I don't live in a Judean wilderness and I Don't hide in caves very much. What is an image that you and I can use to help us to understand a little bit of what he's talking about? Then I thought about when we used to live in upstate New York, not too far from Niagara Falls. Now how many of you ever seen Niagara Falls? I mean really seen and been there. Yeah, I mean the rest of you If you go, go, it's worth seeing definitely, absolutely. If you go, let me tell you, make sure you go up on the Canadian side from upriver along the Niagara River. It's the only good way to approach it by far the most dramatic approach. And you come down to those falls, and the Canadian falls are a sheer cliff, 173 feet high Tons of water pouring over that cliff every second. In fact, over 200,000 cubic feet of water per second pour over Niagara Falls. Now if you go to the edge of that cliff, you can see that there's this spot over there. You give them a few bucks and you can go down an elevator behind the falls You walk out through this little corridor, and you can walk out in this one corridor, and it takes you outside, and there you are in front of the falls looking up. You can go down another corridor called Cave of the Winds, and you can go down this corridor behind the falls, and this one corridor goes out, and you are looking straight out into the falls. Those falls cascading down over 200,000 cubic feet per second are just a few feet in front of you. You're perfectly dry and you're perfectly safe. In the rock that is higher than you. But you know something? That rock's wearing away. All falls do. Falls always move up river. And someday it's not going to be safe to stand there. But Jesus Christ is the rock that is higher than you, in whom it is always safe to stand, no matter what is pouring down around you. He is the rock that is higher than you, who is your security. That's the first image. The second image is of a strong tower. You've been my refuge, a strong tower against the foe. Now this picture of a strong tower was because Old Testament cities were surrounded by walls, and on those walls there were towers at various points where they um particularly where the walls turned. In fact, if you want to see an excellent example of that that dates back to medieval Europe, go to Londonderry, Ireland And uh you have there the best preserved medieval walls of Europe, and you'll see at all the points where the walls turn, there are these towers. But then inside the city, there generally would be another tower. And that was in case the walls had been breached. The citizens could then take their long their belongings, they could take their provisions, and they would go up that tower to be safe. Now I have a number of towers like this in Ireland when we were there. In fact, there was one right in the church graveyard where we uh where I was serving for those three weeks And I wish I had a picture of Jim. Well, actually we do have one. So Scott, uh well you know, just wanted to let you know. I mean, you know, yesterday's St. Paddy's Day, right? There you go. But uh we can add the lights down here a little bit. Uh this is a picture of an Irish tower. This would be very similar to what you had in the Old Testament, so they kind of idea. Uh these would be up to a hundred feet tall. And um the base would be built all around and the entrance would be from eight to thirteen feet up from the ground. So how would you get in? That's kinda high, you know what? Here's the door up there. You know, why is that? Well So you had to go in by a ladder. And then when the enemies came, you'd pull the ladder up after you. So nobody could get up there, you see. And you'd have all your provisions, you'd have everything up there. It'd be for you kids kinda like a tree fort, you know. So you can you know, you go up the tree fort and then you pull up the ladder and nobody can come up, you know, all the bullies and the enemies and adults or uh whoever else you're trying to Keep out of the tree for it, you know. So it's your own place. It's a refuge. See, that's the picture. A strong tower against the foe. And uh they would uh go up here and of course um somebody reminded me after the first service, uh they also took the scriptures up there and that's why we still have things like the Book of Kells and other things, because that was important to those folks as food was. But this was very effective, very effective, because the enemies would come around, and in fact you know it's very effective, because they're all over Ireland. If they didn't work, they wouldn't have built so many of them. But you know that those are effective, they were effective in the Old Testament. In fact, one example of how effective they were in the Old Testament is in the book of Judges, chapter 9. There you have the story of Gideon's son. You remember Gideon was the fellow who with the 300, remember came as God's warrior against the um the worship of Baal and he uh cleansed uh Israel of Baal worship at that time. God wrought again great victory against the Midianites. But as in so many cases in the Old Testament, the second generation did not follow in the faith of the first, just like Absalom from David. So Gideon had a son by the name of Abimelech, and Abimelech did not follow in the faith of Gideon. In fact, Abimelech determined to restore Baal worship to Israel. And on one occasion he attacked the city of Jabez. He uh came against it with his armies. Uh excuse me, I didn't think that sounded right. It was the city of Thebes. Uh and uh he attacked the city and it had one of these towers on the inside, and the citizens all went up into the tower And so he's down there at the bottom yelling and screaming, come out and fight like a man or whatever. He's yelling and screaming at him, you know. And he's down there yelling this, and uh some unnamed woman Up in that tower, in one of those, you know, one of those little windows that you see, took a millstone and threw it out and cracked his skull You know, so I mean that's how effective it was, you know. So much for you. And of course, typical man, as he's laying there dying, he says to his armor bearer Please run me through lest they say I was killed by a woman. Yeah. Like that's something to worry about at that point, you know Well that is the end of him. But you see, these towers were very effective. Now David is saying, You are my let's get the scripture back on there again. He said, You are my strong tower, a refuge. Against the foe. I can hide in you. I'll be safe. Scripture says the name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous run into it and are safe Then there is the third picture that he is a that we can take refuge in the shelter of his wings there in verse four. I long to dwell in your tent forever and take shelter in the refuge of your wings. Psalm 91 gives us this same kind of idea. Where it says, He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge, my fortress, my God in whom I trust Surely he will save you from the fowler's snare and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his feathers, and under his wings you will find refuge. And so uh you kids see in your bulletin not only the picture of the towers, you see this idea here, but also this picture of a bird. And that's the picture that you have here in this third image. It's a picture of a mother bird who protects her young by covering them with herself, with her wings. I remember a couple of years ago when uh we were at Cape Cod and I generally go out in the morning in the woods there. to uh pray and it was just dawn and uh I was going through this path and all of a sudden right in front of me there's this flurry and this startle that I had uh burst I just inadvertently walked almost into a covey of bobwites. And uh bobwites are fairly good size and boy when they're spooked, the mother just fluttered right up in front of me, and that was her purpose. I mean she wasn't wasn't like, oh you scared me. She knew what she was doing. She purposely did that to startle me for whatever reason dad just sort of took off. But the mother went right up in front of me while the little ones scattered for cover She distracted me so that if I intended to get them, you know, I would go after her, and she just kind of led me on away from the kids. Uh somebody reminded me of a story I had heard long ago After the first service uh of a a farm uh that had a number of chickens that uh burned down. The the uh barn burned down and everything burned down And when somebody was looking through what was left of it afterwards, they saw the corpse of a chicken and they kicked to the side and out from under the chicken ran all the little chicks The mother had covered them literally to her death, protecting them. This is the picture. You see, of the personal protection of our God. You see this picture in Ruth Remember when Ruth says to Naomi, don't send me away. My God will be your God. And I want to go with you. And so she goes. with Ruth. And in Ruth chapter 2 you have a very interesting statement. Boaz commends Ruth and what she has done and says, Blessed are you, Ruth. Because you have made God, the Lord, the God of Israel, because may you be richly rewarded by the Lord, the God of Israel, under whose wings you come to take refuge. Ruth uses that same word in chapter 3. And if you've ever read through Ruth and never heard this, it's a little insight that will add some meaning to the story for you. In Ruth 3, verse 9, when Ruth comes, remembering she lays at the foot of Boaz's bed, and he asks her, Who are you? She says, I am your servant Ruth. Spread the corner of your garment over me, since you are a kinsman redeemer. Now the word garment there is closely related to the word wings. So she's saying, spread your the corner of your wings or spread your wings over me. to protect me by marriage. It's clear that this idiom is used of marriage because in Ezekiel 16, 8 It is exactly the phrase that God uses when he says, I spread the corner of my garment or my wing over Israel and entered into a covenant of marriage with her. So you see here that this picture takes the idea of a mother bird giving herself to protect her young To be the picture of a husband giving himself to protect his wife. Now don't miss this. Notice the progression of the images. You have a progression of from distance, from the ends of the earth I call to you, lead me to the rock that is higher than I, the rocks out in the Judean wilderness, which are the shelters, to come to the strong tower in the city, perhaps thinking of Jerusalem and its tower To them most intimately closest to you taking refuge under the shelter of your wings. You see, refuge is not something God provides. Refuge is something God is. He is your refuge. He protects you with himself And so this idea is communicated, the third point, the refuge is a person. It's not simply a provision, it is a person. You remember how I mentioned that last summer Isaiah 32 came to my mind at a time of great pain in my own life, a time when I felt disoriented and went out seeking the Lord and He showed me this verse, Isaiah 32, see a king will reign in righteousness and rulers will rule with justice. Now verse 2 of the NIV says, Each man will be like a shelter, but actually, more literal translation of the Hebrew is simply a man will be a shelter from the wind and a refuge from the storm. A man, I believe, refers to verse 1, the king. This king that is going to come and reign in righteousness is a man who will be a shelter from the wind. And a refuge from the storm. The refuge is the man. And you see here the m amazing thing is, it doesn't say God. It's of a man Now when the scriptures use again and again and again through the Psalms and other places, God is your only refuge. God is your refuge. God is your refuge. And Isaiah says, There's a king coming who's going to reign, he's going to rule the kingdom, and a man is going to be a refuge. Then something's up. There's something God is trying to communicate to us here. And so you remember at that time the movie The Perfect Storm was being played and I don't know if I mentioned it then, but I read the book before the movie, and if you saw the movie, read the book. It's really a lot better. It's usually the case. But in the book Uh Sebastian Younger goes through a lot of meteorological detail about storms and fishing and a lot of very fascinating things about the power of storms And he talks about the terror of being out in the deep hundreds of miles from shore And having hundred foot waves coming at you. There are walls of water. In fact, there are walls of water so vertical sometimes that the water is cascading down them as they're coming at you One of the things that's not shown in the movie is that there was also out in that storm a large freighter that was also being um assaulted by those waves and by that storm. A huge freighter that was itself in danger of breaking in two, so strong were the waves. Talks about the fact that the Queen Elizabeth II once was hit by a rogue wave And the windows of the pilot's enclosure is ninety feet above the water. They were smashed by the waves. That's power. Now, these ways are a picture not simply of the trials, the tribulations, and the pain of your life. The waves are a picture of the wrath of God. Because you see, you and I don't simply suffer the assaults of life because we're victims. You and I have said, I am my refuge. I'm able to take care of myself, thank you very much, and I don't need God as a refuge, because if I did, then I would have to be dependent on him. I would have to give honor to him, I would have to show gratitude to him, and I'd rather live independently. I'd rather live buffeted with my head bloodied but unbound Because of your arrogance, God is going to show you what the power of His wrath would be And the power of his wrath will make the assault of a hundred-foot wave look puny in comparison. And so you're out in that sea, and you're out far from the shore, far from any refuge, far from any protection. And as you stand there and long and wish and cry out, oh, that there was some refuge that I could take, and know that you are about to get the just deserts. Of your disobedience and your dishonoring of a God who made you and has taken care of you and has shown you his mercies that you have ignored Then you hear when all hope is about to be lost. The words of the Lord Jesus in Matthew chapter 23 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together. As a hen gathers her chicks under her wings. But you were not willing. Are you willing this morning to come to Jesus Christ, the only one who is a refuge from the storm, who will withstand the storm? The one who provides for you not simply a refuge outside of himself, but who is the refuge from God's wrath? Who is the refuge because he took the full brunt of that wrath upon himself in order to become your refuge? To protect you not simply from the just judgment of God, but from every pain, from every tribulation From every suffering in your life last week and this week, and your whole life to come, that He is there for you You know, this psalm comes to us out of David's pain. And through that psalm, David gained greater insight to the promises of God. And when you come to God out of your pain, you will gain greater insight into his ways, because at that point nothing else can satisfy This week I was talking to one who's been insulted at work, and uh the verbal abuse, the disrespect this person's getting are absolutely shocking to me, and yet they seem to have little recourse. There's not much that it can do. And I reminded them, I'm not sure they wanted to hear this, that it may be that God is providing an opportunity for them to return good for evil. Because these people know that they're being evil, cruel. That's very clear the way they're treating not only this person but others But you see, it's only a Christian who has found a refuge in the Lord Jesus Christ, who can supernaturally return good for evil. And you do that out of the refuge. You do that because, like David's psalm comes to us as comfort in his pain. God may be preparing you to be a psalm of comfort for the pain of someone else. Let's pray. Lord, may we not miss that opportunity to be a demonstration Of the balm, of the comfort that you can give. If we're happy and everything's going well, nobody's surprised. But when we are men and women and boys and girls of peace, when everything is against us That gets attention. That honors you in a unique way. Lord, may we not miss that opportunity. I pray that everyone here, in whatever pain they're going through, would find Jesus Christ as their refuge. And as that refuge, find that you are a place of safety and security. That you not simply provide refuge for us, you are the refuge for us. May we hide ourselves in you, Lord Jesus, and discover the sweetness. Of the fellowship where you draw near to those in pain. Because of your great love, we come to you in Jesus' name.