I want to tell you a story this morning about a pen, a suit, and seven dollars. Two researchers decided to do a broad research study on a wide group of people of varying backgrounds, and they set before them this story. You have an errand to run on this day. You're preparing for an important interview. And the errand that you're going to run is you need to buy a nice pen because you're going to be asked to sign something and you want to Have a good impression, and you need to buy a new suit. So the story goes, you go to the local uh supply store where they sell pens and paper In the process of going through the row for pens, you find a very nice $25 pen. In the process of picking it up off the shelf, you then remember in your research prior to leaving, that that very pin is available 15 minutes away at another store for $18. And so the question that they posed is, how many of you would get in your car and drive 15 minutes to save the $7? A vast and overwhelming majority of people would get in their car, so they voted, to drive 15 minutes, to save the $7 and buy the pen for $18. So after you're done running that errand and getting your $18 pen, you then go to the store and you want to buy a suit. The suit that you find fits the look you're looking for and the interview you think will be right. It's a nice pinstripe suit. costs $455. You go up to the rack, you see it, you pick out the right size, and in the process of picking the the suit right off the rack, another customer who's on the same rack as you whispers to you and says, you know. That suit is available just 15 minutes down the road for $448. And so the researchers asked the same group of people, how many of you would then get in your car and drive 15 minutes to save the $7? A vast majority said, I would not. And so the researchers concluded this. That in most cases people would seek to save the $7 with the suit, but not with the pen. And the only question They realize you should be asking yourself in these cases is whether or not the trip is across town is worth the extra 15 minutes. And is it worth the $7 you would save? Not whether the amount you're paying for the item is $10 or $10,000 Is it $7 or is it not $7? Is it 15 minutes or not 15 minutes? But what they realized, and this is continued to be shown across their research, Is this. Many of us as human beings, a vast majority of us as human beings, make many decisions: small with pens and suits, and very large decisions. Based not on logic and reason, but on relativity. We determined the value of that seven dollars relative to the item we were purchasing. Not to the broader set of comparisons. The same goes with the pen. And one thing we know about relativity: it is arbitrary inherently And so the logic was being applied not in a straightforward, measurable way, but in an arbitrary way. Determining this, the researchers realized. That many of us believe, an enormous number of us believe, that we are, by nature, logical and rational creatures. And why wouldn't we believe that? Everything we've been taught, everything we've learned, and even believe about ourselves seems to support this idea. Consider Shakespeare for just a second. What a piece of work man is. How noble in reason. How infinite in faculty. In form and moving. How express and admirable. In action, how like an angel. In apprehension, how like a God. The beauty of the world, the paragon of animals. In one way or another, while we may not go to such hyperbole in the view of ourselves and certainly not of the view of others around us, we have learned and believed that we make many decisions. Based on logic and reason and rational processes But Dan Early, in his book, from which I get the title of my sermon, Predictably Irrational, shows over and over and over again that the truth. Is that we are capable of rational thought and logical decision making. But in the main and at the street level, we are predictably irrational. If this is the case, how does the gospel capture our hearts Is it by reason? How should Christians make an appeal to those outside the faith The occasion of Paul's trial in Acts chapter 24 gives us a glimpse into a possible answer. So let's look together. Acts chapter 24, verses 5 to 26. We have found this man a troublemaker. Stirring up riots among the Jews all over the world. He is a ringleader of the Nazarene sect, and even tried to desecrate the temple, who so we seized him. By examining him yourself, you will be able to learn the truth. About all these charges we are bringing against him. The Jews joined in the accusation, asserting these things were true When the governor motioned for him to speak, Paul replied, I know that for a number of years you have been a judge over this nation, so I gladly make my defense. You can easily verify that no more than twelve days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship. My accusers did not find me arguing with anyone at the temple or stirring up a crowd in the synagogues or anywhere else in the city. And they cannot prove to you the charges they are now making against me. However, I admit that I worship the God of our fathers as a follower of the way, which they call a sect. I believe everything that agrees with the law and that is written in the prophets, and I have the same hope in God as these men. That there will be a resurrection both of the righteous and the wicked. So I strive always to keep my conscience clear before God and man. After an absence of several years, I came to Jerusalem to bring my people gifts for the poor and to present offerings. I was ceremonially clean when they found me in the temple courts doing this. There was no crowd with me, nor was I involved in any disturbance. But there are some Jews from the province of Asia who ought to be here before you, bring charges if they have anything against me. Or these who are here should state what crime they found me in, and that I stood before the Sanhedrin, unless it was this one thing I shouted as I stood in their presence. It is concerning the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you today. Then Felix, who was well acquainted with the way, adjourned the proceedings When Lysias the commander comes, he said, I will decide your case. He ordered the centurion to keep Paul under guard, but to give him some freedom and permit his friends to take care of his needs Several days later, Felix came with his wife, Ursilla, who was a Jewess. He sent for Paul and listened to him as he spoke about faith in Christ Jesus, as Paul discoursed on righteousness. Self-control and the judgment to come, Felix was afraid and said, That's enough for now. You may leave. When I find it convenient, I will send for you. At the same time, he was hoping that Paul would offer him a bribe, so he sent for him frequently and talked with him. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Please pray with me. Now, Lord, we ask that you would, by your Holy Spirit, open our eyes, our minds, but most importantly, our hearts. To be able to grasp the beauty of Christ and of his gospel. And therefore, we ask: give us wisdom and a clear conscience Before you and before men, through Christ alone. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So you'll see this morning in your outline as I walk through this text, I want you to see Paul's trial. Paul's appeal and our challenge. His trial, his appeal, our challenge Paul's trial. Paul's trial actually covers a series of chapters. It is not a bunch of little trials. It is really part of one great trial. To set the context of Paul's troubles, we know from what is written in the book of Acts is that Paul was being persecuted By his fellow Jewish leaders, because he was teaching on the resurrection, as well as what really caused him to go into a huge riot and almost take his life. was that Paul said that he was called not only to preach to Israel, but to the Gentiles, and he described what it was he was preaching. He was preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ and the redemption that comes through Christ's offering on the cross for our sin and the power of his resurrection. And so he states to them that God has sent him not only to every synagogue and every city that he visits, but also has sent him out to the Gentiles. And when Paul says that, he levels the playing field. In saying that God will redeem for his own, not just the Jews, but also the Gentiles And that completely enraged these Jews because they found it very hard to grasp how Jew and Gentile could be on equal footing. And then he also contested the idea of the resurrection and the fact of the resurrection, according to his testimony. Paul understood that the Jewish leaders were divided among themselves, the Sadducees against the Pharisees. And as he states here to Felix. It is concerning the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you today. This is the context of Paul's trial. It is the reason for his trial. But isn't it ironic if we consider for just a moment? Those who seek to take the life of Paul and persecute him, even there are those among them who are willing to starve themselves and to even go to the point of utter thirst until they're able to take Paul's life. This is a conspiracy that has risen up around Paul. It reaches Paul's ears, and then he is able to fortunately escape out of it. He's now brought before Felix. It's going up the food chain of leadership in the Roman government. But what's ironic is this That earlier on in the book of Acts, we understand, and even a part of Paul's own testimony, that he was once the very one who sought to do to other Christians what is now being done to him. And he understood then as he understands now. It is because of the proclamation of Jesus Christ. And so now he receives it. He finds himself in a bind. Going up in the judicial levels What would be his defense? How ought he to make an appeal before this group of people? Are they making their decisions rationally? Are they acting in good conscience towards Paul? If we look at his appeal, we might come to an answer. Let's look at his appeal. Paul, in this argument, in this defense. Does not go about reciting the intricacies or even all of the facts surrounding the resurrection of Jesus Christ in time and space Though he recognizes that is the reason for his being on trial, he's not going about reciting the facts of the resurrection. What Paul seeks to do is that he seeks to appeal to their conscience. This is important for Paul. In fact, his conscience has already been used as a part of his defense and a part of his testimony earlier on in a couple of chapters ago. This is also important for Paul as he makes his appeal in the book of 1 Corinthians and in the book of 2 Corinthians. As we have looked at before, Paul makes an appeal that he has a clear conscience before those who are hearing him preach. But he recognizes it even with a clear conscience, that is not what justifies him before God. Only that which justifies Paul is the work of Jesus Christ. But nonetheless, Paul does not stop in making his appeal to the conscience of his hearers. Then in 2 Corinthians, he says in chapter 4, verse 2, I am always making my appeal to the conscience. conscience of men. In his letter to the Romans chapter two, he talks about how indeed, when he's speaking of Gentiles And why they act the way they do. If they act in accordance with the law of God, he's saying that is an example of how the law of God is written on the conscience. on the heart. So for Paul, the conscience is extremely important. The question is, what is the conscience? We're in that season, as I like to call it, the tween season of temperatures and HVAC systems. In this room, some of you are hot, so the air is on. Some of us are cold. It's just one of those seasons. You wear shorts one day, you wear a sweater the next. And so we're at home messing with our HVAC system, trying to set the firm stat to find the right temperature. The human conscience. Is like a thermostat. A thermostat tries to adjust the temperature of an environment to make it just right. The human conscience is that part of us. Some would call it intuition. Some would call it uh empiricism. But it's the idea that within the human heart we seek to, by some thermostat, arrive at what is right and what is wrong. It's an internal right-wrong meter. And, as we understand about this room, the thermostat has to work in such a way because of the uniqueness of the environment of the very room we're sitting in The same is the case with everyone's individual conscience. While it is an internal thermostat discerning for you what is right and wrong, Oftentimes, that thermostat is set based on the environment from which you come. That environment could be the way in which you've been raised. It could be in from the environment that what you have been taught. It could be in the environment of what uh neighborhood you grew up in. And so, in many ways, the human conscience is extremely complex and doesn't often operate. According to reason. It's oftentimes very arbitrary And so what Paul seeks to do is instead of reasoning them out of their position of whether there's a resurrection or not. He seeks to appeal to their internal thermostats, to their conscience, to find a common ground I was given a quote this past week from Jonathan Swift, who said, You can't reason someone out of a position that they never reasoned themselves into. So Paul does not appeal to their rationality. Why? Because Paul understands, as researchers and Dan Early understands. That over and over again we are predictably irrational. So, what should the appeal be? Paul makes the appeal to their simple conscience of asking: Is it right? That I am being put on trial? Does this seem right to your conscience You see, Paul is making an appeal before them, asking them to consider in broad ways Question your presupposed ideas. Question your pre-constructed framework and how you're seeing me. And so he's appealing to their conscience by saying, Listen, I'm a Jew as they are a Jew. I believe in the same God of our forefathers as they do. I believe in the resurrection of the righteous and the wicked, as they do. I have been accused of wrongdoing. I ask you, as a Roman citizen, Felix. If it can be demonstrated that there is no evidence for these accusations, I appeal to your conscience. Is this right? So he's trying to find a way around the barriers that we put up against others, other people's arguments. This is something that is very common, indeed, even all the way back to the Jesus test. How does Jesus appeal to us of the veracity of the kingdom of God? Does Jesus seek to appeal to us of the veracity and factual nature that God is sovereign by simply saying, let me prove to you how God is sovereign? I want to argue this morning that that is not how Jesus does it. I was reminded of this this week by looking at the Sermon on the Mount. Specifically, when Jesus is making the appeal about what causes you to worry. Consider what Jesus says as he makes his appeal. I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink, about what your about your body and what you will wear. And then he appeals to them and he takes them out of their framework. And has them to try to see it from a completely different perspective. And this is how he does it Look, is it not is not life more important than food and body and the body more important than clothes? Look at the birds of the air. They do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they? Who of you by worrying can add a single hour to his life And why do you worry about clothes? See how the lilies of the field grow. They do not labor or spend, yet I tell you that not even Solomon, all of his splendor, was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothes the grass of the field which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, he will not much more clothe you, O you of little faith. So do not worry, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows you need them. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. What he does is he appeals to their internal conscience and to their pride. Because they're setting the thermostat of what to worry about in their lives based on things that are inherently unreasonable. And so what he does is he pokes at their irrationality by applying to them a new framework. And he says, step back. He knows as they look at the lilies of the field. He knows as they work, look at the birds, that they're going to see them on a different creature existence, a different plane. Of course, we're of a higher order. Of course, we're more reasonable and rational. But Paul says, or rather, Jesus says, if they're on a much lower scale and they do not worry about these things, then why do you And then he comes in with the beauty of the sovereignty and the providence. And the mercy and the love of God. How much more then, if this is how the Lord decorates the fields, how much more then will He not also clothe you? Do you see what he does? He's trying to remove from them their preconceived frameworks. And he's saying, Does this seem right to you? Is this how you want to set the internal thermos out of your life? And so he appeals to their conscience to draw them in to the irresistible nature of the grace and love of God in Jesus. Jesus Christ. Says in essence to these Jewish persecutors, I was one of you. I am one of you. I believe as you do. Does that seem right to you? And then on that basis he can then appeal. This is what our God, the God of Israel and of our forefathers, has done. He has redeemed us through Jesus Christ and the power of the resurrection from our sin. But do they have a clear conscience? Does Felix have a clear conscience And here comes our challenge. And the challenge is this. If we look at the Jewish leaders, what Paul is saying to them and appealing to them is this conscience Your internal thermostat trumps content. To Felix We see it in Felix. The passage tells us that Felix knew a number of things about the way, the way of Christ. In fact, Paul seeks to teach him about Jesus Christ and righteousness and of the Day of reckoning by Jesus Christ. And what does Felix do? Enough. I'm done. And then he goes away, and immediately we learn. Does Felix have a good conscience? No. He really is more interested in trying to leverage a bribe out of Paul. Which, just for the sake of argument, doesn't seem to be a very rational thing to do. The guy came to Jerusalem under duress, it's not like he's money bags. What exactly is he hoping to get from Paul? But see, do you do you do you see? It's inherently irrational because of the framework that he has. He's about his own power and building his own power. And even though he may know the truth, even though he may be able to understand the logic of what Jesus came to do, even though he may believe the facts And even heard the testimony that Jesus was raised on the third day and is no longer in the tomb, it's not enough to change his conscience. Content doesn't trump conscience. It's the other way around. And so I ask you the question: if you are a Christian, how did you come to believe? I'm not suggesting, nor would I ever suggest, that evangelists should not use reason and reasoned argument That was used with me, as it has been used with you. But at the end of the day What has to change is the human understanding from the heart At the heart level of our thermostats, they need to be turned upside down. We cannot be reasoned out of unbelief. We can only be brought to the place where we recognize and experience irresistible grace. Irresistible love. Yes, with other arguments, but what changes the heart will change the mind. What may be able to change the mind doesn't always travel to the heart. Isn't that what somebody once said? The longest distance anybody can ever travel is from the head to the heart? What kind of appeal then ought to be made to those who do not believe? Does that mean we shouldn't use reason? No? We should use reason. But ladies and gentlemen, if you are from a tradition that is Presbyterian Reformed, Our tendency, not always, but our tendency is to believe that if we give people enough content, enough knowledge, then that is what will bring them from unbelief to belief. But our Bibles and Jesus gives us a different testimony. It absolutely involves content It absolutely involves doctrine and it absolutely involves reason, but it does not always start there Because what changes the heart is when our entire framework changes, when we're then able to receive and recognize And imagine what if this Jesus is God? He says He died for me. Jesus became flesh and died on a cross for my sin. And if I'm able to imagine, because that is what Jesus is doing when he's drawing on the lilies of the field and the birds in the air, he's drawing on human imagination. Do you not see in your mind's eye? If that is the case there, what about this? So this I say, can you imagine that the God of all creation who says he's created all things from nothing, with inherent order and reason and logic, does not first appeal to us through that, but appeals to us relationally, at the heart level. to draw us out. Because when he draws the heart out, then he can change the thermostat, the framework. So I want to say, as Christians, we must be mindful. Answer the phone. Or there we go. I'll take that call. I have a story! But the beauty of the gospel is this. It is a relationship to tell It is a person to tell a story about, and not purely a content and a set of knowledge to just believe The interesting thing is, however, Paul's appeal to the conscience didn't work this time. He remained in jail. It didn't work with his persecutors. They still persecuted him. So is the case when Jesus appeals to our conscience and the Word of God goes to our very core. We're not machines, and it's not axiomatic, then suddenly we will believe. Nor will the proclamation of the most reasoned arguments of Christianity will elicit belief. It is inherently complex because we are inherently irrational. Predictably so. But the appeal of the gospel appeals first to this. Imagine a hill far away. Where the Savior died and was raised again from the dead, and his message to you is Come unto me, all who are weary and weary. And heavy laden, and I will give you rest. May the Lord make his appeal to us and change our conscience and may he bring the gospel and kingdom to bear for his glory and the building of the church. Let's pray. Come, we ask, Lord, by your power and spirit to help us to believe. Because you've come to make the appeal to the very hardest of things, the human heart. That you might make the appeal to change us That we might know that indeed you are the Lord and are worthy of praise. And your salvation is beautiful Help us to receive it. Help us to rejoice in it. Help us to witness to your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.