Well, congratulations. This is the third week that I'm speaking on money and giving, and you're still here We're having the session take a record of those who have been absent the last couple weeks. Get a call from your elder. But none of you. You're all here. That's great. And yet we still haven't answered the question What is, in fact, the place of the tithe in the New Age? How do we apply the tithe in our own day when we are not under the law? What does that mean for us? That's an important question for every serious follower of Jesus Christ. It's not a question that you can say that's uh academic, doesn't really concern me. What do I care how the tithe applies to today? It affects every paycheck that you receive if as a Christian you're under Jesus Christ as Lord and you say, Lord, what is your direction? What do you want me to do with this? What should I be doing in terms of my giving and my spending? One passage which I believe gives the most succinct. Rules, statement, principles of New Testament giving is 1 Corinthians chapter 16. I believe that that is the most succinct statement anywhere. And so I'd like you to turn to it if you haven't already. If you have your Bible with you. 1 Corinthians chapter 16, verses 1 to 4. I want to look at that to wrap up this series of the three messages on God's Sense about your dollars. We dealt first week with stewardship, the second week with the question of the tithe, and now this week with the principles of New Testament giving. Now you notice that in the New Testament, of course, there weren't chapter divisions, and so this was not divided from the previous chapter. And what's Paul just been talking about? Well, he's just spent 58 verses talking about the glorious resurrection of Jesus Christ. and how you and I are joined with him in that resurrection. He's just climaxed that glorious passage. Beginning there with verse 51 of chapter 15, notice what he says. Listen, he says, I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed in a flash, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. For the perishable must clothe itself with the imperishable, and the mortal must with with immortality Excuse me. When the perishable has been clothed with the imperishable and the mortal with immortality, then the saying that is written will come true. Death has been swallowed up in victory. Where, O death, is your sting? Where, O death, is your victory? The sting of death is sin. And the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God. He gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my dear brothers, stand firm. Let nothing move you. Always give yourselves fully to the work of the Lord, because you know that your labor is not in vain. And then he says, now about giving. You get that? Y I mean the ought to, you know. Here's this glorious crescendo, you're sort of you're sort of waiting for the clouds to break open, you know, and there's a rainbow and there's all these angels singing a chorus, you know. And he says, uh, well, no, you know, now thou passing the place. You see, the whole thing that he wants to state about giving is in the context of the gospel and of worship. Now notice what he says as he moves right on without missing a beat. He says, now about the collection for God's people. Do what I told the Galatian churches to do. On the first day of every week, each one of you should set aside a sum of money in keeping with his income, saving it up, so that when I come no collections will have to be made. Then, when I arrive, I will give letters of introduction to the men that you approve, and send them with your gift to Jerusalem. If it seems advisable for me to go also, they'll accompany me. Now I find four principles of New Testament giving in those four verses, and three of the four are in just that one verse, verse two. See if you agree with me. But notice as you hear this. That this is God's word. And so that you must receive it submissively and humbly. Let's pause and pray for just a moment to that end. Lord, we've heard your word here, we've seen it. We rejoice in the resurrection, we rejoice in our participation in that, what we look forward to. And Lord, then when we hear about money, we think, uh-uh, they just spoiled it all. Lord, help us to hear your word submissively and see that the good news of this is just as good as the resurrection. Because it's all wrapped up together in what you have done for us and what you're doing in us. Lord, help us then to hear receptively, teachably what you want to say to us Because Lord, I I am not a person to try to get these people to give Now your spirit must do the work you want to do in each of us. You've got to do it in me if I'm going to want to give for your work. And so, Lord, we pray that you will be at work in us this morning, making us teachable and open to what you want to say in Jesus' name. Amen. First principle, follow along in your bulletin outline. The first principle of New Testament giving is that it is universal. It is universal. No Christian is left out. Look at verse 2. He says, On the first day of the week, each one of you should set aside a sum of money in keeping with his income. Each one of you. That's significant, you see, because if all Paul wanted to do was to raise the budget for what he wanted to accomplish for the church in Jerusalem, he could have simply hit up those with the resources and done it a lot more simply. He could have met with each of the ones who were the VPs and the execs and the various big shots in Corinth and said, okay guys, here's how much we need. And uh let's pray and sit here and uh nobody's going out the door until we get it. But he doesn't do it that way. He does it entirely opposite from that. He makes no particular appeal to anyone who has means any more than anyone who doesn't. He simply says this is a universal statement. Each one of you is to set aside a sum of money for what is needed here. He's concerned, you see, that every Christian is able to participate, no matter what their means, in the grace of giving. Do you remember in Philippians, the book of Philippians is really kind of a thank you letter? It was written for a gift that the church at Philippi had sent to Paul, and he says about that gift in Philippians 4. 17. He says, Not that I was looking for the gift. Hey, I can trust God to provide my needs, he says. I wasn't dependent on you guys. But I am looking for what may be credited to your account. You gain something in giving it, he says. And then at the end of verse 18. The gift, he says, is a fragrant offering, an acceptable sacrifice pleasing to God. And so when you and I give And God says that's an acceptable offering because our money represents our time, our energies, our lives. And so Paul saying, each one of you Is to represent in your walk with Jesus Christ a gift of yourself in your giving. Whether your means is a dollar a week allowance, Or $100,000 a year's salary. Paul says the same principle. Each one of you is to participate. Each one of you as part of Columbia Presbyterian is enabled to participate in the general fund The diaconal fund, the missions fund, the facility. All that we do as ministry, he says, each of you is to participate in that. There's no special interest in the kingdom. So it's universal. Every single one of us is involved in the grace of giving. That's the first principle. Second principle is that it is to be regular. New Testament giving is to be regular. It's not left to impulse. You notice again what he says in verse 2 on the first day of every week, of every week. Each one of you should set aside a sum of money. It's a regular activity. See? Something you do every week. There's a number of things that I think are implied by that statement. First of all, I think it implies that there's a discipline to giving. We don't give to the Lord controlled by our feelings or impulses. Well, you know, I don't particularly feel generous this week, so I guess I'll just keep it. Or Lord, I'm going to pray that you will make me want to give. And until I want to give, I'm just not going to give, because that'd be hypocritical. So I'll just sort of sit around waiting for the Spirit to give to me that desire to want to give the first fruits of my paycheck. No. He says, every one of you, every week, you set aside as a regular discipline something from your earnings. Secondly, I believe that this is implying that this is a habit to be applied to everyone. And I don't think it can ever begin too young. I think it applies to allowances as well as to salaries. In our house, the first thing that we established when our kids got allowance, Was it when I give the allowance, the first thing that I say to him, here it is, how much of this are you going to give to the Lord? So that from the very beginning our kids and you kids Don't look at what I make or what I get is all for me. But from the very beginning, whether it's a dime out of a dollar or whatever it is There's something that I give that recognizes that God has provided this for me, that I'm trusting Him for my means, and that I'm putting Him first in my life as an offering of love. It's something that begins as a habit, whether it's allowance, whether it's babysitting money, grass-cutting money, or whether it's our salaries, right from the very beginning. Each one of you S begin as a regular discipline, every week. Set this aside. Thirdly, I don't believe that the every week means that if you're paid monthly, you've got to divide it into fourths or fifths according to the number of Sundays and make sure that you only give that portion every week. I don't think that it means that because in the New Testament time, pay was often daily or at least weekly. So I think what Paul is saying here is, as you are paid, but since many of you are paid on a daily basis, save it up once a week. Put it aside. And so I would suggest that if you are in fact paid monthly, that you take it at the beginning of that month or as soon as you're paid and set that whole thing aside and put it in the next offering. Because it's very tempting if we don't to begin to rationalize and say, well, you know, I was going to put the whole thing in, but well, you're getting a little short this month, you know, and I'm not sure we're going to make it. But because the whole idea of this is that you give to this first to the Lord as an offering, that it's something that you do at the beginning. And that leads to the next implication, the fourth one I see in it, and that is that it's to come from the top, not from the bottom. He says, on the first day of every week, each one of you sets this aside. So in the beginning of the week, it's the first thing that you do, you set that aside. And you don't say, well, we're just not going to make it this week, or we'll see how we do this month before we decide how much we'll give. Do you remember the offering that I, or the challenge offering that I gave last week? Make it at the beginning of the month. If you run out of money at the end of the month, you can't pay your bills. Columbia Presbyterian Church will pay your bills for you. We believe that God would provide for each of our needs. If you take that step of faith and say, I will take that from the top and I will trust God to meet me. If you're saying God hasn't met me this month, then He's chosen to meet your need through the church. Come to our deacon. Remember they all amed that last week. I don't know if you heard counted the number of amens, but uh I believe we had a consensus on that, that we're willing to stand by that Try God. See what He will do over the next three months at least to try that. There's at least one person in the congregation that takes that so seriously that they have in their paycheck, you know how you can have these direct pay things, they'll just put it into your bank account. we receive their tithe in the office as an automatic pay from their employer. Now, of course they miss the joy of putting it in the offering by doing it that way, but at least it's certainly the first fruits because before they even receive it That is gone to the church. Now, you have to decide what it is that's going to work for you. But the principle that Paul gives here was on a regular basis, first day of each week, you set aside the sum for the Lord. One last thing on this is that I believe that it also implies it's important for us to stay out of debt to be able to do this. I wasn't going to say that, but one of you last week on the way out urged me to say that. He said, boy, you better remind us about the importance of staying out of debt if we're going to do this. Because when you get into the bondage of debt, you get to that place where you say, It's just not possible. We just don't have it And the reason you may not have it was because of a decision that was made before that said, this is my priority. And I'm going to lock into this so tightly that I'm not going to have any discretionary money left That's a decision that you made. And you may need help to get out of that, but let me encourage you that God doesn't look and say, well I know your MasterCard's three months behind. That's tough. I can understand. Well, of course you you know, you're free from this. I mean this verse doesn't apply to you. You know, God's expecting to take care of our needs in his way along the way so that we can start by giving to him and then watch him provide for us. That's exciting to watch God do that, but you've got to trust him, and one of the ways we trust him is to not get in the bondage of debt, because the bondage of debt is saying, I will not put off this gratification. I must have it now. And it's more important to me than being able to defer some things. And, you know, marriage counselors tell you that generally the first argument, serious argument in marriage is over money. You know, I could take a poll. How many of you had your first argument over money? Well I don't do that. Probably start a few more arguments if I did. But uh think about it. It's because money is so tense, and you must stay out of the bondage of debt in order to have a freedom, not only in your giving to the Lord, but in the rest of your life as well. It's to be regular. Third principle. New Testament giving, the fact that it's to be regular, does not mean that it is mechanical. It is to be responsive. New Testament giving is to be responsive. It's responsive to need. It doesn't ignore special needs. Even though Paul has said here, do this on a regular basis, notice the occasion of his writing it. The occasion of his writing it is a special needs project. He says in verse one about this collection for God's people, do what I told the Galatian churches to do. Then verse three, when I arrive I'm going to give letters of introduction to the men that you're going to approve to send them, these guys that are going to take your gift to what? To the church in Jerusalem. Apparently there were some special needs of the church in Jerusalem. Perhaps there was a famine. We read of that. But we do know the Christians in Jerusalem had a particularly hard time because it was the center of Judaism which saw Christians as a threat, saw them as a cult that they wanted to root out. And so when things got tough, certainly those who were the followers of Jesus were not going to share in the Jewish community to take care of them. And so the Christians particularly suffered economically who were living in the Jerusalem area. And Paul says, you've got an obligation to these brothers and sisters in this other place. So beyond the regular things that you're doing, he's saying, I want to take up a special collection for these people. But so that it's not going to be said, well, this is Paul's collection. He says, I want you to do it ahead of time. So I don't have to do it. So it's very clear that your concern is for the church in Jerusalem. And then he says in verse 3, I don't even want to take it to them. I want you to have your own people take it to them. It's a special need. I want you to handle it because of your concern for it. And so I believe that Paul is saying through this that there is certainly a sanction of Scripture for special appeals and special needs. From time to time, we have our deacons make special appeals. You'll be hearing about a special appeal and needs later on this year and into next year concerning the facility that we hope to begin to erect next year. That will be a special need. It's not to indulge ourselves. It's a ministry facility. But it fits right within this, the responsiveness that comes as a special matter within the regular giving of God's people. Fourth principle is that New Testament giving is proportional. It's to be proportional. It's not a mechanical 10%. Notice again what he says in verse 2. On the first day of every week, each one of you should set aside a sum of money in keeping with his income. Literally, the Greek says, set aside a sum of money in whatever he is prospered. Set aside your money in whatever you are prospered. There's two things, two main things I want you to notice about that. First of all, it does not say a tithe. He does not say a tithe. You might expect from the Old Testament background that what Paul would say in verse 2 is on the first day of every week, each one of you should set aside a tithe of your income. And say that specifically does not say that. He says set aside a sum of money in whatever you are prospered. He specifically does not give the 10% rule. In fact, there is no such command anywhere in all of the New Testament. Last week, when we looked at Matthew 23, the only place that gives instruction about tithing, of course, that was during Jesus' ministry, when the law was still in force. There's no command given after Jesus' resurrection in the New Age concerning the regulation of the 10% rule of tithing. In Jesus Christ, you and I are not under the law. Tithing regulations have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ, who gave not 10% or 50%, but 100% of himself for us. So that when he hung on the cross, paying the debt that was due to God for your guilt and for my guilt, for the fact that you and I see ourselves as owners and not as stewards for our greed and our grasping to ourselves those things that God has given to us to use for Him. Jesus gave down to the very robe that was on his back. The only thing that he had left that he possessed, that one robe, was gambled for by the soldiers who crucified him. He had nothing left to give. And so the rule of tithing was totally fulfilled in Jesus Christ, and there is no law of tithing now. What does that mean? Say, hey, wait, I'm tuning in now. What are you saying here? Yes, listen to me right. You can give one dollar a week, and you will not violate any command of scripture in doing that. Say, hey, does anybody get the tape recorder? Did you get that? Write that down. I mean it. Let me say it again. You can give one dollar a week into the offering. You are not violating any scripture. And what God says is a violation of a command in doing that. The principle of the tithe is still in effect. That is to say, the way you handle your money still shows Whether or not you see yourself as a steward or an owner, it reflects your attitude as to whether you see that these are gifts given by God or whether you see that you're the one who owns it and accountable to no one. How you handle your money still shows whether or not you are trusting God to meet your needs or whether you're trusting yourself to take care of yourself. How you handle your money still shows whether or not you're putting Jesus Christ first in your life, or whether he has a corner of your life, whether things And various material things that you're looking for are the first place to you. Those three principles of the tithe that we talked about last week. Stewardship. What's first in trust. Those things are still reflected today in our giving. But there are no rules and regulations about how much to give. All we have is verse 2. As you have been prospered. That's all he says. Some sum of money, according to what you determined, you've been prospered. Kind of frustrating, isn't it? There's no rule. As you've been prospered is all that he says. But now look at that. As you've been prospered, and notice the second thing about it. Prospered is in the passive. That's point B. The word prospered is in the passive He doesn't say as you have prospered. He says, as you have been prospered. That's literally what the Greek says. As you have been prospered. That implies that you do not determine your wealth. I still recall a few years ago seeing on TV that vivid image of this million-dollar California cliff home that had just slidden down a cliff. California Cliff Home started at the top of the cliff and was now at the bottom of the cliff. It was not insured because of where it was located. Everything, total loss. Guy had worked for it, had nothing. On the other hand, I don't know if any of you saw this week's U. S. News and World Report. Cover article. About the baby boomers and what they're going to inherit. You know that this generation's baby boomers are going to inherit how much money? Eight trillion dollars Eight, yeah. Wow is right. You and I can't conceive of a billion You know, I've given to you the the thing uh the best way to understand a billion, you know, a billion is the amount of grains of wheat that would fill a boxcar. Take a boxcar side to side floor to ceiling, that's one billion grains reap. A trillion is a thousand billion. Eight trillion dollars will pass from one generation to the baby booner generation in the next few years and they have not earned it. You have not earned it. I have not earned it. You see, as you have been prospered, you and I do not determine our wealth. Proverbs chapter 10, I think, puts the best balance on it. I'll turn to it and read it to you. It's up to you. But you got the reference right there. Proverbs 10, verse 4 says this lazy hands make a man poor, but diligent hands bring wealth. Alright, diligent hands bring wealth. Be responsible, God says. If you don't have diligent hands, you can expect to be poor. But then right over in verse 22, he says, the blessing of the Lord brings wealth. And he adds no trouble to it. When the Lord brings wealth, you see, there's no trouble, no troubled conscience, no problems that come with that So there's two things there: the balance, diligent hands, the blessing of the Lord. How do you see that? There's an illustration of that back in the book of Genesis, just one of many. Isaac, son of Abraham. Genesis chapter 26 describes his economic affairs. It says in verse 12, Isaac planted crops in that land, and the same year he reaped a hundredfold. Why? Because the Lord blessed him. He had a plant, he had a work, he had to do it, but the Lord blessed him in doing it. Verse 13: this man became rich, and his wealth continued to grow until he became very wealthy. Why? Because the Lord blessed him. Deuteronomy chapter 8. God tells his people, be careful when you come in the land that I have given you and I prosper you and I give you this wealth. Lest you become complacent and say, I've done all this, and you forget the Lord your God. Paul says, 1 Corinthians 16, 2, the first day of the week, each one of you set aside a sum of money in keeping with how you have been prospered. Remember that you have been prospered, that it's all a gift that God has given to you, that you've received from, I shouldn't say by. but from a loving heavenly father who directs us in how to use it. God excuse me Directs us in such passages as 1 Timothy 6, verse 17 and 18, where he says, Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant. Nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain. Remember that California cliff home. But to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. Command them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, that is to do good with their money, and to be generous and willing to share. Do you remember Luke chapter sixteen, the Lord Jesus told that story of the shrewd manager? He was told by his boss that his days were numbered, given his pink slip, and so he went out, got all his boss's creditors, and he said, Hey, how much you owe him? Cut it in half, I'll take it. Cut it in a third, I'll take it. And Jesus said he was doing this so that when he went out on his ear, he'd have friends to receive him. And then Jesus immediately applies that to the way you and I steward our money. He says, so use your money so that when you enter into the heavenly dwellings, you'll have friends to receive you. Whatever you give to missions, we give to the Iversons, to Linda Carner, to the Balmas, to the Stuarts, and to others in our church. When you give, as part of that giving, if it's done as a desire to Jesus Christ, when you get to heaven, there's going to be people from Paris, France. From Japan, some of Husako's friends perhaps, and others. We're going to welcome you. And they're going to say, your money was used to bring me to Jesus Christ. And so we give as we have been prospered. No rule. Frustrating. John Wesley was a man who understood that. When John Wesley made 30 pounds a year, he kept and spent 28 on himself, and he only gave two pounds to the Lord's work. Said I needed a 28 to live on. When he made 60 pounds a year, what did he give? Spent 28 pounds on himself. Gave 32 pounds to the Lord's work. His income rose to 90 pounds a year. What did he give? Lived on 28 pounds a year. He gave 62 pounds to the Lord's work. That's not a rule. But you see, it reflects a man whose attitude and devotion to Jesus Christ was such that he says, Lord, you've prospered me. This is what I need. I'm going to invest in those heavenly dwellings. The final notice and principle of New Testament giving, number f number four, excuse me, number five. Is worship. New Testament giving is worshipful. Worshipful. It's not a duty, but it's a cheerful response to the grace of Jesus Christ. Again you notice verse 2. Paul says on the first day of every week, each of you should set aside that sum of money in keeping with how the Lord's prospered you, saving it up so when I come I don't have to collect it. First day of the week. Why the first day? Because the first day of the week is the Lord's Day, the day of resurrection, where Christians come together to worship And to remember the grace of Jesus Christ for us. And because he died and has forgiven me of all my sin He has set his love on me, and therefore I can give one dollar a week, and he will still love me just as much as if I gave $1,000 in the plate. You and I can't absorb that, can we? You mean if I put one dollar in the plate, he'll love me just as much as if I put a thousand dollars in the plate. Maybe if you give a lot, you don't like to hear that Hey, I thought he was smiling a little more, you know. I was getting a little more grace and a little more uh blessing because I was giving a thousand a week rather than well, I don't know if anybody's doing it, but I was giving that, you know, that much rather than a dollar a week. But I tell you, I'd stake my life on it, God does not love you anymore. You put a thousand a week in than if you put a dollar a week in Because giving is by grace. And the grace of Jesus Christ is apart from our efforts and our works. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Paul says just that. He talks about giving as a grace. He says, I want you to excel in the grace of giving. But he talks about giving as a grace. And then he says in verse 8, 2 Corinthians 8, 8, he says, this is not a command. Not that I'm commanding you. You see, again, there is no New Testament command about a rule or regulation. The fact that you give, yes. But how much, what proportion, what percent? It's not stated. He says, I'm not commanding you on this. I don't have a law to give to you. You're not under a tithe law or any other law But your giving, he says, is a way of showing the sincerity of your love to Jesus Christ. Remember Philippians 4:18? It's a fragrant offering, a pleasing sacrifice given to Jesus Christ from love. And so there's no duty. You say, hey fella, you just cut your throat. You also just cut the CPC budget. Because there is no duty concerning the proportion or the percentage. But you know the mysterious and wonderful thing about the gospel is that there is a more powerful motivation than duty and law. It's the motivation of love. And so Paul says, I want you to understand the bottom line motivation for your giving. He goes right on. He says, I'm not commanding you in this, 2 Corinthians 8, and then he goes on to verse 9. He says, For you know the grace. See he's just said, I want to talk about the grace of giving. He says, now want to talk about grace? He says, where is grace? Where does it come from? You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich Yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. Count Zinzendorf of the 18th century was a man who had fabulous wealth that he had inherited as a Count in Germany. He gave that wealth to the Church of Jesus Christ, and partly the way he did it was to give a part of his land to refugees who were being persecuted for their love for Jesus Christ. A group of people called the Moravians. They built some huts on that land. Vinzendorf came to love those people so much, he moved from his house, his mansion, to the huts. And lived with them in that place called Hernhut. Zinzendorf gave what he had in order to invest in the kingdom and the fruit of it was the greatest missionary movement probably since the New Testament times, the worldwide Moravian missionary movement. But that's nothing compared to what my Jesus did. For if you look at Jesus' mansion, you don't measure his estate in acres, but rather in light years. And if you could visualize the most impressive mansion you have ever seen and the most startling scene that you have ever witnessed, it's nothing. Compared to what my Lord Jesus owns, and what he gave up. For he gave it all up, every bit of it, because of your poverty and my poverty. Because of the need that he saw we had, he gave every bit of it up in the ultimate act of generosity. Now you think that you're materially deprived. Only I had a little bit more. The Bible says you don't know anything. Compared to whatever material deprivation you think that you endure, spiritually, you're bankrupt And that's infinitely more important. For that affects your eternity. For the Bible says that when you and I stand before God, we have an infinite debt of sin that we owe to Him. And it is impossible for us to pay it. And the penalty is eternal punishment. But Jesus Christ stepped forward with his riches. And he said, I've given it all because I've set my heart on this one, and I refuse to let that one have to pay that debt. I've paid the debt And so through his poverty, Paul says, You and I are rich. We go to the executioner's house and we find there that the execution's not only been stayed, but that the king has set out adoption papers. That you and I have been adopted into his family. Not only to live with him, but to enjoy his riches. Not for a few years and then to die, but forever and forever. That's grace. Paul says, on the first day of the week, when you remember Jesus, remember his grace. And he says, that's what motivates your giving. That's what determines what you set aside is your love for Jesus. When Leighton Ford was recently in India, he said that one of his staff people went to a little village. It was a leper colony. Ten Christian families lived there and been given some land by the Indian government. They had some small, rude huts set on it. He said that those people had done something he had never seen the like of before. They're beggars, they have no real income, many of them don't have fingers left on their hands, but they had carved out rock and stones, and they had begun to build a little church to meet with, a church building. And he said they had pledged those ten families 500 rupees for that building, a fortune to them. They did it out of their love for Jesus Christ. And he said one of the most impressive sights I ever saw was a man who was standing there, no fingers on his hands, his face distorted with leprosy, singing and praising God from the bottom of his heart. He had given us all, and his cup was full. What's the Spirit saying to you and to me about our response to Jesus this morning? Let's think about that and pray. How like you to come in Jesus Christ and to say, I've taken away the rule and I've given you my son. And so, Lord Jesus, help us that by your Spirit we might know the joy of New Testament giving, the joy that comes from giving out of grace and not out of law. And seeing what you will do in our lives because we trust you and because we love you. Help each of us to respond to you in very concrete ways. In Jesus name. Amen