So this morning we come to God's Word again in Isaiah chapter nine, verses one through seven. As we look together at this name in the series, naming Christ, naming the one who would change the world. We've looked at Emmanuel We've looked at together bright morning star. This morning we turn to the Prince of Peace. It is here in this part of Isaiah. In fact, it is only here in all of Scripture do we find five names put together right up against one another. That would tell of the one who would come. And these names are descriptive of who he is and what he was to do. And so together we turn to this familiar passage. If you only attend church during Christmas, most surely you will have heard this. And so my hope is that God would, by His Spirit, give us a renewed perspective and encouragement. Isaiah chapter nine, verses one through seven. Nevertheless, there will be no more gloom for those who are in distress. In the past, he humbled the land of Zebulun and the land of Nephthal. But in the future he will honor Galilee of the Gentiles by the way of the sea along the Jordan. The people walking in darkness have seen a great light. On those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy. They rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest, as men rejoice when dividing the plunder. For as in the day of Midian's defeat, you have shattered the yoke that burdens them, the bar across their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor. Every warrior's boot used in battle, every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning, will be fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called wonderful counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on forever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. Pray with me. Oh Lord, come By your Holy Spirit and promise, through the power of your word, open to us this name, the Prince of Peace. That we may be able to hear it, but also to receive it by faith, trusting that Jesus Christ is our Prince of Peace. Lord, we pray that by your Spirit and Word, that you would prepare us as we learn of this name. of the one who would be our Savior as the perfect invitation to the Lord's Supper this morning. So prepare us and open our eyes that we may see wondrous things in your word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The guiding idea that I want to unpack this morning is this idea. That as the Prince of Peace, Jesus simultaneously tells us of our need and provides for our peace. As the Prince of Peace, Jesus simultaneously tells us of our need and provides for our peace. But when we hear the name Prince of Peace, some have believed that what Jesus came to do is depicted on this bumper sticker, which you will see, I think, on the screen before you Is it in front of you? Because I can't see. Thank you. There it is. How many of you have seen this bumper sticker? Okay. Most of you have. And oftentimes what it is used as, and I think most of the time, you'll notice that the cross being the last That really the cross, that is Christianity, is simply one among many choices in the world for faith and religion. So that when we hear of Jesus being the Prince of Peace, that what Jesus came to do was to simply enable the world's faiths to together to coexist at peace. Now let me say it That I believe that the Christian, what it means to follow Jesus, what it means to know the Prince of Peace is to treat others with dignity and respect and to love even those who vastly disagree with the Christian message. But Jesus did not come as the Prince of Peace simply to bring peace among religions. In fact, what Jesus claimed to be Even what the prophet Isaiah tells us he will be, and what the other prophets echo, is that Jesus is not one among many. He is the only way. He is the only satisfaction to peace. Now, of course, you might imagine that coexisting and saying something like that is in itself impossible. It is not impossible to claim Jesus as the only way to God, the only way for forgiveness, the only way of dealing with the ultimate problem of sin. But also living in respect and living among others, treating them with dignity. But it doesn't mean that Christianity agrees with everyone So when you see this, it is possible to respect others. And the Christian faith calls us to do so. But it is not the laying down of the truth of Scripture. And here I want to look at two points. How, and in fact, Jesus as the Prince of Peace is both the prophet who tells us of our need, but also the physician who provides the healing. So together, looking at prophet and position. It is in the book of Isaiah that we learn First, seven hundred years before Jesus is coming into existence in the incarnation, that is taking on a human nature That we hear that he would be a child born. Born to a virgin, we learn early on in Isaiah. And here we learn, of course, that he would be born and that he would be a mighty one. That the leadership, the responsibility, the burden would be on his shoulders. And that he would receive names like Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, but a God who would bring counsel A God who would be the one who is the way to the everlasting Father. But it is the idea of the Prince of Peace, the name of the Prince of Peace, that we're looking at this morning What is the prophet saying? The prophet Isaiah is saying that, of course, this child would be A prophet telling us of our need. Now, we know what the need is early on in this passage. Simply because it tells us, as it says in verse four, for as in the day, in other words, looking back to some of Israel's most difficult battles, one with at which Midian was defeated. Yet what we see there was war, and then there was victory And so this Prince of Peace coming would come in the midst of a war. And that what he would provide is the announcement that what he would bring is a cessation to the hostilities. If you will, the idea of shalom In the scriptures has a vast number of meanings. But by and large, they have this idea, the basic meaning, one of totality and completeness. To know peace means to understand fulfillment, completion, a maturity, a soundness, a wholeness, a wholeness both individually but also communally. There will be harmony and tranquility, security and well-being, welfare, friendship, agreement, success, and prosperity. And so the prophet Isaiah says that there will be one who will come, will be born a child, and he will grow up, and he will be known as the Prince of Peace. And what we know is that the other prophets, not only Isaiah, But that that the other prophets would also announce what this one would do. And what he will do will mirror what happened in this battle That there will be the cessation of hostilities. And he would announce that that would be the case. But he would be the one who would announce that there is war. And that there is hostility to be removed. We hear the other prophets who talk about The need and the reality of what this one would do. One comes from uh my uh Zechariah chapter nine, verses nine through ten, where it says this Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, daughter of Jerusalem, see your king comes to you, righteous and having salvation, gentle and riding on a donkey. On a colt, the foal of a donkey. I will take away the chariots from Ephraim, the war horses from Jerusalem, and the battle bow will be broken. He will proclaim peace to the nations. He will rule. His rule will extend from sea to sea and from the river to the ends of the earth. As for you, because of the blood of my covenant with you, I will free you, your prisoners, from the waterless tent. So here he's saying, the prophet Zechariah is saying that this prince of peace will come and he will have victory in removing hostility. What's the hostility? God always wanted to understand, for his people to understand, that the hostility that they have with the nations around them, the hostility that he has allowed, is because of the problem of sin. That ultimately the hostilities that they're experiencing with their with the their surrounding nations came as a result of their sin because they did not want to follow the Lord God Himself. Rather they wanted to syncretize. In other words, they wanted to try to meld together the the worship of false idols, the worship of foreign gods, and to still try to worship the one true God. Even though over and over, prophet after prophet told them, You will not have peace until you leave alone and destroy the idols of foreign nations. Only until you worship me as your God, for I am your God and you are my people will you understand peace. So ultimately, the presence of physical war between Israel and her neighboring nations. is a result because first and foremost there's a lack of peace between them and their heavenly father. In other words, horizontal hostilities is a picture of vertical hostilities. The lack of peace with God will issue forth in a lack of peace with others. And so God used the reality and the presence of war within the Old Testament over and over again to cause his people to cry out for the end of hostilities. And it would always begin as they would repent of worshiping foreign gods and worshiping idols In other words, trusting in anything other than God, God's hand of judgment allowed his people to be defeated and to go into war over and over again that they might cry out, When will it be over? And so the prophets said, There is one coming who will be the Prince of Peace. He will be the prophet of peace. And he will bring what you have failed to be able to provide for yourselves. And that is peace with your Heavenly Father. And here in Zechariah it says, He will proclaim peace to the nations. His rule will extend from sea to sea, and from river to the ends of the earth. Here we see the promise of what Jesus in fact would do. As well, we hear in Micah chapter five, verses one through four, these words. Marshal your troops, O city of troops, for a siege is laid against us. They will strike Israel's ruler on the cheek with a rod. But you, Bethlehem Ephratha, though you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come for me one who will be ruler over Israel, whose origins are from of old, from ancient times. Therefore Israel will be abandoned until the time when she who is in labor gives birth, looking to marry. And the rest of his brothers return to join the Israelites. He will stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they will live securely, for then his greatness will reach to the ends of the earth, and he will be their peace. Jesus, the Prince of Peace, would be one who would announce their need for peace. Now, how is it that Jesus is also this prophet? If they're prophesying about this Prince of Peace coming, how does Jesus echo? The prophets. Well, we hear it very clearly in Matthew chapter 9. In Matthew chapter 9, Jesus himself would say some very interesting things. This is when he was calling Matthew and calling one of his disciples. He would say this As Jesus went on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector's booth. Follow me, he told him, and Matthew got up and followed him. While Jesus was having dinner at Matthew's house, many tax collectors and sinners came and ate with him and his disciples. When the Pharisees saw this, they asked his disciples, why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? Jesus responds. On hearing this, he said, It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire mercy, not sacrifice. For I have not come to call the righteous but sinners The Pharisees looked at him and said, How can you hang out with those who are not at peace with God, who do not follow God? How can you eat with such unrighteous people? Jesus says he came to heal the sick. He came to provide peace. He came not only as the prophet of the fact that sin has marred and broken our world and is in every one of our natures. It has caused hostility and wrath of God But so that that wrath would not fall on everyone in this room, Jesus came as the Prince of Peace to call sinners, to call the sick. He would come as the physician to provide for peace. And here the idea that Jesus would simultaneously not only announce what our need is That our relationship with the Heavenly Father is broken because of sin. But that He would be the one to come to solve that hostility, to solve that brokenness. And as physician, he does so. And here I simply want to bring your attention to three simple verses, though themselves not simple, but three verses that echo the idea of what Jesus would do. In Romans chapter five, Paul writes this Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, meaning We are made right with God. We receive peace between us and God by trusting in Jesus. That's what that means. And so he says, therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand, and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Did you hear that? We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We have peace with God through the Lord Jesus Christ. So what he is saying is more than just the forgiveness of sins. He's talking about reconciliation. We've already heard of it this morning, this idea of peace and reconciliation from the second chapter of Ephesians. Again, let me read these verses, fourteen and following. Here, again, the words of Paul, for he himself is our peace. Who has made the two one has destroyed the barrier of the dividing wall of hostility. Okay, so what Paul is talking about is he's talking to those who were Jewish, who've now become Christians, those who are Gentiles, in other words, who did not follow God at all, but followed false gods and idols and everything else and trusted in themselves. He's saying he's brought Gentiles and Jews together to make one people. So Jesus is and means to be peace between us horizontally, because of what he says as it follows. He says he does so by abolishing in his flesh the law and its commandments. and regulations. In other words, one is not made right with God through following a bunch of rules. His purpose was to create in himself one new man, out of the two, out of Jew and Gentile, thus making peace. And in this one body to reconcile them both to God through the cross by which he put to death their hostility, he came and preached peace to you who were far away, and peace to those who are near. For through him we have access to the Father by one Spirit. Do you hear what Paul is saying? Jesus came and preached. That's another word for prophesy. He preached to those who were near, those who are Jews, and he preached to those who are Gentiles. And he says, There's only one way. to have access to the Father. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes under the Father except through me. So therefore, two come into one man, Jesus Christ, and in doing so there is no longer a dividing wall of hostility. White, black, rich, poor, Indian. Chinese, Japanese, while we celebrate the diversity of cultures, they no longer ultimately define the Christian. For what ultimately defines the Christian is having faith in Jesus Christ. What defines the church is not a particular culture or a particular kind of worship. What marks the church is, it is a group of diverse people of background, socioeconomic, whatever diversity you decide to put on that. The reality is when we come into this place We come to be the body, the body, one body, through the one man, Jesus Christ, through whom, by the cross, laid out his life, which is pictured in this bread and in this juice, his body and his blood, to take care of the number one point of hostility, the brokenness between human beings and the Father. And in doing so, he made peace. He not only was the prophet of peace, he is peace embodied. So therefore now, every one of us, regardless of background, regardless of station, no longer look at ourselves through those lenses. We simply are called to see and see the Prince of Peace. Not that we don't understand differences, the beauty of the diversity of gifts and of faces and of backgrounds and culture. But that is not the main point. The main point is Jesus. The main problem is sin. Jesus came, telling us of it and solving its ultimate problem. He died for us. Finally, I share with you 2 Corinthians 5. 21. And here, Paul talks about what he is to be, and I, in the name of Jesus Christ, following his teaching. Am saying to you, in verse 17 and following, therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old is gone, the new has come. All this is from God, who reconciled us to Himself through Christ, and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. that God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ, not counting men's sins against them. And he has committed to us the message of reconciliation, as I, in the name of Jesus, following the example of Paul, am an ambassador of peace this morning. And when he says these words, we are therefore Christ's ambassadors, as though God were making his appeal through us. We implore you, I implore you, on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God God made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. If you are a Christian God's face towards you this morning is to renew the reality that it is only through Jesus that you can have peace. But if you are a Christian and you are running from God and you are living in sin You will be loved by your Savior so much that He will not give you the peace that you long for. He will allow your life As a walking earthquake, until he arrests you through his love to return to the only peace that can last. And that is the peace he provides through his death and his resurrection. If you are not a Christian, perhaps you don't know anything of what I'm talking about. But I will tell you that if you're like me, when I did not believe, I wanted peace. I wanted peace with my parents. I wanted peace in my education, but I did not have it. I searched for peace. And if you are not a Christian, I will tell you, you are searching for peace. You're searching for peace through your jobs. You're searching for peace, perhaps looking for a spouse or in the one that you have, or maybe you're looking for peace because you don't like the spouse that you have, so you're looking for peace through somebody else's spouse. Perhaps you're looking for peace through the success of your children. Perhaps you're looking for peace through relationships. Regardless of what it is, you are looking for peace. You want to be able to rest. And I will say to you, in the name of Jesus, through his love and on his behalf, I will say to you, you will not find it. It will not last. God invites you this morning. Because his face, even towards you, if you are not a Christian, is not one of hostility, but one of invitation. To trust in the Prince of Peace that will give you a peace that can never be removed. But from that I will say to you, Christian If you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you are not at peace as far as it depends on you, with someone else in this room. Or someone that you know, by all means necessary, as far as it depends on you, to live at peace with them. For it is not enough to say, I received the Lord Jesus that I might receive my forgiveness, that I might receive my peace with my heavenly Father, and yet allow open hostility. Between you and somebody else. For if Jesus said, I tell you, love your enemies, how much more then ought we not to treat those who are our brothers and sisters in Christ? As far as it depends on you, may the invitation to know and to be renewed into the Prince of Peace In one body, through one man, to one God, by one Spirit, in one faith, one baptism, then you have been given the grace By God's appointment to live not in hostility with others, but to seek peace. Let me pray for us this morning, and then I want to build a bridge to what we're getting ready to do. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father. We thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ, who came not to be served, but to serve. Who came to call not the righteous but the sick. We thank you that Jesus told us the truth about our sin, our brokenness with you, Lord God. And yet he also came as peace itself, making peace by his body. Lord, I pray that that would not just be a nice idea or doctrine that we just use in our brains. May we experience it by your spirit in our hearts. Knowing that your face towards us through Jesus Christ is one of peace and grace and love. Lord, may the peace that you offer through Jesus satisfy us in our deepest places. But may it also break out into a community, Lord, where we by your grace, as far as it depends on us, to live at peace with others, even to love our enemies. Father, we pray for those who hate Christianity. We pray for those who hate Jesus. We pray for those who hate you. We ask you, Lord, may your love and your grace overwhelm them this morning. For those sitting here this morning. Who are actively rejecting the invitation to the Prince of Peace, may you yet again show them your love. And bring peace in Jesus' name. Amen