In this case, are small groups. Well, we can call them small groups, but eventually puts them into an adults like a number of children. But eventually we'll try to get them smaller. not by just throwing people away but by dividing a new Sunday. We just leave each Sunday evening in order to look up the morning message in order to then uh scare together, examine them, and read about how to apply that now. We've declared again. Now, whatever you might think These underceptories are not some new ideas that Columbia precipitate colleges took up in order to deliver you from having to look into twice on under separately are simply a structure that we have implemented in order to work out two very important But it fellowship and the oversight and care of the audience. Now we'll deal with this matter of the oversight and the care of the Anders in January. But the current I want to deal with this matter of summer side. What is chemistry? Before the Q and I understand the principle and the practice of fellowship in order to have a successful under 70 years, especially when we come up against climate Picture yourself, meeting in one of these trees. You sort of stand the skin between the own table and the couch. One of the little servants has just kept on your Bible and your home The discussion is going rapidly, somehow you don't feel yourself as really part of the discussion. You sort of lost the chain of thought And uh beyond that, a person who's just made a point, he just really bugged me again. Because as sure you just seem to be better off if that person decided they have something better than you on friendly either. And as a matter of fact, the more you think about it, the more you think you have something better than you on friendly either. So I suggest to you that unless you have A clear understanding of what in God fellowship is, you probably won't continue. And that would be a great thought You see, I'm convinced that we have taken this word fellowship and we have reduced it, cultained it, and used it so fairly in our common understanding of what it is. We have fellowship winners, we have volleyball fellowships We have fan fellowships, we have all kinds of fellowships that may come under the church. Fellowship and French Commission. But these fellowships All had this idea of just some enjoyable activity that took them through together. And we've lost the sense, the realization, that this word fellowship describes one of the most profound Well, first of all then I want to define what this will be. It's important for us We have to have it. Before I'm going to use the word point, because our word solid is simply the translation of the Greek word It's the word that the Bible uses, and it's a word that has been used to our culture from time to time Coin and it's fellowship. And fellowship is coin and because we've reduced the notion of what fellowship is so much, I don't use the word point. words which is necessary for us as we begin a followed group. Follow along in your bulletin outline and you'll see what you're looking at at the top is a definition of the word commander. Now the definition to sum it up is simply the coiner is to kill with someone something that we both have in common. The word polynomial is not a religious word. It is a word that is simply used in common everyday life And there are those two elements in it. Number one, that you vote or that you add have something in common. And then number two, is you actually experiencing storage. Story is used for different labor units of business partnerships. in ancient east. The word was also used as man. And every kind of relationship through the two. Now then, what does the new text mean by the use of this word? Well to understand that we must briefly face the three stages of the development of this word through the scriptures. So first of all, we shouldn't face the creation. Creation is about many figures. Now in creation, God made us for fellowship, that is for sharing the common life that He and you have So a kind of light that we have first of all with God and then couple with other people. This is why we see Genesis 2. 7 describe the creation of man in terms of God's infinite reason because our pile of death, God's rest But if he is in the world, if he was still with us, his life did that to racial activities. And so he made us still like this. This is why God then shares with Adam in the movement of the animals. In that activity together. God serves with Adam the creation of women and brings his children. And they enjoy the creation of women together that God has brought her to Adam. We read in Genesis 3 that it was the habit of God to walk in the field of the day and the void and wisdom It's a man's spirit and a light with God. A light that's characterized and sounds like he thinks are birthing after him, are pleasing to him. He made a type of anything. He made us compare with one another. This is why in Genesis 2:18, the very first thing indeed that's not good in the Bible is the fact that man is alone Because our maker a hobby, each fit for us. And that matters that it was not good for me to be a line, it's not been good to be first But it's to have perfect structure. Adam was heavily alive. He didn't just need a wise. He lived with another human being. Because God made human beings to live in community. And he created it for that way. But then the came to disruption. And so we go from stage two to thought, in which we messed up besides the original. And in the fall, our own rebellion against God, our seeking to play God and to fight against God in our own lives. We have caused a great destruction of Both with God and with other people. Because you can kill isolates. Kill all isolate So Isaiah 592 tells us that our sin that made a separation between us and our God. And we no longer care that light is living. We no longer feel like in community together in the way that God intended. And so we see the modern community, the sensitivity groups, the various therapy groups. that all seek to establish, to re-establish this idea of community. I once heard in New York City of a man who had a business whereby if you paid him one dollar a day, he would call you up once a and simply say, I love you. And I understand we had a born in the world. People are so difficult. To be needed, to be cared for, to have community. We're so open and And that's really a lot of what Colombia is about, isn't it? Colombia was established to re-establish the sense of community But since Columbia inevitably has been established on humanistic principles of people who are in this disruption and in this isolation, the community can be only at best. But God has acted in Jesus in order to re-establish a new community, a new community. And so God sent Jesus to reconcile To himself a new humanity. And that's the rest of it. That's the third phase. Now God in establishing gives new people to be brought to himself too by sending his own son Jesus. So that he would use his wife, that you might have his wife as a new. So the wife that we now share together It's the life of redemption, not simply creation. It's the life of Jesus that we have in common as Christians. And if you've never given your life to Jesus Christ, If you in fact don't have that personal relationship with him as your saving and your moisture, then all the rest of what I'm going to say this morning will be answered. You see you're outside looking in. You're not part of that community. Because this life is only on the basis of Jesus' sacrifice and the person. relationship established with them whereby I have his resurrection life. You thought that's where you find yourself on the outside looking But I plead with you and I urge you not to put in future want to become a Christian so that you can have a new community across. But if you be reconciled to God. If you attracted someone here who can tell you what it means to know Jesus totally. Now having said that, for those of us who have Jesus and know him. This is very clearly described in 1 John chapter 1. So let's take a look at this picture together now. 1 John chapter 1. Don't say it. What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, and what we've beheld in in our heads handle concerning the word of life and the life is manifested. We see and we bear with us and we propose to you the eternal life which is with the Father and is manifested to us. This life could be something Now what we have seen and heard we proposed to you also, which you may have quite a minute with that Fellowship. And indeed, our point of it, our fellowship is with the body, and with this son, Jesus The 2 Corinthians 13 5 calls us with dispointing as exhausted with the Holy Spirit. And these things he writes so that our joy may be made complete. This is the message you encourage someone and announce to you. That God is light. And in Him there is no darkness at all. And if we say that we have fellowship with him and yet walking darkness, we say that we have following this with him and get walking about us, then we're lying. We're not practically the truth. But if we walk in the light and Jesus Himself is in the light They didn't have coinality with one another. And with a lot of people, play with us from all things. As I'm saying here, if you and I say we're still in the common life respect that you have, it will have an election If we say, for example, that we have quite a million of the things. Yes, we say that we are saying this life we've never seen. The life of easy things. And yet we're walking in other contradictions to them. And it's clear that we're not. But on the other hand, verse 7, if we are walking in the light, as a possible, visible demonstration of the fact that we are walking as He is in the light. Then we have familiar with one another and the blood of Jesus in fact is so that's the evidence for his life is under I like to dialogue the things in the long term. And I think about the force of it, I would refer you to the diagonal if you have the on the bullets This is what John is saying here is an if-then clause. He says if, now there's you and me at the bottom of this little uncompleted crying on the light. If you have pointed in with God, you are still regular his life. And I have coined in with God. By unfairness good light, then it would seem to be that you and I have the same relationship. We are sharing that same light Did we share with that? Perhaps a federal conclusion we begin to think about. You and I are finally related to each other in the same way that we are related to each other. to Jesus Christ. And this is a true spiritual reality. It refers to our existence in Jesus Christ, the way we talked about Remember the last week we talked about our position in Jesus Christ. That is what is true in Jesus Christ. You will work out in my practice. in my life, in my experience. What is true of me in my experience. And remember that we said that this position and these practice are integrated related. Now let's see how we put that in terms of Because if we understand how our position and our practice relations form and if we understand the intimacy and the vitality of the relationship with God with And the light that you and I have together will be solved, I think, by the elements of the overlooking star. First of all then, in Christ, you see there on the traditional practice, the relationship that we have in Christ is described in two biblical images. The first one is branches. And that should not be of John 16, but there are three times you see the word of the A and B, and those should all be compared to us to My C's apparently look like O's in my writing. So that's Romans and I'm 17 compared by 15 header work for a moment at Romans capital Well of Chapter 11 or 17 has nothing to do with television, but it gives us an insight into the very degree of intimacy. of this word describing the light we have to give us. So the numbers eleven Paul talking about the promise which it was given to the Greek. about us as mental having been rasted in to very solid. Because we uh had no right to this. But God has lasted us in for the very uh promises that were given to Ajax. And he describes that in terms of wild and cultivated olive trees. And he's saying that God has planted an olive tree uh cultivated. Then we've locked part of it off. And you as us and I as Gentiles have been welcome in the length of that truth So notice in verse 17 that this some of the branches were broken off, that is, some of the Jews who have rejected the claims of Messiah were broken off, and you, Gentiles, meaning a wild. was launched within among them and became quite tricky with them. They ripped root of the trees, then that the hours in a voice for the other. All I want to relate to this right now is that word Participate the new international version turns it like this. When some of the branches have been broken off and you know a wild olive have been wrapped in among the others and now serve an American facts of the Isle of Ruth. They don't place any books. The way they're partaker or shared is the world. The same word to describe the relationship that you and I have together in France. Look at the picture. Here are branches of a tree And the same spot flows through the carages. The same light flows through that Paul is saying here, that's the picture of me and the system to Jesus. We have the one kind of light of Jesus flowing through us. That light binds it together. We're emerged by the same path. You have the same common life, it's two language on the right thing. Same common answers. The same Bible tips up the five year under the leader divine. Jesus said, I am the vine and you are the branches. And your life comes to me as common branches on the vine. And so we have that same image of ourselves in the light. The second image we give, that the Bible gives that it is out of the body of our bodies. In Hebrews two point two, he's talking about the fact that Jesus tends to take upon himself a real body. He also previews the aliens where he says that uh the children Fear in a body, and fear is flight and blood. Because Jesus came to fear is flight and blood fear because upon itself a body. By the way, the still concerning the children serve in slightly what the fact that the children serve in a common humanity. We have a common ancestor We're ultimately from a common planet. We all have bodies. So Jesus took upon himself a body and served in that common life for us. That's the same old point here. We have a common ancestor, a common life, we have a body And we share with others in that likeness of a body, however different your body may seem from another's body. We have bodies in common. We have commonly humanity And Jesus took apart a body himself a body so he would establish a new renovation, a new body, the body of Christ. And this is what Ephesians says. And first Corinthians twelve took up. But the church is Christ's body. Here is his body. So then Paul begins to work that out in acts too. Now notice how this works out. How do we work out the ultimacy of the vitality of one common life? Flowing through us, having a relationship of comments of different branches on the own fruit, of different limbs and parts of one single human body How does that work out? Well we see in First Prince chapter 12. First Printheads 12, again the affirmation, see that we That we live uh that we even have one body, first Corinthians twelve verse twelve, even as the body is one and yet has many members And all the members of the body, though they're made, are one body instead. So we've all been baptized into one body. You and I are one body body with with different parts, a hand, a foot, an ear, an eye of one body. And we're remembered is integral and is vitamin That's a different parts of our body. Then there's sufficient, you see in verse 26, that if one member suffers, then all the members suffer with it And if one member, uh the put is uh and if one member is on it, then all the members endorsed it Get out of the people. Your whole body is about people. Go ahead You're not aware that you're fit feeling great, or you're aware of it that you're sad that everything really feels ended. Now notice here that Paul did not say that this is the way it's ought to be. He simply says this is the way it is. You see, if I am hurting as a member of the body of Christ, that affects you. And if you're hurting spiritually, whatever, as a member of the body of Christ That affects us. We may not perceive it. But that's important because you just have not learned from his community in the way that the New Testament talks about. You see, it's the same principle we talked about last week, that the eternities are based upon antiquity Remember we talked about that? The imperatives are God's commands. They're based upon the impotence of the New Testament, the statements of God. But the whole New Testament counts to it to be a In your experience, because we are in Jesus recognition. And the Christian life is nothing more than less than working out in my experience that which is all In these church. Because the new question would say, you are holy, therefore in your series, you hold. You are righteous. Therefore, you have died to faith. Therefore, mortify the evil to the flesh. None of us, in fellowship. You are in fellowship. Therefore, in your spirit, be intelligible. Or to say it a little differently. You are sharing a common life in Jesus Christ. Therefore, the command comes to us. Work out in the experience That time and light in fellowship together. Work it out in the practice of point of ear, which we already have. But look at the feeling to build burning. Look at what we're looking at by our feet. Now notice it in terms of color particularly Paul said in Ephesians 4, 1, I therefore the speaker of the Lord in teach you to walk in a manner worthy. Remember we talked last week about the fact that that word worthy meant to throw up the balance of the spirit. He talked about things we want to do about the willingness about the victim in Christ and celebrated with the blessings of God Then it says now on the other side of that, way up the ballot, and you experience, maybe it's come into equilibrium with your position and each of those We talked about that in a number of ways. He particularly talked about that in terms of fellowship. And notice what that means. Bring up the experience of your fellowship with other believers In line in equilibrium with the position of the common life which is during Jesus Christ. Now in chapter 2, verses 19 to 22, we talked about the position of point of it. Notice just a couple of the images he uses here and then uh go home and check out these more cases. But just very briefly notice the images that he uses. There are four images. But he uses the main verse. First of all in verse 15, he says that we are a new man. First 15. He has abolished in his custom the enemy, the even what he seems to intend, as his word That yet match any racial cases that we know about. And he says, even in good sense, Jesus Christ has established peace. 14. And he abinds that enmity, which is the law of commandments, condemned the ordinances, but in which call He might make the two into one new job. Now that's the limited thing. He's made us into one person, almost into one thought. Your life and my life again as beliefs. He goes on to say in those men that you and I are fellow citizens of the same system So then we're no longer strangers and aliens, even though you and I may have never met before. We're not strangers and feelings before both in But what celebrations would be. When I was a little kid, uh back then people didn't travel as much as they do now We didn't have all the inner space and uh all the highways where you could drive perfectly across the country with maybe only one traffic light or even light I did take a trip uh when I was very young to Nova Space. Now Nova Space can be a beautiful place, but it also can be a very popular place, especially when the five water. And I remember this one particularly name that we were our final feel cloud, Halifax Magistrates. And the five is coming to perfectly the final feel And there we were, my family, leave Pennsylvania very, very lonely in those places. All of a sudden my mother spotted a car caught right along the side of us. And it had 100 trucks licensed. We waited for those people to come out. And when they came out, we passed it in Because we were so citizen from temporary, we were far away from how to pass the over that it was so good to see somebody else in home And we've never seen it before. Then we're completely different part of Central, but it was like they were from our family. The power of things is when we realize that we're early In this world, we realize that we are fellow citizens of a heavenly kingdom. The only part of us, which goes up a bar, it brings us together so that we're no longer saved. But we really think medicine Christians. In fact, that's the way to design the use. Medicine worth my teaching. Not only are we televised, but we're even inside culture. We're a family. But what is your sister together? Bloody for 50 to travel and blood is in cookies will have all kinds of purpose. But what is your sister rarely ever said. We could always go backwards because there's a there's a bond there. There's something beyond sensors. We share a common life. We're from a common family. Because I used that age that occurs and we say you and I are In a very castle, God castle, and a growing system. And unfortunately, he uses a very strange thing of a growing building So I know that you don't think I've ever seen a building drum, even a grasshop. But he says that the circuit is a growing building. So we're mixed together in a structure It's an organization, but it's also an organism. It's growing. And it's growing into a whole temple for five years. That's what we are together. We related it as the bricks and memorial of this building together, only what's growing together, with God's own structure, with his own centre That's me. That's the tradition is what I have. That's why it says chapter four, verse four. He says, Now I learned you, I teach you. When you're still into equilibrium with that tradition. What does that mean? With our humility and strengthening and display, they are both to one another in life. Cannot consult with the producer, it's a sense of humility and humility towards the life, but God concerned to preserve the unity of the body here in peace. Well that is. You see the peace of God move in our relationship together. Living God and that stages that the relationship How he has equipped us spiritually the gifts of the spirit to minister to each other, to build each other up to become more like Jesus. And so God has gifted you to build you up, and we have gifted you to build me up and one another as we apply And we work enough to build up this holy temple to God, to build up the family, to build up the freedom, to build up this one new man that he's made, this new humanity. And I also realize that. We get a hold of that, that'll give us the key, the two common errors, that oftentimes are real stumbling lots of characters. Now I've restricted it to two common arrows this week. I didn't add one here The thing is three kind of moments. The first thing is that there is no home in politics. Politics not an option You see, working our fellowship is like working out for God is quickly safe. You are holy, therefore be holy. Be a family. You are called in a community. Therefore, level of community. And as well, and for the Christians. We've declared it every time we take the right property together. Notice in first Christian chapter The word that is going to be used. In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, take a look at this. He says they're concerning the Lord's supper. Is not the cup of blessings with these lots a coinamine of the blood of Christ? Very good, there is a very cool. Isn't it not a coin of the blood cloud? And is that the bread which you and I drink together when we take the Lord's Supper, is that not a point of near of the body of Christ? Now, since there is only one bread. We who are married are one body. One loaf, one cup, because we all are hoping in that one drink. That's why I like the chapter to be taken in one way. That we realize. That we partake that in one way, that one integral unity that makes us the Bible. We are one God. And therefore, you see, we don't have any faith. What is time to take the only trouble we're carrying for We don't have a choice whether to work that out or not. You are a lot of liberty to see fellowship. That is possible You're not at liberty to decide whether you're going to work out the underseparties of life. that I have is what's a better alternative cluster for the working outfit. I'm not at liberty to reject this one unless I can work out something else It will practice this New Testament principle. It doesn't matter to me about how I feel about my understanding. It doesn't matter how I feel for that person who talks to me about. The style feels that we fear a common life, whether I like it or not. Oh yeah, you don't like that one. You feel like with me whether you like it or not. God is promised that much. And so he was trying to work that out. You see, this is why an under separate group can be one of the best deteriors with demand. Because if you and I are in a number setup, you'll say, how did I just make that? I think I've got a apply to the old event because I can get my membership quick and quite out of models. As soon as we begin to think of that, that this isn't the right loop for me to start working out. We have denied coin He simply said that well these are the right people for me, like a PLC. I've called you And he success. That's how I can. Because you see, if you and I reject an underceptor because it doesn't sit, but a problem there are attitude of life. We'll probably be alienated from our husband and wife because they want to wipe once. Because an underseparation is the best separation I know from life. Because there we learn that mother's not appealing. But it's close to one of our instances and it's a matter of our will. And we load and love the other person. Because God has called us to God, to clarify the matter. So I talked to you to this look at the spirit side. And I urge you to practice it, to experience good. in enabling you to know that we're not telling an option of whether can work out love for that every person. God is not told us to like every person. He's not told us to show common interests of every person. And that means that I can feel for them, that I can live in college with goodness, and I can learn from them The second thing to do is done, the second uh the second area to discreet itself is the fact that uh we generally solid Because on the one hand, the fact that the point in it is not an option, but it's a process to be worked out of our position. Although that means on the one hand that there's no point. Because it's very true. Because you see, it means that I don't generate science, but I expect you selective It means that I am guaranteed that you and I can follow it today. Because I go to do that time and I So he calls it to work that out, all he's saying is saying, call it work out and you're it's doing what I've already given you. You can love that person. You can learn from that person Because God has made you an acronym alike and he has just each person to contribute to the Bible exactly what he wants Because God has enabled us. To know that God has already provided it. Therefore I know I'm not working for fellowship. I don't have to generate it and let's put this small group together. Let's get loving each other here Are there things that common sense? Tell us to work this up, what he's already given. And for problems and orientations, can we simply get together and we work those three? guaranteed that God will enable us to work out good because He's given us the time and mind. Now finally therefore then what's the necessary characteristic of a successful under separate. Take a look on the back tab. And you see there are three, and I just want to add uh one other one of a necessary characteristic necessary character of an underseparism. uh subtitles otherwise called applications. Otherwise, probably a file that into what we're doing in our book. Well I'd say it says to us four things immediately. Number one, that our overset is are to be essentially God's presence. So what do I mean by that? I mean that we have to be careful with the tip ball, that human relationships become an end of the I've seen so many times in Christian fellowship where God almost becomes a means to the end of a lot of fundamentals. God becomes the means for our having a very neat relationship together. God's word is kind of the means whereby we can rub things And we can have a really neat time seeing things right and scaring out problems and our happens and going through all kinds of things together. But God just becomes a little mean to us. And that's a fellow healing. That's a synthetic fellowship. What God has called us rather to do is ultimately to know him. And that's the goal we And for me to form the image of Christ in you a little more perfectly. And for God to use you to form the image of Christ a little more in you Because that means that Bible study and prayer and worship are an integral part of our telephone. And then in our coin and early work from the scriptures to our experience Not right versus simply clearing all of our experiences and then throwing in a verse of scriptures in order to baptize it. God is told us to love us, fellowship belief, to have the word to be sensitive without its feelings together, in order to have biblical formulas Because New Testament point of news is rooted in the Word of God. The second thing just means it's that our underceptor is to be healing to you Now what I mean by this is that God has made us perfect these easy as we talked about. That's our condition In our practice, he is working this out. And he is doing that, restoring his image in us. He is restoring that partly through the community. He's using the community to do that. Now in order to accomplish this, therefore, an undersecond we must have honest feelings about where we're really up to. In order for them to be honest here, they have got to be trust in the D. And in order for them to be trust, they have got to be accepted. in the beast. They all come on the same basis. Jesus, death, and resurrection. Nobody comes here because they're a little better. They have a little more spirituality in sympathy. They've been a Christian a little bit longer. And uh so therefore somehow they are a little higher on the skill, on the bees. Every one of the components that be the same thing. And so therefore, it's a healing community whereby we can come and honestly share where we're at and begin to see God's changes Begin to know that these people can't reject me because I'm a sinner. Even if I haven't had a quiet time for a week or I've yelled at my husband or I've done this or I've done that, I know that in this group I can find acceptable. Not acceptance of the skin, not a blocking of it, but rather an acceptance of me as a review thing. And that we'll begin to work that out and we'll see God's dances together As we move, as our healing community, longing to be more like God and accepting one another in that struggling for that together by the power to The third thing I would say about an underceptor is that essentially it must in its notice have the attitude of service. The numbers of an underseparation. must have the attitude of service. If I go to an under separate group asking what is this he's going to do for me, then I have violated the spirit of pointing in. God has called you into this week as a service to go into simply says, how can I, by the gifts of God spirit of giving me, minister to the week? And in the process of that, God's going to ministry to me. And I'm going to be willing to receive that ministry. And I'm going to enjoy it. I'm going to But I'm going with the attitude of a first. Check out Mark 10, Philippians 2, and Lord, the Campus Moon. See how that relates to when you're subject And then finally the last thing is that another subject therefore will be ultimately a goal-oriented reason That Z will start on you. That undercepted group will be gone only. There's an old saying, you know, that if you aim at nothing, you'll sort of hit And if you have no goal as an underceptor, then very soon the group begins to move for meeting things. There's no sense of acceptance The meetings can very easily become stale and refused. But what God's purpose is for us, is to begin to have some expectations about our group, of what he's going to do in that But we can become excited because we're seeing some progress in what he's doing, because we've set some goals of the group, all so unique to our particular group, in what we see as our needs, and where we are in the land, and what God's calling us as a group to do. And it's an exciting thing after six or nine months. You begin to review those things and say, Why is God taken? What progress have we seen? What have we seen God doing in enabling us to live more in community become more like you. Before it early in the group, begin to set goals and goal forward rather than simply leaning, because that's what you're supposed to do. He was falling in a screen, I find personal, for living community. You and I have been raised to live by and life in isolation Our whole purpose told us that we're to leave private lives. And it becomes a very important thing for you and I to realize that God is traveling community, John Western's life God is never called a Christian as a lone person. There is no such thing as a lone person. God is called a person. threaten us, but God has saved us because he's given us a common mind in calling us to live out together in work. Oh god, I I think probably with a number of us and maybe wondering what does this mean? What is this actually going to mean when I'm sharing today? We may be a little clear about what that means. We're not used to that. We may be real excited, we wish with that, but we did have a closer relationship with others. to love you and know you and to be considered things in our lives that we could maybe someone else feels and can help us to work through this Well that how it's funny. But in your business and a university, you call that in community It could be required as most are none to live alone or to live in isolation to uh go into our own private lives, but to ridiculous by your fear, community to one another Just keep the truth in love and grow up into the image of the Lord Jesus. I know God, I will change this. But in your business, that's the way you will know That's the way you intended it. That's the way you constructed it. But Lord Jesus, you put yourself as a truth, because you love the truth as a unity, as a value. And with the Holy Spirit, we have called us into Sunday. We have equipped us to live because Father, we confess you that we have gone alone so many times. We have wanted to be five. We asked that we would take that back to be to be more willing and desired.