If you have a copy of the scriptures, I want to invite you to turn, find Psalm 16 today. We're going to be taking a look at that psalm in our summer sermon series on the Psalms. We're looking at the month of August. We're looking at psalms that specifically, and all scripture directs us to Jesus Christ as our only hope, but Specifically the Psalms that are uh messianic in nature, they point us to Christ, or they're referenced by other scriptures explicitly pointing us to to the truth that Jesus Christ is Almighty God who walked in the flesh on the earth that he created in order to save the creatures, us, who had rebelled against him. So we're going to look at Psalm sixteen today. It was not lost on me that uh Kathleen had a Raven's emblem on her shirt, on her blouse. I don't know what you call a lady's shirt, but I saw the Ravens insignia. Uh the Ravens had their first preseason game on Thursday this past week. The Orioles are in a serious hunt for the wild card in the American League East. That's a tough, tough leap. The Redskins played I think this week as well. I'm not sure. Somebody anybody? And the Steelers are trying to put together a team. In the Flora family living room, the relative quiet of our home can at any given moment be shattered by a loud outburst from the head of the flora family, immediately followed. By what can best be described as a primitive celebratory dance in front of a TV screen. Ray Rice breaking tackles for long-distance gains and yardage. Chris Davis driving a double D for RBIs 107 and 108 to end the to break a tie and eventually go on to win the game. Or Knocking a solo home run that measures out at four hundred and sixty-six feet or any number of other combinations that could cause the primitive celebration to occur. Of course there's also the possibility with that kind of elation despondency, the the deep dejection that is experienced uh throughout the sporting world And you may wonder aloud at the spectacle that takes place. My kids certainly do, and are embarrassed if they have friends over. Of course, now Kevin has learned the primitive dance as well, so it's good. It's just passing generation to generation. But if you consider the way in which we were designed by our Creator, it actually makes some sense. We were made for worship. Our systems were designed to connect passionately to something. Or someone. And to connect in such a way that we would give ourselves in devotion. Our hearts are equipped with the capacity for loyal devotion that finds an outlet in passionate expression. There is within each of us the potential for both elation at the idea of grace freely given and extreme sadness. At the reality of sin and its effects in our lives and the lives of people that we love. It's when our capacity for worship isn't centered First and foremost, on God in Christ, that things go awry. Our affections were given to us by God to be used To glorify God. We were made for his glory. Every aspect of who we are finds its fulfillment in him. That's why we gather in a setting like this, and Christians gather in China and in Mexico and in Germany and all around the planet. To give God the adoration, devotion, and praise that He is more than worthy of receiving. Perhaps for you it isn't the allure of sports that draws out your passion. You're a better judge than me to know what claims your attention first thing in the morning. Is it social media? What draws you to articles and discussion forums and magazine subscriptions? Is it the tech world? Is it the Business Forum, your hobbies, your family, your spouse, your career, your reputation. There's nothing wrong with being devoted to the things that God has placed in our lives, but they are to be pursued for his glory. That's what the psalmist points us to today. Before we get into the text, let me make a note that I made to myself this week. We have only so many days on this earth. While we're here, our quest, whether or not we embrace it, is to figure out how to respond to the one who created us, the one who has provided for our complete salvation from sin, the power, the presence, and the penalty of sin. And the one who desires intimate fellowship with us as dearly loved children. Our quest as humans is to figure that out. Psalm 16 aids us today in that quest. Today is the day of salvation. Today, as we were reminded last week, if you hear his voice, If you hear his voice pleading with you, calling you, don't, do not harden your heart to his activity within. Psalm 16 is a reminder that this preacher's weak soul has To me, that a deep trust and a enduring confidence in the Lord in both life and death is not only possible, but it's provided for us in Christ. So let me read from God's Word. Preserve me, O God For in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, you are my Lord. I have no good apart from you. As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight The sorrows of those who run after another God shall multiply. Their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out or take their names on my lips. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. I bless the Lord who gives me counsel. In the night also, my heart instructs me I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I shall not be shaken. Therefore, my heart is glad, my whole being rejoices, my flesh also dwells secure. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption. You make known to me the path of life. In your presence, there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. This is God's word for us. Thanks be to God. Amen. We see first the basic and bold declaration of fidelity to God, faith in God. A loyalty to God. You may be familiar with the Latin phrase Semper Fidelis. It's been shortened by our Marine Corps, Semper Phi. Always faithful. Always loyal. The psalmist is crying out, I am always faithful to you, O God. You are my only hope. You are my God, and I want no other. Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, You are my Lord. I have no good apart from you. We see three things in these first four verses. The need for God's protection and power is evidenced. The need for God's presence is felt deeply. And the need for God's people. The need for God's protection and power. The psalmist recognizes that the solution for the emptiness of his soul, that pang that comes from within each of us, we feel it, we feel it deeply. We know that we were made for some higher purpose. We're made for some higher calling. We're made to connect to the one who made us. The psalmist recognizes that the solution for the emptiness of his soul is found in the refuge provided by God, found only in God. Preserve me, O God, in you I take refuge. He begins the psalm with that perpetual reminder that there's hope found in no one else. We need that reminder. Can you imagine if we spoke to one another whenever we met one another? God's preserving you this week. How has he preserved you? How have you found your refuge in God this week? How has Christ become more dear to your soul this week? Can you picture a group of followers of Christ interacting on that level? I can. I know you can. The psalmist begins with that. It's a simple utterance, but it is profound in its meaning for him. He also sees the need for God's presence. There's a real recognition on his part that any good that has come his way is a result of the good gift-giving nature of the covenant-keeping God. He cries out to the Lord, Yahweh, the covenant completing God. And he says, there is no good that I could ever have apart from you. I'm recognizing that fuller and fuller, day by day, even more so as I grow, the psalmist says. And I cannot find good apart from you. He also recognizes the need for God's people. He recognizes the frailty of his ability to consistently grasp the goodness of God. Fidelity to God is not a solo endeavor. It wasn't designed to be. We're weak and frail, and because of the fall, because of our sin, we need community. We need the covenant people that Randy spoke of earlier. We need to be disciplined. We need to be lovingly disciplined. We need to be encouraged. We need to be admonished. We need to be instructed. We need to be taught. We need to be Served, and we need to serve one another. The psalmist is reminded of that. He says there's kind of a black and white choice here There is no gray for this psalmist. There's no middle ground. Reminiscent of Paul's words to the Romans. When he calls us that our love must be pure, our love must be sincere, he calls us to hate that which is evil, cling to that which is good. The psalmist seems to realize this when choosing those in his life who will hold influence over his thoughts and his practices. He delights, he says, in the holy ones, the saints who are in the land, the Hasidim Those are the holy ones. And it's in the Old Testament that word is normally used for the angelic beings, the ones who uh serve in the in the throne room of God, but he says, these are the holy ones, these are the saints. In the land. These are the ones that God has called to himself. These are God's people. And in God's people I'll find my delight. I delight in them. The fellowship is sweet with them. They hold me to account for my devotion to the Lord. I will fellowship with them. There's a stalwart fidelity. To God and to his people, he says. However, those who willfully reject God, as demonstrated by their running after false gods and practicing things forbidden by God, drink offerings of blood. The psalmist says, I refuse to participate in their practices, nor to take even their wicked lifestyle into my system. It's very clear cut. Very clear cut. No, I just want to make one thing clear. This posture, this black and white, very clear-cut posture should never be confused for a prohibition against evangelism, by the way. We're called to proclaim the good news to the nations, beginning with our neighbors, our family, and going to the uttermost parts of the world. The peoples, the people who remain faithful to God are the people who surround themselves with people equally or hopefully greater than Committed to remain faithful to God. We're to be in the world, but not of the world. That's what the psalmist is saying. He's surrounded by people who hate God. He's surrounded by nations who practice things that God prohibits and prohibits with the death penalty. And the psalmist says, I won't delight myself in the fellowship with them, but I will with God's people. And he recognizes then the psalmist says, I'll gladly and willingly devote my soul, my life, my all to this one Who's made me and this one who has provided for me in ways that I most need provision. He gives the reason for that in verse 5 and 6. He says, The Lord Is my chosen portion. The Lord is my cup. You hold my lot. You are my soul satisfaction. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. This is language that the Hebrews would understand very quickly. Land is a precious commodity. And the psalmist is pointing out, when I observe what I've been given by grace that I could not earn, that I do not deserve, when I observe where my lines have fallen, the inheritance that's been given, I celebrate with awe. How is it possible that this has come to me? It's fallen for me in pleasant places. I just showed up one day and it was said, this lush Field is yours. These fruit trees are all yours. See how far the land stretches? That's all yours. You see this beautiful garden here with the brooks babbling? That's yours. Imagine greater and wonderful things. And the psalmist says, I can't believe it. God's given this to me, and I don't deserve this. Because it's been given to me. I will cling to him. I'm faithful to you, God. You are a gracious God. The language here, the psalmist, is describing the Lord as that which is necessary to live. Not the gifts that the Lord gives. This is a distinction that I don't know if I make as often as I should The psalmist is saying that you, O Lord, are my portion and my cup. The chosen portion refers to that which satisfies the hunger, and the cup, of course, is that which satisfies the assuage his thirst. It satisfies his thirst. This isn't merely a reference to the fact that His God has supplied his physical needs. He is literally saying that the Lord, who God is and what God does, is his food and is his drink, and his lot is secure. He's been fully satisfied in God. He says, I've been satisfied in God. I have this rejoicing resting in God. My joy is in God. In verse 7 and 8, he says, I bless the Lord. I bless the Lord. When I get a chance, I proclaim them. I bless the Lord who gives me counsel. And this is to be understood in the Hebrew poetry, counsel during the day, and also, he says, instruction in the night. My heart instructs me. So during the day and at the night watch, the Lord has reminded me of his goodness. I bless God. I worship God. I've set the Lord always before me. Day, noon, night, evening, night watch, just before dawn. He is at my right hand giving me himself. Therefore I will not be shaken. I'm secure in him. The psalmist is celebrating this And knowledge and awareness of God through his word is what sustains the psalmist. The promises of God have been delivered to him. And he sees that. The word translated heart here is kind of a tricky word. It could be translated kidneys or the gut or the abdominal region. Think about that for a moment. Think about the psalmist saying that during the day, the counsel of the Lord, the instruction that God brings my way, the truth of who he is. It meets me where I need to be met, but at the night, also in the night I have the peace inward, even in those night watches. Have you ever experienced that? Often we lay our heads on the pillow, the distraction of the day is silenced. And it makes room for all the thoughts that weigh heavy on our heart. It's in those times, the psalmist, I believe, is saying that the counsel of the Lord strengthens his faith. When the queasy stomach starts, when the anxious heart palpitations begin, the psalmist is saying, God reminds me of his goodness, and I bless the Lord. My joy is in God. The reason it seems for deep and lasting joy is that the psalmist has the perspective that has been lifted from the temporary, the here and now, the right this minute, to the eternal. That's what's going on in verses 9 and 11. He says, the reason for my joy is this. Therefore, therefore, my heart is glad. I'm rejoicing. In the midst of whatever crisis he is writing from, and I can assure you that if he was walking this planet of trial and tribulation and toil, he was writing from a place of crisis. Whether he had just come through a crisis, Whether he was experiencing one at that moment, or whether he did not know what was around the corner, in this world you will have trouble. And he says, I've got joy. My heart is glad. My whole being rejoices. I've had my perspective broadened. I can see eternity. And I am secure there as well. My flesh dwells secure. My whole being rejoices. For why? You will not abandon my soul to Sheol, to the place of death, to the place of separation. You'll not let your holy one see corruption. And I rejoice. You make known to me the path of life, and in your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand, in your throne room are pleasures unending, the purest form of pleasure. We just catch glimpses of it when we stand and do the primitive dance in front of the TV screen, when we hold a little baby in our arms And we smell that little baby head. Hmm. Grandparents know what I'm talking about. Because you've had to take your babies, your grandbabies to the airport and wave goodbye. Those good things that God gives to us, they're all pictures, they're all four tastes of that greatest Ultimate Purest Pleasure, Jesus Christ The psalmist says, I'm not disappointed by God in life, and I will not be disappointed by God in death. Now that's security It's not just about being disappointed. It's about having true and lasting joy, heart-enthralling, whole being, rejoicing, secure joy. And it's all based on what the Creator has done to provide. You will not abandon my soul to Sheol. The grave doesn't have the last word on my existence. My Creator has the final say. He's the one who has the authority over life and death, and he's the one who will protect me through the grave. You are the path of life. You are the way to live. You show me the ultimate joy for my soul. The running after puny imitations is not only not worth my time and effort. Which is really a man-centered way of doing things anyway. But it is cosmic treason. If God is God, then He is fully deserving of our loyal devotion and glad-hearted worship and service. So here's where the message turns. The psalmist is calling us, you, me, ordinary folk, to unwavering devotion to the Lord, the covenant-making God. With regard to our security, verse 1, our daily needs, verse 2, our choice of friends, verse 3, our worship practice, verse 4, indeed our everything, verse 5 and 6 for finding our reasons for that devotion and what God alone is able to provide, the counsel and instruction that provides peace in the midst of uncertainties of life. verses seven and eight, the certain hope of a resurrection to follow this life, verses nine and ten, and a heavenly dwelling place that is beyond the greatest imaginable joys with no end in sight. Verse 11. The psalmist is calling us to that kind of unwavering devotion. He says, I will not waver in my fidelity to you. Sounds doable, right? Like we say at house, easy peasy lemon squeezy. It's my responsibility, but also my privilege, because I know I can offer you Christ to tell you it's impossible. for us to have that kind of unwavering devotion in and of our own strength. We can't do it. Don't leave the Don't leave the premises today. Don't leave the campus today thinking that you've been called to shoulder a heavy burden of faithfulness to God. By yourself. Because what God, I believe, wants to call me and you and all of us to is he wants to show you that Christ has accomplished everything that was necessary. Everything that was necessary for faithfulness to God. And he wants to give you his record. It's impossible for us in our own strength to accomplish this because our hearts are divided and corrupted. In order to accomplish this, we must be perfectly righteous. The scriptures speak truthfully when it says that there is none righteous. No, not one. Past, present, future. If you breathe air, you're not righteous. Our flaw is that we're sinful people. We've sinned. We fall short of the glory of God. This is very, very bad news because sinners are punished with eternal punishment. So how can we have peace then? How can we have the counsel that meets us in the midst of crisis? It gives us inner peace. How can we have the resolve to follow and to persevere though others around us don't follow God? How can we be assured that there is a purpose to live this life according to the path that God sets forth? Have certainty that these bodies won't ultimately be grave bound, but that we will dwell in a place of the purest pleasures forevermore. How can we By placing our trust in the one who was and is completely righteous and completely devoted to God With all of his heart, all of his mind, all of his soul, and all of his strength. When Jesus was asked, What is the greatest commandment? He answered with that commandment. To love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And the second is like it, to love your neighbor as you love yourself. And Jesus fulfilled that command and every command ever given by the Holy God so that his righteousness could be yours. His righteousness could be your record. And the punishment that you deserve, he would deliver a shedding of blood so that you could have forgiveness of sin. By placing our trust in the one who is called Jesus Christ, God in the flesh The one to whom this Psalm ultimately points us to. Last week you saw how Pastor Randy showed us from Psalm 2, the arc of human history and all that that psalm points us to, our rebellion in the garden, the provision for us in Christ, and the way that the New Testament referred to that psalm directly and explicitly Calling our attention to the fact that Christ is God Almighty in the flesh who rose from the grave. We see the same thing in Psalm 16. In Acts chapter 2, on the day of Pentecost, when the Holy Spirit was given to the church, we see Peter, who not several months prior, was scared to death of a little girl by a fire on the night that Christ was crucified. We see Peter boldly proclaiming in Acts 2. He says, among many other things, and he references Psalm 16. This one was spoken through David, but we know that David both died and was buried. His tomb is still with us today. But being a prophet, knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne, verse 31, Acts 2, he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ That he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus God raised up and of that we are all witnesses. Being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves might have. in this seeing and hearing. He proclaimed Christ as the sole fulfillment. And then Paul the Apostle in Acts 13 quotes from Psalm 16 again. He brings Psalm 16 right before their view. You've heard it said in another psalm, you will not let your holy one see corruption. Verse 35, Acts 13. For David, after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, fell asleep and was laid with the fathers and saw corruption. But. He whom God raised up did not see corruption. Let it be known to you, therefore, brothers, that through this man, Jesus Christ, forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you, and by him, Jesus Christ. Everyone who believes is freed from everything from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses. We cannot earn the righteousness that God requires. We're not capable of it, but Christ has done all. That's the good news of the gospel Salvation comes to all, every type of person. When they see Jesus as the source of life, the one who alone is capable of satisfying their every longing. the one to whom God has made our wisdom and our righteousness and our sanctification and our redemption according to 1 Corinthians 1. So that if there is any boasting to be done, Paul says, let that boasting be in the Lord, not in what we can do. Who wants to boast in puny? Who wants to boast in pathetic? We want to boast in the persevering power of Almighty God who saves sinners. So where Do you place your trust for salvation? I want to go back through the psalm really quickly here. And see Jesus. Is your faith in Jesus Christ? Not in Christ's church Not in Christ's people, not in your ability to be or look like Christ's people, but in Jesus Christ alone. The psalmist said, Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. And we know that Jesus Christ has absorbed the wrath of God that was justly to be poured out on sinners like me and sinners like you. He is our refuge. In verse 2, the psalmist says, I say to the Lord, You are my Lord, I have no good apart from you. Jesus is the good shepherd. He provides for your every and deepest need. As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones in whom all is my delight. Jesus established the church. His bride, so that we might learn more of him, be equipped to tell others of his love. It's the pillar of truth. It's that place of loving discipline Where God's people gather, where the fellowship equips us to be in the world and not of the world. Verse 5, the Lord is my chosen portion and my cup you hold my lot. Jesus is the one who promises that all who hunger and thirst for righteousness will be satisfied. He's the righteousness that is pleasing the God, and he says, I am your righteousness. When we celebrate the Lord's Supper, take and eat of my body and drink of this cup. He This is my blood shed for the new covenant for your sins. What Jesus is saying is, if you hunger and thirst for righteousness, I am the one who satisfies you The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. We know that Jesus is the all-sufficient inheritance. He is the pearl of great price. He is more than worthy of you laying down what the world offers you in order to follow him all the days of your life. This life is brief. Christ calls you to himself. I bless the Lord who gives me counsel in the night also my heart instructs me, Jesus is the peace in the midst of the storm. He's the truth of God that brings on eternal perspective to the temporary trials of the world. That's what Christ does. In this world you will have trouble, he said. But be encouraged. Take heart. I have overcome the world. Your problem is a sin problem. I conquered sin on the cross. I've set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken. Jesus, seated at the right hand of God the Father, where he has been given all authority, and with that authority. He promises to never leave, never to forsake his own. From that seed of power, he is with you. Therefore, he says, My heart is glad, my whole being rejoices, my flesh also dwells secure, for you will not abandon my soul to Sheol. Nor let your holy one see corruption. Jesus stood in the temple and he said, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it back up again. And John records for us, the apostle, that he wasn't referring to the temple in Jerusalem, but to his body. In another place in John 10, Jesus said, No one takes my life from me. These things are occurring according to the time and the sovereign plan of Almighty God. No one takes my life from me. I have the authority to lay it down and the authority to take it back up again. This authority was given to me by God the Father. So Jesus says, I have the authority over the grave. And on the third day the stone was rolled away and the victorious Christ with the scars that our sins deserved, walked free from the grave. He says, why are you wasting your time? This is a note to myself probably, but you can hear it too. Why are you wasting your time worrying about fearing man then? Remember Jesus' words from Matthew 10. Do not fear those who kill the body. But cannot kill the soul, but rather fear those who fear him who can destroy both body and soul in hell Our focus can be on devoting ourselves to the one who has conquered death on our behalf. In verse 11, you make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Jesus is the way. the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through him. The invitation that he makes to you through me is to come to him, is to trust him, is to see him as the all-sufficient Savior At his right hand are pleasures, the purest pleasures, forevermore. He is the source of joy. He is the reason for joy Think about this quote from John Piper for a moment. The people who would be happy in heaven if Christ were not there. Will not be there. The people who would be happy in heaven if Christ were not there will not be there. See the preeminence of Christ in all things. This is just another one in seven sober reminder for all of us, myself included. We get things crisscrossed. We lose priority and we lose the truth that Christ must have preeminence. This is a a call to that. Can you see it's all about Christ? Are you at peace with God today? We're in a moment going to sing It Is Well with My Soul. I want to sing that with an undivided heart. I want to worship God and say, My sin. Oh, the bliss of this glorious thought, my sin, not in part, but the whole, is nailed to the cross. I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Oh my soul. And when the fourth verse peals forth, I want to sing that with an undivided heart. Lord haste the day. Haste the day when the faith shall be sight, the clouds be rolled back like a scroll, the trump shall resound, the Lord shall descend to claim his bride. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, O my So and close with a little illustration. We recently had uh have a fuel pump replaced on our car. And then we had to have that fuel pump replaced with one that wasn't effective. So after two tuck tow truck um tours and a new fuel pump, I drove away in the little red car that we use and I noticed that the fuel line, uh the fuel uh gauge was past F. It was like a full tank of gas. But I know it wasn't. Just something got messed up because it wasn't a full tank when he took it in there, and I guarantee you they did not fill it up before we left So here I am driving around. I was gone to Mexico for a week. We had various other things, errands to run, trips back and forth to the church. And the thought hit me yesterday. I don't know how much fuel is in this tank. I have no clue if I'm driving on vapors or if I've got six gallons in there just sloshing around in the tank. And boy did that hit me. I better pull into a gas pump and fill it up. It took about eight gallons. I think the tank's about ten gallons. So we were close, but whatever. That little example caused me to stand there while I was pumping gas and think to myself, how many of us think? I got a full tank. I got plenty of days, plenty of time. I've got my whole life ahead of me to decide for Jesus Christ And I don't want that to be you or my experience. I want this to be the day of salvation. For all of us. A renewal for you, believer. A renewal for you, beloved. To say again to Christ anew, Lord, those things that draw me from you. Shut them down in my heart. Cause my focus to be on you and on you alone for soul satisfaction. And for those who may be here, who've not ever yielded their life to Christ, my appeal to you is the one that Christ makes through me. Come to me. Christ is saying, come to me for salvation, come to me for forgiveness, come to me for life. Jesus Christ is all. Let's pray. Father, help us, please, by your Spirit at work, to draw us close. I pray for the, I pray for all of us. Lord, help us to know you. In ways that we have not before this point known you. And to leave here with a renewed sense that Jesus Christ is preeminent. Lord, help us to delight in you, to rejoice in you, to know those words that were precious to Paul. That you loved us and you gave yourself for us. Lord, help us to respond now To respond with hearts that are settled at peace and living in the victory that you've provided through the resurrection from the grave. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.