Thank you. Thank you so much, Julie. Daily change me. Invite you to um the letter of James, the Lord's brother. Right after the book of Hebrews, near the end of the New Testament. Book of James, in just a moment, we're going to read from chapter 2. Some verses there. When my when my brother and I were um young, Gur And then uh I was in middle school or if they didn't call it middle school back then, they called it junior high. I was in junior high and he was in senior high And we were learning how to play the guitar. There was a Christian folk artist named Don Francisco. Anybody ever heard of Don Francisco? All right. Yes. Good And um we've played through his song book uh probably a thousand times maybe, I don't know. Nobody ever kept track. But there was a song that uh Francisco did called the steeple song, and I want to uh quote from it as my introduction I don't care how many buses you own or the size of your sanctuary. I don't care how steep your steeple is, if it's sitting on a cemetery. I don't care if you pave your parking lot or put pads upon your pews. What good is a picture perfect stage if you're missing all the cues? I don't care if your pastor's superpowered or your program's always new. What you need is love and truth, and men are going to come to you. Does it matter that you know the Bible if it's all just in your head? The thing I need to ask you is, have you done the things I've said? Do you love your wife? For her and for your children, are you laying down your life? What about the others? Are you living as a servant to your sisters and your brothers? Do you make the poor man beg you for a bone? Do the widow and the orphan cry alone? Lord, when were you a prisoner that we did not come to you? When was it that we saw you sick and we did not follow through? Every time you turned your head and pretended not to see, if you did it not to the least of these You did it not to me. I always remember that song being a pesky song. Not hard to play, nothing that Don Francisco wrote was hard to play. Three chords and a minor chord to get into the chorus. But Pesky, because it got inside my head Constantly as we were singing through the lyrics, and you get to that chorus where Christ is speaking, do you love your wife? For her and for your children are you laying down your life? What about the others? Are you living as a servant to your sisters, your brothers? Do you make the poor man beg you for a bone? Do the widow and the orphan cry alone? Do you care for other people, Tim? was the ringing challenge. Continually from that pesky lyric. And then the challenge paraphrased from Jesus' teaching in Matthew 25 Lord, when did we see you sick and we did not visit you? When did we see you sick and not follow through? I tell you this. Every time you looked the other way, every time you pretended not to see the hurt around you, if you did it not to the least of these, you did it not to me. And it stayed with me. Those things do that are based in truth because the Holy Spirit of God wants to take that truth. And wherever my life doesn't line up with his way, then there needs to happen something of change. Wherever we don't match up with what God says about his people, we must repent and turn again to trust in him. The last couple of weeks we've looked at a couple of encounters with real people, with our real and living Savior. We saw Zacchaeus, Luke 19, and then we skipped back a chapter to Luke 18, and we looked at blind man, Bartimaeus. And their encounter with Christ pictured for us faith and repentance in view. In fact, in order, repentance and faith. And this week I wanted to pick up on that idea of faith in action. Because I think in my own walk of faith I very easily forget that my faith is proved or vindicated by demonstrated action. And that's what James. is going to point us to today. Maybe you remember last fall we looked at the first chapter of James In some detail, two or three weeks, I guess, together, we pick up James's letter to the Jewish believers in the dispersion. These are men and women who had come. To realize that God was their only hope and God in Christ, in fact. And James said Talks us through the first chapter through the testing of our faith. God is producing maturity. God is working in us for the long haul. His ultimate plan for us? Righteousness Blessings are in store for the one who follows God, God's way. God's word of truth is how he points us to our need of a Savior, and God's word of truth is how he shows us what is pleasing to him. God chooses his own. And he brings us forth by the word of truth. This is all contained in the first chapter there of James. And that we should be quick to listen to that word of truth, slow to speak, slow to become angry. Man's anger does not produce the righteousness. Remember, that's the goal, righteousness that God requires So we put away filthiness and we receive the implanted soul-saving word of truth. We're not hearers only of the word, but rather doers of the received word of truth and not merely, James goes on to say, not merely doers, but we are acting out of That faith that God has produced in us, acting on the word of truth, action springing forth from a changed heart And then James concludes that first chapter by saying this: pure and undefiled religious activity is the doing of the word. The care for widows and orphans, practical righteousness being worked out Let's read from James chapter 2, then, picking up in verse 14, just going to read to verse 19, but we'll take a look at some other verses. God's Word. What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warm and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, You have faith and I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one. You do well, but even the demons believe. And shudder God's word for us. The idea in this passage and these examples that we're going to look at from James is that true faith is always accompanied by works. True faith always accompanied by works. You see that in verse 17, verse 20, verse 26. You hear it from the lips of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let your light so shine before men, so that they might see your good deeds and what? Give praise to the Father in heaven. Works are a part of what it is to follow Christ. Remember Paul's teaching to young Pastor Titus on the island of Crete. Jesus, that great God and Savior, we eagerly await his return, who has purchased for himself, redeemed for himself, a people, his beloved. And a people, Titus 2, 13 and 14 says, zealous for good works, eager to do good works. So good works and works are a part of our faith. But let's be perfectly clear. Works do not save anyone Right? The reminder comes clearly again from Scripture. The true believer repents not only of their sin, but also of their righteousness. My righteousness is like filthy rags before a holy, righteous God. Me putting forth my I taught Sunday school at the final judgment. It's not going to cut it. The Apostle Paul makes that clear, case to the Ephesians, we just read. Saved by grace through faith, this not of your own doing. It's a gift. A gift of God. It's not a result of works because we're full of boasting if it is. Paul said to the Roman Christians in 328, a man is justified, a man is made right with God by faith apart from observing the law. Paul emphasized the same thing to the Galatian Christians. A person is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. Works will never save. Okay? So let's not leave, say, in Tim's teaching of works righteousness, or that's what CPC believes. That's not what we believe. We believe that if one is justified before a holy God, he is justified based solely on the merit of the perfect, sinless, righteous Son of God who gave himself in love for you, beloved. But equally important for us to understand is the nature of true saving faith is that it produces good works. See, can't get away from that. You might try. I try. Let me wiggle out. Can I just believe? And stay on my lazy boy with a remote And the scriptures press in, press into my heart. James, inspired by the Holy Spirit of God, says, No, faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Are James and Paul at odds, the debate rages on. John MacArthur Helps us on this point. Paul and James, he says, quote, are not standing face to face confronting each other, but are standing back to back, fighting two common enemies. Paul opposes works, righteous legalism. James opposes easy believism, but both men make clear that we are going to be judged on the basis of what we have done. For that is a sure indicator of genuine saving faith within Paul told the Romans, those who hear the law and obey the law will be declared righteous. Confused? I hope not. Because it's simply the outworking of the living Spirit of God within us that produces God-glorifying works. Remember, James' audience are the Jews in the dispersion, raised on good orthodox doctrine of God and his commandments. But they have come to the conviction that there is no way to keep God's righteous commandments in their own strength. Sound familiar? I hope so to us, right? And they've embraced the idea that Jesus came to fulfill the law of God. And he did that by obeying perfectly all of God's law and offering himself as a curse in our place. He provided a rescue from the wrath of God poured out on sinners. And James presses you and me. To examine ourselves. The whole book, this whole letter is established for people in the church To examine and test to prove their faith is genuine. This is a good thing for us to do. We see Even in the scripture we read today, these two join together. For by grace you've saved, by faith. Not of yourself, lest anyone boast, for we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which He prepared beforehand for us to walk in. They're always connected, these two. Remember Zacchaeus from two weeks ago. After that saving encounter with Christ, got up, said, Behold! I'm giving half of what I own to the poor. And from what's left, I'm going to give four times to those I have defrauded. Saving faith produces those kind of radical, sacrificial works. There's an interesting story I came across studying through this in Acts chapter 19. You're probably familiar with it. Uh Paul and and several others had been casting demons out of people. And there was some uh uh the sons of uh Skeva, a Jewish Uh man that they they figured they'd go and start to cast out demons too. And there was a man who was possessed of an evil spirit, and when these sons of Skevet came He said, listen, Jesus I know and Paul I've heard of, but you I don't know. And he attacked him And they bloodied and beat them so bad, this possessed man, that the news of that spread throughout the land, and the Jews and the Greeks, the fear of the Lord rested on them So that those who practiced witchcraft, those who practiced divination in that town, came to know Christ as a Savior and Lord. And Acts nineteen records that those people then brought their books. There it was a collection of spells and incantations and formulas and everything else. And they brought these books And they burned them publicly to show their break with the former way of life, so that when it was added up, read Acts 19, 18 and 19, so that when it w the value of those burned books was added up It was about 50,000 pieces of silver. Depending on the commentary you check, that's tens of thousands to our current um denomination, or in the millions. When they came to Christ, there was an evident break with a former way of life and a sacrificial way of living the new life. James says that should be us So he asks this rhetorical question: what good is it? What benefit is it to you, brothers, beloved, if someone says that he has faith but he doesn't have any works to show? Is that kind of faith, saving faith? It's a rhetorical question. It's actually structured in such a way that you can't answer yes. It's structured so that the obvious answer is no. I'm indebted to uh Daniel Doriani uh for his teaching in this uh passage The outline that you see before you, I didn't see the God and the others thing. We'll look at this in a second. But as you see these four examples that James uses, two examples of false faith, two examples of true faith, in the two examples of false faith, there is a Godword example and a fellow man word example. In the two examples of true faith that James gives, there is a Godword example and there is a fellow man word example, if you will. So that's the structure of the next 15 or 20 minutes or whatever we have together today. My prayer has been this week for myself, and I've expanded it to include you. God help me to see my heart in this Help me to uh to take the exam that Paul gives to the Corinthians in 2 Corinthians 13, 5. Test yourself. Examine yourself and see whether or not you're in the faith. Or do you not realize this about yourself that Jesus Christ is in you? Unless indeed you failed to meet the test. Allow God's Spirit now to do that. So the first example is this example, this false example. James says It's a simple case of a person in need. This is what false faith looks like. Someone comes to you and they say They're poorly clothed, they're lacking in daily food, and one of you says to that person in response, Well, go in peace and be warm, be filled. James says, out of the resources that you have, a simple eat more and stay warm is not a demonstration of saving faith. When presented with an actual physical need, can I help us on this? We aren't required to do everything for that particular person, but we are required to do something. We're not required to do everything, to meet every physical need that we ever come across, but we are required to engage. And to somehow address the suffering around us. I believe that's what James is saying. False faith simply says Why don't you eat more? Stay warm. Or it could be constructed this way. Pray that you'll have clothes and food. You see the disconnect there? And those words from Jesus in Matthew twenty-five From way back when, junior high, still ring in my head. Speaking of the final judgment, Jesus said in verse 41 of Matthew 25, and then he will say to those on his left Depart from me, you cursed ones, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. What did they do? Did they not have the proper creed? Were they not members of the right congregation? Jesus says, For I was hungry and you gave me no food. I was thirsty, you gave me no drink. I was a stranger, you did not welcome me, naked, you did not clothe me, sick and in prison, you did not visit me. And then they will answer, saying, Lord, when would when did we see you hungry or thirsty, a stranger, naked, sick, in prison, when and we did not minister to you? And he will answer, Truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life There is a place of eternal punishment, never ending. Despite what a newly released book by Rob Bell portrays Jesus Christ is very clear here. In fact, the exact same word for eternal righteousness Eternal life is used for eternal punishment. These should be sobering words for every living soul in the room. So what James is getting at here is lip service love. Is not evidence of true saving faith. We don't really believe a husband, do we, wives, when they say, I love you, dear But they never come home. They never show affection. They have a girlfriend. You know, whatever. Ad infinitum. You don't believe I love you when you hear it from their mouth. So it is with lip service love. Jesus used the example of the hungry in need of food, the thirsty in need of drink, the stranger in need of welcome, the naked in need of clothing, the sick, the imprisoned in need of ministry. I'm glad and I rejoice on a continual basis that Columbia Press is a church that has people like Martin and Mike. who step up to go to Japan in the time of need. For such a time as this, these men have been raised up, able to speak the language, able to go with particular gifts set for that setting. I'm thankful for a congregation where there was a apartment fire down the street from the church on Friday. And we drove down. We're still checking on things. with the apartment manager to see is there something that we can do for you neighbors right here in our backyard? I'm grateful, thankful continually for a church that does that corporately But I do want to point out that doing that corporately is not what I believe James is talking about here. He says, someone comes and they are poorly clothed and they are in need of food. And one of you says to them, I believe it's a singular focus. And so James I think is pressing us individually as he presses us corporately. Why does Jesus use those examples? This is not anything, I think, deep thinking But prison and sick and those in need. Don't you think? Because when we connect with those types Of fellow humans, it reminds us of our fallen condition. Not to Buffer ourselves from the pain of the world that is fallen and sin affected. One of the things I know in my own life, and I trust that I can say this with due respect to you as well, that complicates our obedience. to these commands is we don't have any margin in our lives to allow God's schedule to be our schedule sometimes. I can I can I can hear it. I know you're I know what you're muttering inside. I can hear your head voice. You don't know how busy I am, Tim And you are probably right. I don't know how busy you are. But I know that what we saw last week and the week before that That Zacchaeus and Bartimaeus would still be waiting for salvation if Christ had said, I've got a purpose in Jerusalem, and I can't be bothered with these two men. We need that heart of the compassionate Christ beating in us Lord, when were you a prisoner that we did not come to you? When did we see you sick and did not follow through? So James gives another example of false faith. False faith. He says, listen. So someone who say you have faith, I have works, show me your faith apart from your works, I'll show you my faith by my works. Because you believe that God is one, you do well, but even the demons believe and they shudder. The second illustration is that mere orthodox belief, correct doctrine, as important as that is. Is not equal to saving faith. Our faith certainly has a true object of its of its affection It is Jesus Christ and his finished work. But James says that kind of faith is useless. The word there is it's not productive, it's of no value, it has no meaning, it's fruitlessness, a lack of productivity. Remember in Matthew 7, Jesus said, listen, the tree that doesn't produce fruit is Cut down and thrown into the fire. Some of us, including me, I'll start with me, need to seriously consider our fruit production and examine our faith. Because therein lies the evidence of God's activity within. Do you love your wife? For her and for your children, are you laying down your life? To merely believe that God is, to believe his true nature, is not saving faith. That's James's point here. As believers, we stake our very soul on the promises of God, on the reality that the Word of God and His uh uh plan of salvation is our only hope. Even the demons believe God is one and they shudder. You see, they shudder at God's sovereignty, but they find no security in it. That's the difference. They know that there is a sure and certain judgment awaiting those who rebel against God, and they shudder at the thought They find no security and comfort in the sovereignty of God, the plan and the purpose and the loving decree of a God who's in charge of his universe. So those are the two false examples of faith, false, false faith examples. And then James uses two examples of true faith. What it looks like. This is faith and action. And the first one he uses is the patriarch, the hero of the Jewish people. He puts forth Abraham. For the reader to see Abraham used as an example, I'm sure, was glorious. Yes. Amen. Abraham. He's the one. And pointing his reader to Abraham, James, I'm sure, brings to mind the Genesis 15, we are familiar with that James's, that Abraham's faith was credited to him as righteousness. He believed God. God said, Abraham, look at the number of stars, look at the grains of sand, so shall your number be. And he believed God would provide to him an heir, a seed, that he would be a father to many nations. And Genesis twenty-two, we see that faith then vindicated, proved, justified by works. Because in Genesis 22, that boy, Isaac, who was to be the heir of Abraham, and that seed through which the line would pass, that the many nations would be blessed. God commanded the father of many nations to take his son Isaac and sacrifice him on the altar. What? And James says this is how Abraham proved his faith. You remember the story? He rose early in the morning, he saddled his donkey, he gathered the wood for the altar, he packed his knife for the killing, he called his son to himself, and he began the trek to the appointed place of sacrifice. When they arrived at the place, Abraham informed those who came with him, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there. We will worship, listen to the faith, and we will come again. To you after. Hebrews 11:9 records that Abraham believed that God was even able to raise Isaac from the dead. If he had to, in order to fulfill the promise made through him. You see that faith in action? It's really action when he lays Isaac On the altar before him, and he raises a knife and he believes God because belief in God calls for radical sacrifice in this world. And at the moment where the knife was to be plunged into Isaac, God stopped him. And he provided a ram in the thicket. And there was a substitute for Isaac. God graciously spared Isaac, provided the ram. God declared to Abraham in that passage, now I know you fear God. Did God just learn something? Now I know you fear me. Well God is the omniscient God. He doesn't do anything contingently God expresses to Abraham, your faith has been proven in this action. Abraham's faith was completed. It was vindicated by those works, justified by word. Great works came from Abraham as a result of his faith in God. What about you and me? That passage is so packed with the love of God And we see it point forward to that time when Paul expresses in doxology to the Roman Christians: God did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. God gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. It's resting in that glorious, gracious love and meditating on it, and living out of that truth that God produces in us. Works that are pleasing. And James uses another example of true faith. He goes from the patriarch to the prostitute. I asked them in the office this week if I was going to get into trouble for putting that word in the outline. Now it's indelibly printed somewhere and it's on the world wide web of internet. But let that word describe who Rahab was. It's got a lot of power And shows us again, you know, God is no respecter of persons I don't care what you've done, what you've been into. He knows your circumstance. And Abraham calls to mind The harlot Rahab and her activity when the spies went in to observe Canaan to see if it was conquerable for the kingdom for God. Rahab is recorded in the eleventh chapter of Hebrews, that hall of faith, alongside the patriarchs And all those that the writer of Hebrews wants to extol as an example of true and living faith. There's Rahab right in the middle. By faith, Rahab the prostitute. Did not perish with those who were disobedient because she had given a friendly welcome to the spies. She hid them, and then when asked about them, she risked the life of her own and her family and diverted those who were looking. Read the story today in Joshua chapter 2, especially verse 9 to 14. She testifies of the power of God. We've heard the great deeds of your God, and we are in fear because we know when you come here, we're all dead, the enemies of God. Spare us, spare me. And Joshua and the others offer her that protection. Matthew 1, verse 5 records Rahab was the mother of Boaz. Who was the father to Obed? Who was the father to Jesse? Who was the father to David, the king in Israel? Not too shabby I want you to hear that again. I don't know who you are. Someone in this room, maybe many. You need to know that this is the God. Who's operating at work in the world? He calls sinners to himself. You And he works in them the wonderful news of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords sacrificed on the cross for your sins and for mine. And out of that spring forth these works So the question we're left with today, two of them, are you justified by faith today? Do you believe that you have no merit before a holy God? If he would call you to account for your life today, you would have no hope except in the substitutionary atonement, the sacrifice of him in exchange for you, providing forgiveness for your sin. Meeting the righteous requirement of God's law, and because of that righteousness of Christ credited to your account, received by faith, you stand Secure? Are you justified by faith today? You can be. Cry out to God for mercy. Acknowledge and admit your sinfulness and turn and trust Christ. The second question comes, is that faith then justified or vindicated or proved in your life by the works that are observed? When the opportunity arises, does your faith display itself in acts of love and service? The solution is the same. Cry out to him for mercy. Asking for an accurate assessment of where you are with him. and trust Christ. Let's pray together. Lord, uh please help us now as we Respond with a song of praise, recognizing your work on our behalf. I pray for all of us, Lord, that You would grow our faith today, cause us to hate that which is evil, to cling to that which is good, and to follow you all the days of our life. And we ask for that in Jesus' name. Amen.