If you brought your Bibles today, please open up to Psalm number 121. And I would also like you to do something maybe a little bit new and different. Now last year you got to hear a chorus from a Beatles song a Beach Boy song sung. Today you're going to also look at scripture from the back of the bulletin outline I want you to just turn that over for now. You don't have to look at the front and look at uh look at that. That's what I'm going to be reading from. And there's only two differences from that in the NIV, which most of you have, and that'll come up But before we read that, let's take a moment and bow our heads. Father God, you are indeed a great God. You are the Creator, Lord. You are the one who has made everything we can see. Lord, your power is beyond our comprehension. And Lord, to your love and grace, that you would be mindful of such as we. Lord, that you would look at us with favor. That you would forgive us for our sins, that you would give us your word, and Lord, that you might enable us to be your children, sons of God. And strengthen us as we live the pilgrim's life. We ask that you bless the reading of your word. Lord, help it to take root deep in our hearts, Lord, that we might be conformed to your image. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm 121. I lift up my eyes to the hills. Where does my help come from? My help comes from the Lord, the Maker of heaven and earth. He will not let your foot slip. He who keeps you will not slumber. Indeed, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord keeps you. The Lord is your shade at your right hand. The sun will not harm you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will keep you from all harm. He will keep your soul. The Lord will keep your coming and going, both now and forevermore. Last week we began a series, which who knows if we'll ever finish, on a collection of psalms called the Songs of Ascent. The Psalms of Ascent, a collection of Psalms put together by the priests after the Israelites come back from exile, written over a period of 150 years. And the priest said, These songs are suitable for the pilgrim to sing. And we saw what they began with last week, Psalm 120. A psalm which is as dark as this one is bright. A song which is as grim as this one is filled with hope It's almost appropriate that last week I had to compete with a thunderstorm and a rainy day, and today it's a beautiful, crisp day that might even hint a little bit at an Indian summer. This song is cheerful. And it kind of beckons us with a picture of peace, a God who keeps us. When I think about the contrast between these, I think of another song that never quite made it to the cultural icon that uh Kokomo did. But this is a song, a song that your kids who are in youth group know very well, because I played at the house a lot, by Taj Mahal. And I don't know if any of you have ever heard of Taj Mahal. I know Rocket has. Butaj Mahal has this song that starts like this, I had the blues so bad one day it put my face in a permanent frown. But now I'm feeling so much better, I can cakewalk into town. Every time since I learned that song and I kind of hummed along, it's got a catchy little melody, it's kind of a folk American type song. I think about these two songs, 120 and 121. 120 is so bleak looking. It says you're living in Meshek and Kedar. It says you're crying out in distress. When you open your mouth to say something positive, the people you're living with are for war. And it just beckons us to leave that situation. But this one seems to be totally different. But yet it's not. I want you to think for a moment about the motivation for this psalm. Because the motivation is basically the same. It's a cry for help, isn't it? Where does my help come from? It's the recognition of the psalmist as they're writing, as they put this collection together, that once we set out on the pilgrim road, maybe it's not that cakewalk into town Maybe the walk into Jerusalem isn't nothing but a bowl of cherries. Maybe we need help. It's more than we can handle. But there is the difference that this psalm is certainly more optimistic and positive, and there's a reason for that. The reason is that rather than focusing on our situation. The way Psalm 120 did, this Psalm focuses on our source of strength, the Lord. Think about road trips for a minute. I know we've all been on them, whether we were in a marching band or a school team in high school, or whether you have parents that live out in Nebraska or something, and you drive out there, you know that road trips involve road hazards. It's inescapable. They involve road hazards. Driving from Fort Worth to Abilene one day, I had a blowout at night and it was it was a road hazard. It was terrible. Nothing could be done about it. It happened and I was stuck. Did the Israelites on their pilgrimage have road hazards? Did they have a need for help? Yes, they did. And as happy a thing as it is for them to be leaving Meshik and Kedar, they're out of the frying pan, but yet passing through the fire. What are their troubles? What do they need help from? In this psalm, there are three references to what they need help from, and they're going to come up more in the context of what we see about our Lord, our Keeper. But just to briefly mention them now, they are slipping feet. And picture this for a minute. The Israelites are walking along a road, right? And you're reading in your Old Testament and you come across references to the King's Highway Or the way to the sea, both from the Old Testament. And I know if you're anything like me, you're conjuring up in your mind pictures from your uh your history textbook of The Appian Way, the built road built by the Romans is still used today, or those bridges that the Romans built two thousand years ago in Spain that they still drive semi trucks over. You're thinking about a nice cobblestone street. That's what I'm thinking of. We couldn't be further from the truth. Israelites didn't have roads like that. When they talk about making roads, what they're talking about is moving boulders out of the way. Last week we mentioned the topography of Palestine. How wherever you went, wherever you're coming from, it was always uphill if you were on your way to Jerusalem. And it was rocky and rugged. And the way these people would get from point A to point B would literally be to follow along dry creek beds when the rainy season was over. In 2 Samuel 11, we see an interesting citation where David says, in the springtime, the time when kings went off to war, he went off to war. Why did he do that? Why was it in the springtime? Because the King's Highway was the King's River until the springtime. And he couldn't get his troops out to the frontier. We have this picture of a road, which is not a road by our imagination. In fact, in the Sun Crossword on this Wednesday, they had the word wadi, which is exactly what this was, a dry creek bed that they walked up Now when I was a little boy, Dad would take our family out hiking before Steve was born. Uh, and we'd go out hiking and we went to this one place In the Shenandoah's in Virginia called Little Devil Staircase, and we were walking up a gully cut down the mountain that had been formed by a creek. And the creek was just a trickle down the middle. But when we walked up that thing, over years and years those rocks had been worn smooth And there was times when, you know, we were all trying to be like our dad and had our little kids $10 hiking boots on. Of course he had the nice ones. And there was times that's because his feet weren't growing. He's he's a good father. But There was times walking up that gully when we would have been better wearing uh chucks, regular hightops. So smooth and so treacherous was the footing. Israelites see the road hazard as a slipping foot. And the sun and the moon. Notice we're going to talk about this. Those are not regarded, they're not pictured here in terms that are inclusive of time, day and night. The sun and the moon are objects which harm. If you have the NASB, the word is smite, the sun and the moon smite you. What's pictured here is uh Things that actually harm you and later the Lord keeps us from all harm. Evil. Everything that would work us woe. They had road hazards. In middle school, I took French. And I did miserably at it, but there's one thing I liked about French class. That is every other week or so we would get a game day. And there was two games we could play. One game, I don't remember what it was, because you had to know French to play it. The other game, the other game was Millborn And some of you I'm sure have played Melbourne. I think it means thousand miles or something in French. You don't need to know French to play that one. You just have to know how to count numbers and you have to know what the pictures mean. And that game is about a road trip. That game is about trying to get from zero to a thousand miles, and then you're done. And you win if you get there first. And along the way in that game, there are road hazards But the thing that's so great about that game is it's just not that there's just road hazards. There's also something called a coupe foray. Now somebody who knows French, maybe after the service, can tell me what that means for the second service. But I know that if you have a coupe pure in your hand and someone is noticing that you're cruising along real good on your uh your pilgrimage there to a thousand miles, they can like throw a flat tire on you or something, or they can throw a uh uh an empty gas tank or some other card on you, it's a card game, and you can just break out that coupe freet and say, ha, I'm safe I'm kept. The road hazards have no effect on me. I have the right of way. I have the big gas truck following behind MINOVA. You can have this safety, this sure protection. And what did the Israelites do when they needed this in in the face of these road trips? They did not have coupe frees, and life is not a card game. I want to just notice that first verse. I lift my eyes to the hills. I'll never forget I had a good friend that I played with in jazz bands from middle school on up through college. And he committed suicide years ago jumping off the bank building outside the mall. And he was Jewish, and I went to his memorial service, and the rabbi read that verse. I lift my eyes to the hills. And he said, that's what David was doing. He was lifting his eyes up to the hills. So he jumped. Whenever I think of that verse, I think about how true that is, if that's where our hope comes from If our hope comes from the hills, if our help comes from the rocky crags of life, then I guess we all ought to do that. What are the hills? Think about the Israelites and their constant sin, their constant sin of turning their back on God. What did they do? They went to the top of the nearest hill and they committed adultery with some Ashirapol, with some temple. with some little holy place, which is really a demonic place where they would worship some God who is foreign to the people of Israel altogether? So much so that Jeremiah 3 and his prophecies tells the people, he says to them, Surely the idolatrous commotion on the hills and mountains Or a deception? Surely it is in the Lord our God wherein lies the salvation of Israel. And there's this challenge to the Israelites, in the face of these road hazards, where are you going to look? Are you going to look to the hills? No. The psalmist says, my help doesn't come from the hills. My help comes from the Lord, the creator of heaven and earth And once we get past that first two-verse stanza of this song we're looking at this morning, everything changes. Everything is different. Not just in the tents, not only do we stop saying, I lift my eyes, where does my help come from? To you, you, you. But the tone of it is to describe this Lord who created everything, who keeps his people. I want you to notice that word. The reason that I wrote up this Translation here for you is because the word shows up six times in the space of six verses, and I put him in italics on the back of your bulletin. He keeps you. That is the thing. You cannot look at this psalm and go away with any other single idea than that God, the maker of heaven and earth, keeps his people. He keeps them. And the word keep has a range that includes, and these are the next blanks, our help comes from the Lord our keeper. That's the central point. That's the one point of this psalm. And the word to keep means to watch, to guard, and to protect. And the NIV, in order to make things more readable in some ways Went ahead and expressed which nuance of to keep to watch to protect. Right into the translation. So instead of having uh For example, in five, he who keeps you will not slumber, since slumber includes kind of the idea of closing your eyes. They put he who watches over you will not slumber. But the word is the same. The word is the word for keep, and that word shows up throughout. And as the psalmist is singing this then, their heart redirected not to the high hills, but rather to the Lord, from whence comes their help. There are three encouragements in the three verses, which as they sing not to themselves, but to you, to each other, in a sense to themselves as into their conscience. As they remind themselves of the Lord, and how as they sing to themselves that He will keep you. Three encouragements for pilgrimage. The first is that the Lord our keeper is always with us. The Lord our keeper is always with us. Notice what it says about him. Here we have the Lord identified as our keeper, and we are told what his action is here. We are told That he will not slumber, he will not slumber nor sleep. He will never turn his back on his people. He will never be inattentive. I want you to think for a moment of a scene on a hilltop as recorded to us in 1 Kings chapter 18. You don't have to turn there A scene where Elijah is on top of Mount Carmel. A scene where there is a duel of sorts taking place between him, the prophet of God, and the prophets of Baal, the false God. The prophets of Baal have the chance to call down fire on the altar they've built in order to demonstrate that their God is the God. And nothing happens. They pray and they pray and nothing happens and nothing happens. And Elijah says to them, Shout louder! Surely he is a God. Perhaps he is deep in thought or busy or traveling. Maybe he is sleeping and must be awakened. And the tragedy of that, the tragedy of that challenge that Elijah gives those prophets is that they believe him. As if in their thinking, they said, Yeah, maybe our God is sleeping. We read. So they shouted louder and slashed themselves with swords and spears until their blood flowed. What a pitiful sight. The concept of a God who sleeps. The concept of a God who is not watching his people, whose keeping of them is on a schedule Our God always keeps us. And the road hazard that's mentioned here in this concept of God who always keeps us. is that of the foot slipping. And I know that when I think of what I always need protection from, it is myself. Myself, my own thoughts, my own sinful inclinations, the evil that is in me Not that the old man has not been crucified with Christ, but there is still sin left to be rooted out and torn out and thrown away. What a comfort to know! That right here in this very context, the Lord who is always with us does not let our foot slip. That is not simply saying that God is some incredible ankle brace The Israelites understood the slipping of the foot to be a moral deficit. David talks in Psalm 17 about how he did not go the way of deceitful wicked men. No, his foot did not stray from the path, and his foot did not slip. And there's this sense in which Asaph in Psalm 73 talks about how he almost fell into sin, and what does he say? As for me, my foot had almost slipped. And as we think of our own lives, and the many times when we find ourselves up to our neck in some mire, way off the path of holiness Out in some bog, it is our God. It is our God who sets our feet on the rock. The Lord the Creator. The one who keeps us and brings us back to the path. And in Psalm thirty-seven we have a beautiful promise: although we stumble, we will not fall, for the Lord protects us. But we are not the only source of problems and road hazards along the way. The second thing that we read about here, In this third stanza of sorts, the Lord keeps you, the Lord is your shade at your right hand, the sun will not harm you by day, nor the moon by night. And in that we see a second encouragement for pilgrimage. That is, the Lord, our keeper, is always with us. He's always with us. Sometimes we think of God as being a pie in the sky, or perhaps we don't think of him as being a pie in the sky, but simply an eye in the sky, looking down, observing, watching. But that's not the picture of the Lord the Keeper in Psalm 121. The picture of the Lord the Keeper is the picture of a Lord, a God, a creator, who is right beside the people whom he keeps. Look at what it says here. The verb here, as in the other verse, is not keep. That's kind of a I didn't know this until I went to seminary and embarrassed myself by asking the Greek professor, what's a participle? But those are not verbs. The verbs here in this first verse that we read are that the Lord the keeper, kind of a description of who he is, will not slumber. That's what he will do. And here in this second stanza We read that the Lord the Keeper, that's who he is. He will be your shade at your right hand. I want you to think about the comfort, the comfort of knowing that you have a God, that the creator of the universe is your shade at your right hand. We have some inkling of the significance of the right hand from our expression right hand man, which is being replaced, I think, mostly because of football announcers to being the go-to guy, but it's the same idea. It's the right hand. It's immediate and it is strong. It is right there. And as we live our lives, we know that our God, our protector, our keeper. Is our shade at our right hand. And what is he our shade from? Sources of harm. Not ourselves. But here, the sun and the moon are presented to us as things that harm, that smite the people of God. And in that picture of the sun and moon and the light which could be so damaging to the pilgrim, God is the shade at their right hand. I want you to think for a minute about the tr the travel back then. Because this is significant. Back then there were a superstitious bunch of people living in Palestine. Even the Jews indicted again and again throughout the pages of Scripture for being a superstitious people. Travelers would literally buy charms and trinkets, amulets. They would go to hilltops and offer sacrifices for protection against these two great deities, the sun and the moon. And they would do that for a reason. Try to strip away for a moment everything you have ever learned in school, all of the technology and the science and everything that you've benefited from, it helps you understand the world And think about the sun and the moon for a minute. You walk out into the sun, you're traveling all day, and you're burnt to a cinder. Now I can appreciate that better than most of you, I think, but still it's true. And in a day and age before there was any distinction between long and shortwave radiation, that was a mystery. The moon. At one point when Jesus cures someone who from lunacy, if you go back to the Greek and translate it literally, it's moon sickness. There is this superstition that the moon, if you slept under it too long, would make you mad. And I don't want to focus us now on just protection from these two ancient gods. The misconceptions and superstitions of a people, but simply on the fact that God says these two biggest sources of threat for the traveler I'm going to protect you from them because I am with you. I am right beside you. I am your strength, and I am there. Now I want you to think for a moment about the inclusive concept of sun and moon. When Jacob is talking to Laban in Genesis chapter 31, and he wants to explain to him, look, my situation has been terrible. You've made me pay when thieves and robbers come and steal from your flocks. Jacob was working for Laban as a shepherd, and he says, not only that, but you yourself stole from me. You changed my wages ten times. When he wants to poetically describe that He says, This is my situation. The heat consumed me by day, the frost by night. Jeremiah, in two occasions in his prophets, talks about the judgment on the wicked as being turned over to the sun and the moon. Turned over to their ministrations, their punishment. And it's a picture that is holistic. It includes everything. And it is a picture here in this song that means God protects us from everything that could harm us. Because he's at our right hand. There's a Psalm sixteen. I'll just mention this. You can just write it down A psalm that begins, Keep me safe, O God, David sings. Keep me safe, O God. And David writes this towards the end of that psalm: Because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. The Lord our keeper is at our right hand. He is with us. But there is a third encouragement for the pilgrim in this last stanza. The Lord will keep you from all harm. He will keep your soul. The Lord will keep your coming and going, both now and forevermore. I mentioned earlier that those words keep as they show up talk about who God is. The Lord the keeper. They don't talk about what he will do In that first stanza of hope, verses three and four, what the keeper will do is that he will not slumber. In the third stanza, verses five and six, what the Lord the keeper will do He will be at your right hand. But in this last stanza, there is a radical change. And what a comfort for us. Because no longer is the Lord described as the keeper. He is described as the one who keeps. And there's a difference. If you haven't flipped back To the flip to the back. I want you to notice in italics, I tried to make this clear. In verse 3, 4, and 5, the word is translated keeps, and the word who fits before each one. He who keeps you, and then the action, will not slumber. He who keeps Israel will neither slumber sleep. It's an identification with the person. Even in verse 5, we could say, the Lord who keeps you, he is your shade. But look at verses 7 and 8. The Lord will keep you. He will keep your soul. He will keep your coming and going. Not only is that who he is, but that is what he does. As a coach, I have one dilemma every season, and it's a major one. It's finding a keeper. That is a huge problem, especially a women's lacrosse. You got girls throwing this hard rubber ball, and it it can be dangerous, as I learned. Those holes in the back of the gym were my fault and I apologized and anyway. But you can throw that ball pretty hard And that ball can hurt when it hits you. And here I am as a coach trying to find a keeper. That's what we call a goalie. That's what they call it the same in soccer and in and in ice hockey and field hockey. The idea of a keeper And I've got to find somebody, ninth or tenth grade girl, who's willing to stand in the goal and be the keeper. Now I can have a keeper. I can have someone who gets to wear the helmet and the fancy pads. I can have someone who gets the bigger stick that's a whole lot easier to catch with. I can have somebody who does everything It identifies them as a keeper, except keep the ball out of the goal. It's happened. A lot. I've had been blessed with great goalies, but it's happened. Here we have a God in whom there is no inconsistency between who he is and what he does. None at all. None Think about the way that we rate people in job performance. Most times we're pleased if the majority of what they do is what they were supposed to have done. Most times, if you're batting 300 or better, well, hey, you're great. I know for lacrosse goalies, if I've got a goalie who saves 60% of the shots, I am thrilled. And that's how we approach things, isn't it? What kind of keeper is God? He's not just the one who wears the pads. He's the one who keeps He is the one who will keep you from all harm. Look at verse 7. Not some, not most. Everything that is evil, everything that could bring harm to you, everything that is not for your good in God's plan is shut out of your life. And as you walk along the pilgrim road, you may be sure that nothing is going to get by God. The Lord your keeper can handle the upper nineties. He can handle the bounce shots. He can handle the fastest of the fast. Nothing gets through his guard. Nothing gets through his protection. There's nothing his eye does not spot. Because he keeps us. He keeps us. That is what he does. But sometimes I know I myself think of God as the keeper of his people, just in the abstract. God keeps his people, yeah. God is watching us, never slumbering. God is with us, wherever two or more are gathered, and God keeps us because we're his corporate people. And in a sense, I think society breeds that low self-esteem in each one of us, because it's not warranted by Scripture. We are not one of so many lemmings. We are not one goose out of one big huge V formation. Not at all. I know that growing up I have seen a slow but sure decrease in what appears to be my uh my value as an individual. And this is what I mean by that. When I was a little kid, I was the center of attention. We're talking little kid. When I was yo big And I'll tell you what, if you look through a family album, I have more pictures of me from back then than any other time in my life. And we know how it is for babies in here. They are just unbelievable. They're so adorable. You know, people running up and kissing your babies and stuff and People always always focusing attention on the babies and then you grow up a little bit. Before long you're not just the cute baby, you're Bobby or something like that, and you you're growing up. Get into school? All of a sudden you're a Burkus boy? You're one of those Burkus boys, aren't you? You get to high school. You get to college. When I was at University of Maryland Park, I wasn't in I wasn't Bobby. I wasn't a Beerkus boy. I was 217026377. Now When I think of the authority structures under which I am, what am I, a registered voter? I don't know There's this as we move up the order, it is as if our individuality becomes more and more stripped, doesn't it? And we become more and more statistical and less and less of who we are But the Lord is your keeper. And as the pilgrims sing this song to themselves and to each other, they are singing in the singular. The Lord is your keeper, your keeper. And when you get to the very top of who is important and who counts in this life, when you get to the one who created it all, when you get to the one who loves you and who died for you. You are who you are. I am Bob Bjerkes. And God keeps Bob Bjerkes. And the Lord is in the business of keeping you. Not just as some person who fills up his church on Sunday morning, but he keeps you who you are. Charles Spurgeon wrote something about this last stanza that I will always remember. And it summarizes this grand theme that runs through this song, The Lord is Our Keeper. And Charles Spurgeon writes this. Soul keeping is the soul of keeping. If the soul be kept, all is kept. Think of the significance of that statement. The theme has crescendo. We hit the last stanza. And in a way that blows away both of those other pictures of God's keeping, we are told that God, the Lord, our keeper, He keeps us from all harm, He keeps our soul. He keeps who you are, and he keeps you forever. Not just your life. Someday we will all die, and that is a blessed thing. Someday we will be in glory forever. But as we live out this life, we may be sure that throughout it all, the Lord keeps our soul. The Lord keeps our coming and going, both now and forevermore. What of this theme then that runs throughout the Psalm? The Lord our keeper is always with us. As we look at this, we notice that this is not just theology in a vacuum. This isn't just rosy statements about the Lord who keeps us abstracted from our life. The psalmist writes about it in terms of the biggest threats of his day. And so we have a question. What risks and dangers of the pilgrim road am I currently facing? Is it yourself? Are your feet almost slipping? Is it the sin in you? If it is, there's nobody here who can't relate to that. The agony Of living the Christian life in inadequacy, trying to trust in your own strength, knowing that your feet are almost slipping all the time, perhaps knowing that they have, and having trouble looking in the mirror when you shave or put on your makeup. And this Psalm says something to us. It says something to us that David knew. The Lord, our keeper, is responsible for keeping us from slipping. And as David knew, it is our God who makes our feet like a deer. He enables us to stand on the heights. And elsewhere he says, You broaden the path beneath me, O God, so that my ankles do not turn. You do this. And Jude's benediction, at the very end of that short letter, he blesses The one who is able to keep his people and to present them on that glorious day, pure and blameless. The Lord keeps us. Perhaps the biggest dangers you face are not you yourself, or the indwelling sin that you are struggling with as a believer. Perhaps it is something in the workplace, in the family, something in the neighborhood. Where are you looking? For protection? For help? Are you looking to the hills? Some self-help book? The world's advice? Are you looking to Rush Limbaugh or Bill Clinton? Or are you looking to the Lord, your keeper? Taking your eyes off the hills And rather than looking at the hills and being caught up in what the hills of 1990s Columbia, Maryland, America has to offer, seeing what it has to offer and being reminded, my help comes from the Lord. And casting yourself upon his care. For those of you who are not believers, for those of you who do not know the Lord our Keeper. This psalm really doesn't talk about you. The psalm really doesn't have anything to say about how you get through life. Because it's a psalm about the pilgrims. It's a psalm about those who are following the Lord. who are on their way to Jerusalem, for us the heavenly city. But yet there is, in a sense, a message for us all. The message is that the road can be traveled because the Lord keeps those who are his. And how is that able to be done? Dick read a verse from Hebrews. It said, Because of the great cloud of witnesses, we should cast off all sin it hinders and press on. The only place you can cast off the sin that hinders is at the foot of the cross. The only place you can be freed from the burdens that would slow you down, that would pull you off the track, that would prohibit you from even getting on the track. Is to look to Jesus Christ. He forgives sins. He takes them upon himself. And he died to pay the penalty which you ought to pay. In order that you can be a child of God, a pilgrim. Jeremiah, who is rich in these figures, Writes this to all of us. Hear and pay attention. Do not be arrogant, for the Lord has spoken. Give glory to the Lord your God before he brings the darkness, before your feet stumble on the darkening hills. There is an urgency. Don't look to the hills. Stop wandering in the hills. Hear the Lord. Hear his call to follow me and be a pilgrim. I was going to bring a hymn mill up here and I forgot. I wanted to close this sermon by reading a stanza from a hymn, which we will not be singing in this service. But it summarizes for us today the theme of this song, this song that we ought to return to again and again as believers. A theme that perhaps was on Christ's mind and certainly on some of his disciples as they lived their pilgrim lives in the decades following Christ's ascension. This is the very, very last words that Jesus spoke to his disciples, as recorded in Matthew's gospel, before he ascended. This is where I got the title for this sermon from. Jesus talks about how all power has been given him. And as we look at the pilgrim road, it's laid out before us. At the end of which is Christ beckoning. And as we think about how difficult it is and how we need help, and how we can't look to the hills, but must look to our God who is always with us, Jesus says, All power and authority is mine. And I am always with you, even to the ends of the age. And so our songwriter writes this: We rest on thee, our shield and our defender. We go not forth alone against the foe, strong in thy strength, safe in thy tender keeping. We rest on thee, and in thy name we go. Strong in thy strength, safe in thy keeping, tender, we rest on thee, and in thy name we go. Let us pray. Father God, we thank you so much that you are the God who creates and who keeps. Lord, encourage and strengthen each one here. May we leave here in your name, in your strength, in your tender keeping. Amen.