Chapter 4 that you just uh heard and just uh participated in reading, God's Definitive Church Growth Plan, His Instructions to Us on how to carry out the Great Commission. I don't know if any of you ever bother to read the top, you know? The top is kind of like, you know, that's just the standard stuff that's in there. I don't have to look at that and you sort of skip down to the title. But if you are one of the three or four people, even less than those that were hoping I would speak on Mother's Day, that may read those top parts You would have noticed that today we move into point D on Ephesians 4, that uh verses 12 to 16 talk about how the body moves to maturity in Christ. But if you had not noticed that, or even if you had noticed it, you might not have ever it might not have ever occurred to you that there was a flow of thought there. So before we get into the passage, let me just call your attention to the fact that Ephesians 4, verses 1 to 16, are about the body life, about how the body functions. That's the first instruction that Paul gives. In chapters 4 to 6, which is about how to live the Christian life, it's how the body functions and how you and I function as part of that body. And A, that starts with humility of Christ-like love. That was the first thing he talked about, is our attitude. Secondly, it's based on the unity of the triune God, verses two to s three to six. Then what we've been looking at, it's C, expressed in the diversity of our gifts, and then finally D. Verses twelve to sixteen. The purpose of it is that it moves to maturity in Christ. So that at least now you get the flow of the thought from another point of view and seeing what God is trying to address. This passage is so rich. I'm very concerned that we're able to understand it, that when we think of Ephesians 4, we're saying it's not just a mess of isolated thoughts. I understand what Paul is saying about the strategy God has for how our church should function. So, the main point that we've been looking at is that in verses 2 to 6 a and b, our unity is based on saving grace. What God has given to each of us. Let's read from God's word those verses again. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient Bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body. And one Spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all, and through all, and in all That's the unity that we have based on God's saving grace to us. Then he moves in verses 7 up through verse 16 to talk about the diversity of the body. in what is called serving grace, verse 7. But to each one of us, grace not Particularly saving grace, part of that, but now to each one of us, serving grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. And our church is seeking to become more radical in structuring ourselves to implement those principles That we are able to experience both the unity and the diversity of the body. You see that in that triangle, that what I call the cell diagram. Ephesians chapter 4 is speaking of the body of Christ as a living organism, and that living organism is made up in its most basic unit of growth and life of cells. That's why we speak of our basic communities within Columbia Presbyterian as cells. The cells are not the meetings, they are the communities. And they had these two components that you see on the basis there. That's what's reflected in these verses we just read. You see on the left side, verses 2 to 6 is intimate community. That's saying that we are seeking through these small group communities to be able to experience more intimacy, more of a sense of our belonging to one another. a sense of community in which we are growing together as brothers and sisters, knowing one another, becoming vulnerable to one another. and being able to assist and to love one another in meaningful and significant ways. On the other side of that, it's not just that we all get together. But on the right side you see the gifted ministry. That's reflecting verses 7 to 16. The fact that we come together within these cells, within these small communities, basic Christian communities, and we minister our unique gifts. The particular way that God has made you and gifted you and Christ has given to you the particular serving grace that is unique to you. And that's how we function together to build one another up. So at this point, and let me remind us again that that is given in the power of Christ, verses 8 to 10. This is why it says That when he, Jesus, and remember, Psalm 68 that he's quoting there is speaking of Yahweh. This is saying God Ascended on the throne when he came out of Sinai on through the desert, defeating the enemies, the Amorites, the Moabites, the Canaanites, left and right. comes to ascend now onto his holy hill, Zion, Yahweh ascended on high and led captives in his train and received gifts from men. Paul is saying, and listen, if you're ever talking to somebody that says that the Bible does not teach that Jesus is God, all you have to do among many, many verses, is to point them to this verse. Because Psalm 68, look at verse 17 and 18, the whole Psalm clearly it is speaking of Yahweh, the creating, redeeming God. Paul says that's referring to Jesus. He's the one who descended, verse 9. What does he ascended mean except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions, God becoming man in his incarnation? He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. And so it is in that ascension that Jesus received the Spirit, Acts chapter 2, verse 33, and gave that Spirit and the diversity of the gifts of the Spirit to you and to me, having received the triumphant gifts of his ascension, giving those gifts to you and to me in order to build up the body to become like him. What a glorious picture. You see, it's just filled with victory and assurance and the power of Christ in this. And so let's never say, well, you know, I don't really have anything to offer, and I don't know what I'm doing as part of the body, and I just feel like We kind of muddle along, you know, and the fellowship doesn't really seem to have much, and our group's just sort of floundering around. Brothers and sisters, lift up your eyes and look at what Jesus is saying here You have the power of Christ in yourself. The power of the presence of the risen Christ is that one who is infilling you and equipping you to build one another up. Somebody say amen. Amen. Somebody's experiencing that, you see. Now, at this point, let me ask you three questions. Personal question for you to think about. Number one These are feeling questions, okay? Kind of think about how you're feeling it. First question. Do you personally feel your need for the body? Do you feel a need for that community? Do you yeah I see some yeah that's good I see some people responding. Do you personally feel I can't go Sunday to Sunday Without some significant contact with other Christians to encourage me to remind me of God's promises, to challenge me, To help me to understand what it is that I need to do in living for Christ, to remind me of the fruits of the Spirit, and remind me of what it is to trust Him and to obey. I need that. I feel a need of it. Do you feel that need, you see? That's what Paul's saying here. This is chapters four to six. This is the working out of your sitting, your position in Christ is to feel that need Let me ask you secondly, and in fact just before I go on to that, let me let me remind you, as uh Paul says that this Sense of our unity, remember, is based on the unity that he spoke of in chapter 2 when he said in verse 19. You're no longer foreigners and aliens, you are fellow citizens with God's people. You're part of a new kingdom. With other citizens that you're joined with. You sense that there's an alienness to this world. And you want to get together with your brothers and their sisters, who are the fellow citizens of the kingdom, to remind yourself that yes, I don't belong to this world. We don't expect to fit here. And so there's that sense of experiencing that. You're fellow citizens with God's people. You're also members of God's household. These are your brothers and sisters. And just like when there's a healthy family dynamic, you want to go home, you want to be with your brothers and sisters. So you want to be with the brothers and sisters in Christ that you have. And then he talks in verse 22 about how we are being built up together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit, joints stones. living stones who are part of that holy temple of praise to God. I feel a need for you to help me to be bringing that praise to Jesus in my life. I can't simply do it alone. I feel a need for that And secondly, therefore, do you feel a need to be part of a community that does that? Do you feel a need to be part of a cell, a community of believers? that are going to help you to do what you already know you want to do. You don't need people primarily to tell you what you need to do. You probably already, if you're like me, know more than you're doing anyway. Right? What you need is somebody that's going to help you to do what you already know you need to do in walking with the Lord Jesus. Do you feel the need? For being part of such a community. If you are not part of such a community, let me say it gently: you are not really part of Columbia Presbyterian Church. Now I don't want you to go. You're welcome here. Come worship with us. Be with us. But you're not fully part. Of the body in the experiencing of this unity and diversity, the community and the giftedness. Until you are part of a body of believers, a small unit of that body, in which you are able to face to face give and receive the encouragement, the gifts the challenge that is part of the Christian experience. Do you feel a need for that? Not simply with your head do you say, yeah, I know that sometime I probably ought to do that, but my schedule right now don't allow We will adapt the schedule. We have groups that meet every week. We have groups that meet three times a month. We have groups that meet twice a month. It's not a matter of, well, I can't do it. But it Do you feel that internal desire and compulsion of the Spirit of God saying, I want to experience this kind of thing? See, that's what we're talking about. And finally, the third thing is, do you feel Christ's power as you minister by your gifts? Look again, verse 7. He says that to each one of us, no asterisk. It doesn't say to each one of us. And then there's a footnote, except, your name's in there. I mean, you know, uh you couldn't make it all, so you know, there's a few exceptions And maybe there's an index at the back after Revelation. It lists all the people that were left out when he gave those gifts, serving gifts to the body. And you look down and say, sure enough, I knew it, my name's right back there. It's right there between Revelation and the Concordance and the weights and the tables measures. I'm right down there as one of the exceptions he did not give those gifts to You see, he says to each one of us, that includes you, do you by faith believe that you have that grace, the serving grace that's been given when Christ apportioned it? Notice the next words. This is why it says. What does that mean? I think there's two ideas here. One is this is why Psalm 68 said this. In other words, this is the fulfillment of Psalm 68:18. But also there is a connection in the sense of power. This is why we need Psalm 6818. To remember That it is at that moment that you and I step out to minister. Here's a knee. You don't know what to do. You don't feel that you can meet that need. Somebody has some problem, some need in their life. Maybe it's overwhelming to you, but you sense that God has given you a heart for that person. You care for them. And so in an act of faith, you step out to say, I am going to seek in some way to meet that need. God help me to do this. Now as you do that, Christ's power and presence meet you at the point of stepping out. It is not when you sit there and say, I will wait until I feel the power of Christ to do this. You experience the power in the stepping out to meet the need. Brothers and sisters, do not make the mistake of saying, I need a spiritual inventory list, I need an observer checklist, I've got to understand my gifts so that I can list them all down, and then I will find a way to use those gifts. Wrong. Bad way to go about it. That's an American way of thinking. How do I become the expert in a particular area? The question that Paul puts to us is simply in the context of loving one another. So you see a need, you say, I don't have the foggiest what my gifts are But here's a need, and I will seek to love that brother or sister in my community. The way that you meet that need will reflect your gifts. I guarantee it. You don't have to worry about it. The way you think about meeting that person's needs and loving them will reflect what your gifts are as you step out on faith to do that it will become gradually apparent to you what your gifts are in doing that. Let me give you an illustration. We have a couple guys in our congregation, Pete Floyd, Rick Bellowt, check of course to get approval on this. Now, been meeting for on Tuesday mornings just for prayer and for sharing together and been having a great time doing that. Somebody comes up to Pete, third guy, and he says, could I meet with you? I need the same kind of thing. I need another man to hold me accountable, to pray with. Would you do that? Pete thought about it. He said, our time together, my time with Rick, we've been doing this for a long time. I would really rather not change that But I feel the need that this other brother has. And I think that I could meet that. I could I could help him out And so Pete says, how about we meet on Thursday morning and see what God does with that? So he's meeting with Rick on Tuesday morning, meets with this other guy Thursday morning, not looking for something extra to do, but here it is, here's something he thinks he can do. Very soon after that, a third guy joins him. Says, can I join with you? Yeah, okay, fine, you know. So now he's meeting with two guys. Then a third guy comes and joined. Now it's four guys. Just a couple months later now there's five guys now meeting every Thursday morning. And they are praying together, they are sharing things that they believe God's calling them to do. They're helping each other, praying with each other, sharing to do those things. God has obviously richly blessed that Pete sees his gifts being developed and cultivated as he's leading that group. Was he looking for it? No. Does he have time to do it? Doesn't feel like it But you see, in his availability to simply meet the need, he says, these are pizza and words, God equipped me as I stepped out on faith to do it. Now you see, that's a hard, that's a hard illustration for some of us, isn't it? Because I would venture to say that for most of us, the main thing that is keeping us From experiencing more of the power of Christ in the ministry of our gifts is not that we don't know what our gifts are. It has nothing to do with that. It's that we're saying, I'm too busy to do it. Right? So you see a need, and you and I shut our hearts up to that and say, that's tough. I hope somebody can do that. It's not me. I'm taking courses. I'm working overtime. We're downsizing. I gotta really keep at it. I've got all this stuff on my plate. I simply can't do it Now, you know, I don't say that judgmentally, but I do say, brothers and sisters, that you remember that back in April we looked at Luke chapter 16, verses 1 to 9. We talked at that point about using our material resources as if heaven mattered. Do we use our money as if heaven mattered? Building relationships, Jesus there said, for eternity. The same thing has to do with our time. Do we use our time as if heaven mattered? Do we use our time in a way to build relationships? So that when that end comes and the master comes, that we have those who welcome us into heaven because we invested ourselves in them. Or did we not have time, whether it was to make more money or for security or whatever else it is? There is all kinds of pressures that we feel. Believe me, I hear it a number of times every week. The best thing that we can say about one another is, he's so busy. That just that means you're important. I mean the worst thing you could ever say about somebody in our congregation is he has extra time. I mean look think about it. You wouldn't want somebody saying that about you, would you? Because if you have extra time, then why are you sloughing off? None of the rest of us have extra time because we're busy, because we're important. We have demands on us. And Satan uses that so that we never get involved in the ministry of building the body because we don't understand our gifts, because we're not available when there's the need. Now having said that, let me I just simply put it to you. Do you feel the need, or in that third question, do you feel the power of Christ? As you seek to step out in some little way, small way, when you see a need of a brother and sister to simply love them and trust God. You know, something very meaningful to me. was that when we were interviewing the deacons that we will be ratifying, seeking to ratify, and I think there's a strong sense that these guys are called of God, Paul Childress, Eddie Goodrich, and Dennis Pesch. We'll be looking at that next Sunday evening together in our meeting. As those guys came to us, there was a clear sense. None of them were saying, I got extra time. I was looking for something to do. So hey, Deacon, what the heck, you know Looks like as decent a thing as anything else, it'll fill some of my spare time, keep me out of trouble. Nobody was saying that. Dennis Pesh specifically said, I don't have time to do this. But I sense God's calling me to do it, and I can't say no. I'm not saying we should overpack our schedules and be oblivious to rationality All I'm saying is that if we are too busy to be involved in what Ephesians 4 is talking about in body ministry, And maybe we're too busy. And I don't know the solution. For each one of us is going to mean talking to one another and what can we do and how can we work on this? But I'll tell you, if I want to experience the power of Christ I'm not going to experience it simply sitting in my desk fulfilling more obligations where I'm not involved in the lives of any of my brothers or sisters. And so I long for us to experience more of this. But now, in order to pay that price, to enlarge our vision. To be able to think about how to do that, we need to have a sense of purpose. And that's the final thing I want to hit briefly here this morning. You see on the back side, Paul states that purpose. Of what we do together in four steps. First of all, he talks about the preparers. And he talks about the preparers in two categories In chapter 4, verse 11, he says it was he, Jesus, who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers. The pastors and teachers is probably referring to one office. He doesn't say some pastors and some teachers. It's just joined together. So almost all scholars believe that that's referring to one office. I believe that the idea of apostle and prophet are the foundational um offices here. And the apostles have to do more with the idea of evangelism. They were the church planters. They were those who were the foundation. The prophets were more the edifiers, they spoke to the body to bring God's word, to build the body up. And in contemporary translation of that, the way the church functions today, we have evangelists and we have pastors and teachers. That is, we have the evangelists who are those as models particularly gifted in the sharing, the articulating, the applying of the faith to the unbeliever. and bringing those persons to commitment so that we see that done in a particularly gifted way, all of us equipped in some way to do that. But there are some particularly equipped, just as we all build one another up, but God calls elders who are pastor teachers out of the body. to particularly be a model for that and to equip. And so the evangelists help us in sharing the gospel. That's the harvest mentality at the top of the triangle. They are the model for that. As from the apostles to the evangelists, down through the ages, down to you and to me, the gospel has been transmitted to continue on through you and me to the next generation. And the elders equip us for what? Well, you see point two, they equip us. That is, uh, they prepare us. We'll look at that in another message, what equipping means. Equipping you, preparing you, verse 12. Uh they prepare, they equip God's people or the saints for works of service or for ministry. Then The third part and the end of verse 12, so that the body of Christ may be built up. So you here have another purpose out of this. The preparers equip so that the equippers edify, build up the body, to what end? And then the conclusion of it is in verse 13 to maturity until we all reach unity in the faith. And in the knowledge of the Son of God, and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Now, there are three things that are said there. I believe these are the three goals of the Christian life: the three goals of ministry, the function of the body. And verse 13 is eminently worth memorizing because it's kind of hard to get a grasp on it until you actually have to think about each word and how they fit together. Three purposes. First of all, A, you see on your outline there, until we all reach unity in the faith. That's the understanding of the faith. That's the first one. A. Understanding of the faith. Then there is B beyond that the intimate knowledge of the Son of God or of Christ. Until we all reach unity of the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, intimate knowledge of Christ And then it doesn't stop there to go on and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ, complete likeness to Christ. So, knowledge of Christ and likeness to Christ. It's important to see how these flow together. You see, we start with a knowledge of the Bible. That's what A is about. Know your Bible. Know what it teaches Know the basic doctrines of Christianity. Know what the Bible says, its content about the faith. When you see the faith in the New Testament, as you see it back in verse 3. Excuse me, in verse 4, there is no excuse, verse 5, one Lord, one faith. It's talking about the content of our belief, that faith that we adhere to, that we confess. As we understand that, that leads to, it's not enough in itself, not just to know the Bible, but to an intimate knowledge of Christ, the object of our faith. And so the knowledge leads to an intimate knowledge, an intimate experience of knowing Jesus And it doesn't stop there, but it moves on, as chapter 3 had talked about, in knowing the length, breadth, height, depth of his love, and to know the love of Christ and to be filled with all the fullness of God. And so the end of verse 13 is talking about the same thing. To be raised up into the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ's character. It starts with the head, unity in the faith, moves to the heart, the knowledge of Christ, and works out in the life. Or to put it another way, we start with the knowledge of our convictions. We move from our convictions to our affections. The unity in the faith translates into knowledge of Christ, that intimate knowledge, it's the same word used in chapter 1, verse 17, the purpose of CPC, that we might know Him better. Intimate experiential knowledge that leads to affection. That's the idea of it. Knowledge The knowledge of the faith is the way that I understand content, truth. The knowledge of Christ is the way that I know my wife. The way I know her moods, I know her body language, I finish her sentences, drives her nuts. She says, We're getting to that point we're starting to finish our sentences. You know, we begin to think about how the other one's thinking and feeling and sensing. It's that kind of knowledge. You know Jesus. He is intimate to you. When you have pain, when you have difficulty, he's the first one you think to go to because you know he's there for you. And you can cleave to him, you can run to him. There's the sense of his response to you. That you understand his heart toward you. But then, as we saw in 2 Corinthians 3:18, as we gaze upon him and behold him, we are transformed into his likeness from one degree of glory to another. It just simply happens that we become like him in that process. Now it's important that we understand about these three things, these are the goals of what we're doing. It is not simply that we're better moms, we're better dads, we're better workers, we're more effective in ministry in the congregation. The goal, brother and sister, is that you understand Christianity, that you know Jesus, and you are being becoming like Jesus. And it's so subtle. We can do all the activities and we forget the purpose. Let me remind us that that purpose in the first case of the unity of the faith means that when we have the coalition and we join together with Longreach Church of God We do not set aside the content of the faith to do that. That is a big concern I have with so much of evangelical ecumenism that we are seeing. That it is a unity at any cost. It's a unity which says, who cares what you believe or what we believe, so long as we believe Jesus is the way, whatever that means, we'll get together, we'll pray together, and we'll do stuff But the doing of stuff becomes lower and lower common denominator of what it is that we're doing, what it is that we believe, the nature of the Christ that we're calling people to, the nature of the commitment that's being made, and all the rest of these things. So let me say it doesn't really matter what you believe about the person and work of the Holy Spirit. It doesn't really matter what you believe about adoration of Mary. or of the nature of the Lord's Supper and the Mass. It doesn't really matter what you believe about Scripture and its inerrancy or its authority. Just so long as you confess Jesus, we'll get together. Listen, what verse 13 is saying, that when we attain to the unity of the faith means that as we mature in Christ, we tend to agree on more things. Because as we are drawn closer to him, we mature in our understanding of the faith And Bob Davis tried to make that very plain that we do not set aside. It wasn't quite as clear in the first service. And I talked to him between the two services, and he made it crystal clear the second service That what we are agreed on is the faith of Jesus Christ that we confess. And so that is what is the unity of the faith that is drawing us together. So that we as brothers and sisters are confessing the same Jesus. As we do that, however, we need to understand it is not simply that we can speak about him. But it is also that you and I are more intimate with him. Is that being discussed in your cell, in your community? Are you talking frankly with one another about the intimacies that you have with Jesus? Or do you talk about tasks to complete and you know goals to set in your life and these kinds of things? That's all good. But the goal, Paul says, is the knowledge of the Son of God, that full, deep, intimate, experiential knowledge of Jesus. That's what we're seeking, brothers and sisters, a gospel-shaped community. Not that which simply is a community which is close for its own sake. And that works out in you and me becoming more like Jesus. More like him in the way that he loved. Reflecting his balance of grace and truth, his uncompromising righteousness, as well as his tender compassion. For those who are weak and those who are hurting. It is becoming like him. And do you know what? I leave you with this final thought. It is guaranteed to happen. Paul says in verse 9 and 10 that the one who has gifted us to do this is he who descended. so that he ascended in his ascension as Lord to fill the whole universe in every way. And therefore it is upon his authority that I declare to you You will come with all brothers and sisters, true brothers and sisters in Christ one day when Jesus comes to confess unanimously every truth statement about Him. You will come to that place where your knowledge and your love for Jesus will be intimate beyond your most glorious hopes and expectations at this point, that which transcends the most romantic wedding and goes far beyond the most intimate relationship you've ever seen or experienced. And you and I will become exactly like the character of Christ. It is something like this. You know that will happen. Let's suppose you're an Orioles fan and you move to Hawaii or you're visiting in Hawaii, but you got to keep up with the Orioles. And so because in Hawaii they don't broadcast the games the times that they're played in the States because it'd be too early in the day. Nobody'd watch them, or at least they wouldn't get any work done So they broadcast them hours later. But because you're such an avid Orioles fan and they're playing the Blue Jays, you've got to find out how it's going to happen. So you listen to the news and you get the score and you hear that the Orioles won six to five. Now you know that early in the day. Later on you watch the game. It's the bottom of the seventh. And it's five to four, the Blue Jays But you're not worried because you know that somehow somebody's gonna pull it out with a two-run Homer in the ninth and the Orioles are gonna win. Brothers and sisters, that's the way your life is You and I are struggling in the faith to understand what the Bible says, to understand more of Jesus and to grow closer to him and become more like him. And there's some progress and then there's regress But we know the final score. Jesus is going to make verse 13 happen in your life and mine. So we can celebrate together. It will happen. We'll continue to move together. Because Jesus fulfills everything in every way, and He will do it in you and me. Amen? Let's pray. Lord our God, we give to you praise because of the victory you have won. You will accomplish your purpose in your body. Lord, help each of us in that process. The more fully become part of it, to enter into it, to by faith be part of that within our own communities, to experience your power as we step out on faith to see what you will do. In us and through us, we make ourselves available to you right now. For Jesus' sake. Amen.