It's good to be back with you. We're going to be in Romans 14 this morning if you've got your own copy of God's Word and you want to turn up there. Let me uh briefly review where we've been and um then I'll read our text for this morning. So we've been thinking about the implications of God being gracious. So if God is gracious to me, I'm no longer under his condemnation, I have the righteousness of Christ as mine, he receives me, he welcomes me as the word in this text, then I can act that way towards myself. I can be gracious towards myself, and I can be gracious to the people around me. And so I'm free to be gracious. And am free to be gracious in the body of Christ. And so that's what we've been looking at in Romans 14, and what we'll be looking at today. So I'm going to read from verses 1 through 19 of Romans 14. Let's hear God's word. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats. For God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own minds The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains abstains. In honor of the Lord and give thanks, gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself For if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. For to this end Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord, both of the dead and the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never Maybe I didn't say that strong enough. Let's try that again. Never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it is unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you're no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking. but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace. And for mutual upbuilding. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together Father, this is challenging stuff. Challenging for a preacher, challenging to hear and to take in, to repent where we need to. To change in ways that we need to, to seek a culture in this body that would please you and be a blessing to one another. and be a welcoming place for people to come into. That's what we need. That's what we want. Because It's what the text says you want. So help us to be that kind of congregation for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to take this whole section, Romans 14 down to 15. 7, in total in four sermons. The last time was the first one. That's what I was here on the 7th of May. It was the weekend of the men's retreat. So some of you weren't able to experience it. It's on YouTube. You can get it. So we looked at 14-1 through 4 in the beginning of the month. And today we're going to finish down through verse 19, Lord willing. And then we're going to consider next week we'll consider from 1420 down to 154. And what we'll consider next week is what would motivate us to pursue what we'll look at today. What would motivate us? as we'll look at next week. And then the last of these, I think, which will be on the eighteenth of June, um, will help us think through or I'll try and help us think through um that if we realize how God relates to us that can inspire how we would relate to each other in the body of Christ, how can inspire us in this endeavor which is challenging. So that's where we're heading over these next few times. So let's uh jump into review here. First, let's remember what to put off. Remember what to put off So we're thinking of that dynamic in Ephesians 4 that you put off and put on in the Christian life is a helpful dynamic to think through. And in 14, 1 through 4, Romans 14, 1 through 4, here we're told what to put off. Remember the situation here in Romans 14 is that within the body of Christ you had people who had different opinions about different kinds of matters. We never have that today. I realize it's just an anachronism, but I'm trying to help you, right? So they had different opinions about disputable matters, not things that were of primary faith, like stuff in the Nicene Creed, even secondary things like uh what went being our Westminster Confession of Faith. We're down into tertiary or lower things, disputable matters. And so here's the direction. As for the one who's weak, welcome him. You know who's weak and strong in these kinds of debates is part of the interesting thing to try and even figure out. That's even part of the debate. Who is the weak one and who's the strong one? And it's not always clear, actually, to be honest with you. In this particular case, it doesn't matter. Notice that carefully. The one who's weak in faith, you imagine you're the strong one? Welcome him. But don't welcome him going, hmm. Well good, I'll get to set him straight. Not to quarrel over opinions. That's not the motivation in welcoming him. One person so here in one through four the issue is what do you eat, vegetables or meat, right? So one person thinks they can eat anything, the weak person only eats vegetables. So the one Who eats meat, he should not despise. These are very strong words. Not despise the one who doesn't eat, the one who abstains from eating meat. And also let not the one who abstains, the one who only eats vegetables, he shouldn't pass judgment on the one who eats meat. Why? The unifying theme here is you can't despise or pass judgment. Why? Because God has welcomed him. What we'll come back to at the end in 15. 7 in a couple of sermons is just thinking of meditating on that more, which is beautiful. The welcome of God. And that that's what we get to exhibit to other people in the body of Christ is the welcome of God to them. And then verse four, which is pretty blunt, who are you? to pass judgment on the servant of another. Our title when we considered this on the 7th of May was resist the urge to be someone else's master Right? That's really what we're doing. You should obey me by believing what I do on this matter. We seek to become their master. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? This is the key point. It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and God will uphold him. He can help him stand. So this is the crucial issue here, right? When you try to make someone else conform to what you think is right on a disputable matter. You're asserting dominion over them. You're seeking to be their own to be their master. And that's wrong. Wrong. That's why we're putting this off. Because only God, only God. is the one before we stand or fall. So that's why we should put this off. Okay? So we're putting off Despising, judging, receiving, but only to quarrel over opinions, we're putting off insisting that we're the master over somebody else. Well what are we putting on? And that's what we turn to today in verses 5 through 19. And what we're to put on is to pursue What makes for peace and mutual upbuilding. We're putting on what makes for peace and mutual upbuilding. So look with me starting in verse five. So in verses 1 through 4, it was what do you eat? Verse 5, we begin a different, um the first example is about eating, the second one is about days One person, verse five, one person esteems one day is better than another. Remember, this would have been a mixed congregation of Jews and Gentiles. Gentile Jews would have been coming from this whole very sophisticated calendar of the year of the way that life was lived, and Gentiles coming in going, uh, one day's like every other. Okay, so that's the kind of situation. It's a disputable matter. One person seems one day is better than another, while another seems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. I think this is a call for us to seek maturity and growth. You should have a well-thought out kind of conviction. On what you're can what you have convictions about. But the way that you hold it is humbly. So when I'm well thought out, and we're gonna get to this in just a second, I want to be well thought out. I want to have thought this out biblically. But I'm also going to believe that you've also done that work. I'm going to believe that you've done that work too. And I'm not going to like look down at you and go, well, I'm all thought out, but you're slipshot. Right? That's not the right posture. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day, look at this, observes it in honor of the Lord. So this is super important. When you come to somebody else and they believe before the Lord that they've come to a certain conviction, this is a part of their worship. So be careful about the way that you think and talk and speak about someone else's worship This is much more elevated than the way that we typically think about these disputable matters. Right? The one who eats, now back to example one, the one who eats eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God. Well, the one who abstains, abstains also. In honor of the Lord, and gives thanks to God. So note that the God-centeredness of this None of us lives to himself. None of us dies to himself. So maybe in a conversation, let me give you an example. How would you roll the tape? I wrote this too small, even read with my own glasses. So in conversation. So friend, you you have this view because you think it honors the Lord. I can respect that, though we differ But I'd love to hear how you think this view honors the Lord. See how different that is? See how different that is in feel and texture and tone and respect and trust? You trust that the Holy Spirit is working in this person and you want to hear how the Holy Spirit has worked in this person. That's a very different posture than most of our conversations about disputable matters. Very different. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God. The one who abstains, and saints in honor of the Lord. For both of them it's worship, for they both give thanks to God. None of us lives to himself, none of us dies to himself. If we live, why do we live? We live to the Lord in everything. Which is why you should be thoughtful and seek maturity. We die, we die to the Lord. That'll be much better. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. We belong to Him because we've been welcomed by Him. This is the end for which Christ died and lived again, that He would be the Lord. Right? So notice the high contrast here. Like you circle back, if you can see my messy paper here, you can see that I circle back up here to verse 4, right? Jesus is the Lord, not You being the master of somebody else. Like that's the contrast here. Who's Lord? Is Jesus Lord of both the living and the dead? Or am I trying to be Lord of you? That's what's going on here. Alright, verse 10. So going back to verse 3 here, asking the question Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Here's the pushy issue, right? Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? That's the same pair again. Right? He's pushing it again. It's the same pairing. And recognizing, hey, this is, you're wrong here. Why? Because it's not before each other that we stand for judgment. We all stand before the judgment seat of God. And so when we do this, we put ourselves in God's place. And we're also untimely. You might remember we've looked at 1 Corinthians 4, 5 to 4, that it's that the problem with judging ahead of the time is well, it's untimely. There is this accounting that will happen. That's why you ought to be thoughtful and seek maturity. Right? What did you do with the grace that God gave you? That's the kind of Judging that God does for rewards. Okay, not for whether you get in, that's based on Christ, but for rewards. Complex theme we can't jump into today. But the main thing here is when we judge somebody else for untimely That's God's job, and it's later. It's not ours, and it's not now. And then he goes on to illustrate it. For it's written, I say, as I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself. to God, which is why you should pursue gospel growth yourself. It's why you want to read the Bible and pray and ask the Holy Spirit that God would help you learn what's there in the word for you. Help me understand the emphases in the scripture. Rule me, Lord. Rule my ideas of self and church and engagement with other Christians and non-Christians. Rule me now. Because I will give an account to you. So rule me now. That's our posture towards God. So then how about towards each other? That's our posture towards God. How about towards each other? Verse 13. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer. Alright, so we're done with that. Put it off. But rather decide, say it with me, decide sometimes. Sometimes decide, but rather decide never. All right, say it with me. Come on. I wanted to stick in your mind, but decide never Not once. Not even once. I'm going to so consciously live in love for fellow believers that not even once Am I going to put a sembling block, excuse me, or hindrance in the way of a brother? So I I said a couple of illustrations of this, this idea of a a stumbling block, right? You watch um police pursuits. If you've never watched this on YouTube, it's a very interesting and fun thing to do. We watch police pursuits and they slide out these nail strips in front of cars that are running away. And it in instantly, as they roll over, it deflates all the tires and now you're running on rims. Right? And it's like Right. Or I picked up rental car yesterday at BWI, right, and you come out to the gate and they want to check your ID and you know scan the car and make sure that it's like legit, you're supposed to take it, you're not stealing it. They've got this big barrier. You can't go anywhere. Until they drop that barrier down. So I'm never going to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother or a sister. That's the way I'm going to think about relationship in the body of Christ. So that's what I'm not going to do. We'll get to in a second what we are going to do. Paul's view, he says in verse 14, I know and have persuaded in the Lord Jesus. So Paul's kind of showing his cards here a little bit, which is interesting. Right? Paul considers himself one of the strong. But notice his posture. I know and a persuade in the Lord Jesus. Notice the spirituality of this view here You might, if you take the time to patiently learn and respect and listen and draw other people out, you might be surprised. at the spirituality of each other's views. You might be surprised. But you'd have to be patient and thoughtful and draw someone out and listen to hear. Not just listen to respond. Paul says, I know and I've persuaded the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself. So this is a we might call a liberated Jew. Used to think some things were very unclean, but now he says, I'm convinced in Lord Jesus there's nothing that's unclean. However, but it notice this, this is interesting. It is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean. So so here's the here's the thing. Um I enjoy state. I was at my brother's house, stayed with him, visited my visit with my mom, and um We we my brother made a nice steak on the grill and brought it inside. And if I look at it and I go, well, you know, steak is not really heart healthy. And um stand to lose a little weight, more than a little maybe. Um I think that for me steak is unclean. And I have a spiritual conviction that for me, mat bowling, this time of life, stakes unclean. I shouldn't eat it. If I'm convinced in my own heart that before the Lord I shouldn't eat steak, I shouldn't eat it. If that's what I'm fully convinced of in my own mind. It's unclean to anyone who thinks it's unclean. But that doesn't mean that I can come to you and say, you know, come on. I mean, get your age or get your weights. Look at the statistics about red meat. I mean, dude, you shouldn't eat steak. That's where I've stepped over the line. And I'm trying to be Gary's master. And it's wrong. But I shouldn't eat it. If I'm fully convinced of my own mind. Which thankfully I'm not. But It's an example. So what's the call here? It's to live with a clean conscience. Before the Lord. You as an individual believer, make this your worship. Take it that seriously. But don't impose it on other people. Don't feel the need to constrain others' consciences And this extends not just to fellow believers, but what I find is flourish works with different churches is that there are congregants who have particular consciences and they try and impose their conscience on their leaders. That's a mistake. And sadly, my opinion, I think sadly, from this from this place. Leaders' conscience were were imposed on you, and I'm sorry. That wasn't right or good. But it does go both ways. You, before the Lord, live with a clean conscience on these disputable matters. But when you feel a need to constrain someone else to have the same conscience as you in a disputable manner, you're in the wrong place. That's what this is saying. All right, verse 15. Why is this all so important the way that we act towards one another? Why is this so important? For if your brother is grieved, if your brother is grieved, too much of 2020 was like this. Where Christians, and I know it happened here too, but Christians in general and people within the same churches, we sought to evangelize each other to many things that weren't Christ. We sought to evangelize each other to many things that weren't Christ. If your brothers grieve by what you eat, So, oh it's reverse the example here with Gary since he's on the front row and I can pick on him. I know that Gary's conscience says no stake. So I'm going to my house and say, Gary, go to some worthy. Come on, come on, go to my house. And the only thing I put on the table is steak. Gary, you hungry? If your brother's grieved by what you eat We go out to a restaurant. I know Gary's very sensitive about steak. Do you want to order steak? Love steak. I choose for his sake. Not to maybe not ever eat steak, but not see steak in his presence. Because I love him. And I don't want him to be grieved by what I eat. That's an extraordinarily different posture That we would choose to serve each other. If your brother's grieved by what you eat, you're no longer walking in love, which is the most important thing. Not that people agree with you, but that you walk in love. By what you eat, this is a really strong phrase, friends, by what you eat, do not destroy The one for whom Christ died. Notice again here the spiritual nature of this. That when I think about my brother, my sister in the body, I'm like, how can I walk in love toward them? That's my posture. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. Right? That each one has the freedom to have their own conscience. Why? Because the the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking. The kingdom of God is not a matter of masks or vaccines or politics or how should we act to current events or anything else that's disputable. None of those are the kingdom of God None of the things that we face in 2020 were the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God is not about disputable matters. What is it about? Righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. This is what we ought to be conversing about. This is what we ought to be conversing about. Well, think about this. This is a very, very interesting triad here. Righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit The first thing to think about here is, do you have this? Do you have this righteousness and joy and peace? Excuse me, righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. This whole book of Romans, uh particularly verses chapters 1 through 11, is a repreaching of the gospel. And then from chapter twelve on, it's an application of how to live out the implications of the gospel. That's what the Book of Romans is. And here in shorthand, God through the Apostle Paul tells you what's available to those who respond to the gospel. The gospel is a gracious call from the King of the universe who made everything. and who comes to um creatures, sinful creatures like us, and he comes with a merciful command. that we would repent and believe. It's merciful, I love the song. It's merciful because God's saying turn from everything in creation that you thought could give you happiness but never can. That's what repentance is. Is it we sin because we think that we can get from something in creation that which only God can give. And God says, would you lay that down? Would you stop believing that which isn't true? That which I made is good and it's for you, but it can never fully satisfy you because you're made for me. Would you repent of trying to get your satisfaction and fulfillment and meaning out of that which I've made? And that's repentance. And then he says, Would you believe? Would you believe the gospel? The gospel that says for sinners like like me, who've done a lot of this and are turning from it. That what we have, as we come and we trust in Christ and who he is and what he's done for us, that we believe on him and we stop believing that we can do it ourselves. We lay down self-dependence. We come to God and we say, I need you. Repentance and faith, the response that we're called to in the gospel. So what happens if you're someone who begins that? And that's not just like a one-time thing. It's kind of like, well, I did that once. Yeah, that was fine. I was a kid. Yeah, it's great. Okay, now I'm now like into real life now. No, that's every day. Every day is repenting and believing anew. What is it for those who are living that lifestyle of repentance and faith? What is theirs? Well, it's these three. In the place of sin and shame and guilt, you have the righteousness of Christ granted to you. In the place of fear before God, you have peace with God through Christ, and that leads to inner peace. And in the place of anxiety and depression. And by the way, who wouldn't be anxious and depressed if only if all you had was one life to live? And it was the hard life of this world? Who wouldn't be anxious and depressed? But in the place of anxiety and depression, joy Through the indwelling Holy Spirit, who fundamentally transforms our hearts and stays around, indwells us to enable us to keep understanding the gospel more deeply and applying it more broadly. That's what you're granted when you come to Christ, repentance and faith, righteousness, peace, and joy. Do you have those? Do you have those today because you're trusting in Christ? If not, come. The gospel is good news. It is the welcome of God to you. Maybe you believe that you're a Christian, that you're walking that path of repentance and faith every day. Are you growing? In your appreciation of these things, these things that Paul says, this is what the kingdom of God is about. Righteousness. Peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Are you growing your appreciation of these things? Is that what you're seeking? I would humbly submit that if that is not what we are seeking, it is because in part these things don't make up a good proportion of our conversation among believers. We aren't speaking this good news to ourselves and to each other. But this is what should make up a great proportion of our conversation. As citizens of the kingdom of God, wouldn't we talk about the things that are of the kingdom of God? Wouldn't we? That we run out of steam so quickly on this topic, and we divert to things much, much less vital. Should say something to us. This topic, about what the kingdom of God is about, has the opportunity to bring us together to be very close. And to not fall into the trap that what is going on in the city of man, to use Augustine's paradigm, is the most real thing. See this place that we live between Baltimore and Washington, you are pushed to believe that the most real thing that's going on is what's going on in the city of man, that those are the things of greatest importance. But they are not. They will pass away. The city of God, the kingdom of God will not Yes, we absolutely live in the world for its good. But remember Jesus told us to be careful. About becoming of the world as we live in the world. Just a few chapters earlier in Romans chapter 12 and verse 2. And the J. B. Phillips translation, the way he translates it, which I think is so helpful is that we're instructed to not let the world push us into its molds. And the world does it. As soon as you walk out of here, as soon as you look at an advertisement, as soon as you flip on the TV or your streaming device. As soon as you experience anything out of the world, it is trying to push you into its mold about what is most important and what you ought to be most concerned about. When you look at your news feed or your Twitter feed or your Facebook. All of it is trying to convince you, here's what is most important. And God through the Apostle Paul tells you, here's what's most important for believers as they would converse together. We need to be careful, brothers and sisters, to not let the world push us into its mold. Now I'd think for just a second about people who are not citizens of the kingdom of God. People who are not glad and grateful citizens of the kingdom of God. They only have the city of man. That's all they got. Which is a sad place to be. But recognize this is why people who only have the city of man are so rabid about the issues in the city of man. They have to get it right because it is their only hope. Which is entirely sad in itself. Remember the soap opera, which ran from 1968 to 2013. Very helpful, honest title. One Life to Live. I love the brutal honesty. I want you to ponder that. Now when you go and you meet the people on your street, you go to work tomorrow, Tuesday, where you live, work, and play, people around you that are not the citizens of the kingdom of God. They have one life to live. That's all that they have. Which makes sense of some of what we've experienced culturally. If the only shot at justice was on earth now, you might be rabid about justice and getting everything perfectly right now. Not just concerned about justice, which Christians ought to be, but rabid. If the only life you had to live was this one, you might be more rabid about whatever health measures could extend your life. Did you read about the guy this week who's taking his own 17-year-old's blood and injecting it himself in hopes that he can extend his own life? Did you read about that? That makes perfect sense in the city of man. If you've only got one life to live, you, to grab another cultural phrase, you have to get it all now. And anything that stands in the way of you getting it all now is enemy. It's anathema. People in the city men must be rabid about it. And if the only life you had to live revolved on getting politics just right In the City of Man, you might be rabid about it also. But I hope you realize that Christians don't have one life to live. The one life that we live now, Randy Elkorn has very helpfully put, is the dot. And what is to come in the life of the world to come is the line. And a line, many of you with backgrounds will get this. A line goes on how far? Forever. If all you had was the dot and you had to squeeze everything into the dot, you would live a certain way that makes sense like that. But friends, that is not us. But it is the mindset of people in the city of An. All they have is the dot, and they have to squeeze it all into that and be rabid about it because they've only got one life to live, and it's a very, very small life. Friends, we have to be careful to not be pushed into that mold Christians don't have one life to live, and even now the life they live has a radically different outlook and purpose and motivation, and that should certainly affect the way we relate to those outside of Christ. And so much more than how we relate in the church. If we are oriented around the kingdom of God, and that makes up the bulk of our discourse. The bulk of our discourse. Like what gets talked around around the meal at community group? What's the bulk of the discourse? Sit back and reflect after you spent some time with Christians. What was the bulk of our discourse? If we're orange around the kingdom of God, it ought to make up the bulk of our discourse. And if it does, then we can hear this call here then that we find, particularly in verse 19. But verse 18 reminds you that when you have this mindset, you're oriented around the kingdom of God. If you're serving Christ in that way, that's acceptable to God. As we trust in Christ, as we seek to live for Him, we make this our worship. We're acceptable to God, but also approve to men that's very, very interesting. We probably could spend much more time on that, but we can't today. But it is interesting. And the one thought that comes to mind for my reflection, for Matt Bowling. Is um It's probably when you live this way that you're approved by men within the body, by with by other people within the body of Christ. Matt Bowling reflection, because you're not a jerk. Because you're not a jerk, because Matt's not a jerk. Verse 19. What are we called to? Put off this despising, not judging Or in judging? What are we called to? So then let us, so the group exhortation, let us pursue. That is an evocative word. And I think it's on purpose. The Greek word that's behind this, that what's there is aggressively chased like a hunter pursuing a catch or a prize. We aggressively chase what? What makes for peace? How different 2020 would have been inside of the body of Christ, inside of this congregation, if just this one thing were followed. This is why we're here, friends. So that the next time, and it'll happen, the next time that there's the potential for something that is here that we experience that could split us apart, that could fracture us, that could make a swath of people leave this church. If instead the dynamic that was inside of the body is that each and every one of us were aggressively chasing what makes for peace. It would have been very different. Wouldn't it have been? It would have been very different. Pursue what makes for peace. What's it look like if I'm doing that? Well, I'm not trying to rile up. I'm not trying to correct somebody on tertiary matters. Instead, what I'm doing is I'm chasing peace. I'm aggressively pursuing it. And second thing, for mutual upbuilding. So here's a diagnostic question for you. Does my desired topic of conversation build up in Christ those that are present? Does my desired topic of conversation build up in Christ those that are present? If not, drop it. Never put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. Pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Mutual upbuilding, let's think about that just for a second. So I'm consciously thinking about my brother Gary. He comes to my house for dinner. I'm not going to serve him steak if his conscience isn't steak. I'm thinking about Gary, and I'm thinking What is it that Gary needs? What does my fellow brother or sister in Christ need from me? That they would experience Christ's righteousness given to them, the peace with God that is theirs in Christ, and joy in the Holy Spirit. That's what I'm looking to give to the person that I'm with. I'm looking to them and to their need to go deeper in the gospel and to apply it more broadly in their life. That's how I'm thinking about my relationship with them. Not to correct them, not to welcome them, to set them straight, but I'm thinking about what does this person need for me that they might more experience Christ and the benefits of his gospel? That's how I'm thinking about relationship in the body of Christ. Now if we did that more. We'd be pursuing what makes for peace and mutual upbuilding. Let's pray. Father, this is um a brainful but it's also Very clear what you call us to. And so help us to both put off The despising and judging that are so easy for us to do in our pride, me and my pride. And would you help us to put on? Never putting a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of somebody else, and always looking to pursue peace and mutual upbuilding Holy Spirit, there is no hope that we will ever do this except if you work in us. If you grant us repentance from the ways that we've failed in this. You grant us motivation because of grace, gratitude for it, that we would want to do this, and that you give us the power to live a different way. To want to, and then do it. So help us we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So