It's good to be with you. We're uh gonna take a break. Excuse me. We're gonna take a break from um the important considerations we've had. last couple of times and still be a couple more times about uh how we think about God and uh judgment of us and how that he's not judging us anymore and so that um well that should change things And while we're not going to directly talk about that today, it is interesting that Jesus, well, he does talk about judgment here and who's going to suffer it. Um and it's uh it's sobering. Uh it is uh Palm Sunday, and so we're gonna think through one of the classic passages um in Luke. Um Luke chapter 19. And so uh Luke 19, and we're going to start at verse 28. Let's hear God's word. And when he had said these things, so we're just on the back side. Of Jesus, if you read the passage above this, it's the very sobering parable of the Menas about some who didn't want the master to reign over them. These are wetted very carefully by Luke here in the narrative so that you don't miss it. You don't miss what he's going after. Okay? And when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. When he knew when he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany at the mount that is called Olivet, he sent two of his disciples, saying Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you, Why are you untying it? You shall say this: the Lord has need of it. So those who were sent went away and found it, just as he had told them. And as they were untying the colt, its owner said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it. And they brought it to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they set Jesus on it. And as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road. As he was drawing near, already on the way down the Mount of Olivet, the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and Praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. He answered, I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it, saying, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace. But now they are hidden from your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and hem you in on every side and tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you. And they will not leave one stone upon another in you, because you did not know the time of your visitation. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray together. Father, we're thankful that your love is like we just heard in the Offertory Psalm That's um dear and individual and specific for each one of your children The path that love took, though, to be exercised, to show itself. was a very, very difficult one. Help us um to remember that, to be grateful, to be thoughtful To rejoice with a a sober joy. A real joy. But a sober joy, knowing what it took that we could be received. Help that joy to show itself in true worship of you when we're here gathered for sure. But as we go about our weeks. For worship is truly the thing that you're looking for from us and from all people. Because you're worthy. And there are lots of fakes that attract us. But as I've been asking you to do in my own heart Convince me the fakes are fake. And help me help us to worship you truly. To put a stone in a business. Help us to begin to do that even now as we look at your word. We pray in Jesus' name. When you think about human beings, every single person you meet, everybody that you meet where you live, work, and play. What is the most basic thing about humans? Even the most important thing about humans, the most crucial part Of the human heart, what's the most ground-level posture of every single person? It's worship. Now some people would say, and there's even a famous preacher who I love who says that we we are involved in missions, we're involved in evangelism because uh there's a lack of worship. And I would agree that there's a lack of worship of the true God. The for sure. But there's not a lack of worship anywhere for anyone in every moment There is not a lack of worship. There is absolutely worship. It's just who or upon what that worship is focused. We always worship in every moment. That's the most ground-level aspect of existence for us as humans. Now, I think that as Christians, we tend to think, well, the most basic thing is that you obey or that you serve or even If you're one of those people like me who was disciple through a campus ministry, it's your witnesses, you're talking to people about Jesus. And for the Christian, these things are important. Obedience, service, witness, they're part of our calling. But it is from what I'm going to term repentant worship. That those things are meant to flow. They're not meant to stand alone. They're meant to flow from repentant worship. At least they ought to. Because if they don't flow from repentant worship, they're going to wither. They're going to lose their motivation. They don't have something big enough behind them if they don't flow from repentant worship. What Jesus receives on this day as he comes into Jerusalem, the beginning of what we call Holy Week, is precisely correct. He receives worship. And why he receives it is important and from whom he receives it is important and that's going to become more obvious as we make our way through this text. And so let's um let's see this kind of uh if you will, there's a worship war going on. On in this text. And so let's try and see it. Let's start by believing that Jesus is worthy of your worship. Look with me starting at verse 28. So we come off to telling of the parable of the Ten Minas. He goes on, he goes into Jerusalem. This is where he's been headed. The gospel's spend um the a great proportion of their time uh would they take three years and cover it maybe in three quarters or two-thirds of the book and then they spend the last quarter or third of their gospels just on one week. And that balance should help you realize the importance of the various aspects of Jesus' life. So he's been headed towards Jerusalem. He's going to Jerusalem. Uh he draws near to Bethphage and Bethany. Bethany was kind of like a I heard one preacher this week as I was listening say this is kind of his missionary rest place. So I thought is a great, great phrase for a church uh like ours that's always emphasized. Missions. They get to Olivet and he sends two of his disciples and tells them very specific directions. Go into the village. When you walk in, you're going to find a colt that's tied there. Um and no one's ever sat on it. So there's a there's a holiness kind of aspect to this, kind of the firstborn. Um But it's also unbroken. Um anybody my wife um grew up riding horses. Um she still laughs at me when I attempt to get up on a horse and still look incredibly clumsy and I Look at her and it's like poetry in motion, right? Um, unbroken animals are not something that you want to sit on, I promise you. You've probably seen it in movies, maybe you've seen it live. It's quite a disruptive experience, generally speaking. And generally ends with a person on the ground and an upset animal. So this is a typically dangerous situation. An unbroken cold. But they, Jesus says untie it. He's uh exercising his rights as the creator of everything and the king. And bring it here. If someone asks you, you know, what do you do with my goal? Um, say to the Lord, the Lord has need of it. And evidently this went down just fine. At least that's what we're told in four gospels. Three or four. This goes down just fine. So we don't know if there was a pre-arrangement or the people understood, or we don't we're not given all those details. We just know that it went down fine. And so they go away, they they find things just as they're told it's going to be, and indeed they're untying the colt. The owners say, what are you doing with my colt? And they say, well, the Lord has need of that. And we don't know really if this was a catchphrase that Jesus had gone and made a pre-arrangement, or um if they just were obedient. They recognized Jesus' lordship. And so they were willing, very willing to have valuable animal made use of. Verse 35, they so they bring the cold to Jesus, They throw their cloaks on the colt, make kind of a makeshift saddle, and they set Jesus on it. And that goes okay too. Which it should not be missed that that goes okay There's a an aspect in Luke's writing here, both with the cult and later we'll see with the stones, where If you will, lesser aspects of creation get it. And some of the image-bearers don't. And you're meant to reflect yourself and go, well, which where am I? Where am I? Where am I? It's interesting That this scene um is you try and picture it, and you're meant to try and picture it. There's an aspect of prophecy here You might remember from Zechariah 9. 9, rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. So Jesus is here as he does in many, many, many places. He fulfills a prophecy. Something that you and I can't do. We could never do. And Jesus does it without even blinking an eyelash. He enacts, he brings about the fulfillment of a prophecy Right here, in front of them, in front of us. So, what what should our response to this be when we when we look at this scene, when we see this prophecy fulfilled It should show us that Jesus is worthy. That he's worthy of my repentant worship. He's worthy of your repentant worship. It's why the next response is some people worshiping Jesus because they got it. They're like, wait, hold on. I know Zechariah. Wait. He'd never ridden. We have no other account of him at all on A Beast of Burden. They look at him on the Colt and they go. Oh my, this is it. This is what we've been waiting for. We've been singing Psalm 118 for as long as any of us can remember, and here it is in front of us. And so they react with worship, and really you're sort of left with the question: Do you see that Jesus is worthy? That he's worthy of your repentant worship. Well, let's keep going. A second, we're just gonna see, we're gonna watch some worship Jesus. We're gonna just look in on other people as they worship Jesus. Some of them at least. Verse 36. So he's on the he's on the colt. It's all going fine. And as they rode along, they're they're taking their coats. See if I can do this without killing the microphone. This is dirty road. They're laying them down. Good side up. Why? Because that was the way that you welcomed a king. You didn't let him walk across dirty ground You put the you put the the best out there for him. You you laid out the red carpet, but you made it of your own stuff. And you gave it to him. Imagine the person that picked up their cloak afterwards and they had the hoof prints on it. That was Jesus. He walked, he, the king of everything, he walked on my cloak. They lay out the red carpet for Jesus. I was trying to think of analogies because this is all very foreign to us as a you know culturally and everything. Um the the best analogy I come up with is probably weak, but it's the best one I could come up with as I was thinking about this. If you ever watched maybe you participated in this, I don't know, but um that would be great. Um it's this is not sadly gonna happen. Despite Ken Plantston and I watching the Caps and rooting for maybe another win this afternoon, um, the Caps are not going to win the Stanley Cup this year. It's just disappointing. If you're a hockey fan. But if the Caps were to win the Stanley Cup, there would be some there would be a parade somewhere in Washington. And there would be thousands and thousands and thousands of people rooting for the calves as they come through. the parade. That's the best of our, at least American analogies, for what this was like. They threw him a ticker-tape parade. They spread their cloaks on the road on the road. As they're drawing near closer and closer to the city, they're already on the way down The whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice. For all the mighty works they had seen. So as you think about those mighty works that they had seen, you kind of have to like And this is a good exercise, by the way. Reading a gospel all the way through. Give yourself, even this week, give yourself a couple of hours and just read one of the gospels all the way through. And take it in one shot. We it's good to to pull it apart and kind of look at little pieces of it and teachings and nothing that's wrong with that. But sometimes when you read the entirety of it, you just sit down, you sit back and you just go, Wow, that's a lot. And you're meant to, you're meant to have that sense. That's a lot. That's a lot just packed into three years of life. That's a lot. So what what could they have been thinking about? He goes through John's gospel and he John organizes content around seven signs. Is that what they were thinking about? Was it uh all the miracles that Jesus had done? Uh and I think of the end of John's gospel, and he says, uh essentially, Matt translation, he says, um Oh, here's a few selections of things that Jesus did. If I was to try and write all of them, it would fill all of the books of all of earth. And so we are given a sample of what they saw. And even the sample is overwhelming when you take it as a whole. Of just three years of Jesus' life. Were they thinking of the authoritative way that Jesus taught? You get that note across the Gospels, kind of like he taught with authority. Which was really different than what they'd experienced. What were they thinking of? All of these mighty works. There's a lot to ponder. There's a lot of reasons to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice, with the things that they had seen. And here's what they say, verse 38. Blessed is the king who comes. This is a quote, right? From Psalm 118. Blessed is the king. Who comes in the name of the Lord? Remember that God's always seeking the glory of his own name. And then this phrase struck me different. I preached this text, this sermon several times upon Sundays through the years. And this just struck me different this morning, as I was looking at this. Peace in heaven. Peace in heaven It's interesting when the angels come in Luke 2, right, you get glory in the highest. But it's peace on earth. This is a fascinating interplay because you're going to get another mention of peace later Um in this text. And and there's there's um I don't so fresh thought, not fully sorted. Um This is an interesting interplay. We desperately yearn for peace on earth. Great thing to yearn for. But there's also a problem because there isn't peace in heaven. And Jesus is trying to resolve both. Peace in heaven. Glory in the highest, the thing that the angel said in Luke 2. 14 So when you look at this scene, you see you picture it, Jesus coming in towards Jerusalem. Some worship Jesus, some lay out the red carpet. This phrase is from Psalm 118. It's one of the Hallel Psalms that's used during the Jewish holy days. Think about who is praising Jesus. It's his disciples. Right? That's what's noted. The whole multitude of his disciples. We don't know what size this group was. It seemed at times to be larger and at times to be smaller. This is a group of pilgrims. They're likely caught up in the festivities. They're all heading to Jerusalem, right, for the Passover. And they're they're doing the right thing. They're worshiping Jesus. It may not have been for all of the right reasons, but they are doing the right thing. Remember that at this time the way that the Messiah was thought of was mostly in kingly terms, right? Uh Messiah's gonna come in. He's going to kick out the Romans, and we're going to have wonderful, glorious our lands to ourselves and the blessings from God. And this, of course, was a great misconception. Jesus will exercise his final reign over everything, but just not at this time. Not at the time in which they were in. They thought the Messiah mostly in kingly terms, but not in priestly terms. Some of them not even in prophetic terms. As he's gonna weep here in just a moment because they they haven't listened to him. The final prophet. And they would didn't seem, some of them, to understand this priestly aspect of Jesus' life, where a song that I really enjoy Talks about how the priest becomes the sacrifice, which is a great oddity, of course. Priests offered sacrifices. But this, as Hebrews puts it, this final high priest, the sacrifice that he offers is himself. And they didn't seem to get those aspects, at least not very well. Or else the big crowd just a few days later wouldn't have shouted crucified So this is true worship. It's good worship. It's a good model to us. It's good for us to think about why did they worship? Um, but it it definitely it had at this point in the life of these disciples some some imperfections as well. Some people don't worship Jesus in the scene. Some leave the stones in business. And it's this contrast that I think deserves some focus. And so let's uh let's think about how to put a stone out of business. So um so some are worshiping, look with me at verse 39, some are worshiping, and some of the Pharisees. Now Uh when you're reading the Gospels and you see the word Pharisee, some of you were old enough, a few of you are old enough to remember the old uh Jaws movie from probably the late 70s. Right? And uh my wife and I like to um go out and listen to music. We go out almost uh almost every week and listen to live music where we live in Queerlane. Uh we were out on on Thursday night listening to music. And um We'll be listening to somebody and we'll kinda turn to each other and go, Do you hear that riff? That was a pretty good riff. You just you just hear something kinda as part of a song. Kind of its signature. Right? So what's the signature? What's the riff for Jaws? It's the Now isn't it interesting that's just just a couple of notes of a particular tone and it's like it can throw you back you get ghost right that's the m the marvel of music right it's it's the goodness of the part of of how we're made It's actually quite interesting. So, my way of thinking about the Pharisees is when they come up in the Gospels, they're always the bad guys. And so when you read the Pharisees in the Gospel, what you should be going on in the back of your mind is All right. So some of the Pharisees In the crowd said to him, as party poopers, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. It's a fairly interesting contrast. Why would they say this? The Pharisees thought that Jesus' disciples were blaspheming. They thought that Jesus' disciples were giving the worship that only belongs to God to a mere man, someone that they treated as a false prophet, as a false messiah, as a fake, as a fraud. And so they're like, rebuke your disciples, dummy. That's the feel of it. And Jesus' answer is fascinating. He answered I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. Now, stones I uh live on the shores of Lake Cordulane. It is a glacier cut lake. If you dig in any of the dirt around my house, basically what you have is you have gravel mixed in with some things that it's possible that perhaps something could grow in. Possible. Unlikely, but possible. The reason that my the ground around my house on the shores of the lake is gravel is because more than likely the gravel that's on my property came down from Canada. As it got scraped off by the ice sheet as it came down and then as it melted, it left what it had scraped off in my yard. It was long before it was your my yard, but it's my yard now. And what Jesus is saying is that that rock That sits in my yard better understands who Jesus sits than sometimes I do. That's what he's saying. That even what we view as our label for it is inanimate. It appears to not be alive through its creator. He knows He knows who Jesus is. If I tell them to be silent, you want all the rocks to cry out so interestingly although the Pharisees wanted Jesus to rebuke his disciples what happens is The Pharisees are the ones who get the rebuke. So verse 39 here we we pick up this theme that's throughout the Gospels of the opposition to Jesus is by the reigning authorities. The Pharisees had sort of the place of um authority in the culture. They were the ones who kind of got to call the shots. And they didn't like Jesus at all. We're told this is very frustrating to me as a young Christian. In John 10, there's this passage that talks about why the Pharisees didn't like Jesus. Because primarily the reason they didn't like him is they're like, well, we're going to lose our place culturally. That's why we don't like him. They refused his rule in place of what they enjoyed. Let's think about today in Jesus. In our day, it's popular for people to say, Well, I'm spiritual, but I'm not religious. You heard that before from people? Spiritual. I'm spiritual, but I'm not religious. Well, what's the virtue of being spiritual? Well, it means that I'm not under the delusion that stuff can make me fully happy. Good to be disabused of that. But what spirituality does is it leaves me in charge as the king or the queen of my life. So we come back to this matter of worship. Everyone in every moment is worshiping something or someone. It's inevitable. It's been said that sin is a worship disorder, a lifelong disease that we've had since birth. The Pharisees, what did they worship? They worshiped their traditions, their authority, their place in society. Those are the things that Jesus threatened. Which is why they were so against him. And it's why they wanted to hold on to what they had, even by sinning, even by putting the Son of God to death. This is the nature of idolatry, of worshiping something false. I'm so dead set that this can make me happy, that I'll sin to get it. That's the nature of idolatry. That's why what you worship is so important, and that it be Jesus and Him alone, not comfort Not satisfaction, not your appetites. Worshiping Jesus and Him alone is so important. What Jesus says here is intriguing. When you look at the scene as a whole, the cult gets it, the stones get it. But some of the image bearers don't. They don't get it. There's a break in your Bibles after verse 40. It probably shouldn't be there. Remember, those are all inserted by editors. There is a bit of change in scene. But the theme is continuous. Jesus is continuing on the main theme that he began. Actually, even in the parable of Minas. about opposition to him and why people's hearts are like that. Look at me, verse forty-one. When he drew near, so he's he's uh looking over the city, if you will, and he sees the city, and he's angry. What does it say? He wept over it This is intriguing all in itself. One of the sermons that listened to this week by Sinclair Ferguson, entirely worth it. You can find it on monergism. com The incidents where we find Jesus weeping in the scriptures are are very few. Lazarus tomb is the most obvious one. But here Jesus weeps over the city, why? Why? Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make. For peace. He weeps because he's told them time and again: this is how you can have peace with God. This is how there can be peace on earth and peace in heaven. Here are the terms of peace. And you I'm so sad that you will not receive. God's terms of peace. That's what he weeps over the city about. And as a result, he also weeps because judgment's coming. He's sad. He's torn up. Part way through verse 42, but now they're hidden from your eyes. In God's judgment. The days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barricade around you and surround you and hem you in on every side, tear you down to the ground, you and your children within you, and they will not leave one stone upon another. Why? Because you did not know the time of your visitation. This is a very short sh just description of the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD by the Romans. Um if you have the courage and the stomach too, you can read about it. It's awful. It's absolutely horrendous. the Romans did to Jerusalem. The reason the if you go um the pastor the church that we go to at home in is in uh Israel right now and if you go you can see the little fragments that are Left of the great temple, because not one stone was left upon another. And the people were annihilated God used Rome to judge Jerusalem and its people. Something that's a recurring theme through the scriptures. When his people reject him, the Lord weeps and still judges and uses pagan peoples to do it. And here he uses the Romans to Jerusalem and his own people for why? Because they largely rejected his reign over them. Back to the parable in Minas, one unit. Oh, that you knew the time of your visitation. That you got it. Colts get it, Colt gets it, Stone gets it, some get it, but the vast mass Notice how Jesus thinks about lost and confused people. One of the reasons that we're thinking about in our main series that I've been preaching through about judgment and the way that God thinks about it is that one of the things that the people in our culture around us think about us is that we're very judgmental. Which is why we need work on it. And why we're thinking about it. It's the same way. Jesus weeps. He pities lost and confused people. He yearns for them to understand the terms of peace. With God. Jesus hungers that people would know that through him reconciliation between God and man can occur. Is that the way you think about this? Even just as an individual Do you know that you were born broken and rebellious? You were born not praising God, but with a worship disorder. And Jesus here yearns that we would praise instead of reject him. He desires that we, you and me, that we would accept the terms of peace. That's what the gospel is. Here's the terms of peace. Terms of peace with me, repent of your sin, repent of your worshiping things that are unworthy, and instead turn to me. That's the terms of peace. The gospel is a declaration of the terms of peace with God. Repent and believe. Peace with God can be had But the price of rejection is very high. You just have to read these last couple of verses To see how serious God is about people that reject Him. But even this horrific judgment that happened in 70 AD will pale in comparison to the final judgment. You see, this putting a stone in a business isn't isn't an option. Adopting a lifestyle of repentance and faith isn't something God sort of puts out there and says, Well, you know, hey, give this a try. See if it works for you. In the South, when you try and close, maybe some of you have heard this phrase before, but you go in and you try on a new suitcoat and they're like, well, does it work for you? That's not what the gospel is. The gospel isn't like, hey, let's try it on. The gospel is a declaration from the king who made everything that says, here's the terms of peace with me. Repent and believe as a lifestyle. You either bow now, or you will bow, but unhappily Unwillingly, but you'll bow. You bow before the king who comes not in a donkey, but in a judgment war horse. You can read about that in Revelation 19 if you have the courage to. It will either be peace with God on his terms or war with God. The colt got it, the stones got it, the disciples got it, the Pharisees didn't get it. Do you? If this is still new to you, God is pleased to have you pray simply. Enable me to know you as you are. Even this week, as you take in Passion Week, you'll have the opportunity for some service tonight, services in the week to come. Ask God this past week to show you his worthiness, to show you your sinfulness, and to show you how his perfect life and death are sufficient. To achieve peace between you and God. The whole Passion Week shows you the worthiness of Jesus. Remember It's a week later that Jesus is raised. That's we'll celebrate next Sunday. But he must be raised. Because this isn't your typical coronation ceremony. This king, come Thursday night, will instruct his disciples around a supper. He'll pray all night in a garden. And then it'll have a crowd like this. Yell something very different. In a few short decades. On that day, they will yell crucify. On what we call Good Friday, because it's good for us. But it was an excruciating one for Jesus. This king coming in in a donkey isn't crowned first, except with thorns. He isn't crowned first, he suffers first. That's what we will That's what we'll think about around the Lord's table tonight. And we invite you to That's what the table speaks. Speaks of a humble king willing to suffer. Well, what do you meant to see here? Don't you see that Jesus is worthy? He's worthy of your repentant worship every day. And if we offer repentant worship each day, then everything else, obedience, service, witness, they will all quite naturally flow from that. And they'll flow from that with a supply of motivation. Our awe of God. Our sense of his worthiness. Really all else flows from that. If each day we're seeking to put a stone in a business. Let's pray together. Father, I thank you that you um your posture at us as you as you pity those who walk after things that can never fully please. Help us to be ones that receive you, that rejoice in you, that want to offer you repentant worship day by day. Help us to have the right heart towards those who don't yet know you Help us to mirror your heart. And having humbly repented, lightly, humbly, offered But that has to flow from true worship of you day by day Help us to see your worthiness, to acknowledge it, to express it, to be humbled ourselves, that you're gracious to ones like us. Celus Lord, we pray in Jesus' name.