This has been a summer of record. We had the longest consecutive days on record, over ninety-five degrees. Twenty-two days, I believe it was in July. And then we had the longest number of consecutive days without rain up until Friday, I believe it was thirty-three days, and then Blessedly got a little bit of rain Friday evening, a little bit yesterday. And of course everybody knows that Cal Ripkin broke the record of the longest number of consecutive days playing baseball, big league baseball in the United States. Understand Japanese fellows gone further But in the United States, 2131 days. Broke the record this week. And as you sit here, you may be thinking that this is the longest series on a message, on a series of anything in Scripture that you have ever sat through. the names of God. We're coming to the end of that series. I think this series might have been before Matt and Joanne were with us. We started in spring of 1989 in the series and are now in the next few weeks bringing it to a conclusion. How many of you were here in spring of 1989? There's just a minority of you that are here. So most of you have come with us since the series has begun. In preparing this series, I found six books that were written on the names of God. Interestingly, of those six books, only one even mentions the eighteenth name of God that we consider this morning. And that's only a brief passing reference None of those six books I consider definitive in their treatment of the subject of the names of God. My wife Kathy says that the Lord is calling us to take a sabbatical at Cape Cod for a year for me to write such a book. I don't know if the Lord's calling us to do that, but nevertheless, sometime I might like to take a crack at it because there is a lot that is lacking in this study. This is a name that you never hear. And that's a curious thing because this name is unlike other names. Other names, many of the ones we've considered, are included in all the books on the names of God. Are really titles such as Adonai, which means Lord or Master. Or some of them are descriptions of God. such as Yahweh Mekedishkim, the Lord who sanctifies you, or Yahweh Rapha, the Lord who heals you, or Yahweh Rahi, the Lord my shepherd, they're descriptions. Or in some cases they're really names of places. Such as Yahweh Shalom, the Lord my peace, Gideon named an altar that. Or you remember that Ezekiel called Jerusalem Yahweh Shema, the Lord is there. But this name, the one that's only even mentioned in one of the six books on it, and a name that we never hear, that people don't think of when they think, what are the names of God? You don't see it in hymns and plaques or anything. is this one name that appears as a description several times in Scripture, but in one place explicitly is introduced by Yahweh whose name is. And so this one, above many of the others, should be included in our understanding of what is God like. He says this is his name. This is the essence of his character. The one time you see it as his name is in Exodus chapter 34, verse 14, where we read, in Exodus 34, 14, Do not worship any other God. For the Lord Yahweh, traditionally pronounced Jehovah, but more properly Yahweh for the Lord, whose name is Kana, jealous. is a jealous God. And what was the situation that provoked that revelation? Do you remember that shortly before this, Moses had gone up on Mount Sinai for forty days and forty nights to receive the testimony of the law from the Lord, that covenant that he was making with his people? And Israel became tired of waiting. And so they constructed out of gold a calf, a golden calf, as an aid to worship. Now I'm sure that they rationalized. There really wasn't anything particularly wrong with this. It was a rather harmless sort of thing because cows were sacred in Egypt, and so it reminded them of the sacred, and it was simply a cultural thing, you know just kind of an aid to worship. Just cultural, right? Well God did not agree. God says the focus of your worship is not a culturally determined matter. And so God came down in judgment. And he slew three thousand of the Israelites on the spot. And then the plague began. Thousands more died in that plague. And during that time, Moses pleaded with the Lord. And God finally brought the plague mercifully to a conclusion and did not wipe out his people. And Moses pleaded, God, please don't abandon us. Go up with us. Don't even let us go up into the land if you're not going to go with us. And God says that he understands Moses knows his heart at that point and he relents and he forgives Israel And there is in this rush of intimacy, a precious moment, God reveals himself to Moses. He shows him his glory and displays to him something of his character. And then he renews the covenant with Israel. Now that's the background, that's the setting of Exodus 34. And in verse 10 to 14, you have a very important statement about the renewal of that covenant. So let's pick up God's word at chapter 34. Verse 10 to see what God says here. Then the Lord Yahweh says, I am making a covenant with you. I am renewing this covenant. Before all your people, I will do wonders never before done in any nation in all the world. The people that you live among will see how awesome is the work that I, the Lord, will do for you. Obey what I command you today. I will drive out before you the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, the Jebusites. Be not be careful not to make a treaty with those who live in the land where you are going, for they will be a snare among you. Break down their alders, smash their sacred stones, and cut down their ashera poles. Do not worship any other God, for the Lord whose name is Kana, jealous, is a jealous God. Now try to put yourself in that situation for a moment. And notice that what God says here has both a general and a specific reference. First of all, in verses 10 and 11 you have a general statement. What's God going to do? Basically, he says, awesome wonders. I'm going to do wonders that were never done in any other nation in all the world. Now what's he referring to? He's referring to the fact that ultimately what God is going to do in this covenant is that he is going to display that these are a people who cannot keep that covenant. But God is going to one day, in the fulfillment of the promise that He's given, send his own Son, who will keep the stipulations of that covenant. And then he will then take the place of all of those who recognize their need for righteousness, the fact that we have broken that covenant. That we have played God in our own lives and flaunted our own authority and our own rebellion in his face. And he will stand before God, taking the curses of that covenant on our behalf. And God Himself will suffer all of the wrath of Himself upon covenant breakers. And you and I will be given The record of Jesus. Yahweh Tigkenu, the last name we looked at, the Lord our righteousness. God says this is something so amazing. No other nation has ever even conceived of this, that God Himself will promise heaven and then fulfill the stipulations for gaining that promise. Now what are you and I to do? And so he responds, we're to obey. Verse 11, obey then when I command you. Now he gets more specific. Now he says, specifically, what am I going to do in the immediate that is awesome? I'm going to drive out all these nations that you see in Canaan. And I'm going to give you a foretaste of that kingdom. I'm going to give you this lavish land so that you will taste something of the inheritance that I ultimately will provide for you, that heavenly city. What then are you to do? And that's where verse 14, well verse 13 begins. Break down their altars, smash their sacred stones, cut down their ashera poles. Verse 12, don't make any treaty with them. They'll be a snare to you. Verse 14 then: Do not worship any other God. Because God is jealous. I will not tolerate any other rivals. That's why you and I must never worship false gods. Because God is jealous. Now, again, I have to pause here to remind myself and to remind you that we live in a day where it's not very important to people in general to know precisely what God is like. The God who meets my needs, the God that I would like to believe, seems to be sufficient. But historic Christianity has always held that God Himself reveals Himself to us. And he does that in a large measure through his names. His names say, This is what I am like. And if you don't worship what I am like as I have revealed myself, you can call it Christianity. You can call it anything you want. But it's false religion, it's false worship. And when God says, I want to tell you something, I am jealous. That's not for you and me to say, is that one of the things I want to include in my understanding of God, or isn't it? We're not at liberty to choose among his names, those which are our favorites. The whole composite of God's revelation reveals to us God as He is. And if we take and pick and choose any parts of that We will come up with something not only that is deficient and false, but ultimately will not be worthy of our worship. And so it's important for you and for me to understand what it means that God says, I am jealous. Two questions are raised by this then. First one is: how can God be jealous? How can God be jealous? Isn't jealousy wrong? Petty? Possessive? You think of jealousy as not a very admirable characteristic. You talk about somebody they're jealous, so you know you don't think, wow, that's wonderful. I wish I could be like that. We think of what God is like. We think there are always things that you say, I would wish that I could be like that. So when God says that he's jealous, isn't that sort of a problem? How can God be jealous? Well then, first of all, look at what is jealousy, Part A. I agree with Allender and Longman in their excellent treatment of jealousy in the book Cry of the Soul, I've referred to a number of times before. Where they basically sum up what they talk about in terms of jealousy as saying that jealousy is the passionate protection of an exclusive relationship. Jealousy is the passionate protection of an exclusive relationship. They distinguish between envy and jealousy. Envy, you see, is craving what I don't have and wish that I did have. Jealousy is the protection of what I do have, or at least think I have. Envy is always wrong. Jealousy is like anger. In itself, it is not necessarily right or wrong. So then, is the second point B, is not jealousy wrong? Jealousy, if it is toward a relationship that is not exclusive, is wrong, if it's simply possessive. However, if jealousy is the jealousy of a rival in an exclusive relationship, a relationship that ought to be exclusive then it's absolutely right. Jealousy is right where the relationship ought to be exclusive. Jealousy is right when the relationship ought to be exclusive. Jealousy is not necessarily petty. It is not necessarily something that is simply possessive. And the Bible says that there are two such relationships that exist. In which there is an utter exclusivity that is proper and right. The first one is between the husband and the wife. A relationship between a husband and wife is uniquely exclusive. No one has the right to the intimacies that I have with Kathy. And if anybody were to seek to intrude on that, I would be right to be jealous. In fact, I would be wrong not to be jealous. I couldn't claim to love her and to seek to be so open-minded that I would want to share her with someone else. Jealousy is the passion that protects the exclusivity, the uniqueness of our relationship. Now, jealousy isn't always right. Jealousy can come from my own insecurity. Jealousy may be possessive in a marriage relationship. And it may take other people helping me, counseling, to sort out. When jealousy is something that's my problem or the other person's problem, but if the person, when one spouse is jealous of the other and they're willing to hear and to listen and to work through Then likely the grounds for jealousy are not very strong. If there is a defensiveness, a refusal to listen, that's just your problem, then the jealousy may in fact have some grounds. But that's a more complex issue. All I'm seeking to demonstrate now is that jealousy is a right and passionate protection of an exclusive relationship between a husband and a wife. The Bible says that that relationship is a mirror image of the relationship between Jesus and his bride, the second exclusive relationship the Bible speaks of. Jesus and his bride have an exclusive, a uniquely exclusive relationship. You and I are betrothed to Jesus. The Bible says that we're not married to Jesus yet. You know when the marriage comes? When Jesus comes back. When Jesus comes back, that will be the wedding. The marriage feast, the culmination, the consummation of our union with Him, all of that will take place then. But the Bible does not speak of us as simply engaged to Jesus, the way we think of an engagement that could be broken, has no legal obligation. The Bible rather speaks of us being betrothed to Jesus. That is, we are legally bound to him. We are as good as married. Legally, there is that mutual obligation. We are in that exclusive relationship with him right now. And any other rival to that relationship. provokes us jealousy because he is passionate to protect the exclusivity of our relationship So that leads us to see the passion of God. Brothers and sisters, I think one of the things that we so often miss And our understanding of God that this word wants to call our attention to loud and clear is that our God is a passionate God. We tend to look at God and saying here in Exodus 34 now, you guys are going to go in the land, and you know you better watch out in there because you might have fun And I don't want you to go into any of those Canaanite parties, because I'm going to blast you if you do. As if God is standing removed, you know, that that cosmic party pooper idea, that image that God is dispassionate. All he's concerned is that we keep the rules. But that is not at all the picture that you have here in Exodus 34, where God says, I am a jealous God. What you have described here is the passion of God. God is saying, you're going into this land, and I want to warn you, there are temptations in that land. It's sort of like w who was it, Brian Holland or somebody that sang, you know, see you in September? You know, and you know, there's the picture of the guy and you know he's saying to his girl, you know, you're gonna go in the summer and You know, I want you to have a really great time this summer at camp or wherever you're going to be, but just remember, the whole time that we're apart, that you belong to me. So when we come back together in September, I want you to still be mine. Now, you know, you hear that and you say, gee, isn't that romantic? Now God's saying something very similar here. And we say, isn't that strict and demanding? You see, what God is saying here is that I'm leaving you, my people. I'm putting you here in this land. Since Jesus, I'm leaving you here in this world, and I want you to enjoy this world, and I want you to have a good time here, but just remember. Your affections are uniquely to be centered on me. I don't want to lose your affection to any of the other gods of this land, to their values. And to all the things that they represent. This is rooted in the very essence of God's covenant. You remember in Exodus chapter 20 when he gave the Ten Commandments. The first was, you'll have no other gods before me. The second, you shall not make for yourself an idol in the form of anything in heaven above or the earth beneath. Or in the waters below. Anything, any creature, any creation, you shall not bow down to them or worship them. Give them your affection. For I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God Punishing the children for the sin of the fathers to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, showing love to a thousand generations of those who love me. And keep my commandments. Deuteronomy chapter 4 adds to this that our God is a consuming fire in his jealousy. Deuteronomy 6 speaks of God as a jealous God, and it says that if you are unfaithful and follow other gods, I will destroy you. Let's put it bluntly. God's saying, if I find you in bed with another God, I'm going to kill you both. You think that language is too graphic? Then I remind you of X Ezekiel chapter 16 that Tom read from before. Ezekiel 16 is one of the most sexually explicit chapters in the entire Bible. That's enough to get some of you reading it right there this afternoon. But Exodus chapter 16 is a picture of God where he sees Israel, and Israel was generated by her parents. And in those days, they often didn't perform abortions, but if they didn't want the child, they would simply throw it out as soon as it was born to let it die in the elements. And that's the picture that God gives here. He says that you were simply thrown out. They didn't even wash off your blood from the womb. They just threw you out in the field. And I passed by as you were kicking in your blood, and I saw you, and I rescued you, and I took you to myself, and I fed you, and I nursed you, and I clothed you, and I washed you and I raised you. And you became a healthy, beautiful young woman. Your breasts grew and your hair grew and you became lovely You were ripe for marriage. And I passed by you again, and I saw you as a lovely, mature woman. And I entered into a covenant of marriage with you, and I made love to you. And I took you into my home, and I lavished you with all that I had, all the jewelry and all the clothes and everything, so that you were known for your radiance. You were called a queen among the nations. Who would have more blessed than this woman who had been rescued from death and raised in opulence and then made a queen? The wife of this fabulously rich king who had set all his affection upon her. And then he says, verse 15. Verse 15 of Ezekiel chapter 16. But you trusted in your beauty. See, yeah, I am pretty beautiful. But you forgot that that beauty came from me. You trusted in your beauty and you used your fame to become a prostitute. You lavished your favors on anyone who passed by and your beauty became his. You freely gave of yourself. Of your body. And against all reason and human decency, you spurned the one who had saved you and loved you and given you everything that you had, even your very life. And you degenerated to become a gutter whore. You were worse than a prostitute, because a prostitute at least charges for her favors But God says you ran after your lovers and you bribed them. You said, I'll pay you to have sex with me. And so you had one after another after another. Until you are so degenerate that you are hideous to look upon. God says, what am I going to do? Look how he describes that in verses 32 to 34. You adulterous wife. You prefer strangers to your own husband. Every prostitute receives a fee, but you give gifts to all your lovers, bribing them to come to you from everywhere for your illicit favors. So in your prostitution, you are the opposite of others. No one runs after you for your favors. You're the very opposite, for you give payment, and none is given to you. Then verse 22, look what he said back there. And all your detestable practices and your prostitution, you didn't remember. The days of your youth when you were naked and bare and kicking about in your own blood. Do you see the language here? This is the language of a jilted lover. And this is our God. This is the holy, infinite, transcendent God who is speaking like a spurned lover to his wife. How could you do that to me? Can you see the passion dripping from these words? You and I can't dare it's just it's amazing. You know, we can read this and then somehow detach it from what God is like. It doesn't fit. God in all his passion, reaching out longingly to Israel, the people with whom he had made covenant. He then says, because of this, verse 38, because of all this, of what you have done, look what he says. I will sentence you to the punishment of women who commit adultery and who shed blood. I will bring upon you the blood vengeance of my wrath and my jealous anger Here it is, you see. Jealous anger. What's he going to do? He describes in verses 34 to 36 that he is going to gather about her all those lovers. And they will take vengeance upon her. And they will destroy her and rip her to pieces. Why is that? Again, verse 42. Then in my wrath against you I will subside, and my jealous anger will turn away from you. I will be calm and no longer angry. I've destroyed you. Because you did not remember the days of your youth, but you enraged me with all these things that I will surely bring down on your head what you have done, declares the Sovereign Lord. Did you not add lewdness? To all your other detestable practices. Now who's that written to? You say, hey, wait a minute. If I'm a Christian, how can God be saying that to me? This is written, brothers and sisters, to the visible church. This is written to Israel as an entity that was in covenant with God. This is written to the Christian visible church in the United States, those who call themselves Christians. And if you truly belong to Jesus this morning, you do not have to fear that you will in fact suffer a destruction, a judgment, a torment, because Yahweh Tidkinu, the Lord is your righteousness. But What this warning says is don't presume that because you name Jesus, that you in fact know Jesus If your heart, in fact, says on the one hand that on Sunday I can sing to Jesus, but the rest of my life through the week is really lived with my affection centered around this world. Then the warning comes very seriously. Run to Jesus for forgiveness For you and I, there will be some of us here that are deceiving ourselves about whether in fact we really know Jesus. And there will be some in this here, in this room here, that God says, I'll find you in bed with another lover. And your true heart, the true affections of your heart will be revealed. And you will be destroyed. If you find in your own heart a deep conviction, a fear at these words, then I urge you. Hosea gives the invitation: come, run to me, and I will love you freely. The end of Ezekiel 16, the last verses speak of God renewing the covenant and calling his people to himself. Song of Solomon, chapter 8, verse 6, says, Love is as strong as death, and jealousy as unyielding as the grave. Jealousy, you see, is intertwined with love. And so Jesus calls you this morning. Come, forsake your other lovers, and come to me for forgiveness. Come to me to have your heart changed and your affections turned. And so finally, what are our lovers? What are your lovers? What are my lovers that he's referring to? How do we apply this? That's point two. Who are my lovers? There are two kinds of lovers that the New Testament speaks about. Two kinds of lovers. The first is the false teaching, the ideas that supplant Jesus as my trust. In 2 Corinthians chapter 11, Paul says in the beginning with verse 1, I hope that you will put up with a little with my foolishness. But you're already doing that. Typical words of a preacher, right? I'm jealous, he says, for you have a godly jealousy. I promised you to one husband, to Christ, Messiah, so that I might present you as a pure virgin to him, but I'm afraid. Just as Eve was deceived by the serpent's cunning, your minds may somehow be led astray from your sincere and pure devotion to Christ. Or if someone comes and they preach to you a Jesus other than what we preached. If you receive a spirit, different spirit from the one you received, or a different gospel from the one you accepted, And you put up with that easily enough. It says what you want to hear. Paul says the first thing that God is jealous of is that you and I believe a different gospel. A man-centered gospel. A gospel that doesn't center our affections upon Jesus as the one who has made us and redeemed us and washed us from our sin. The second kind of jealousy that the New Testament speaks of is that described in James chapter 4. A cozying up to the world with your affections. James chapter 4. In verse 4, James says, You adulterous people, don't you know that friendship with the world is hatred toward God? Anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God. That's strong language. Or do you think that Scripture says without reason that the Spirit He caused to live in us envies intensely? That's a very difficult verse. Some of you who remember the second longest series around here probably was the one on James many years ago. And when I covered that verse, I talked about how that was difficult to translate, but tried at that point to uh substantiate to demonstrate that if you look at the NIV note, if you have an NIV text Bible, that the second note translation, I think, is the proper one. Which says that the spirit that He causes to live in us jealously strives. He is jealously longing for us. God is saying here that you and I want to divert our affections. From the God that we can't see to something that we can see for our satisfaction, for our comfort, for our meaning, for our security. And I list some examples of some things that that might be. But when you boil them all down, what is it that Jesus is jealous of in your life this morning? And the answer is very simple. Anything that takes his rightful place at the center of your affections. Anything that you say that this one I'm really honest is what I go to for comfort more than Jesus. This is what I go to for meaning in my life, rather than Jesus. This is what I find security in in my life, not really Jesus. And that could be alcohol, it could be food, it could be numbers of kinds of addictions Those are false gods. God is jealous of the addictions and the compulsions. And it's a passion, you see. The jealousy is a passion to protect the exclusive relationship. He wants to deliver you because that jealousy, a godly jealousy, wants to protect the relationship. Do you see the passion of Jesus for your life this morning and those addictions and compulsions and substitutes that you have? They harm you. The beautiful thing about the gospel is that God has so designed us that when our lives are lived with Him at the center, we are the happiest. It's not an either-or. His jealousy protects both himself and us at the same time. It could be something good. It could be sex. It could be things that you look at in addictions for sex. It could be something perfectly harmless, like a job or a career, a perfectionistic tendency in that. Or perhaps it's a hobby. Some of you know because we've been consulting half the congregation. We bought a computer this week. I'm scared of that thing in a little bit. I've seen what can happen with people in computers. Very seductive. All kinds of toys that we can have. To displace Jesus for our comfort, our affection. Things that God has given to us to enjoy. Maybe even another person, whatever it is. Whatever it is. Focus on that in your life now. And come and bring it before the Lord. And then remember that Jesus has said in Revelation chapter 2, that to him who hears, I have given secret manna. And I've given a white stone, and on that stone I have placed a name, a secret name. That no one else knows but him and you, a nickname A name that describes you perfectly. An intimate name. There are nicknames that Kathy calls me that if any of you used, I'd be offended. It wouldn't be appropriate. Only she has a right to use that name. And there is a name that you have that only Jesus will use. And when you hear that name, you will understand the passion of his love for you, the exclusivity of that relationship. Run to him now, brothers and sisters. Run from those other lovers and come to Jesus. Let's pray.