Last week I mentioned that I was torn between this week continuing in Ephesians six or dedicating a special message to questions that were raised by last week's shocking attacks. And after uh prayer and consideration and reading the grace lips and hearing from you I decided to do both. So what I'm going to do is um address three main questions And there are many questions, many questions we can consider. In fact, next week We're going to have a pastor's panel and uh during the middle hour to raise uh some of those questions that I can't deal with now, questions that you ask. And so I would encourage you, look at the bulletin on that, and notice that the questions that are emailed into the office will get first consideration. But next week we are canceling all middle hour classes just for one week in order for us to assemble here and to have a discussion as we as Christians try to grapple with some of these very difficult questions that we must consider in light of national and world events now But for this morning, what I have done is I've taken from all the questions we could consider and boiled it down to three questions Three main questions that are raised by the events of the last week. Number one, am I ready to meet God today? Am I personally ready to meet God today? Very practical, personal question. Second, how could a good God let this happen Question a number of people are asking. A few thoughts on that. And thirdly, what is the Christian response to all of this? Can't deal with these exhaustively, of course, but I want to deal with them with some thoughts from Scripture and particularly focusing on the passage in Ephesians 6. So what we're going to be doing is looking more at the application of this passage, even though we have not yet considered. considered exactly what it's saying so much, but just kind of some obvious applications and implications of it. First question then, am I ready to meet God today? Are you Interesting how this question suddenly forces itself on us because of what happened Tuesday a week ago, and simply because we saw on TV Five thousand or so people suddenly killed before our eyes and ushered into eternity Now that was a mere five thousand that we saw. Now how dare I say mere Well, I say that only in this sense, that by my calculations, about 111,000 Americans die every single day. Hundred and eleven thousand. So five thousand is uh kind of a blip on the screen In fact, I don't know the statistics, but a week ago Tuesday could have been a below average day for number of deaths in America. Nevertheless, by the fact that we all witnessed all at once people In a very untimely way, not people in nursing homes or hospitals, but people in exactly the kind of places that you and I are at work Suddenly ushered into eternity has had an incalculable impact on us. We realized that these were people just like us that got their Starbucks down on the lobby, went up the elevators. And we're immediately ushered into the presence of God face to face. And so the question forces itself on us. Where are they now? Where are those people now? Where would you be if you had been one of them? And I want to help you with this. I really want to help you if this is a question that you're struggling with, that you're uncertain about. You see, Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 11. Paul says that the devil is a schemer. The Bible says he is a deceiver. It says he's a liar from the beginning. And the schemes of verse eleven begin in the devil's strategies With keep keeping people from thinking that they need to decide about their relationship with Jesus Christ today. It's always something to do later. Really isn't for today. I got other things on my mind. I realize a big decision. I can't really handle that right now. And sometime you're right, sometime I need to think about that. You see, all of a sudden, we were jolted out of that. But the devil still wants to get you to think, yeah, it's a good question. I you know, and I really I was kind of nervous about it. I need to think about that sometime. Listen, the the later never becomes convenient. When my mother died in our home from brain cancer, I went through her effects and I found a Gospel of John that she had carried in her purse since I believe it was 1924. And my mother was not a believer. She carried that gospel of John in her purse all those years. In World War II, I have a cousin who says that she took an entire weekend witnessing to my mother, pressing upon her the claims of Christ, urging her to trust the Lord, and she wouldn't do it. When my mother was dying of brain cancer in our home, someone from our congregation was kind enough to come over and to share the gospel with her and again to talk to her about her need for Christ. I asked her the next day, Mom, what did you think about that? Do you see a need now in your life to give yourself to Jesus Christ? I'll never forget her response. She said, Well that's not just something you do suddenly, you know. You need to think about that. You don't just do that in a rash moment And I thought, since nineteen twenty four, and it's never been the right time. And so when you see the events of a week ago, think of Ecclesiastes 9, verse 12. It's a verse that ought to be getting a lot of exposure today. It's so appropriate a commentary. God's word is so pertinent. Ecclesiastes 9 12 says, Moreover No man, no person knows when his hour will come. As fish are caught in a cruel net or birds are taken in a snare So people are trapped by evil times that fall unexpectedly upon them. What about you? Interesting that after the attack on Thursday morning Uh that same cousin who had uh witnessed to my mom has a son, Bob, who died of cancer after a two-year battle with it last Thursday morning. Week ago Thursday And so last Monday I was back up in Pennsylvania for the funeral. There were probably 600 or so people packed into this church. The pastor in the funeral service spoke nothing of Christ, but simply of what a wonderful person Bob was. And though Bob never went to church or showed any personal interest in Christ, uh she was sure that he was in heaven waiting for the rest of his family to join him there. And then she invited all six hundred people to come and take the Lord's Supper And so I was amazed. All six hundred people did. They all went forward, and she says, This is Christ's body Given for you. This is Christ's blood shed for you. I know that family. And there are not many Christians in that family But you see what Satan does? She ended her message by saying, there are many religions. But there is only one God who is waiting for each of us to come flying into his arms at the moment of our death, somewhere beyond the sea. And she quoted from that song. That's what I call Santa Claus theology. The Santa Claus theology says There's right and there's wrong, and you gotta, you know, you gotta try to live a good life because there's consequences. But hey When you die, in the end, it's like Christmas morning, nobody's really going to get coal in their stocking. It's all going to work out You know, God is certainly not going to be outdone by a parent who says, well, you know, I haven't been so good, but That's okay, it's Christmas, so let's just forget it. And that's the way people present God. You see, that's Satan's lie It's his way of deceiving you so you don't feel a need for Jesus Christ in your life. And then when something like what happens happens, we all talk about well, you know, they're all in a better place and in heaven, and we all kind of soothe ourselves by saying In denying our hearts that convict us that all is well, we've got a lot of the same thing. Are you really ready to stand before God on your own record today? Max Milkey, most of you know, was in the Pentagon on that morning. And he was in an E-ring room, which means that there was a window to the outside. I imagine that uh can't conceive of the fact that um Max and the others there would not have heard that plane in the last second or two coming at them And I can imagine Max looking up, seeing the plane come, and knowing this is my moment to join my Lord And we're confident that Max is with the Lord. Why? Because he was a better person than other people? No. No. Simply because Max Bilke realized he was a sinner in need of a savior Because as Paul says in the book of Ephesians in chapter 2, verse 1, you and I were dead in our transgressions and our sins. He goes on to say in verse 3 that we were like the rest, like everyone else, by nature objects of God's wrath. You know your record doesn't stand up. To what God expects of you and how to live and how you treat other people and how you've treated God. Max Bilke believed that there was a Savior who was sufficient. And so Paul goes on to say in verse 4 That because of his great love for us, God, who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ even when you were dead in your transgressions. It is by grace that you have been saved. Let me ask you If you were standing where Max Bilke was standing a week ago Tuesday, where would you be now? Would you be trusting your own record and hoping that's good enough? Or would you know that you're safe? Because Jesus records substituted for you by his death on the cross and his willingness to trade places with you. before God's judgment. If you have any doubts about that, I urge you, I plead with you Did you put on the gray slip that you have there in your little blue bulletin? I'd like to talk about this with a pastor. Just put something on there and let us know how to get you, and we'll get back to you. I mean that this week There is no question that comes close to the importance of that question raised by the events. Of September the 11th. And I plead with you not to ignore it. Satan's scheme is to say to you right now, I'm uncomfortable But he's not going to press me now. Later, some other time. And you never know when you'll be standing before the Lord. Now the second question It comes to us is how could a good God let this happen? Again, we see in Ephesians chapter 6 That Paul says that Satan is a schemer, a deceiver, and received from the very beginning. In Genesis 3 That basic to Satan's schemes is his whispering to you that God really can't be trusted because he's really not good. He really wants to hold out. And so when things happen like happened on September the eleventh Life seems pretty random, doesn't it? I don't know about the stories you've heard, but just stories that are close to me Raise a lot of questions about that. For instance, in our sister church in our Presbytery, the church in uh Leesburg, Virginia, Orthodox Presbyterian Church, there's a woman there who has a son. Who was a pilot with United Airlines out of Boston? On the morning of September the 11th, he was scheduled to fly seat two in Flight 11. At the last minute, He switched places with another pilot. In our church in Stirling In Herndon and Sterling, Virginia, uh one of the elders uh has an office in the Pentagon He was to be there that morning, and for some reason he delayed and didn't get to the office when he planned. The office was obliterated and it was empty. Max Milkey does not have an office in the Pentagon. That's not where his office is. And so it was kind of unusual that Max was in that place at that time in the morning. How do you explain God's ways? You see, Satan wants to whisper to you that you really can't trust a God like that. What do we say? Just a couple of thoughts. I think one of the first things we need to realize as Christians is that that's a struggle for us. It's not just a struggle for the unbeliever. There's a temptation for us Christians to be too glib, to think that we've got to have answers. Or else our faith really isn't sufficient. And Christians who go around in agony, agonizing situations like this Quoting Bible verses and saying I've got an answer. Well, you know, the real reason is even the ideas I'm going to suggest to you in the next couple of minutes. But if you do that glibly, that can be obnoxious We need to be able to say, you know, I struggle with that. I struggle with God's ways. They're inscrutable. I don't understand it. I can't explain why one lives, one dies. I don't understand that And I and I really struggle with with what seems to be random and arbitrary and what God intends. And I don't understand it. I don't claim to. But let me offer to you just a couple of thoughts that help me The first is, you see the first blank there, the mystery of how God uses evil to accomplish his good purposes ultimately are revealed at the cross. The Bible teaches that when evil happens, the people who do it are responsible for it. But at the same time, God is working through that something beyond what we can see. For instance, if you were at the foot of the cross on Good Friday morning And you saw Jesus hanging on that cross, and you had known him and followed him, you might be thinking something like, This man was the most loving, wonderful, wise, good man I have ever known in my life. Besides that, he trusted God more than anyone I've ever seen, far more than I trust God. He fully committed his life to God to trust him and to be devoted to him. And he was betrayed and beaten, and he was spat upon, and he was hung on this cross, crucified, the excruciating death of the cross. And God has abandoned him. I could never continue to trust a God like that. God must be a monster. It would only be after the resurrection that you would begin to see that God took the vilest, most despicable act of human history. And so the disciples in Acts chapter 4, when they pray They say, indeed, Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. They did an evil thing, and they're responsible. But then, verse 28, they did what your power and your will had decided beforehand should happen God was not looking the other way on Tuesday, September the eleventh He didn't just kind of let his protection slip for a moment. There was no lapse. God was as intimately involved in that activity. As he is when he protects and preserves you from somebody that runs a stop sign. You and I can only see the pain, and the pain is great and overwhelming. But we don't know what God intends from that to be a turning point in the history of the United States. In terms of our realization of our need for Him and other things that may come out of that, in terms of the way the Muslim world is perceived and how the gospel may come in unprecedented ways to a new openness and opportunity among a billion people that have been basically ignored and marginalized by the church as unreachable. All that's change. We don't see what God's doing. But the Bible teaches that an evil that is culpable and is the people for it are responsible, God works his ways. Through all of it. Secondly, we see that the God that we worship is a suffering God. Uniquely, he is a suffering God. The God of the Bible of all religions is uniquely the God who has suffered because of his love for us. You can never say to the God of the Bible What do you know about how I feel? You've never suffered. What has he not felt that you have felt? Abandonment? Pain, death, he's experienced it all Because of his love for you. You see, we call as are called as Christians at a time like this to not trust God because of the circumstances we see. But because of his character, which we know was revealed at the cross. There's an old story about the feast of the gods who all came together to display their glory. And one spoke of his power, and all were in awe of him Another spoke of his beauty, and all were delighted to look upon him. Another spoke of his fame, and they all agreed that his reputation was far and wide. And then a mere prophet of Yahweh came forth carrying a cross. And all the gods slunk away. You see, suffering always drives us to the cross. Because it's at the cross that God reveals his glory in his suffering. And it's the heart of the gospel. And when we're not close to the cross, then suffering takes us by surprise. But when we are In connection with Jesus, we realize that if Jesus had the cross in his life for us, why would we think that as his servants we're going to be immune? No, we'll never be immune from suffering, and we may know a great deal of it in the days ahead, but we're never alone in our suffering. The third thing that's raised by this, these I just have to deal very quickly, what do we deserve? You know when we complain About circumstances, we're really saying that we deserve better. And yet we have no claim on his mercy Jeremiah had to come to grips with that. Remember, Jerusalem was absolutely leveled and burned to the ground. Not just a few blocks, but all of Jerusalem was laid waste. And Jeremiah said, And this God is your city, how could you do this? The Book of Lamentations is a great book to read at a time like this. And Jeremiah concludes in chapter 3, verse 22: God, when I look at our sin It is only of your loving mercy that we are not consumed every morning. Great is your faithfulness. We need to look honestly at our hearts and what we deserve. And we need to look at the human heart in general and realize that While we expect people to be generally kind and we look at the heroics of the rescuers in Manhattan and we're amazed and they're impressed to realize that's not because they are innately good. It's because of what the Bible teaches about God's common grace that is extended in human hearts. The human heart is described in Genesis 6, verse 5. Where God says he looked down upon man and every heart, every intention and thought of his heart was only evil continually. But that God by his mercy restrains that evil. And Tuesday was a glimpse of what can happen when that's not restrained. And you and I are dependent on his mercy to continue to restrain that day after day after day. But there's no claim upon that Finally, just a realization about the suffering that God is the divine thwarter. And that's a phrase used by John Eldridge in his book, Journey of Desire. It's an excellent phrase where he talks about how determined you and I are to make this place home. We are determined to make this life work. We're determined to be comfortable and at home here. And we've been doing a pretty good job of it with the economy and with our technological advances But interestingly, he says that occasionally in his mercy God thwarts our best intentions so that we recognize our need for him and that this can never be home. There's a lot of us who have come to recognize after that Tuesday that this place really isn't very friendly, is it? This place is full of pain and as best as we've tried, we are not going to make this home. And there's a new sense of our need for Jesus Christ And of our longing for heaven and to be home. And if God is doing that in us and in this culture, that's by His mercy. It may be that your idols have much less hold on your heart right now than they did a couple of weeks ago. On the other hand, if you're dependent on them, maybe your idols have had a greater grip on your life. But it's a time for you and for me to recognize our idols, to recognize those ways we try to live independent of God, and to abandon that, that we might see his goodness and something better he has for us. Wish we could go on, but I need to quickly hit the third point. What is the Christian response to this? Once again you see in Ephesians chapter six that Paul is saying that our Struggle, verse 12, is not against flesh and blood, but it's against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Satan's scheme is to get you to only see the physical and the psychological and to miss the spiritual dimension of all that's going on. Now is the time for you, Christian, to stand in the army that you have and engage fully in the battle that's going on. Five suggestions very briefly on that. Number one, resist. Resist the escapist response that this is just a sign of that the rapture is about to occur. I have been deeply disturbed at how many pastors I have heard and heard about that make this the main point of what we're to learn I was reading just this week about World War One. Did you know that was exactly the same conclusion that many Christians drew as we went and entered into World War One? That this must be the last couple of years. Jesus is coming back, certainly before 1920. This has got to be the very end of the end times. And they escaped from dealing with the issues. In fact, many of them did not even want to deal with Germany, wanted us to stay out of the war, to keep as far from that as possible because we had No business, we were simply to wait for Jesus to come. In the Gulf War, ten years ago, there was a book that was rushed to press When the war began, seeking to demonstrate that biblical prophecy proved that this was the very end time and that Jesus was coming, the fulfillment of prophecy was here, he would be here in the next couple of years. Christian Book Distributors was selling that for about 12 bucks, I believe. And uh year after the war, he was going for six bucks and then three bucks. The last I saw they were trying to clear them out for fifty cents, and if you ordered anything else, they'd throw it in for free. Why? Because it was nonsense. There was no truth to it. You see, it becomes a very appealing thing for us To be lazy escapists and just say, well, you know, what we really learned from this is just Jesus is coming because we're overwhelmed, you see, with the difficulties And uh we need to resist that, we hear it in others, we need to resist the tendency in ourselves because we need to engage as good soldiers. I'm not saying that Jesus isn't going to come in the next year. You know me. I've preached on this. And if you want to refer to my series on biblical prophecy for how to deal with that, I ardently hope that he'll be here next week But I don't believe that the events of September the eleventh have made it any more likely that he's going to be here next week than they were on September the tenth. It may be that God is opening up a whole new chapter on what he's going to do in our country and in the world. Then secondly, real quickly, resist also concluding that this is God's judgment on America because of the sins of others. It's very tempting to say that God is judging America through this because of all the pain. I don't know that that's necessarily necessary conclusion. Maybe that Through this pain, God is intending a great mercy and changing the course of the history of our nation as we were headed toward Maul and um Lots of kinds of other kinds of spiritual collapse, and that God is answering our prayers through some very painful things that we'll continue to experience Uh it's always easy to look at the sins of others, conclude that that's why God is doing that. It's also interesting that um As C. S. Lewis said that God whispers to us in our pleasures, but he shouts to us in our pain. And God is getting our attention Uh Lewis gave a message during World War II that's not very well known called Learning in Wartime And Tim Keller, in a very excellent series of uh comments on questions raised by this in the last week or two, uh, quotes from that message. Lewis said in during World War II, if we had foolish hopes about human culture, they are now shattered. If we thought we were building up a heaven on earth, if we look for something that would turn the present world from a place of pilgrimage into a permanent city satisfying the soul of man, we are disillusioned and not a moment too soon. In ordinary times only the wise realize it. Now, in wartime, even the stupidest of us knows it. It may be that God is mercifully waking us up to reality. But we need to thirdly resist civil religion, which becomes a very superficial response to it, using God words without content to make us feel good, as Jeremiah says. So we need to recognize that this is a manipulative device, not consciously necessarily on the part of those who use it. But we also need to realize the positive side of it. People talk about prayer, they talk about God and talk about spiritual things. Let's Take advantage of that. Pick up on those conversations. What do we mean by prayer? Who are we praying to? Why do you think God answers? What does the Bible really say? So that we can take advantage of this. Fourthly, we need to resist supporting a vengeful attack on innocent Muslims or Afghans or people of the Middle East. How Christians respond to Muslims and Middle Eastern folks now may have consequences for years in terms of the gospel and its credibility. There's three possible ways we can respond to this. The moralistic response says you get what you deserve, we're more righteous, they're less righteous, so we should Respond with vengeance because they deserve it. The liberal response says we should never retaliate We should always turn the other cheek and respond with love, and that neutralizes evil. It makes a mockery out of justice. Near those are the biblical way. The biblical way, the gospel response, is to recognize that in Romans 13, God gives the sword to the state to restrain evil, and that the Christian can support a forceful violent restraint and punishment of the evil, while recognizing also that we need to hold on to mercy as sinners Who deserve God's judgment just as much. So that we can seek to restrain forcefully and with arms. Those who are guilty of this, being careful to in any possible way not attack the innocent And to be willing to share with a soldier who is an enemy the gospel of the good news of Jesus Christ and help him as an individual. That's a difficult thing, but Jesus taught us in Matthew 5 to pray for our enemies, do good to those that persecute us. And so we need to humbly seek the forceful restraint as a nation while we sharply distinguish and never broaden. The guilt from those who are responsible to those who are associated with them. There's a lot more I can say about that, but we don't have the time. Fifth thing, finally, is simply to say That we need to learn from the way that 19 absolutely committed men changed the course of history. We often say, well, what can we few Christians do? Because 19 people. Nineteen people who many of them stayed in Laurel for a period of time and motel owners said they looked just like everybody else. I said, yeah, good point. They look just like everybody else. Same hearts as us, you know. That they were absolutely committed to what they believed and were willing to give their lives. I'll tell you, that's a challenge to me as a Christian. I don't know about you. What am I really willing to give my life to? I mean, could you really imagine after that seeing what they did, which absolutely changed the course of world history in our generation? And then hear a conversation come up about prayer and what are we going to do and all the rest of this in the place where you work or in your neighborhood and be embarrassed to talk about Jesus. Shame on us. This should be a challenge to us that we would be ready to say, Lord. Whatever it is. I mean, you know, it's life. What's the worst people can do to you? You've seen it If you know Jesus, you're with him. That's a little embarrassment. Be willing to speak and seize the opportunity that's before you in these days as people talk about spiritual things. Sharing some of the ideas I've talked about or next Sunday. To be willing to lead us Christians in the sacrifices we'll be called upon to make in the days and the months and years ahead when others want to give up. To be able to hang in there. And finally to realize this could be a turning point in missions to Muslims. A billion people who basically been written off as unreachable. All of a sudden, that's a major issue now. Owen Brown Interface Center, two o'clock this afternoon The Islamic community going to dialogue with the rest, talking about what is this all saying? I'll tell you, I I was reading the Quran this week for the first time in a long time. All of a sudden now The whole question of where Muslims stand, and what many Muslims who have distanced themselves from this may produce a new openness to the gospel. There may be all kinds of opportunities, but only are they open to those who are committed, those that are going to say, Lord, if you want me to go, I'll go. Whatever, however you want to use me. Because as those who are committed to change the course of history. And Lord Jesus, you're leading us into the battle. I'm willing to go. Are you? I mean I'm only willing to go by God's grace, and we don't even know where we're going. But we do know who we follow. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, you may be doing something now that that we have talked about for years when we've talked about how uh things cannot stay the same. We've been teetering We may be headed for suffering and horrors that um will pale what's happened We also may be headed for answers to our prayers in terms of renewal and revival and an openness in the Muslim world to the gospel that we've only dreamed about and prayed about in the days past. But it is those who are committed, who see reality beyond the deceit of Satan who are going to be open and be usable by you in these days of opportunity. Lord, make us available. And willing, in Jesus' name, Amen