That half a million dollars that we might uh catch up on some obligations for this facility as well as to seek to improve it and to extend it because it had been uh originally planned as a base of operation for weekday ministries. A number of you recall how it was just a few months before we began construction on this facility that we met as a congregation and decided that we would move all of the Sunday operations. over here as well as the weekday operations. That was done after all the plans had been written by the architect and things were about ready to go. Well that that decision produced some problems in sound during worship reading in what is designed as a gymnatorium, as well And a building that has eight classrooms and downstairs and really no uh classrooms designed uh to be used like that uh upstairs. As a result of that you may recall how we scrambled uh over the Potter's house to use everything from my office to the garage to the laundry room to try and make up fifteen classrooms where we could meet. And even after all of that, we can continues to see attendance throughout this year, both among kids and adults, to climb in our training time, the Sunday school and the adult time throughout this year. years. And so the need for a West Wing project, developing more space, improving this space, seemed obvious to a core of people who were involved in the history, the design, and the middle hour operations. We saw that because we realized that this building was largely at the last minute redesigned for kids, nurseries and small people's Sunday school classes And yet uh I'm here on behalf of the session to apologize to you as a congregation. For a failure in our spiritual leadership in seeking to bring you along with us in this campaign. In Vision 91, we need with evidence. There had been a solid prayer foundation that was built. We all understood why God was calling us to establish a base of operation. We prayed about it extensively. Everyone saw how it fit our vision. A core of people, as I said before, saw the need to improve and to extend this operation. But we felt under the pressure to try and have a campaign before the summit And as a result of that, we did not lay a proper prayer foundation for this campaign. We prayed that God would pull together a team of people. And when God provided John Isaac to lead this, and John did an excellent job in leading us, the whole team that volunteered of 90 or so people did an excellent job poured their hearts out and everything they could do for this. But we believe as a session, I'm not just speaking for myself, but we've discussed this as a session. We believe that we failed to provide the spiritual leadership that was needed for this. We failed to provide the prayer foundation. We failed to provide the opportunity for a number of you who didn't see this to really be able to own it. We failed to provide the information that would enable you to see how the vision that we had of the Great Commission implied a need for us. to be able to develop this and to move ahead in it. I myself was distracted by our move and some needs in the congregation, and I feel a failure on my own part. And so the result of that we believe is that while a core of people were ready to move ahead, there were a number of you who felt kind of dragged along by the others' enthusiasm. And the result of that was that for many of you, we understand that these whole campaigns had seemed kind of man-centered, worldly, and self-serving. And we do believe that we failed you in that. And I want to say that I'm sorry. I'm sorry on behalf of the session, and we apologize for that failure. Even in spite of what we did or lacked then, God still provided nearly 350,000 And we're very grateful to the Lord for that, that He provided so much But we're now in the wake of that campaign. And so what we need to do is this next week, a week from today, in our last middle hour, we are going to be deciding what is the Lord calling us to do in the light of who we are as a church, in the light of what he's called us to do, what are the alternatives before? And so you'll see on the back table, uh, there's a sheet there And this sheet is from succession to you. It speaks to the question and it proposes two alternatives that we're going to be considering next week. And if you're here to during the middle hour celebration today, Teacher Appreciation Day, and fun time that we're going to have. We'll be handing those out at the beginning of that time. So if you can't make it for that time, make sure to to pick one up or hopefully you'll be able to get one beginning of the next um hours. But this is a worship service, not a congregational meeting. And so we need to hear from God in this time. This is not a discussion group. So what I'd like to do, even though it's Father's Day and I had planned to have a Father's Day message today, I was going to keep on passing along our face to the next generation. Six things we need to tell our kids. Uh it's just, you know, hang on. Maybe next Father's Day I'll be able to do that But rather this morning in the light of where we are as a congregation, we decided as a session that it was more important for me to review a basic passage, one of the three basic passages that have driven and guided us as a congregation about who we are and what we're about. In order that we might look at that passage, reaffirm some basics, and then And see what that says to our discussion that we'll be holding next week. You remember that our purpose as a congregation comes from a passage that Tom read earlier just before the message. And that purpose from Ephesians chapter 1 has guided us from the very first week that we began to meet back in 1978. Now come on, those of you who are CPC members, impress the visitors. Our threefold purpose is to know, to know our and to know his great okay visitors. I told you. the Discovery Class, you can do that. Thanks for coming through. Our threefold purpose to know him, to know him better, more intimately, our Lord Jesus, to know our hope as his people being transformed Transformed and to know his power, the resurrection, ascension, power of Jesus as we are involved in the struggle of this world. That's our purpose. Our strategy as a congregation is that we are saints being equipped for ministry. That we are being mobilized together by the power and the gifts of the Spirit to be able to minister as a congregation. But that strategy is the fulfillment our mission. And that's what I want for us to consider briefly this morning. Our mission is taken directly from the Great Commission. Jesus gave at the end of Matthew. Now, we speak of the Great Commission and generally think of Matthew 28, but we need to remember that the Great Commission was preceded in all the Gospels by a number of comments Follow me and I will make you fishers of men. See the fields, they're white unto harvest. Praise the Lord that he will the Father, the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth laborers for the harvest. All for Four Gospels have different versions of the Great Commission. Acts 1 reiterates the Great Commission. It's not uniquely and somehow simply stuck into Matthew 28. But in Matthew 28, you have Jesus giving to his disciples between his resurrection and his ascension that final commission, which is extremely important both in the places And so let's look at what that says in Matthew chapter 28, beginning in verse 16. Then the eleven disciples went against Galilee. This had been a pre-arranged meeting. Jesus had told them after he was raised from the dead that he would meet them there. And so he goes to this mountain where Jesus had told them before to go And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And then Jesus came to them and said, All authority in heaven and on earth Has been given to me. Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always to the very end of the age This commission was given to these disciples. Eleven of the twelve original disciples. Judas had hanged himself. But these twelve disciples were receiving this commission. Not as special, unique individuals, so that the commission was simply to them. They received it as representatives of the twelve tribes of Israel. God's new Israel, his people. Twelve disciples were to receive this as representatives of you and me standing before Jesus there. And so this commission is to you and to me together as his people. Now, I could preach several messages on this commission. In fact, I've uh sometimes thought that you could take almost every single word here, except maybe a few prepositions, and preach a message on each word of this thing But I'm not going to try to compact that all into this morning. So you can relax a little bit. But I what I want to do is to simply draw out three questions from this and make some application to the things that we're going to be considering next week in the light of the West Wing 97 campaign that we've just been through Three questions from what Jesus says to his disciples and threw them to you and to me. The first question, are you sure that you are a disciple? Are you sure that you're a disciple? And verse 17 We read that when they, the disciples, saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. They worshiped him. Are you worshiping Jesus Christ this morning? Or are you doubting? You notice that the doubting did not just qualify them as disciples. It was the disciples. It is only these eleven who are here. It's not some great crowd. Christ that solved their doubt. But there were others in verses eleven to fifteen who refused to believe. Some worship, some worshiped with some doubts. Some worshiped and had few doubts. The question this morning is not whether you have doubts. The question is whether you are under his authority. But he says in verse Verse 18, all authority in heaven and earth is given to me. And a disciple is someone who lives under that authority. He says in verse 19 to be to go and baptize The disciples. And the baptism is you and me placing ourselves under the authority of Jesus Christ. So my question to you this morning is, have you personally ever placed yourself under the authority of Jesus Christ. Have you come to see your need for the necessity of his death and Resurrection in order to clear the record of your sin. That you would be able to stand before God with a clear conscience and know that Jesus' death and his resurrection on you your behalf is the only thing that's cleared that record and giving you a new life to be able to live for God. Are you under his authority this morning? That baptism doesn't simply mean that you are under his authority as if you have some direct pipeline to God. But that baptism means that you're part of his body. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 13, we read that the Holy Spirit baptizes us into one body. And so this baptism that Jesus is speaking of about is not a baptism that's just some person that somehow baptizes you in a direct connection with God, but you're a free agent Christian. When you are baptized, you are baptized into the body of Christ. You are part of that body. And the things that we do as a body are things that we own and join in together. You are accountable to them. that body. You live to be encouraged by that body. Now I'm not saying that if you are not part of a local body, whether C C C or some other body, that you're going to help I don't know your heart, but I'll tell you this. I've been a Christian for 37 years, and it's few Christians that I see that are free agents and don't align themselves with the body who go on for years serving Christ. If you are not part of a body, you're like the sheep that the wolf's gonna pick off Because he's left the security of the fold. So if you're a disciple this morning, then you placed yourself under Jesus' authority. You are part of his body In order that you might grow and do resting in the necessity and the sufficiency of his work through you. Are you sure that you're a disciple this morning? I mentioned it was thirty-seven years ago that I gave my life to Jesus Christ. I was simply reflecting with some friends this week that it was after a message of a summer conference thirty seven years ago this summer. I don't remember who even the speaker was, don't remember the message. But I remember it that night that I finally became sick of trying to listen in two worlds. Being like a Christian when I was around Christians. And then being like unbelievers when I was around unbelievers. Waffling back and forth. Till finally that That night God grabbed a hold of me and said which is it going to be? Are you going to live for me or are you going to deny me? Stop living on the fence. In that night I capitulated and I said, Lord Jesus, I want you. I want to listen. Are you sure? If you've ever come to that place where you said, I want to be Be your disciple. I trust in your finished work. I want to follow you as part of your body. If you're not sure, put on the gray slip. I want Or simply bring it before the Lord. You don't need another person. But put it on the gray slip if you're unsure. I'm going to be on vacation this next week, so I'll uh tell you to speeze. We'll be glad to get back to you. And I know we will. To discuss that this week or or do you next week. The second question that follows from that, however, is are you growing as a disciple? Are you growing as a disciple? You see that Jesus goes on when he says, All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything that I've commanded you. As Christians, we can never be on a level plane. Either we are growing in learning to obey everything that Jesus has commanded by faith and obedience. Or we're regressing. We are distancing ourselves from God. We are becoming more self-sufficient, more independent, more cynical. Now let me give you a jolt. Sunday morning sermons are not enough to do that. Sunday morning sermons coming here to worship and hear the band and enter into this and say that's great makes me feel good I want to go out and serve Jesus and I hear what you say in the message and that makes me want to trust him and to serve him. That's not going to be Because the sermon is a time where I am able to tell you some of the what's and the whys about the Christian life. But I can't really deal with The house. The celebration time, our worship time, is for the telling of the gospel. The alternate hour, what's been our middle hour time Is the seminar time for the training in the gospel. And you must have that time to build on the telling time so that you can work through some of the practice. Issues of how do I do this? How do I obey the things that Jesus has given to me? And even that's not sufficient. Because in order to really be able to get down to the nitty-gritty in how to live the Christian Christian life and to see God at work in your life, there needs to be the third step, which is the small group time for the touching of the gospel. And so there's the celebration time that we have here for the television of the gospel, the seminar time that we have and the alternate hour for the training in the gospel, and then the small group time during the week for the touching of one another's lives For encouragement, for accountability, and for us to be able to exhort each other and apply very specifically what the gospel says in being able to move along in the gospel. Now our frustration is simply this. We're telling a number of you about the gospel. But then when we come to the all-in-a-time part of that single-unit Sunday morning package of gospel, of the training in the seminars we just can't do it very effectively. We don't have the rooms to do it, we don't have the facilities to do it, we can't hear. It's just not a time that's very conducive to training. And we're simply saying we're frustrated in that. We want to do a better a better job of making disciples, of helping you to grow as disciples. And the link between the telling and the touching in the small groups is that training time that we feel is a tremendous lack in our strategy right now. That's why we wanted to improve and to extend the facilities. Then we go on to the third question. And that is, are you making disciple. Are you making disciples? Jesus said in verse 18, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore Go and make sure of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit. We give you another jolt. That commission was not just given to missionaries and professionals. That commission was given to every single one of you to say, I am a professional And I am seeking to grow as a disciple. And whether or not we're doing a good job in that training time, the question to you Is am I taking advantage of whatever there is here that Columbia Presbyterian offers in training, in opportunities for fellowship, in knowing Jesus better? Am I taking advantage of whatever We believe that if you take advantage of what you have, then you're going to be eager for more and we're going to be seeing together the need for what God wants to do in our midst to his spend our effectiveness in becoming more mature disciples, and then that will lead to our seeking more effectively to make disciples. Ephesians chapter 4 picks up on the same idea that we are called to make disciples, not just the missionaries and the professionals, but all of us as a body. Where he says in Ephesians chapter four that Jesus has given to the church pastors and teachers in verse eleven. Then he goes on in verse twelve. In order to prepare God's people for works of service for ministry. So that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. And so it's very clear there that what is the dynamic that Jesus has set out to the church is that we who are the pastors, the teachers, the elders are to equip, to prepare you for the ministry of building up the body, of making disciples. The word that's used there, prepare in verse twelve. The word translated in Luke 6. 40, trained. And so this implies two things to you and to me. First of all, it implies you need training. If you're going to make disciples, you need training. Jesus gives two things there in verse 19 of his commission that you and I to do. He says go and make the cycles. There's two things you need to do. First of all you need to go and secondly you need to make the cycles. I suggest you don't need a lot of training and go. right you know how to go. The word in the Greek actually means as you're going. So you know how to go. What you don't know is how to make the cycle. I guarantee that is doesn't come instinctively and naturally. It never did to me or anyone else. And we're often very frustrated as Christians because we hear preachers tell us and we hear in conferences that we are called to go and make the Then we say, nobody ever has invested in me to make me a disciple. How do I make disciples? How do I influence disciples? Specifically, other people to move on with Jesus Christ or to come to know Jesus Christ. We need training for that. And we'd be a sad church. We would be very neglectful. Uh if I apologize to you for failed leadership in this campaign, I would have to apologize tenfold if all we did was to harangue you about making disciples and sharing your faith but never all offered training opportunities to help you to know how to do it. So once again we come back to the need for a way of doing that. It's not Not enough to tell you, but there is the need for the alternate hour, that follow-up time, whether before or after the worship service, for you to be in a training situation where you can wrestle with how do we make disciples? How do I share my faith? How am I able to in the place where I live in a natural way talk about Jesus Christ? How do I think about people Lives and where they are and moving them on with Christ. And I'll tell you one thing, if you begin to think about how to influence others through Jesus Christ, your own life is going to improve. I see that again and again. And so once again there's the need for a place for adults to be able to sit down in a conducive training teaching situation. We simply don't have a situation where we can mix in different groups and offer a number of different electives for the people in different various stages of their own discipleship and then their eagerness to know how do I apply this principle and how am I going to share my faith in that situation, be able to sit down and be equipped to do it That's what we long for, brothers and sisters. To equip you, to train you, to be able to use that other hour so that we can sit down and do it. We cannot do it in the current system That's what we had on our hearts when we tried ineffectively to communicate how the facility flowed through the beach. But there's not only the There's also the expectation of multiplication. You see that also here. Jesus says all authority been given. Therefore go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father, Son, and the Spirit, teaching them to obey everything I've commanded, which is Part of that, the commission. Disciples make disciples. One of Satan's most effective strategies in the church is to convince the church of the lie that pastors make disciples. The professionals do that. And what a tremendous bottleneck that produces if everything's got to flow through Steve and Jim and Al. In order to make disciples around here, or people to feel like they're getting pastored, or people to be trained to be able to do this. But rather there's ought to be that multiplication process whereby we are investing in some who are investing in others who are investing in you and your lives are being touched in this vast network of people who are influencing you for Christ and people whom you're influencing for Christ And that means that we expect that there will be lost people coming and that we will be growing as a congregation, and that we cannot be comfortable with the size that we are It's not a matter of whether I like to be able to know everybody this year or not. It's a matter of obedience to Jesus Christ who said go and make the And when he said that, that implied a multiplication process. Or else, if we do not do that God's spirit will move to a group who's ready and willing to do that, and we will wither and stagnate. It's not a question of simply whether we're going to grow so we can be a big church. It's simply a question. of obedience to our Lord Jesus. And so do we expect to multiply? When we see people come and we say, I'm not sure if this person's new or not How am I going to take the risk? Are we willing for the person to say, yeah, I've been coming for six months, I'm sorry, you know, I don't see everybody. That's okay When's the last time you invited someone to come with you to your middle hour group, your learning and fellowship group? Because they need to be enfolded. They need to be brought from that place of where they're simply the coming and sitting in worship to where someone talks to them, brings them along and says, Come on, I'm going to this group. What kind of group might you be interested in? Pull out the bullet and here's the groups that are being offered. And then maybe that week because it's you care for them and you talk to them for five minutes say well go with your group or at least I'll bring you there and I'll introduce you to someone you say well I I don't know how to make it I'm just about surviving in my life. You know, it's an attitude of when we come here on Sunday morning. Even though we're struggling with a lot of things I understand that. Some Sunday mornings here I come and my nose is an inch above water. But there's a question of an attitude because am I going to be available to the Lord Jesus? Jesus now to get beyond my own concerns. They're thinking about the other people. But the Lord is brought here. I don't believe they've come here by chance. These people come in here and they're they are disciples, but they're seeking for our home. There's others that are coming, they're simply seekers. They're not disciples yet. God brought them into our midst. We don't expect to reach them, to greet them, to be able to inform them If we do, then we've got to plan for that growth. We've got to plan to move beyond where we are so that we can do better training and so that we can do better the multiplication. That's what we had in mind when we talked about the need to improve and to expand. be honest with you. I believe that we can make a clear biblical case from this passage for making the franchise and that you and I are involved in that. get training, not only to grow in learning how to trust and obey obey Jesus in all the commands He's given to us, but also in our being concerned for people who come in to our myth, whether as believers to enfold them or as unbelievers to share Christ and to introduce them to us. I can make a clear case that that's what we as a congregation are called to do But don't get me wrong. I'm not saying that Matthew 28 mandates the West Wing project. Alright? We might be able to come up with other ways, particularly if we were in a third world country or in some other situation where we would say we just simply don't have the means to be able to do it. And so we're going to do it in our homes, or we're going to do it on weeknights, or we're going to be creative and use other ways to do this I'm not saying it's impossible to do it any other way. But you remember back in February, you looked at Psalm 23, February and March. And back at that time we looked at Psalm 23, verse 3, which gave us some principles in God's will. And the principles we looked at, there were three. He leads me in paths of righteousness. For his name's sake. You remember there were three things we talked about there. We said, first of all, he leads me, has the idea of moving me on. The shepherd has to move the sheep from one task to another The first thing you and I need to understand in applying to the Great Commission is that the shepherd wants to lead us on. We have got to get beyond this temptation. I have it, all of us have it, to be comfortable where we are. A lot of work. Let's rest. Let's relax for a minute. The shepherd wants to move us on. He wants to do that for our own good and our own benefit so that we will not overgraze and stagnate the plants pasture, but then he will lead us to fresh pastures of deeper experiences of his power and of his working on us. Then as he moves us and leads us on, he does it in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. So we determined that whatever we do, we're not going to go in further into debt and We believe that we're going to have to do it in a way that is going to be pleasing to him in all the ways that we conduct whatever we do in making disciples. That we're seeking to do it in a way that is according to the righteousness he's revealing. Go, make disciples, teaching them to obey all things. We're trying to do it better job of that. This next year I'm going to preach at least 13 messages. On what a disciple is. He's one who sits, walks, and stands. And we're going to look at what that means. We're able to understand that in practical terms. But we're saying we need the space and the facility to be able to grapple with those issues. And in our culture, when people are available Sunday morning, shouldn't we take advantage of that opportunity? And then finally, he says to do it for his name's sake. One of the things that was most thrilling to me back in the West in the uh Vision 91 campaign was how we rallied around the promise. Our God God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. And that begins with the verse 1: Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but to your name be the glory. For his name's sake. And my hope is that whatever we decide this next week, we're going to have a sense that what we've done, we've done together as his body, because it's for his name's sake that we decide it how we can better make the cycle use the facilities that he has given to us, the gifts, the abilities, and our own simple commitment to Jesus in order to take We had a tremendous retreat yesterday talking together as elders about how we can do this more effectively in the months and years ahead. I'm excited about the things we God's revealing to us. We need to join together to consider this God. Pray about it. Use the meditation to feet. Read the feet and come before our God. And we're going to be