Christians and non-Christians have something in common. They're both uptight about evangelism. With these words that Becky Pippert begins her excellent book Out of the Salt Shaker, of which we have a number of copies in the library. And she goes on in that book to talk about how Christians are converted from the natural man to the spiritual man. But very often, in our process of becoming spiritual, we forget how to become natural. And so we as Christians, while before Christ tended to avoid, well before we were Christians, we were not Christians, we tended to avoid Christians. After Christ, Christians tend to avoid non-Christians. Jesus told us to go into the world. And yet he told us we're not to be of the world. For many of us as Christians, that produces a great tension and a conflict. I have one friend who tries to solve that by living in Colombia, uh but she plays Christian radio all day long. Uh from the moment she wakes up, the moment she goes to sleep, as far as I can tell, never seen the radio not be on. And our idea of witness seems to be, when outside, to play the radio loud enough that people two or three yards over can hear the Christian radio station and be shared with them too. Is this what Jesus meant when he told us to go into the world and to be salt and light? Somehow I don't think that's what he had in mind, and yet we as Christians can be so isolated and insulated from the world, can't we? You know, it's possible to be born of Christian parents Well, go to Christian school, Christian college, have Christian friends, go to a Christian country club called the church, go to Christian movies. Have Christian records, work for a Christian employer, go to a Christian doctor, and be buried by a Christian undertaker in Holy Ground. And in all of this we've seen ourselves unspotted from the world. And yet we say, but you know, the world's a rough place. And if I'm going to avoid sin, how am I going to mix with that? And yet still be able to be holy. How did Jesus intend for us to be witnesses? I think a very helpful clue to that is given to us in John 17 in his prayer in one verse. In which he states, gives us a clue as to how he intends for us to be witnesses in the world. It's in John 17, verse 18. That's what I'd like to focus our attention on, in concluding this series on evangelism this morning. John chapter 17, verse 18. Jesus says there, as you sent me into the world, addressing The Father, if you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. Jesus there Is giving us a comparison. We are sent into the world by Jesus in the same way as the Father sent Jesus into the world. How did he do that? I like Becky Pippert's phrases where she says it was like The combination of his radical identification and his radical difference Jesus, in chapter 10, verse 36, when he was talking to the Pharisees, referred to the fathers sending him into the world by saying, That he was the one whom the Father set apart as his very own, radically different, and sent into the world. A radical identification. And you see these two principles being brought out again and again in Jesus' high priestly prayer in John 17. So let's for the scripture this morning take out our Bibles and follow along as I read to you, John 17. And notice these dual principles of radical identification and radical difference. Being in Jesus' mind and in his concern and in his prayer, as he prays for us, his people, in that prayer. John chapter 17. After Jesus said this, he looked toward heaven and prayed, Father, the time has come. Glorify your son, that your son may glorify you. For you granted him authority over all people, that he might give eternal life to all those that you've given him. Now, this eternal life, this is eternal life that they may know you. The only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work that you gave me to do. Now, Father, Father, glorify me in your presence for the glory I had with you before the world began. I've revealed you to those whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours. You gave them to me. They have obeyed your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me comes from you. For I gave them the words that you gave me, and they accepted them. They knew with certainty that I came from you, and they believed that you sent me. I pray for you I'm not praying for the world, but for those that you've given me. They are yours. All I have is you And all you have is mine. And glory has come to me through you. I will remain in the world no longer. But they are still in the world. I'm coming to you. Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name. The name you gave me, so that they may be one as we are one. While I was with them, I protected them and kept them safe by that name which you gave me. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction, so that the scripture would be fulfilled. I am coming to you now. I say these things while I'm still in the world, so that they may have the full measure of my joy within I've given them your word, and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. My prayer is that you take them out of the world. Not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them. Them from the evil ones. They are not of the world. Even as I am not of them. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is the truth. As you sent me into the world, I am not the same. I have sent them into the world. For them I sanctify myself, that they too may be truly sanctified. My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe on me through their message, that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May they also be in us, that the world may believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one. I in them, and you in me. May they be brought to complete unity, to let the world know that you sent me and loved them even as you have loved me. Father, I want those that you have given me to be with me where I am And to see my glory, the glory that you've given me because you loved me before the creation of the world. Righteous Father, though the world does not know you, I know you They know that you have sent me. I have made you known to them, and will continue to make you known, in order that the love that you have for me may be in them, but I myself may be in them. Let's ask God to teach us now in His Word. Holy Spirit, give us the clues, the understanding that we need. That you would free us up to understand how the Father sent you, Lord Jesus, and how it is that you send us into the world. We pray that. And that you give us teachable hearts to respond. For Jesus' sake. Amen. You see the comparison there in verse 18? As you sent me into the world, you can insert there a soul, so I have sent them into the world. The Greek is I also. As you sent me, so I sent them. Last week, remember, we looked at the measure of the Father's love for the world, a measure. That is something that is measured only by the fact that he sent his son. That he did in the past. The measure of the Father's love now is that he is that the Son now sends us into the world, in the present, in order to show that love that the Father has for the world and sending his own son as a sacrifice. A sacrifice for the world. Remember we talked about the world last week And that same word appears twice in this verse. If you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. You remember that the world in that context refers to mankind that is alienated from God, mankind that is disobedient, disfigured, dead. And deserving of judgment, and sure to get it apart from Jesus Christ. And our purpose is to be sent into that world just as Jesus was sent by the Father. Get the force of that comparison. Get it as you see a diagram there on your bulletin so that you can understand the force of what Jesus is saying. As the Father sent Jesus into the world, that's how Jesus sends you and me into the world. He had sent us. He repeats this in chapter 20, verse 21, when he's talking to the disciples, Jesus says, peace with you. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. In this case, he's praying it to the Father. In chapter 20, he's giving the commission directly to the disciples. And so we need to see what God's strategy is. The strategy of radical identification and radical difference. And let's look at it. world. First of all, the radical identification we see here. You sent me into the world, Jesus says. Verse 18. John 1:1 tells us that the word was with the Father from the very beginning, and that word was God. And then verse 14 tells us that the word became flesh. And dwell among us. Jesus explained and opened up who the Father was by showing him to us. Imagine that. God becoming one of us. Imagine God becoming concerned with sleeping and washing and dressing. And eating, and sexuality, God Himself becoming one of us That's radical identification is coming to live with us. We see this again and again in the chapter. Notice verse 3. Jesus says, this is eternal life that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you send. Eternal life is not acknowledging a certain set of doctrines It's not simply the belief of a creed, it's the giving of a life to a person. It's coming to Jesus. I've been struck with this again and again in my own evangelism. I remember just recently in a series of meetings we were having. In a one particular meeting, this fellow who was having some problems with the gospel and uh loved to debate and loved to interact on an intellectual level, we were going back and forth on this. As we talked about this for a while and were coming at the end to a certain kind of a draw, we talked a little privately afterwards And at that time, the Spirit seemed to give me a freedom to level with Him on a way that I hadn't been doing all through the meeting. And so, after all of the problems that he had with the authority of Scripture and all the other things we talked about, I said, you know, the one thing I'm really getting at is, do you want to know Jesus? And my whole concern is that I love Jesus. He died for me. And I wish you could know him. And I was struck with how just saying that, the whole conversation turned. It was no longer a debate. It was no longer a well could this be true? And what about this point and that point. But he was very silent and sober. And I asked him, Would you like to know this Jesus that I'm talking about? He said, Yeah, I I would like to know. So often, I think, we depersonalize the gospel. We make the gospel something that does not bring Jesus into close and direct contact with the sinner. Jesus says eternal life is that you may know him. Jesus came to earth to be known. The Father isn't simply offering himself to be known, that's his passion. To be known personally by you and by me, in Jesus Christ, the one that He sent. Notice he says in verse 4, I brought your glory on earth by completing the work that you gave me. Stressing again that he came on earth to do that. Verses 6 to 8, he talks about how he's made known the Father personally to the disciples. Verse 11 He talks about remaining in the world no longer. But we are still in the world. Jesus has come and he's lived in the world, but now we are left here in the world to continue that radical identity. And making known the Father and the Son. Verse 15 even says, My prayer is not that you take them out of the world. I want them to remain in the world. In fact, I want them to be so thoroughly in the world that you're going to have to protect them supernaturally from the evil one, Father, so they don't get swallowed up in the world. You see this again and again in Jesus' life in radical. Identification. What a friend of sinners he was. John comes on the scene in the very beginning of this gospel and he says, Behold the Lamb of God. A rather austere introduction. Jesus comes on the scene and these fellows look at him and they say, There he is, the Lamb of God. Um, could you tell us a little bit about yourself, Lamb of God? And Jesus says, come on with me and see where I'm staying. And he takes them with him. He takes them to his home and he spends time with them. Chapter 2, John tells us he's spending time at a wedding, at a party, because Jesus loved to be with people. In fact, he loved to be with people so much, and not just good people, people who are prostitutes and sinners, people who are known As those who were totally out of the pale of decent society, that Jesus lost his testimony among the good people because he was consorting with these people. In fact, so much so that he was known as a drunkard and a glutton. Because he spent time with cynics. He spent time with them and loved them. John talks about his going to a woman at a well. A woman who was clearly an immoral woman. A woman living with a man, having had divorce, after divorce, after divorce. Jesus relates to it. But he's not embarrassed by that. He's not put off and feeling uneasy about such being caught in such a situation. What's he going to do to preserve his testimony in this kind of situation? situation. He relates to her honestly. He relates to her the level that she's at. When Jesus sees lepers, he doesn't Heal them from a distance and yell out, be healed, but don't get too close. I can't stand to touch lepers. But Jesus touches the lepers And Jesus reaches out, and in that touching, he accomplishes an emotional healing that any words could never have accomplished for that man who had been seen as untouchable by his own self. society. I remember once when our family came upon a very severe auto accident in which a car had literally blown up All this flames and bodies laying around and I came over to one of the women who'd been thrown out of the car. She was just blood and I found her to be repulsive to me. I didn't want to go near her. I didn't want to touch her. I didn't want to get down with her. I felt myself alienated from her. Jesus came to identify her. Jesus came to get next to us, to touch us, to touch even lepers. He's approachable even by kids. Love them. Have the kids, even when he was an important leader. Jesus loved to identify with people. Peter, even on one occasion, said, Lord, you're getting too close. Depart from me because I'm a sinful man. But Jesus' response wasn't, yeah, you're right, you know, I don't know what I'm doing hanging around you anyway. And he said, Oh Peter, you think this is something I'm gonna make you become a fisher of men? I'm gonna spend more time with you, Peter. Jesus spent time with sinners identifying them, spending that time showing them his extravagant love work. So he's known in the Bible as Emmanuel. God with us. Jesus doesn't only identify with the sin, but Jesus, as the Bible tells us, came and he took them He took the sin that was yours and mine, and he took it on himself. And after having fulfilled all of God's law, the Bible tells us that Jesus went to the cross and made the payment. For all that you and I deserve to suffer and to die for ourselves. And Jesus, in that uttermost radical identification, took upon himself the sin of everyone who believes upon him. Have you ever given your life to Jesus Christ? Or are you put off by that close an identification with him? You don't even mind being called a Christian. You don't mind coming to church. You don't mind associating with Christians. But you don't want to be identified with Jesus Christ. Have you ever given your life to him? Jesus came to be identified with sin, to take on sin. But the only way that you can have part of him Is for you to give your life to him if you've never done it. I invite you and I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to do it this morning. Jesus love for sinners. is overwhelming. It's the kind of love that goes out of its way beyond all expectation. For this week Numbers of us have gone and we've heard Billy Graham preach with power, the riches of Jesus Christ. But you know, what is it that gives Billy Graham so much of his power and being able to stand up there before? Four crowds who declare Jesus Christ. It's a love that Billy Graham has for sinners. I remember once at a feeding at Urbana being able to sit with just a relatively small number of people and just ask some questions of Billy Graham about some of his experiences. And one illustration that I remember him saying just offhand stuck with me so much. He was talking about a crusade that he had had in India. And it had been a long crusade, and there had been a lot of travel and a lot of wear and tear. And he had been uh he had arrived at the airport in order to fly back to the States. The flight was held up. In fact, they had to stay there all night, and everybody was laying in the airport trying to get a little bit of rest. Billagram talked about how he used that opportunity, and this wasn't the point of his illustration, he was making another point. But in connection with that, he talked about how he was going around through the airport using the opportunity to talk to the students that were there. about their own relationship with Jesus Christ. And I couldn't help but thinking, well, I know the kind of trips I've had, and I get to the airport, the last thing I want to do is go walking around talking to everybody up and down the aisle I want to just sit and I want to rest and I want to be alone and I want to just unwind. But it takes that radical love for sinners to say, here's an opportunity. And Lord, I love you. And I want these people to know you, to come to know you and love you. So I'll put myself out in that kind of situation. And it's that kind of love for sinners that gives Billy Graham, I believe, so much of the spiritual power that he has to be able to stand and confront people with the claims of Christ. You and I look at ourselves and we ask ourselves these questions, three questions that you see that I pose for you. Fuse to ask yourself, examine your own witness and evangelism before the Lord. First of all, do I avoid significant interaction with non-Christians? Think of my friend who, as a dear Christian, Sees interaction with Christians as turning up the Christian radio station in the hopes that maybe somebody will comment on that station and they'll get into a conversation I can think of friends of ours who, when they became Christians, invited the neighborhood to a party. And as they went around asking people to come to the party, um, they asked a particular person who was a Christian to come to the party, and the person's response was, no, we don't go to parties where there's any drinking. We're born-again Christians. And of course the response of our brand new Christian friends was, praise the Lord, we're born-again Christians too now. Why don't you come? But the response was no, I won't get involved in anything where there's any alcohol. I keep myself unspotted sometimes. I had a friend once who bragged as we were riding in his car. And uh pointed to the ashtray and he said, You'll notice there are no cigarette butts in my ashtray. My ashtray is clean. I thought, What are you bragging that you don't ever have anybody who is not one of the uh elect in your car? And this is the kind of mentality that we can develop. Keeping ourselves isolated from sin, and in the process, isolating ourselves from sinners. It takes a lot to take that risk and to realize that Jesus does not give us the option in this verse. As you sent me into the world, he says, I have sent them into the world. Jesus doesn't give us the choice whether we want to go into the world. He says that's your purpose. You are being sent into the world, not just into the Christian community. Yet how many Christian how many non-Christians have you and I had significant interaction with in the last week or two? Talk to on the level of things beyond what we had to deal with in the past Getting gas, buying groceries, talking to them about business or various mundane activities in the neighborhood, but talking to them about where they're really at, some of their hopes and some of their fears. Talking to them, praying for them, praying that God will give us opportunities to get to know them, not avoiding the contact, but seeking the contact. Think of a friend, a neighbor that I've been trying to have some contact with, and we prayed for this person. He prayed that uh God would open his heart to want to go to the crusade. But there was no reason why we would think that he would want to go. There's no indication of any spiritual interest in anything we had talked about before. But we had talked and had gotten to know each other some. I asked him once last week. We prayed this through this week. And then on Saturday, With uh wondering what was going to happen and what kind of excuse might be presented. How delighted I was when he came over to me and said, Hey, we still go into the crusades tonight And it was it was a delightful thing to see God work in opening up that opportunity so that we were able to then just talk about the gospel through most of the evening. and open up a whole new dimension of our understanding of each other and of where he stands in his relationship to Jesus Christ. But that takes time. It takes time so often I'm not willing to give. It takes the desire to have a significant interaction. With my neighbors, with the people that I work with, the people that I talk to, that God brings me into contact with. You ever realize that you and I will have forever to spend with our brothers and sisters in Jesus? We've only got a few years left in sinners. We've only got a very few years left with those who are facing judgment. Maybe after a couple of billion years of singing hymns together and having a good time together, we might look back and say, you know, that was such a short time we had with our neighbors, wasn't it? It was such a short time to be watchmen before the destruction came. And what are we doing with that time that God's given us? Do we seek for or do we avoid significant contact, interaction with our non-Christian friends, neighbors, getting to know them, praying for them? How sad it is that it seems like so often the more we grow as Christians, the more alienated we seem to be from the world. That's not the way Jesus intended Jesus says, as you sent me into the world, Father, so I send them into the world. Do you ever find that you get clammy when things move towards spiritual topics? You know, you've been able to avoid it so far and things have been pretty cool. You haven't blown your cover as a Christian. But now things are getting a little hot because they're talking about a topic in which you can't be neutral. I mean you've tried on these other areas. But you no longer can on this one. And so you begin to get a little clammy and sweaty and you think, oh boy, now's the time and I'm not ready for it. Didn't have a good quiet time today. Don't feel spiritually protect pair, not juiced up enough, and oh here it comes and I'm gonna blow it. And we begin to get all uptight as we begin to think, you know, I'm going to move from a secular to a spiritual conversation now. And I gotta get my gears all cranked up. So often we think in those kinds of terms how sound it is. Jesus wasn't caught in that kind of a line. People came to him and said, Hey Jesus, you read the papers the other day, 18 people killed in the tower at Siloam. Isn't that awful? Jesus doesn't stand and say, oh boy, there's something spiritual I ought to say about this. You know, he begins to get a little nervous about how he's going to gear this around into ten ways he can get into a spiritual conversation. Just want a natural kind of response. Yeah. Eighteen people. You think they're any worse than anybody else? But you know, every one of us are going to face that same judgment. If you don't repent, you'll likewise perish too. That's a reminder to you of God's providence. You know, I find that the more I go on as a Christian, and the more that I seek to simply live and speak as a Christian Christian. My problem is not how to get in con spiritual conversations, my problem is how to stay out of them. Because everything that we live, the Lordship of Jesus Christ touches on. And if you're simply interacting with people, you don't have to get this clammy feeling that you're going to get into something spiritual if you're just willing to speak as one that follows Jesus. And be willing to let that be known. I think this is how Becky Pippert talks in her book of an example of a person she was talking to about the Lord, and she began to realize this person was getting turned off by her talking about the Lord. And that she just kept on going on and on, realizing this person gets more and more alienated and turned off and she sort of can't stop herself and really can't shut her mouth and she's none of how to turn it around and how to graciously get out until she just finally stopped and says, you know I really sort of hate it. People push religion on me and if I'm coming on too strong for you, would you just tell me? And she said the girl just stopped flabbergasted. She said, I can't believe you said that I just can't believe that you said that. And Becky said, Why? What what's uh shocked you so much? And she said, you know You're the first Christian I've ever heard that understood how we as non-Christians feel when people talk to us. And as Becky says it was a lesson to her to realize that as we are honest in simply describing how we are feeling toward a person's relationship, Sharing Jesus Christ with them honestly. That God can use that basic honesty in all our frailties and all the things we've done wrong. I can look back at my talking with my neighbor last night. And think of all kinds of things I could have done differently and ways I could have done it better. But God can use us where we are. If we're willing to simply speak as disciples of Jesus. You're afraid to turn people off. You're so afraid to turn them off that you're not yourself. You've got to simply be willing. To be known as a Christian. I remember a student once on a campus who came to me all excited one day and he said, you know, he said, I just made a great discovery He said, this week he said, I finally decided that I'm not going to try and hide it as a Christian, that I'm a Christian, until the time is ripe. Until I've sort of earned the respectability of the gang and then let them know that I'm one of those freaky people that follow Jesus. He said, from now on I'm simply gonna be a follower of Jesus and people will have to get to know me and accept me as that or they won't get to know me. He said, yeah, it's really freeing. Now I can go around, I can be myself. John White says that the first time he discovered that That within 24 hours he was in conversation with a person about Jesus Christ and had seen him come to know the Lord. Simply because he had begun to be free to be himself Are you finding one of the big problems in your evangelism is that you're afraid to simply be yourself as a follower of Jesus? You're embarrassed about that? I pray that God will free you up. That God will allow you to have the freedom to simply realize that you are a pilgrim on the way to eternity. And that the reality is that Jesus is Lord. These people don't understand that, but that's not my problem. Let me go walking as a one who follows Jesus Christ. And as God brings them into contact with me, I have the opportunity, the privilege, of making known to them what it means to know Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. And you know if you do that in an honest way, most people are not turned off, they're attracted by the fact that here is somebody who knows what they believe. And have something to offer. Jesus was not only radical in his identification, but he was radical in his difference. We see this in verses 17 and 19 that surround this commission that he's given to us. In verse 17 he says, Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. Verse 19, for them I sanctify myself, that they too may be truly sanctified. The word sanctify, as you know, means to be set apart. It's something set apart from a common use to a distinctive use. It's set apart from the crowd. It's set apart for a particular special use, and Jesus says, that's what I am. John 10, 36, we saw before, the Father set the Son apart from all the rest of humanity. Because he sent him into the world that the rest of the human race might see that he was distinctive. Jesus says in that same way, Father, set my people apart. So that as they're in the world, people will see that they're different. You see this running through his prayer again and again. Verse 14: I've given them your word, and the world has hated them. But they're not of the world any more than I'm of the world. There's a conflict that you and I walk in within the world because we don't fit We don't come up with the same catchphrases that the self-help books and the television is all telling us are the ways to look at marriage and the way to look at self-fulfillment and everything else that we say about us. We don't fit those molds. The world doesn't like it. Verse 15, Jesus says, In fact, Father, my concern is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them Protect them from the evil. Protect them. Set them apart. Make them different. Keep them holy. Verse 16, they're not of the world, even as I'm not of it. In the same way that Jesus was set apart as a man to show the Father, so you and I, as those who bear his image, and are being conformed gradually into the likeness of Jesus. Jesus Christ on a lesser scale, with lots of problems and errors and hang-ups and all the rest of it, still are set apart to show Jesus Christ to the world. We see this in Jesus' life. Wherever we went, we seem to produce a crisis. You know, isn't it the most ironic thing, as Becky Pippert Points out that the Son of God came to earth, and the one thing he was accused of was not being religious enough. That Jesus came and he didn't fit the understanding of what it meant to be religious. You either had to love him or you had to hate him. You couldn't be neutral to him. He was unpredictable. He alienated his enemies and he alienated his friends. Because Jesus was so radically different, as Gene Thomas once said, Jesus certainly was not your ideal Rotarian. He had a way of producing crisis. Because of the way he looked at things so differently. His holiness was a radical holiness, and it broke through the stereotypes of what God was like. He fulfilled everything in the script But he contradicted every cultural expectation the people about him had. Even his disciples couldn't figure him out Sometimes he exasperated them because his reflecting the character of God again disturbed all of their categories about what that meant. But John Wemm tells us that his purpose was to explain the character of the Father. Jesus came to explain God, John tells us in chapter 1, verse 1. He calls you and me to do the same. To explain the character of God by our difference. And so this is God's strategy when he sent Jesus Christ. And it's the strategy that he uses to send you and me to show Jesus Christ. A radical difference. In the midst of a radical identification. And if we're going to reach Columbia, Howard County, and the areas around, it's going to be through that same strategy. But do people see the difference in your life and in my life? I think of a story told by Ralph Kuyper once in which he talked about when his wife, this was before Weight Watchers, was selling a product back in those days known as Wait Wright. She was uh commissioned to sell this stuff and uh she wasn't doing too good And so he had her come and bring the product and uh she said, Why do you think it is that I'm not making any sales on this stuff? He looked at it and he said, packing's pretty good. Instructions are clear He knew and she knew that the stuff worked and did what it said it was supposed to do. And he said, why she said, why do you think it is that I can't sell it? And he said, you want me to be polite or do you want me to be honest? He says, Well, of course you know I want you to be honest. He said, Well, he said, dear, I'm afraid it's because you look like the before picture rather than the after picture. How do we look if we talk about Jesus Christ? The before or the after? Unless people can see that there is some difference in our lives, more than simply being religious, they're not going to be attracted to Jesus Christ. I had a friend once who, while professing to be a Christian and leading Bible studies, used to go to bed with girls and witness to them in bed and wondered why they didn't come to Jesus Christ. I can think of example after example of that kind of a blindness to the effects of our lives. upon people that we talk to about Jesus Christ. On the other hand, I want to say for your encouragement That oftentimes people notice a lot more about us than we may think. Be encouraged. People notice differences in you and me that we're not even aware of. I remember when we lived in Syracuse and tried to witness to our next door neighbors, and it seemed that uh I had failed again and again, blown it time after time, and the opportunities got That on the day that we were leaving to come here to Colombia, they came over in tears, telling us how much we had meant in their lives. And how we had told them about things they had never heard and how that uh they saw differences and there were things that ways that that God had used them that we couldn't understand and all the rest of this, and it was a matter of a few months after that. They gave their lives to Jesus Christ. I wondered how much difference they had even seen. But God had used that time. I remembered the day that we were packing up to leave. A fellow from a couple doors came over. I wasn't even I was wondering if I should even go over and say goodbye to him. I talked to him about the Lord a number of times We had conflicted so thoroughly concerning his lifestyle, the things that he did, that we just didn't have a whole lot of contact anymore. And he came over on that day to me and said, I just wanted to say goodbye to you and tell you what you've meant in my life. Within two months he had also given I don't know why these people all do this if we leave. Maybe if we leave Colombia there'll be a lot of people become Christians around here. I don't know. But it struck me in both those cases where I had thought that there really hadn't been much effec effect. That God had used something that I hadn't seen. I think of Jim Peterson from the Navigators. He talks about in his witness, one time he was in Brazil meeting with a fellow who is a Marxist. He met with this fellow for Bible study for four years. And the Bible studies that they had were generally on an intellectual plane because this guy was reading Rousseau and Kafka and all the rest of them. And so they would often talk about the implications, the philosophical implications of the passages that they were studying, and seeing how that bore on the various questions that this Marxist leader was raising. And after four years, that fellow gave his life to Jesus Christ. Two years later, as he was discipling this fellow Mario, The new Christian Mario asked him, Do you know what what re why it was that I became a Christian? And Jim said, uh Of course, thinking of all these heavy Bible studies that they had had, and all that they had been through, expecting what he would say, he nevertheless he said, No, why was it? He said, well, you know, the first time I stopped by your house, we were on our way to a meeting. And we had a bowl of soup together. And he said, I saw you interact with your family And I asked myself, when will I and my fiancé ever have a relationship like this? And I said to myself, never. And so for my own survival, I've got to become a Christian. Jim said he thought back on that time and he remembered it. It was an embarrassing time to him. The kids hadn't behaved. He had had to reprimand them. He had thought, what a terrible witness. I mean here's this guy and a family can't even behave and here I'm snapping at the kids and all this other stuff's going on and he looked back And you realize something that I hope frees us up in a way that God can use. The radical difference that you and I demonstrate is not a difference that we manufacture or put on. It's a difference that the world sees simply in all of our sin as we try to be Christians, open and honest. Jesus said, as you sent me into the world, Father, I've sent them into the world. As sinners. But it's those that I'll use as they're open to bring people to Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, how we thank you. That you sent Jesus into the world. You didn't shout down to us about the way of life, for no such way could have been found. The Father you sent the Son. Lord Jesus, you came to live with us, to touch us, to laugh with us. To cry with us, to love us. And Lord Jesus, you tell us here that this is how you've sent us into the world. So that we who realize how very inconsistent we are in our lives by the power of your spirit. Can be effective as we're willing to be known and to get to know our friends and our neighbors who are without Jesus Christ. Deliver us from our fears, Father. Deliver us from the fears of speaking about things that we're not sure of, being asked questions we don't know the answers to. Letting flaws in our lives be seen that we're embarrassed and ashamed of. Father, help us to realize That you've never intended that we cover those things up, whether we have all those things dealt with before you'll use us as witnesses. Jesus never put a time frame one who's sending us. We are sent. Help us to realize that, Father. And help us in freedom to rejoice in that fact. That if you've sent us, then you intend to use us. Help us, Father, to be usable by you. We pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Master. Amen.