By the end of this of this sermon you have understood something you're ready for the mission field because I'm gonna speak in Spanglish. So I hope that you can that you can bear with uh with my my language. As uh as as I was introduced this this morning, I am from Guatemala and uh and I gotta be careful how do I pronounce my country in a I was in a missions conference in in the West Coast and I I said that I I'm a Guatemalan and at the end of the service a lady came with her son and and she said he has a question for you. And and uh the kid said, What do you mean by you are a watermelon? And I said, Well here here I here I go again with my with my spanguish I want to share with you today something that has to do with uh with radicalism. Uh we have been hearing the word radicalism, we have been Hearing about radicals and the reality is that I grew up among radicals and and I think I count myself as one of them. Later you may understand why. In 1984, there was a writer in Latin America named Martha Honecker. She wrote a book called The Role of Christians. College students and Indians in the revolutionary process of Latin America. That was that was the textbook for everybody who wanted to join the revolution, the civil war in in many of the Latin American countries. And see this lady Mark Mar Martha Harniker, who ha had also written the book on fundamental concepts of materialism Didn't believe in Christianity, didn't believe in Christ, and didn't believe in God However, she believed that Christians as a mass had a role in the revolution of Latin America, and that's why many movements like Liberation Theology and other movements started. And that was that was a perspective in radicalism that said that Christians have something to do and organize a r an armed revolution in in Latin America. I also had uh the opportunity to to read about those people who got trained to become radicals for what they believe. In fact As recently as five months ago, tomorrow, nineteen radical individuals decided to surrender their lives So that four thousand plus people could die and nothing good could come out of it, they thought See, the perspectives of on radicalism that I have been exposed to, that I have been exposed to before I became a Christian, were perspectives in which if you are a radical, you are going to make your views known at any cost. But those perspectives didn't bring life alongside. Those perspectives brought death. In my country we had more than hundred one hundred thousand people who died as a result of the Civil War. And things did not improve thirty years later after the war was over. In fact, every family lost a member. Families were divided because of this radicalism, this materialistic radicalism. One of my brothers, the one who was four years older than me, was assassinated in the streets of Guatemala. We went to work and as I was driving my Jeep to the villages while I was a a a community architect and driving my Jeep to the villages, I could see how airplanes dropped bombs on entire villages. Or how groups of guerrilla fighters set entire villages on fire And a hundred thousand plus people of my beloved nation died. And that was my walk with radicalism As I was in college, however, I started looking at some Some students, some American students who showed up at one of the orphanages that my firm was building as a service to the community And we were building them and we were designing them, but we didn't have enough labor or enough materials to finish them. And and a group of students from Nazar from Nazarene and Presbyterian and Baptist colleges. The the CCC as they call it, the Christian coalition of of colleges and universities, they organized a group called Cause. college and university students sh serving and enabling. And they decided to go to my war ravaged Guatemala and to rebuild in during the spring and summer breaks to rebuild Homes for the widows and the orphanage that we were designing. And I started thinking about these guys. Because I had watched CNN in Guatemala and and I I knew how famous spring break in Fort Lauderdale was And and and I knew that there was something better for these young men and women to do than than going to the Bunis of Guatemala And laying bricks and playing with concrete and being at risk. And I understood a new perspective on radicalism. A perspective that, unlike the other perspectives that I had seen and I had grown up with, this perspective instead of bringing about death was going to bring about life. And I like this perspective. And I fell in love with it. And I started studying this perspective on radicalism. And thanks to God's grace, I found it in his book. In Mark chapter 2, verse 1 to 5. A few days later, when Jesus again entered Capernaum, the people heard that he had come home. So many gathered that there was no room left, not even outside the door. And he preached the word to them. Some man came bringing to him a crippled man, carried by four. Since they could not get him to Jesus because of the crowd, they made a hole in the roof above Jesus, and after digging through it, lowered the mat in which the crippled man was lying on. When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the crippled man, Son, your sins are forgiven. Now this story has several elements that I would like to for us to go quickly. Now this is very important when we talk about missions. It's very important because because today is the day in which the house is packed the most all over the world. The food is served and the room is full, and we come to the table to eat of the blessings of the Savior. It's all there's almost no room at the table But the fields are empty. And this description that that Mark makes here is very important because it says Jesus was home and everybody came to see him. But there was no room in the house. This reflects our personal nature. A personal nature is that we we are humans who are me first. We are eager to satisfy our needs first. That's our nature So we go to the house because because we gotta be fed ourselves. That's our nature And people went because they found out that Jesus was home and they came and they packed the church. They were so crowded that they had to organize two services. Or three. And that's good. Because my Bible doesn't say that he was wrong that people came It doesn't say that. My Bible says that everybody was so excited that Jesus was home that they gathered to the point that there was no room left. There's one slight problem. That as we pack the house in Capernaum Or Colombia, or Ellicate City, or Guatemala. We often forget that there is a crippled world that is outside, out there. It's a world that by its own is never going to come to the knowledge of Jesus. Have you realized that? And who are the members of the crippled world? Let me give you some examples. Next in in two weeks I'm going to India India is a place that not only fascinates me but gives me a lot of burden. Because every time I go to India my I I get into the this realm of spiritual oppression just to know that we are landing in a country that worships. Thirty million gods and counting. If you if you're not careful, before you leave India they make you a god That's how crippled the world is I got a phone call this morning and it was I I think it was from one of our satellite phones. It n we didn't connect but I heard like satellite and it was it was really early in the morning. I think it was like midnight. It was five but for me it's midnight. And the phone rang and and I thought it was it was my director of disaster response calling from Afghanistan, where we are working with refugees. And see, we engage with these refugees because they are part of the cripple world. In that country where where ninety-nine percent of the people are Muslims, whether nominal or or active Muslims, they do not know about the saving power of Jesus Christ And at this very moment children are probably walking or they are on a in a truck and they are driving back from their camp to Kandahar or to Kabul and a child like my children is asking mom, mom, why? And nobody is there to tell him but Jesus loves you That's why we sent we sent our worker to Afghanistan and and I'm praying that he is okay. And I'm praying that this satellite call was from Congo and not from Afghanistan. Because the world is crippled and they need Jesus. This is how crippled this world is If you walk through through downtown Baltimore, which is where our office is located, you see how crippled the world is. Half of the world is engaged in materialism I look at them and they look busy. They look lost. Their sense of happiness comes from increase in the value of their stocks. Their sense of happiness comes from the hope that Enron is not going to go bankrupt too bad, too late. The other half of people in downtown, their sense of hope comes from crack cocaine, from being at the sex shops by Gay Street. From promiscuity. This is how crippled the world is. This is how crippled the world is. In Africa, there are countries where forty percent of the population are HIV positive. Imagine a pastor worshiping and and praising and preaching to a con with and to a congregation that forty percent of them are HIV positive. Imagine that. That's how crippled the world is. I come from a country where being an architect, being a college professional is just a miracle. Making it out of college is just a miracle. Only five percent get to go to college There's still eighty percent of the population who are poor. We work with people where eighty percent of the population their income is less than one dollar a day. That's how crippled this world is. We work with children who get up at five in the morning and they go to sell roses and to sell candy to the streets and to wipe the the the windshield Or to sell their bodies so that they could spend one more day alive. And to forget what it is, they sm they they sniff blue, and that's how crippled the world is. Now you know it because thanks to CNN and and thanks to to the Discovery Channel and to the Travel Channel and all these channels you could see something. And you know what I'm talking about. You know how crippled the world is because one day you are surfing your channels that you think they are safe, and all of a sudden you see sex on TV You know how crippled this world is because one day you receive an email that you think is is a clean email and all of a sudden you are hooked that somebody sent you porno That's how crippled the world is. The world is full of poor and hopeless people. And see here is where the crowd plays a significant role because sometimes we are so excited about being at the table. That we don't let the crippled world come to Jesus. There's an important phrase here, an important statement that Mark intentionally wrote it here. It said Carried by since they could not get verse four since they could not get him to Jesus because of the crowd. Now what an indictment, isn't it? Look what an important role the crowd plays in this whole equation. The crowd is happy, is being fed, praise the Lord, for his salvation. But we don't let the crippled world come in. Sometimes it's because of us. Now that's an indictment because because here is when the radical ones show up Here's where the radical ones show up. They realize that unless we dig a hole up on the roof This world is not going to see Jesus. Now I don't know about about you, but if if somebody digs a hole on my roof so that I so to call my attention, I I get pretty mad. In my country they probably get stoned if if somebody digs a hole in the roof. And see look at the difference Nineteen radical fundamentalist Muslims dog a hole on two towers And all they brought was death and destruction and anger and grief. And the wrath of this nation These four dudes, on assuming, probably four young men, more likely Where they're kind of desperate because Jesus was there and everybody was enjoying and and probably a lot of them were happy praising Jesus and and And his saving power, and they were so happy, and yet there was this crippled man outside who needed to see Jesus and who they knew that by his own he would never come. They knew that. They knew that this man wouldn't ever know about Jesus They knew that this man was so crippled that he couldn't walk and come. Because that's the reality of the world outside. Those people in India who worship thirty million gods, they are not going to come to the knowledge of Jesus on their own. They are so crippled, so blinded by their own sin There are people literally in bed with HIV AIDS that they are never going to know about the saving power of Jesus before they go meet him for judgment. And so these four young radical people had a sense of urgency Not a sense of urgency to go and crash a plane in a building so that they could kill, but to open a hole on a roof so that they could bring life. And that's the big difference. And what I love the most about this in this exchange is that after they opened the hole and brought Jesus, the job is a good one. Brought the man to Jesus. Jesus looked at the four And when he saw their faith, he told a man because of their faith and yours Your sins are forgiven. What an interesting equation, isn't it? That because we're going to do radical things and because we have faith Just because we are faithful, others will get to the knowledge of Jesus. That's exciting to me That is exciting to me. That because of the faithfulness of those radical ones who decided to dig a hole on the roof of their families so that they left them and became missionaries. Because of the faithfulness of those who decided to dig a hole on the roof of their pocket, so that they gave to those who are ministering to the millions of crippled people. Because of the faithfulness of those who decided to dig a hole on the roof of their comfort The world is going to be saved through the knowledge of Jesus. That is exciting. See, I'm a product of radical ones, and that's that's why I believe in radicalism. When I was a after I I got to know the Lord and Well, I grew up in a Christian home. But I ran away and uh and did my own things and as I was studying architecture I the Lord started dealing with me and um We had to design a project. And the project in the School of Architecture was to design a church. So I decided to design a church for for the denomination I I was uh active in and I went to the regional office and I met the missionary and I said you know what I have this project and I would like to design a church and said oh you know what We need an architect to design a church for us. And so here is this American and I. I was a young college student, and here is this missionary in his sixties and we became good friends. And for four or five years we worked together and and we volunteered to design about 75 local churches, parsonages and a bunch of projects in Guatemala And there was a day when the missionary was supposed to leave. So I went to my parents and I said, Mom, Dad, do you know Stanley's story? And they said, Oh yeah, we know Stan. Now, how do you know him? Come here. So my dad went to his his photo album, which in Guatemala is translated to a shoebox. Now you two have one And he he dug into this photo album and got this black and white photo that now was brown and yellow, and and in this photo there was this young couple of blonde Californians The missionaries, they were baptizing my parents as recent converts in the Buddhist of Guatemala. And the man who was doing that was Stanley Story, the missionary whom thirty-five years later I had met. And even more exciting, in this old photo, there is mom and dad, and the missionary is baptizing mom and dad, and the little kid with glasses looking at the camera. That was me. As we get ready to say goodbye to Stan and Norma's story to come back to retirement in the States We gave them a plaque with their photo. And it was a turning point in which he gave the baton to me. Stanley in in a very broken Spanish after thirty some years in Guatemala he he still he still had a his own version of Spanglish and he said to me Gustavo I came to your country I met your parents didn't remember them and I baptized them I came to one nation. Now is your turn to go to others. The Lord has allowed me to first to drop my career as an architect and Threw away my my drafting table, my markers, went to the professor, to the dean of the school where I was a professor, and I said, you know what, I'm no longer a college prof. I'm gonna be a missionary And he too thought I was crazy. I believe in the radical ones who are willing to dig a hole upon the roof. So that the crippled world can meet Jesus. I believe in the radical ones who this morning are being Tap on their shoulder by the master who is saying, Are you going to be one of those four? I would love to think that among these children one of them is going to be a missionary one day And he's going to continue the cycle of bringing about salvation and reconciliation to this crippled world. I just love to think that in this in this congregation there's at least one of you who's going to be a nurse and who one day is going to join us as we're going to be ministering to those with HIV AIDS in Africa. Or maybe an economist who today is is thinking about the exchange rate and the and the stock market and then in years this economist is gonna be working with us bringing about microeconomic development to the very poor people in Mozambique Where a loan of fifty dollars would save their lives and bring them to Jesus. Or at least I believe that many of you are going to partner with us as we endeavor to Bring Jesus to the crippled world. It is a work of radicals This world is full of radicals. The big difference is, which side are you in? Are you the radical ones who dig holes to bring about death? Or are you on the side of those who dig holes to bring about life? May God bless you.